                                           ABSTRACT
         Processes and compositions for liposomal delivery of therapeuticals prepared by
contacting an aqueous solution of an active agent with a solution of liposome-forming
components containing one or more DILA2 amino acid compounds or lipids in organic
solvent to form an impinging stream. A protocol including flow rates, pH, and an incubation
period are used to control formation of liposomal components for therapeutic applications.
The impinging stream may be collected and incubated to prepare a liposomal formulation
which encapsulates the active agent. The composition can be quenched with buffer and
filtered by tangential flow and diafiltration and other means for finishing as a pharmaceutical
composition. An efficiency for delivering a drug cargo is provided. Compositions can
include a liposome containing one or more carrier particles, each carrier particle having an
active agent and a peptide, wherein the ratio of the mass of the peptide plus the mass of the
liposome to the mass of the active agent is less than about 15.

                          Processes and Compositions for Liposomal and
                         Efficient Delivery of Gene Silencing Therapeutics
                                   FIELD OF THE INVENTION
           This disclosure relates generally to processes, compositions and uses for delivery
 5 of biologically active agents and drug agents. The processes and compositions of this
   disclosure are useful for delivery of therapeutic agents to selected cells, tissues, organs or
   subjects. Embodiments of this invention may provide for delivery of pharmaceuticals and
   therapeutic agents, including nucleic acid agents, and methods for making and using
   materials to effect drug delivery. In particular, this invention relates to processes and
10 compositions containing liposomes or lamellar vesicles, and other forms of delivery
   enhancing compositions and formulations, as well as therapeutic methods and uses for
   these delivery materials.
                                       SEQUENCE LISTING
           This application includes a Sequence Listing submitted herewith via EFS-Web as
15 an ASCII file created on October 14, 2009, named MD-08-16PCT.txt, which is 99,622
   bytes in size, and is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.
                                          BACKGROUND
           The delivery of a therapeutic compound to a subject can be impeded by limited
   ability of the compound to reach a target cell or tissue, or by restricted entry or trafficking
20 of the compound within cells. Delivery of a therapeutic material is in general restricted
   by membranes of cells. These barriers and restrictions to delivery can result in the need
   to use much higher concentrations of a compound than is desirable to achieve a result,
   which brings the risk of toxic effects and side effects.
           A further limitation in delivering certain therapeutic compounds is the need to
25 protect the compound from degradation in the transport process. In particular, systemic
   delivery via blood circulation can subject the compound to a variety of proteins, enzymes
   and immunological components and factors.
           One strategy for delivery is to improve transport of a compound into cells using
   natural or synthetic lipophilic or polymeric carrier molecules. These materials can take
                                                  1

   advantage of mechanisms that exist for selective entry into a cell, while still excluding
   exogenous molecules such as nucleic acids and proteins. For example, a cationic lipid
   may interact with a drug agent and provide contact with a cell membrane. Certain natural
   and synthetic lipophilic molecules can also be organized into liposomes or particles as
 5 carriers for drug agents. Liposomes of nanometer or submicron dimension can take
   advantage of mechanisms that exist for selective entry into a cell, such as endocytosis.
   Liposomal drug carriers can protect a drug molecule from degradation while improving
   its uptake by cells. Also, liposomal drug carriers can encapsulate or bind certain
   compounds by electrostatic and other interactions, and may interact with negatively
10 charged cell membranes to initiate transport across a membrane.
            A drawback of liposomes is that biological activity of a therapeutic liposomal
   formulation will generally depend on the degree of loading of the active agent into the
   liposomes. In general, a high degree of loading is desirable to provide high therapeutic
   activity. Further, the loading of liposomes may require additional carrier molecules that
15 will remain within the formulation.
            Another limitation of liposomes for drug agent delivery is that using them adds
   mass to the delivery formulation. The biological activity of a therapeutic formulation and
   its relative toxicity will be affected by the nature and mass of additional components such
   as lipophilic molecules and carriers used to prepare the formulation. Conventional lipid
20 based liposomal formulations for delivery of active agents can have a ratio of more than
   ten to fifteen times the mass of lipid molecules to the mass of active agent. In general, a
   lower ratio of lipid or carrier to active agent is more efficient and desirable. Such
   liposomal formulations for nucleic acid agents may contain no more than a few hundred
   copies of the nucleic acid agent molecule per liposome.
25          The understanding of regulatory RNA and the development of RNA interference
   (RNAi), RNAi therapy, RNA drugs, antisense therapy, and gene therapy, among others,
   has increased the need for effective means of introducing active nucleic acid agents into
   cells. In general, nucleic acids are stable for only limited times in cells or plasma.
   However, nucleic acid-based agents can be stabilized in compositions and formulations
30 which may then be dispersed for cellular delivery.
            What is needed are processes, compositions, and uses for systemic and local
   delivery of drugs and biologically active molecules. Among other things, there is a need
   for processes for making and using delivery structures and carriers, including liposomal
   forms, that increase the efficiency of delivery of biologically active and therapeutic
                                                   2

   molecules. It is desirable to have efficient delivery along with high biological activity
   using reduced amounts of carrier materials, especially for liposomal formulations, gene
   silencing therapeutics, and other agents.
                                        BRIEF SUMMARY
 5          This disclosure provides novel processes, compositions and formulations for
   intracellular and in vivo delivery of drug agents for use, ultimately, as a therapeutic,
   which in general maintain cytoprotection and relatively low toxicity. The methods and
   compositions of this disclosure are useful for delivery of drug agents to selected cells,
   tissues, and organs.
10          In some aspects, this disclosure provides processes, compositions and methods to
   deliver active nucleic acid agents or molecules to cells. The active agents may provide
   therapeutic or pharmacological effects, either through pharmaceutical action, or by
   producing the response of RNA interference, or antisense or ribozyme effects. Active
   agents of this disclosure may be useful in the regulation of genomic expression, or for
15 gene therapy.
            Embodiments of this invention provide a range of processes for making a
   composition, including liposomal compositions, containing one or more active agents by
   providing a first stream comprising an aqueous buffer solution of an active agent,
   providing a second stream comprising a non-aqueous solution of one or more liposome
20 forming compounds in organic solvent, impinging the first stream on the second stream,
   thereby forming an impinging stream having a concentration of the organic solvent of
   from about 20% to about 50% v/v. The impinging stream may have a pH of from about 6
   to about 7.4. The impinging stream can be incubated in a collection reservoir for a period
   of from about 0.5 hours to about 8 hours at a temperature of from about 20 'C to about
25 35 'C, thereby forming an incubate comprising liposomes.
            In certain embodiments, processes for making a composition containing one or
   more active agents may include quenching the incubate by adding buffer to the incubate
   sufficient to make the concentration of the organic solvent less than about 20% v/v.
            In some aspects, a liposome-forming compound of this invention may be one or
30 more DILA2 amino acid compounds. A DILA2 amino acid compound is a synthetic
   organic compound containing an amino acid group that may form a liposome. DILA2
                                                  3

   amino acid compounds can contain a delivery-enhancing or lipophilic tail at either the N
   terminus or the C-terminus of the amino acid group, or at both termini.
            In some variations, processes for making a composition containing one or more
   active agents may further include that the volume flow rate of the first stream, which
 5 contains the active agent, is two times or more the volume flow rate of the second stream,
   which contains the liposome-forming molecules. In certain variations, the volume flow
   rate of the first stream is three times or more the volume flow rate of the second stream,
   or five times or more the volume flow rate of the second stream.
            An active agent of this disclosure may be a UsiRNA, a nucleic acid-containing
10 agent, a gene-silencing agent, a gene-regulating agent, an antisense agent, a peptide
   nucleic acid agent, a ribozyme agent, an RNA agent, or a DNA agent. In some
   embodiments, the active agent may be a pharmaceutical compound, or a small molecule
   pharmaceutical.
            Processes for making a liposomal composition containing one or more active
15 agents may further include adding buffer to the collection reservoir to adjust the
   concentration of the organic solvent. The pH of the impinging stream may be adjusted to
   be from about 3 to about 6. The incubating step may be performed at a pH from about 3
   to about 6.
            In certain aspects, the active agent may be encapsulated in liposomes at a level
20 greater than about 50%, or greater than about 70%.
            In some aspects, this invention may provide a liposomal composition that retains
   gene-silencing activity for 7 days at a temperature of 45 'C. In certain aspects, the
   liposomal composition may retain encapsulation of the active agent for 7 days at a
   temperature of 45 'C.
25          A process of this invention may include filtering the incubate by tangential flow
   filtration and diafiltration. After tangential flow filtration the liposomes may be of
   uniform size less than about 160 nm in diameter, and may have an average diameter from
   about 40 nm to about 160 nm, or from about 80 nm to about 150 nm. In further
   embodiments, the incubate may be sterilized, and the organic solvent may be exchanged
30 with a different pharmaceutically-acceptable buffer.
            In some processes of this disclosure, the incubate may be filtered by tangential
   flow filtration and diafiltration. In certain embodiments, the incubate may be sterilized.
            A process of this invention may include adding organic solvent to the first stream
   at a concentration of from about 1% to about 40% v/v.
                                                   4

           The organic solvent may be a (C1-6)alkanol at a concentration of about 40 to
   about 99% v/v in sterile water for injection, or about 70 to about 95%.
           The incubating period of a process of this disclosure may be from about 1 hours to
   about 4 hours in length.
 5         This invention further contemplates a pharmaceutical composition made by any
   variation of the disclosed processes.
           In general, this disclosure includes methods for delivering a therapeutic nucleic
   acid to a biological cell.
           In some embodiments, this disclosure provides methods for inhibiting expression
10 of a gene in a biological cell by preparing a composition according to a process of this
   invention and treating the cell with the composition.
           Methods for inhibiting expression of a gene in a mammal disclosed herein include
   preparing a composition according to a process of this disclosure and administering the
   composition to the mammal.
15         Embodiments of this invention may further provide methods for treating a disease
   in a human by preparing a composition according to a process of this disclosure and
   administering the composition to the human, wherein the disease is cancer, bladder
   cancer, liver cancer, liver disease, hypercholesterolemia, an inflammatory disease, a
   metabolic disease, inflammation, arthritis, rheumatoid arthritis, encephalitis, bone
20 fracture, heart disease, and viral disease.
           This disclosure further contemplates uses of a composition for treating a disease,
   and in the preparation of a medicament for treating a disease.
           This invention provides a range of compositions and formulations for delivering a
   biological agent to a cell. More particularly, in certain aspects, this disclosure provides
25 liposomal formulations and carrier particles that are nanometer scale in size. The carrier
   particles can be loaded into liposomes, may exhibit increased stability in delivery, and
   can efficiently deliver a drug agent to modulate gene expression or activity.
           This disclosure provides compositions, methods and uses for improving systemic
   and local delivery of drugs and biologically active molecules. Among other things, this
30 application provides novel compositions and methods for making and using delivery
   structures and carriers which can deliver an active agent within a cell with increased
   efficiency of delivery.
           In some embodiments, this disclosure provides a composition comprising a
   liposome containing one or more carrier particles, each carrier particle comprising an
                                                  5

   active nucleic acid agent and a peptide, wherein the ratio of the mass of the peptide plus
   the mass of the liposome to the mass of the nucleic acid agent is less than about 15, or
   less than about 12, or less than about 10, or less than about 9, or less than about 8, or less
   than about 5.
 5          In certain embodiments, this invention provides a composition having a
   knockdown activity of 50% or greater, or 70% or greater, or 90% or greater for gene
   silencing of ApoB in vivo.
            In some variations, the compositions of this disclosure may contain a liposome
   comprising an amino acid lipid.
10          In certain aspects, a composition of this disclosure may contain a charged carrier
   particle, a negatively charged carrier particle, or a positively charged carrier particle.
            In certain variations, the active nucleic acid agent is an RNAi-inducing agent or an
   antisense agent. Each liposome may contain 500 or more copies, or 1000 or more copies,
   or 5000 or more copies of the active agent molecule.
15          In some variations, the peptide used for a carrier particle is a cleavable peptide or
   a crosslinkable peptide. In some embodiments, the peptide is PN4110 or PN183.
            This disclosure provides a method for delivering an active nucleic acid agent to a
   cell comprising preparing a liposomal composition and treating the cell with the
   composition.
20          In certain aspects, this disclosure provides a method for inhibiting expression of a
   gene in a cell comprising preparing a liposomal composition and treating the cell with the
   composition.
            In some aspects, this disclosure provides a method for inhibiting expression of a
   gene in a mammal comprising preparing a liposomal composition and administering the
25 composition to the mammal.
            In some embodiments, this disclosure provides a method for treating a disease in a
   human, the disease being selected from inflammatory diseases including rheumatoid
   arthritis, metabolic diseases including hypercholesterolemia, liver disease, encephalitis,
   bone fracture, heart disease, viral disease including hepatitis and influenza, and cancer,
30 comprising preparing a liposomal composition and administering the composition to the
   human.
            In certain embodiments, this disclosure provides a use of a liposomal composition
   in the preparation of a medicament for treating a disease including inflammatory diseases
   including rheumatoid arthritis, metabolic diseases including hypercholesterolemia, liver
                                                    6

   disease, encephalitis, bone fracture, heart disease, viral disease including hepatitis and
   influenza, and cancer.
           In some variations, this disclosure provides a use of a liposomal composition for
   treating a disease selected from inflammatory diseases including rheumatoid arthritis,
 5 metabolic diseases including hypercholesterolemia, liver disease, encephalitis, bone
   fracture, heart disease, viral disease including hepatitis and influenza, and cancer.
           This summary, taken along with the detailed description of the invention, as well
   as the figures, the appended examples and claims, as a whole, encompass the disclosure
   of the invention.
10                        BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
   FIG. 1: Schematic representation of a liposomal embodiment of this invention in which
   certain liposome-forming compounds form a bilayer vesicle 10. In this embodiment, the
   outer layer of the liposome is protected by polyethyleneglycol chains 20 attached to a
   head group of one of the liposome-forming molecules. The outer layer of the liposome
15 also presents a ligand 30 for specific targeting of a cell or tissue. The liposomal vesicle
   contains, in this embodiment, a cargo of active interfering RNA components including a
   condensed RNA nanoparticle 40, a two-stranded RNA duplex peptide conjugate 50, a
   three-stranded mdRNA 60, a dicer enzyme substrate RNA 70, a dsRNA with a long
   overhang 80, and an siRNA with blunt ends 90, which are pooled in this embodiment.
20
   FIG. 2: Flow chart for certain embodiments for preparing liposomal compositions of this
   disclosure. Reagent solutions including an active agent solution, a buffer solution, and a
   solution of one or more liposome-forming compounds are prepared separately and
   provided in reservoirs 200. The active agent solution and the solution of liposome
25 forming compounds are contacted in an impinging stream 210. The impinging stream is
   collected in a collection reservoir 220. The collected material is held in the reservoir for
   an incubation process 230, after which step the material is stabilized by quenching 240.
   The quenched material is subjected to a filtration process 250. The filtrate output 260
   continues to a finishing process.
30
   FIG. 3: Flow chart for certain embodiments for finishing liposomal compositions of this
   disclosure. The liposomal composition, which may be a filtrate output material from
                                                  7

   preparation of the liposomal composition, is sterilized 300. Vessels for carrying the
   sterilized composition are filled 310 and finished 320, after which the sterile composition
   is frozen 330 for storage 340. The final composition is shipped 350 for use.
 5 FIG. 4: Process diagram for certain embodiments for preparing liposomal compositions
   of this disclosure. An active agent solution is maintained in a reservoir 400. A solution
   containing liposome-forming components such as a DILA2 compound or a lipid is
   maintained in a separate reservoir 410. A buffer solution is maintained in another
   reservoir 420. The solutions are pumped using separate peristaltic pumps 430 at
10 independently selected flow rates. The solutions may optionally pass through an in-line
   filter, or be filtered before being charged to the reservoir. In an impinging process, the
   active agent solution is contacted with the solution containing the liposome-forming
   components at a contact point 434. The impinging stream may optionally pass through
   one or more mixing tubes 436. The impinging stream enters a collection reservoir 440 for
15 an incubation process. A quenching process buffer solution may optionally be
   maintained in a separate reservoir 450. The liposomal composition 460 exits the
   collection reservoir 440 to enter a filtration process.
   FIG. 5: Process diagram for certain embodiments for preparing liposomal compositions
20 of this disclosure. A stabilized liposomal composition is provided in a reservoir 500 from
   the output 460 of the collection reservoir. A diafiltration buffer solution is maintained in
   a separate reservoir 520. A peristaltic pump 502 provides circulation of the stabilized
   liposomal composition from reservoir 500 through a tube containing a hollow fiber
   membrane 504. Tangential flow filtration occurs via this circulation to concentrate the
25 stabilized liposomal composition by the removal of filtrate 530. The addition of
   replacement buffer from reservoir 520 allows for diafiltration at a fixed or variable
   volume. Optionally, dialysis of the stabilized liposomal composition may be performed
   using peristaltic pump 506 to drive the dialysis buffer solution from reservoir 540. The
   stabilized liposomal composition at a particular concentration is output 550 to a finishing
30 process.
   FIG. 6: Figure 6 shows that the binding of a polyarginine binding region to dsRNA
   increased with the length of the polyarginine binding region. In Figure 6, the strongest
                                                   8

   binding (best ability to displace SYBR-Gold dye) was observed with PN3499, which was
   a dimer peptide containing at total of 10 arginines.
                             DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF MODES
           Embodiments of this invention can provide for delivery of pharmaceuticals and
 5 therapeutic agents, including nucleic acid agents, and methods for making and using
   materials to effect drug delivery.
           This invention further relates to novel drug delivery enhancing processes and
   compositions that are useful for delivering various molecules and structures to cells. This
   invention provides a range of processes, compounds, compositions, formulations, and
10 uses directed ultimately toward drug delivery, therapeutics, and the diagnosis and
   treatment of diseases and conditions, including those that respond to modulation of gene
   expression or activity in a subject. More specifically, this invention relates to processes
   and compositions containing liposomes or lamellar vesicles, and other forms of delivery
   enhancing compositions and formulations, as well as therapeutic methods and uses for
15 these delivery materials.
           The processes and compositions of this disclosure may further be used for
   delivery of therapeutic, prophylactic, and diagnostic agents such as nucleic acid agents,
   polynucleotides, peptides, proteins, and small molecule compounds and drugs.
           The compositions and methods of this disclosure are useful for delivery of
20 therapeutic agents in forms such as encapsulated within liposomes or lamellar vesicles.
   These forms may include nanoparticles of various diameters.
           The understanding of regulatory RNA and the development of RNA interference
   (RNAi or iRNA), RNAi therapy, RNA drugs, antisense or ribozyme therapy, and DNA
   gene therapy, among others, has increased the need for effective means of introducing
25 active nucleic acid agents into cells. In general, nucleic acids are stable for only limited
   times when introduced into cells or blood. However, nucleic acid-based agents can be
   stabilized in compositions and formulations which may then be administered and
   dispersed for cellular delivery.
           Nucleic acid agents include any nucleic acid-containing moieties such as gene
30 silencing agents, gene-regulating agents, antisense agents, peptide nucleic acid agents,
   ribozyme agents, RNA agents, and DNA agents.
                                                  9

            In some embodiments, the compositions and methods of this disclosure are useful
   for delivery of a therapeutic agent encapsulated in a liposome. In these embodiments, the
   therapeutic agent may be referred to as the cargo.
            For example, Fig. 1 shows a schematic representation of a liposomal embodiment
 5 of this invention in which various lipophilic molecules form a bilayer vesicle 10. In this
   embodiment, the outer layer of the liposome is protected by polyethyleneglycol chains 20
   attached to a head group of one of the lipophilic molecules. The outer layer of the
   liposome also presents a ligand 30 for specific targeting of a cell or tissue. The liposomal
   vesicle contains, in this embodiment, a cargo of active RNA components including a
10 condensed RNA nanoparticle 40, a two-stranded RNA duplex peptide conjugate 50, a
   three-stranded mdRNA 60, a dicer substrate RNA 70, a dsRNA with a long overhang 80,
   and an siRNA with blunt ends 90, which are pooled in this embodiment. Other forms of
   therapeutic cargo may include microRNA, hairpin RNA, DNA or ribozyme forms.
            In general, any active agent can be utilized as cargo in the processes and
15 compositions of this disclosure. In some embodiments, the cargo may be a small organic
   molecule pharmaceutical agent. In certain embodiments, the cargo may be a negatively
   charged or neutral therapeutic agent.
            The processes and compositions provided in some aspects of this disclosure may
   deliver a therapeutic agent in a releasable form or composition. Releasable forms and
20 compositions include molecules that bind and release an active agent, molecules that bind
   an active agent and discharge a moiety that assists in release of the agent, molecules that
   bind an active agent and are subsequently modulated in form within a biological
   compartment to assist in release of the agent, and compositions containing molecules that
   bind an active agent admixed with a release mediator compound.
25          In certain aspects, this disclosure provides methods and apparatuses for making
   liposomal compositions suitable for delivery of therapeutic agents. In certain
   embodiments, an active agent of this disclosure is a UsiRNA. The methods of this
   disclosure may provide liposomal compositions of nucleic acid agents such as two- or
   three-stranded RNA structures, RNA peptide conjugates, condensed RNA nanoparticles,
30 dicer substrate RNAs, dsRNAs, siRNAs, microRNAs, hairpin RNAs, and other active
   RNA forms.
            The active agent of this disclosure may be a peptide condensate of an active RNA
   agent. For example, nanoparticles formed by condensing an active RNA agent with a
   peptide or other biomolecule, condensates of an RNA with a polymeric species, can be
                                                   10

   loaded as cargo into a liposomal composition of this invention. The nanoparticles may be
   crosslinked.
           In further embodiments, an active agent of this disclosure may be a peptide, a
   protein, a protease, an antibody, a monoclonal antibody, an antibody-based drug, a
 5 vaccine agent, or a small molecule drug.
           A composition containing an active agent may be an aqueous solution.
           As used herein, the term aqueous solution refers to a water solution, a sterile water
   solution, or any solution for which the majority of the solvent is water. An aqueous
   solution may contain some organic solvent, for example.
10         Examples of aqueous solvents include water, sterile water for injection, Ringer's
   solution and isotonic sodium chloride solution.
           A composition containing a liposome-forming molecule or lipophilic molecule
   may be a non-aqueous solution.
           As used herein, the term non-aqueous solution refers to any solution for which the
15 majority of the solvent is not water. A non-aqueous solution may contain some water.
           Examples of non-aqueous solvents include organic solvents that are miscible with
   water, alkanols, (C1-6)alkanols, ethanol, isopropanol, isobutanol, secbutanol, t-butanol,
   alkanol-water, ethanol-water, acetonitrile, acetone, ketones, dimethylsulfoxide,
   dimethylformamide, surfactant solutions, detergent solutions, and mixtures thereof.
20 Processes for liposomal compositions
           Embodiments of this invention may provide a range of processes for making a
   liposome-containing composition containing an active agent, as well as methods for drug
   delivery.
           In some aspects, a liposomal composition can be made by impinging two
25 compositions, for example, a composition containing one or more active agents, and a
   separate composition containing one or more liposome-forming molecules.
           In general, the liposome structures of this disclosure are not composed in fully
   active forms until all steps of the preparation process have been completed. Certain time
   periods are required for each step in the processes of this invention. The rates of
30 formation of liposomal compositions will in general depend on the unpredictable effects
   of the combination of many variables, for example, flow rates, temperature, pH, and the
   concentration of each component. In some embodiments, an incubation period is used to
   control the formation process.
                                                  11

            Fig. 2 shows a flow chart for certain embodiments for preparing liposomal
   compositions of this disclosure. Referring to Fig. 2, reagent solutions, including an active
   agent solution, a buffer solution, and a solution of one or more liposome-forming
   compounds are prepared separately and provided in solution reservoirs 200. The reagent
 5 solutions can optionally be filtered separately or prepared aseptically. The active agent
   solution and the solution of liposome-forming compounds are contacted in an impinging
   process 210. The impinging stream is collected in a collection reservoir 220. The
   collected material is held in the reservoir for an incubation process 230, after which steps
   the material is stabilized by quenching 240. The quenched material is subjected to a
10 filtration process 250. The filtrate output 260 is removed to a finishing process.
            This invention includes embodiments of a process for making a liposomal
   composition which includes an impinging process. An impinging process may have one
   or more steps for creating an impinging stream by impinging a composition containing an
   active agent on a composition containing liposome-forming molecules.
15          In some aspects, a process of this disclosure for making a liposomal composition
   of an active agent may have one or more steps of an incubation process. An incubation
   process can include collecting and holding an impinging stream in a reservoir for an
   incubating period.
            Embodiments of this invention may further include a process for making a
20 liposomal composition in which the incubated composition is quenched. Quenching may
   be done by adding a solvent, buffer or diluent to a stream or mixture of the incubated
   composition. Quenching can dilute the concentration of a particular component such as
   an organic solvent or dispersant below a prescribed level. In general, quenching of an
   incubated composition may form a composition which is stable in relation to further
25 process or finishing steps. Steps of quenching are operable to stabilize the incubated
   composition which may contain liposomal structures.
            Incubation of the impinging stream in a collection reservoir, along with other
   steps of a process, can provide a liposomal formulation in which an active agent is highly
   encapsulated by liposomes. For example, in certain embodiments, formation of the
30 liposomal compositions and structures of this disclosure may require any of the steps of
   impinging, mixing, diluting, collecting, incubating, adjusting pH, quenching, and
   filtering.
            Processes for making a liposomal composition of this disclosure may further
   include one or more steps of filtration. Steps of filtration may be used to change various
                                                  12

   process parameters, for example, to control or alter the concentration of a component, or
   to alter a particle size or dispersity, as well as other physical solution parameters.
             Fig. 3 shows a flow chart for certain embodiments for finishing liposomal
   compositions of this disclosure. Referring to Fig. 3, the liposomal composition, which
 5 may be a filtrate output material from preparation of the liposomal composition, is
   sterilized 300. Reservoirs for carrying the sterilized composition are filled 310 and
   finished 320, after which the sterile composition is frozen 330 for storage 340. The final
   composition is shipped 350 for use.
             Processes of this disclosure involving sterilization, fill and finish of materials to
10 containers, and storage of finished formulations may use steps and methods known in the
   art, such as those described in Remington's PharmaceuticalSciences (18th ed. 1990).
             Some methods for evaluating encapsulation, sizing, and general preparation of
   liposomes are given, for example, in W02001005374, U.S. Pat. Publ. Nos. 20040142025
   and 20070252295, and U.S. Pat. No. 6,843,942.
15 Impinging and mixing
             In certain aspects, this invention provides a range of methods and process
   conditions for making a liposomal composition of an active agent.
             Fig. 4 shows a process diagram for certain embodiments for preparing liposomal
   compositions of this disclosure. Referring to Fig. 4, a solution of an active agent is
20 maintained in a reservoir 400. A solution containing liposome-forming components such
   as a DILA2 amino acid compound or a lipid is maintained in a separate reservoir 410. A
   buffer solution is maintained in another reservoir 420. The solutions are pumped through
   transfer tubes 402 using separate peristaltic pumps 430 at independently selected flow
   rates. The solutions may optionally pass through an in-line filter, or be filtered before
25 being charged to the corresponding reservoir. In an impinging process, the active agent
   solution can be contacted with the solution containing the liposome-forming components
   at a contact point 434. The contact point may be of any shape, angle, orientation or size.
   The impinging stream may optionally pass through one or more turbulent mixing tubes
   436. The impinging stream enters a collection reservoir 440. A buffer solution can be
30 pumped from reservoir 420 into the collection reservoir 440. The mixture collected in the
   collection reservoir 440 can be held for a period of time in an incubation process. A
   quenching process buffer solution may optionally be maintained in a separate reservoir
   450. The quenched liposomal composition 460 exits the collection reservoir 440 to enter
   a filtration process.
                                                    13

            In certain embodiments, the buffer solution in reservoir 450 may optionally be
   used to dilute the impinging stream, and may be contacted with the impinging stream
   before the collection vessel, or before any mixing tube.
            As discussed above, to form a liposomal composition, certain processes of this
 5 disclosure provide an impinging stream which undergoes mixing in the transfer tubes and
   optionally in a turbulent mixing tube, collection in a vessel or reservoir, an incubation
   process, and quenching. The quenched material is output for filtration and finishing.
            An impinging stream will in general result from contacting a composition of an
   active agent with a composition containing liposome-forming molecules. The impinging
10 stream may serve only to contact the compositions to form a single stream. The
   impinging stream may not in general provide complete interdispersion or intermixing of
   the compositions. In optional steps, an impinging stream may be subjected to turbulent
   mixing conditions.
            The pH of the impinging stream may be controlled in the range of from about 3 to
15 about 9. In some embodiments, the pH of the impinging stream is from about 5 to about
   8, or from about 6 to about 7, or about 7.4. In certain variations, the pH of the impinging
   stream is from about 3 to about 6. The pH of the impinging stream can be adjusted
   during transfer of the impinging stream through the transfer tubes, or in a mixing tube, or
   in the collection reservoir. In certain embodiments, the initial pH of the impinging stream
20 is from about 5 to about 8, or from about 6 to about 7.4, and the pH is adjusted after the
   initial impingement to a range of from about 3 to about 6. In certain embodiments, the
   pH of the impinging stream is always about 7.4.
            The compositions used to form the impinging stream may optionally be filtered
   before impinging. A composition containing one or more active agents of this disclosure
25 may be filtered by, for example, flow filtration techniques to remove undesirable particles
   or phases larger in dimension than about 200 nanometers (nm), or larger than about 300
   nm, or larger than about 500 nm. A composition containing various liposome-forming
   molecules may be filtered by, for example, flow filtration techniques to remove
   undesirable particles or phases larger in dimension than about 200 nm, or larger than
30 about 300 nm, or larger than about 500 nm.
            The temperature of the impinging stream can be controlled in the range of from
   about 150 C to about 370 C.
            Aspects of this invention further provide that the composition of the impinging
   stream may be controlled using the flow rates for the compositions that are impinged. In
                                                  14

   general, each composition will stream through a tube of a selected diameter, therefore, the
   relative volume flow rates of the streams that are combined in an impinging stream
   provides a description of the concentration of various components in the impinging
   stream.
 5         For example, when an impinging stream is formed by impinging two separate
   streams flowing through tubes of the same diameter, then the flow rates in the separate
   streams will determine the concentrations of the components in the impinging stream, as
   compared to the concentrations of the components in the original streams. Thus, the flow
   rates can be used to provide a desired composition in the impinging stream for making a
10 liposomal composition having particular characteristics.
           In certain embodiments, the flow rates of the streams can be used to control the
   concentrations of the active agents relative to the liposome-forming molecules, as well as
   other parameters including the concentration of a solvent or salt, as well as mixing and
   shear forces. Embodiments of this invention include processes for making a liposomal
15 formulation in which encapsulation of active agents and liposome particle size are
   advantageously enhanced by adapting the flow rates of the process apparatus.
           In certain aspects, a process of this invention may employ tubes of the same
   diameters for impinging a stream of a composition of the active agents on a stream of a
   composition containing lipophilic molecules. In certain variations, the flow rates of the
20 compositions may be equal, or unequal. In particular embodiments, the flow rate of the
   composition containing the active agents may be unequal to the flow rate of the
   composition containing the lipophilic molecules. For example, in certain embodiments,
   the flow rate of the composition containing the active agents may be as much as twice the
   flow rate of the composition containing the lipophilic molecules. In other variations, the
25 flow rate of the composition containing the active agents may two times or more than the
   flow rate of the composition containing the lipophilic molecules, or in some embodiments
   three times or more than the flow rate of the composition containing the lipophilic
   molecules, or five times or more than the flow rate of the composition containing the
   lipophilic molecules.
30         In general, the tubes of the apparatus may be of any diameter. In certain
   embodiments, a process of this invention may employ tubes of different diameters for
   impinging a stream of a composition of the active agents on a stream of a composition
   containing liposome-forming molecules. In certain variations, the diameters of the tubes
   may be equal, or unequal. For example, in certain embodiments, the diameter of the tube
                                                   15

   containing the solution of active agents may be three-quarters the diameter of the tube
   containing the solution of lipophilic molecules. In other variations, the diameter of the
   tube containing the solution of active agents may be half the diameter of the tube
   containing the solution of lipophilic molecules. In other variations, the diameter of the
 5 tube containing the solution of active agents may be greater than the diameter of the tube
   containing the solution of lipophilic molecules.
            In some embodiments, the impinging stream may be further mixed using certain
   means for flow-through mixing. Means for flow-through mixing include a mixer having
   one or more channels, capillaries, or pathways arranged to change the direction of flow,
10 where the channels, capillaries, or pathways may diverge and re-connect one or more
   times to provide turbulent mixing. Means for flow-through mixing may optionally
   include a mechanical agitator, a shaker, or a stirring rod, blade, paddle, plate, or vane.
            The Reynolds number for turbulent mixing may be greater than 2000, or greater
   than 2400.
15          The residence time of the mixture stream in a turbulent mixer can be controlled by
   adjusting the flow rate of the impinging stream. In some variations, the flow rates and
   residence time of the impinging stream in the turbulent mixer can be used to control the
   sizing of the liposome particles.
            An example of a turbulent mixing tube means for flow-through mixing is Cole
20 Parmer in-line static mixer K-04669-52, 316 stainless steel tube mixer; 3/16" tube OD, 21
   elements.
            The vessels, tubes, and other flow components of the apparatus used in each
   process of this disclosure may be made of any material that is inert to the reactants and
   solvents used, and suitable for the reaction conditions such as temperature and pH.
25 Examples of materials include polymers, metals, stainless steel, glass, and ceramics. The
   vessels, tubes, and other flow components may also be coated with an inert substance.
            The vessels, tubes, and other flow components are in general in fluid
   communication with one or more controllable pumps that allow for control of the flow
   rate of the solutions and mixtures in each step. The apparatus may include various
30 valves, for example check valves, to control the flow. The vessels, tubes, and other flow
   components may be attached with various fasteners, which may include ferrules or o
   rings. The apparatus may include temperature sensors at various points in the flow
   pathway.
                                                 16

           The methods and apparatuses of this disclosure may be used in a batch or a
   continuous process.
   Collection reservoir, incubation process, and quenching process
           Referring to Fig. 4, in some embodiments, the impinging stream enters a
 5 collection reservoir 440. In the collection reservoir 440, the collected impinging stream is
   subjected to an incubation process.
           An incubation process may include one or more steps of mixing the collected
   material, one or more steps of dilution with a dilution buffer, one or more steps of
   adjusting the pH in the collection reservoir, and one or more steps of holding the collected
10 material for an incubation period at a particular temperature.
           The collected material can be mixed in the collection reservoir using, for example,
   a mechanical agitator, a rocker, or a stirring rod, blade, paddle, plate, or vane.
           In some variations, an impinging stream may be formed by contacting a
   composition of an active agent with a composition containing liposome-forming
15 compounds, and adding a buffer, solvent or diluent to the impinging stream. The addition
   of buffer, solvent or diluent may occur before mixing or collection of the impinging
   stream, or may be done in the collection reservoir as part of an incubating process. The
   addition of buffer, solvent or diluent reduces the concentrations of the active agent,
   liposome-forming molecules, and other components such as another solvent in the
20 collection reservoir.
           In some embodiments, the addition of buffer, solvent or diluent to the impinging
   stream, whether in the transfer tubes, or in the mixing tube, or in the collection reservoir,
   may dilute the concentration of the organic solvent to about 50% (v/v) or lower, or about
   40% (v/v) or lower, or about 35% (v/v) or lower, or about 33% (v/v) or lower, or about
25 30% (v/v) or lower, or about 25% (v/v) or lower, or about 22% (v/v) or lower, or about
   20% (v/v), or lower.
           The pH of the collected mixture or composition in the collection reservoir can be
   controlled in the range of from about 3 to about 9. In some embodiments, the pH of the
   collected impinging stream is adjusted to be from about 5 to about 8, or from about 6 to
30 about 7.4. In certain embodiments, the pH of the collected mixture is from about 5 to
   about 8, and the pH is adjusted after the initial impingement to a range from about 3 to
   about 6. In some variations, the pH of the collected impinging stream is maintained at
   about 7.4. A liposomal composition of this disclosure may also be formed in a process
   for which the pH is about 7.4 in each step.
                                                   17

             In some aspects, the collected mixture or composition in the collection reservoir is
   subjected to an incubation hold period. The length of the hold period of the incubate in
   the collection reservoir may range from a few minutes to several hours, or from about 15
   minutes to about eight hours, or from about 0.5 hours to about 8 hours, or from about 0.5
 5 hours to about 4 hours, or from about 1 hour to about 4 hours, or from about 1 hour to
   about 2 hours.
             In some variations of the process, turbulent mixing occurs after dilution of the
   impinging stream with buffer, solvent or diluent, and the hold period of the incubate may
   range from about 0.5 hours to about 8 hours, or from about 1 hour to about 4 hours, or
10 from about 1 hour to about 2 hours.
             In certain variations, turbulent mixing occurs before dilution of the impinging
   stream with buffer, solvent or diluent, and the hold period of the incubate may range from
   a few minutes to several hours, or from about 15 minutes to about eight hours, or from
   about 0.5 hours to about 8 hours, or from about 0.5 hours to about 4 hours, or from about
15 1 hour to about 4 hours, or from about 1 hour to about 2 hours.
             The length of the incubating period for the incubation process may depend in
   general on other process parameters such as the flow rates of the impinging stream, as
   well as the temperature and pH.
             During the hold period, the temperature of the collected composition in the
20 collection reservoir can be controlled in the range of from about 150 C to about 370 C, or
   from about 220 C to about 350 C.
             In some aspects, the incubation process may be terminated by quenching the
   incubate with rapid addition of buffer, solvent or diluent. The quenching step may reduce
   the concentration of the organic solvent to about 20% (v/v) or lower, or about 15% (v/v)
25 or lower, or about 10% (v/v) or lower, or about 5% (v/v) or lower.
             In some embodiments, the quenching process may further provide a stabilized
   liposomal composition containing liposomes that encapsulate the active agent.
     Filtration and finishing
             As discussed above, in some embodiments, an impinging stream undergoes
30 mixing, collection, an incubation process, and a quenching process. The quenched
   material may be a stabilized liposomal composition which is output for filtration and
   finishing.
             Fig. 5 shows a process diagram for certain embodiments for preparing liposomal
   compositions of this disclosure by filtration and finishing. Referring to Fig. 5, a
                                                   18

   stabilized liposomal composition, such as the quenched liposomal composition 460, is
   charged to a reservoir 500. A diafiltration buffer solution is maintained in a separate
   reservoir 520. A peristaltic pump 502 provides circulation of the stabilized liposomal
   composition from reservoir 500 through a tube containing a hollow fiber membrane 504.
 5 Tangential flow filtration occurs via this circulation to concentrate the stabilized
   liposomal composition, and filtrate 530 is removed from the tube containing the hollow
   fiber membrane 504. The addition of replacement buffer from reservoir 520 to the
   circulation allows for diafiltration at a fixed or variable volume. The stabilized liposomal
   composition may also be diluted by the addition of buffer to attain the final concentration
10 of the active agent in the formulation. Optionally, dialysis of the stabilized liposomal
   composition may be performed using peristaltic pump 506 to drive the dialysis buffer
   solution from reservoir 540. The stabilized liposomal composition at a particular
   concentration is output 550 to a finishing process.
            In general, the filtrate 530 may contain organic solvent and unencapsulated active
15 agent. Thus, the removal of filtrate may remove and reduce the concentration of the
   organic solvent in the stabilized liposomal composition, as well as remove the
   unencapsulated active agent.
            In general, the quenched incubate may have a concentration of the active agent
   that is below the range desirable for preparing a pharmaceutical composition. In some
20 embodiments, the quenched incubate may have a concentration of non-aqueous solvent
   that is too high for preparing a pharmaceutical composition. These concentrations can be
   adjusted by tangential flow filtration and diafiltration, as discussed above.
            In some embodiments, the quenched incubate is circulated to a hollow fiber
   tangential flow filtration apparatus, or cartridge or cassette tangential flow filtration
25 apparatuses. When cycled without the addition of buffer or solvent, tangential flow
   filtration retains the liposomal compositions in a decreasing volume of buffer and solvent,
   thereby increasing its concentration.
            A similar apparatus may be used in diafiltration mode to remove non-aqueous
   solvent and replace it with diafiltration buffer. In diafiltration mode, the volume of the
30 circulating retentate is held essentially constant by adding diafiltration buffer. Thus, the
   concentration of organic solvent decreases as it enters the permeate and is removed.
            The concentration of the active agent may be adjusted by the addition of buffer to
   the retentate of the diafiltration step to achieve a desired final concentration. The
   concentration-adjusted retentate may thereafter be provided to a sterilization unit in which
                                                    19

   direct flow filtration is used to sterilize the retentate product solution. The sterilized
   product may be used in a sterile vial-filling process, and the product vials stored at low
   temperature. Flash freezing, lyophilizing, and low temperature lyophilizing, and other
   means can be used to prepare and store the product.
 5          In certain embodiments, to reach a desired active agent concentration the
   quenched incubate may be concentrated first by tangential flow filtration, followed by
   diafiltration to remove organic solvent, then followed by additional tangential flow
   filtration, and lastly dilution with buffer, solvent or diluent.
            Examples of methods and materials for filtration are given Mark C. Porter,
10 Handbook of Industrial Membrane Technology (Noyes 1990), pp. 186-87. Some aspects
   of filtration are given in Munir Cheryan, Ultrafiltration and Microfiltration Handbook
   (1998).
   Encapsulation of Active Agents
            The degree of encapsulation of the active agent by the liposome particles is in
15 general affecting by many process parameters.
            In some embodiments, the degree of encapsulation of the active agent by the
   liposome particles after the incubation process is 50% or greater, or 60% or greater, or
   70% or greater, or 80% or greater, or 90% or greater, or 95% or greater, or 96% or
   greater, or 97% or greater, or 98% or greater, or 99% or greater, or essentially 100%.
20          The active agent liposomal compositions of this disclosure in general contain
   liposome particles of uniform size. The liposomal particle size may be about 300 nm in
   diameter or less, or about 250 nm or less, or about 200 nm or less, or about 180 nm or
   less, or about 160 nm or less, or about 150 nm or less, or about 140 nm or less, or about
   130 nm or less, or about 120 nm or less, or about 110 nm or less, or about 100 nm or less,
25 or about 90 nm or less, or about 80 nm or less, or about 70 nm or less.
            The liposomal particle size may range from about 50 nm to about 500 nm, or from
   about 60 nm to about 400 nm, or from about 70 nm to about 300 nm, or from about 70 nm
   to about 200 nm, or from about 70 nm to about 160 nm, or from about 80 nm to about 160
   nm.
30          In some variations, the stabilized liposomal composition may contain less than
   about 10% of the active agent that is outside of the liposome particles and not
   encapsulated, or less than about 8% of the active agent that is not encapsulated, or less
   than about 5% of the active agent that is not encapsulated, or less than about 4% of the
   active agent that is not encapsulated, or less than about 3% of the active agent that is not
                                                    20

   encapsulated, or less than about 2% of the active agent that is not encapsulated, or less
   than about 1% of the active agent that is not encapsulated.
            The level of encapsulation of the active agent in the stabilized liposomal
   composition may range from about 70% to about 99%, or from about 80% to about 99%,
 5 or from about 90% to about 99%, or from about 95% to about 99%. The level of
   encapsulation of the active agent in the stabilized liposomal composition may be
   essentially 100%.
   Efficient Delivery of Gene Silencing Therapeutics
            This disclosure relates generally to novel compounds and compositions, as well as
10 methods and uses thereof, for delivery of biologically active agents and drug agents. The
   compounds and compositions of this disclosure are useful for delivery of therapeutic
   agents to selected cells, tissues, organs or subjects. More particularly, this disclosure
   relates to the delivery of therapeutic agents, including nucleic acid agents, and methods
   for making and using materials containing peptides to effect delivery of biologically
15 active agents and drug agents.
            This disclosure provides a range of compounds, compositions, methods and uses
   for efficient systemic and local delivery of drugs and biologically active molecules.
   Efficient delivery can be provided by a high degree of loading of an active agent into
   liposomes using various carrier molecules including peptides. The compounds and
20 compositions of this disclosure can achieve a high efficiency of delivery of an active
   agent.
            One measure of the efficiency of delivery is the delivery efficiency ratio. As used
   herein, the delivery efficiency ratio is the ratio of the total mass of carrier molecules to
   the mass of the active agent. The lower the delivery efficiency ratio, the less is the mass
25 of carrier material compared to active agent, and the less is the potential for unwanted
   toxicity and side effects. As used herein, a lower delivery efficiency ratio is more
   advantageous and desirable.
            This invention relates generally to the fields of carriers and formulations for
   delivery of nucleic acids. Carriers for nucleic acids include compounds and compositions
30 formed with peptide components including crosslinkable and cleavable peptide structures.
   More particularly, this invention provides crosslinkable peptide structures and cleavable
   peptide structures which bind with a nucleic acid to form complexes or condensate
   compositions.
                                                   21

            In some embodiments, this disclosure provides complexes formed from a peptide
   and a nucleic acid. These complexes include core structures having a complex of a
   peptide and a nucleic acid, and core structures having various layers of peptides and
   nucleic acids. Peptides suitable for forming a complex of this invention with a nucleic
 5 acid include any cationic peptide.
            In some aspects, a complex, condensate, or nanoparticle of a peptide and a nucleic
   acid may be loaded into a liposomal formulation. Liposomal formulations of this
   disclosure can provide stable delivery systems for biologically active agents and drug
   agents, in particular, nucleic acid agents.
10          In some respects, the compositions and formulations of this disclosure can provide
   biological activity with reduced toxicity.
            Methods of using the carriers, peptides, nucleic acid constructs or complexes with
   peptides, and formulations of this disclosure in altering gene expression or activity are
   also provided, optionally in combination with cell-targeting components and other
15 pharmaceutical formulation components.
            This invention provides a range of carrier compositions for delivering a
   biologically active agent to a cell. More particularly, this disclosure provides a range of
   carrier structures that are nanometer scale in size having a nucleic acid agent condensed
   into small particles. The carrier particles can have increased stability in delivery, and can
20 efficiently deliver an active agent. Formulations of carrier particles loaded into liposomes
   can provide increased stability and delivery efficiency.
            The novel compounds and compositions of this disclosure can achieve a range of
   advantageous delivery efficiency ratios. In some embodiments, the compositions of this
   invention provide a delivery efficiency ratio for an RNAi-inducing agent of less than
25 fifteen, or less than ten.
            The compositions and methods of this disclosure may be useful for delivery of
   therapeutic, prophylactic, and diagnostic agents such as nucleic acids, polynucleotides,
   peptides, proteins, and small molecule compounds and drugs. These compositions may
   include nanoparticles of various diameters.
30          This disclosure provides novel compounds, compositions and formulations for
   intracellular and in vivo delivery of an active agent for use, ultimately, as a therapeutic,
   which in general maintain cytoprotection and relatively low toxicity. The compounds and
   compositions of this disclosure are useful for delivery of active agents to selected cells,
   tissues, organs or compartments in order to alter a disease state or a phenotype.
                                                  22

            In some aspects, this disclosure provides compounds, compositions and methods
   to deliver RNA structures to cells to produce the response of RNA interference, antisense
   effects, or the regulation or modulation of genomic expression.
            In some variations, this disclosure provides compounds, compositions and
 5 methods to deliver DNA structures or DNA-containing materials to cells.
            As used herein, the term "peptide nucleic acid complex" refers to a peptide bound
   or complexed to a nucleic acid.
   Efficient delivery of RNAi-inducing and antisense agents
            In some aspects, the compositions and methods of this invention provide efficient
10 delivery of an active agent by providing carrier particles having a high concentration or
   density of the active agent molecules. The carrier particles can be loaded into liposomes
   to provide a high concentration or density of the active agent molecules in a
   pharmaceutical formulation.
            In certain aspects, the compositions and methods of this invention provide
15 formulations of an RNAi-inducing agent or an antisense agent having a range of delivery
   efficiency ratios. A formulation for an RNAi-inducing agent or an antisense agent of this
   disclosure may advantageously have a delivery efficiency ratio of less than fifteen, or less
   than twelve, or less than ten, or less than nine, or less than eight, or less than five.
            In certain embodiments, efficient delivery can be achieved using a carrier particle
20 composed of a nucleic acid agent condensed with a cationic peptide. For example, based
   on the charges of the cationic peptides combined with a nucleic acid agent such as an
   RNAi-inducing agent or an antisense agent, the carrier particle can include structures in
   which up to six or more peptide binding regions may bind to an active RNA agent.
            In some variations, in a formulation containing carrier particles composed of a
25 nucleic acid agent, such as an RNAi-inducing agent or an antisense agent, loaded into
   liposomes, the liposomes may have over 500, or over 1,000, or over 5,000, or over 6,000,
   or over 7,000, or over 8,000, or over 9,000, or over 10,000 or more copies of the RNAi
   inducing agent or antisense agent molecules per particle.
            For example, in some aspects, for spherical particles having an N:P of 2, a density
30 of 1 g/cc, a particle volume of 1.26x106 nm , composed of peptide having MW 3781.2
   (net 7 cationic charges) and duplex RNA having MW 13,500 (net 40 anionic charges), the
   mass of a particle is 1.26x10-9 micrograms, and the particle has 11.4 peptides per duplex
   RNA. In this example, the delivery efficiency ratio is the ratio of the mass of peptide to
   the mass of the RNA which is 3.2. The fraction of the mass of the particle represented by
                                                  23

   RNA is 0.24, the number of duplex RNA molecules in the particle is 13,369, and the
   number of peptide molecules per particle is 1.53 x10 5 . In other words, a formulation
   containing these carrier particles and no additional carrier molecules would have a
   delivery efficiency ratio of 3.2 and an RNAi-agent mass fraction loading of 24% based on
 5 the particles.
   Liposomal formulations
           In some aspects, the carrier particles of this invention may be loaded or
   encapsulated in a liposomal formulation. For example, in some embodiments, carrier
   particles may be delivered as encapsulated in a liposomal formulation such as disclosed in
10 U.S. Pat. Application No. 12/114,284.
           In certain embodiments, a pharmaceutical formulation of carrier particles of this
   invention delivered as encapsulated in a liposomal formulation may increase the payload
   of a duplex RNA by 20-fold compared to a liposomal formulation of the RNA without the
   peptide carrier particle composition of this invention.
15         For example, in some embodiments, a pharmaceutical formulation of carrier
   particles of this invention delivered as encapsulated in a liposomal formulation may
   decrease the amount of carrier mass by 45% compared to a liposomal formulation of the
   RNA without the peptide carrier particle composition of this invention.
           In some embodiments, a pharmaceutical formulation of carrier particles for an
20 RNA agent includes a peptide-containing delivery system which uses peptides in
   delivering nucleic acids. This system can increase the payload of RNA agent which can
   be incorporated into a liposomal formulation. Using a peptide-containing nanoparticle,
   the efficiency of delivery may be enhanced, as well as the tissue distribution pattern of the
   delivery system. In some embodiments, the delivery system may demonstrate an increase
25 in RNA payload up to 20-fold per liposomal particle, while reducing the total amount of
   carrier excipients by approximately 45 percent. In some variations, the system may
   achieve a 30% reduction in RNA agent dose as compared to a liposomal formulation
   without peptides, for example, as measured by in vivo knockdown of ApoB, while
   maintaining 85% knockdown in mouse liver and knockdown in mouse jejunum. Thus, a
30 pharmaceutical formulation of carrier particles of this invention may significantly
   improve the delivery efficiency of an RNA agent, such as an siRNA, mdRNA, or an
   antisense agent.
                                                  24

   Carrier nanoparticles
            In some embodiments, carrier particles of this invention can be prepared as
   described in U.S. Pat. Application No. 61/106,062, filed October 16, 2008.
            The carrier particles of this disclosure are generally of uniform particle size. The
 5 carrier particle size may be about 300 nm in diameter or less, or about 250 nm or less, or
   about 200 nm or less, or about 180 nm or less, or about 160 nm or less, or about 150 nm
   or less, or about 140 nm or less, or about 130 nm or less, or about 120 nm or less, or
   about 110 nm or less, or about 100 nm or less, or about 90 nm or less, or about 80 nm or
   less, or about 70 nm or less.
10          The active agent carrier particles of this disclosure may have a range of particle
   sizes, for example, from about 50 nm to about 500 nm, or from about 60 nm to about 400
   nm, or from about 70 nm to about 300 nm, or from about 70 nm to about 200 nm, or from
   about 70 nm to about 160 nm, or from about 80 nm to about 160 nm.
            In some embodiments, the active agent carrier particles of this disclosure may be
15 negatively charged. For example, carrier particles composed of an RNAi-agent and a
   cationic peptide may be condensed so that the particles retain a negative charge.
            In some embodiments, the active agent carrier particles of this disclosure may be
   positively charged. For example, carrier particles composed of an RNAi-agent and a
   cationic peptide may be condensed so that the particles acquire a positive charge.
20 Carriers and peptide binding regions
            In some aspects, carrier compounds and compositions of this disclosure may be
   formed with peptide components that condense with a biologically active nucleic acid
   component by binding to the nucleic acid to form particles of nanometer dimensions.
            In some embodiments, peptides suitable for carrier compositions of this disclosure
25 are described in U.S. Pat. Application No. 61/116,258, filed November 19, 2008.
            A carrier may be formed when one peptide having one or more binding regions
   binds to a nucleic acid.
            In certain variations, more than one cationic binding region of a peptide may bind
   to the same or different nucleic acid molecules.
30          The crosslinkable and cleavable peptide structures of this disclosure may
   advantageously have a plurality of cationic residues which are distributed along the
   peptide chain in one or more binding regions. Variation of the number and distribution of
   cationic residues can be used vary the strength of binding of the peptide to an active
   agent.
                                                   25

           Peptides of this invention include a cationic peptide having a binding region with
   sufficient positive charge to bind to a nucleic acid and one or more linker groups. A
   binding region of a peptide of this invention may have sufficient positive charge to bind
   to a nucleic acid. Linker groups can link to each other to crosslink two or more peptides
 5 into a single molecule.
           Peptides capable of condensing with an active nucleic acid agent to form a carrier
   particle of this disclosure may have sufficient positive charge to bind to a nucleic acid and
   sufficient linker groups to form a self-crosslinked construct that includes a bound nucleic
   acid.
10         This disclosure provides peptides having sufficient positively-charged residues to
   bind to a nucleic acid, and being capable of forming a crosslinked peptide.
           In some embodiments, the biologically active agent is a nucleic acid agent which
   can bind with a cationic peptide. A nucleic acid agent may bind one, two, three, four,
   five, or six peptides, or more, to form a complex. A condensate particle may be formed
15 by aggregation and binding of nucleic acid-peptide complexes.
           In some embodiments, a nucleic acid agent may bind portions of more than one
   peptide such that the peptide attaches to more than one nucleic acid agent.
           Carrier structures or constructs can be formed by admixing a crosslinkable or
   cleavable peptide of this invention with a biologically active agent to which the peptide
20 binds. Binding of the peptide to the agent can be performed at the same time as
   crosslinking of the peptide occurs, or before or after the peptides are crosslinked.
           In some aspects, the carrier is a crosslinked peptide construct which may be a
   condensate of a peptide and a nucleic acid. The condensate may form a carrier particle of
   nanometer dimension which can incorporate a biologically active agent such as a nucleic
25 acid.
   Crosslinkable peptides
           In some embodiments, the crosslinkable peptides of this invention may contain a
   crosslinkable terminal residue or group.
           For example, a crosslinkable peptide may have a single terminal cysteine residue
30 which may crosslink by forming an interpeptide disulfide bond resulting in dimers of the
   peptide.
           In some variations, the peptides may contain one or more sulfhydryl groups which
   can crosslink to form a multimeric peptide construct which binds to, and may be a carrier
   for a biologically active agent.
                                                  26

           In some embodiments, a crosslinkable group may form a cleavable crosslink that
   may be cleaved at low pH or may be cleaved by the action of a protein or enzyme.
   Examples of cleavable crosslinks include chemically-cleavable acid labile crosslinks and
   enzyme-cleavable crosslinks.
 5         Examples of crosslinkable groups include organic groups having up to 1000
   atoms, a bifunctional linker, a bifunctional crosslinker, and a heterobifunctional linker.
   The crosslinkable groups may be substituents of a peptide residue, or may be attached at
   the terminus of the peptide.
           In certain embodiments, crosslinkable peptide structures include peptides having
10 crosslinkable groups at each terminus. In some variations, crosslinkable peptide
   structures include dimers, trimers, and multimers of peptides having crosslinkable groups
   at each terminus.
   Cleavable peptides
           In some aspects, this disclosure provides cleavable peptides containing an internal
15 cleavable linker group located between portions of a peptide sequence.
           In some embodiments, a cleavable peptide may have two cationic binding regions
   linked together by a cleavable group. The cleavable group may be cleaved to detach
   various binding regions of the peptide from each other.
           The cationic binding regions may bind to a biologically active agent such as a
20 nucleic acid.
           In some variations, cleavage of the linker group of the peptide to detach the
   binding regions can allow more rapid dissociation of a peptide from a biologically active
   agent compared to a peptide that would not be cleaved.
           An intracellularly-cleavable linker may be cleaved by chemical reduction, or by
25 the action of various proteins or enzymes in the intracellular environment.
   Condensate particles and releasable forms
           Compounds and compositions of this disclosure include condensate particles or
   carriers composed of one or more peptide components and one or more active agents.
           In general, condensate particles formed with a peptide and an active agent may be
30 anionic, neutral, or cationic. For delivery of the carrier particles in vivo, a neutral or
   cationic form may be preferred. A condensate particle may be referred to as a core
   particle.
                                                 27

            In some embodiments, a condensate particle may be formed with a first portion of
   a crosslinkable peptide and an active agent. One or more additional layers of the same or
   different crosslinkable peptide may be added to the particle.
            In some variations, a condensate particle may be formed with a first portion of a
 5 cleavable peptide and an active agent. One or more additional layers of the same or
   different cleavable peptide may be added to the particle.
            In certain embodiments, a condensate particle may be formed with a first portion
   of a cleavable peptide and an active agent. One or more additional layers of a
   crosslinkable peptide may be added to the particle.
10          In some variations, a condensate particle may be formed with a first portion of a
   crosslinkable peptide and an active agent. One or more additional layers of a cleavable
   peptide may be added to the particle.
            In some embodiments, a condensate particle that is anionic may be formed with a
   first portion of a crosslinkable or cleavable peptide and an active nucleic acid agent. An
15 additional layer or layers of a cationic crosslinkable or cleavable peptide may be added to
   the anionic particle to form a neutral or cationic carrier particle.
            In certain variations, a condensate particle that is anionic may be formed with a
   first portion of a crosslinkable or cleavable peptide and an active nucleic acid agent. An
   additional layer or layers of a cationic crosslinkable or cleavable peptide may be added to
20 the anionic particle to form a neutral or cationic carrier particle. An additional layer or
   layers of an anionic endosomolytic compound may be added to the neutral or cationic
   carrier particle to form a layered neutral or cationic carrier particle.
            In some aspects, the active agents may be one or more drug compounds, one or
   more antisense agents, one or more RNAi-inducing agents, or one or more DNA
25 containing agents.
            In some embodiments, a composition or formulation of this disclosure may be
   prepared by loading condensate particles or layered carrier particles into cationic
   liposomes.
            In some embodiments, the compositions and methods of this disclosure may
30 provide delivery of therapeutic agents in releasable forms or compositions. Releasable
   forms and compositions include molecules that bind and release an active agent,
   molecules that bind an active agent and discharge a moiety that assists in release of the
   agent, molecules that bind an active agent and are subsequently modulated in form within
                                                  28

   a biological compartment to assist in release of the agent, and compositions containing
   molecules that bind an active agent admixed with a release mediator compound.
           As used herein, releasable forms include those containing a crosslinkable or
   cleavable peptide of this disclosure, or a form containing an endosomolytic compound or
 5 material.
           A condensate or carrier particle may contain a cleavable peptide structure or
   matrix. Cleavage of a peptide structure can be triggered by certain events such as entry of
   the carrier into a biological environment or compartment containing a compound which
   can cleave the peptide crosslinks. Cleavage of peptide linker groups can occur
10 intracellularly in the cytosol or in various cellular or extracellular compartments.
           Cleavage of disulfide peptide linker groups can be done chemically, for example,
   by reduction of the disulfide with tris(2-carboxyethyl) phosphine hydrochloride (TCEP),
   dithiothreitol (DTT), or mercaptoethanol.
           In certain embodiments, a disulfide reductase may be used to cleave peptide
15 disulfide bonds.
           Once within a cell, disulfide crosslinks may be reduced, thereby releasing an
   active agent for efficient delivery. The environment of the endosome is believed to be
   reducing and to mediate disulfide reduction and release of the active agent.
           Release within a cell can occur by disruption or cleavage of the peptide crosslinks,
20 as well as by dissociation of the biologically active agent from the peptide.
           The peptides and peptide constructs of this invention may advantageously contain
   one, two, or more binding regions having one or more positively-charged amino acid
   residues. The binding regions can be attached in a chain where one positively-charged
   binding region is cleavably-linked to the next binding region by a cleavable crosslink.
25         The cationic regions may serve as binding regions for an active agent, such as a
   nucleic acid agent, and several cationic regions may bind to the same active agent to
   cooperatively attach the peptide to the active agent.
           In certain embodiments, a releasable form of this disclosure includes a condensate
   particle of a peptide and a nucleic acid, where the peptide component includes crosslinks
30 that can be cleaved to effect release of the nucleic acid. Cleavage of linker groups of the
   peptides may be triggered by a change in the environment of the peptide such as would
   occur in transport from extracellular to intracellular domains, or during endocytosis or
   uptake and delivery of endosomes by cells.
                                                  29

            Examples of cleavable linkers for peptides include acid-cleavable groups such as
   hydrazone which may be cleaved during endocytosis or through intracellular interaction
   with lysosomes.
            In some embodiments, release of the active agent may be provided by an acid
 5 labile linker.
            Examples of acid-labile linkers include linkers containing an orthoester group, a
   hydrazone, a cis-acetonyl, an acetal, a ketal, a silyl ether, a silazane, an imine, a citriconic
   anhydride, a maleic anhydride, a crown ether, an azacrown ether, a thiacrown ether, a
   dithiobenzyl group, a cis-aconitic acid, a cis-carboxylic alkatriene, methacrylic acid, and
10 mixtures thereof.
            Examples of acid-labile groups and linkers are given in U.S. Patent Nos.
   7,098,032; 6,897,196; 6,426,086; 7,138,382; 5,563,250; and 5,505,931.
            Examples of cleavable linkers for peptides include Cathepsin-cleavable linkers
   such as Val-Cit which may be cleaved by intracellular Cathepsins. Examples of substrate
15 sequences for Cathepsin B, D, and L are shown in Tables 1, 2, and 3, respectively.
   Cleavable linkers include di-, tri-, and tetrapeptide subunits of Cathepsin B, D, and L
   substrates (P2-P2').
                                 Table 1: Cathepsin B substrates
       SEQ ID
                      P4        P3           P2        P1        P1'        P2'       P3'         P4'
         NO:
           1        -         Abz         Phe       Arg        Ala        Lyd       -
           2        -         Abz         Phe       Arg        Lyd        Trp       -
           3        -         Abz         Phe       Arg        Nph        Phe       -
           4        -         Abz         Phe       Arg        Phe        Lyd       -
           5        Asn       Phe         Phe        Gly       Val        Gly       Gly         Glu
           6        Cys       Pro         Val        Thr       Tyr        Gly       Gln         Cys
           7        Gln       Ala         Ser       Arg        Ser        Phe       Asn         Gln
           8        Ser       Arg         Ser       Phe        Asn        Gln       Gly         Arg
           9        Ala       Ser         Arg        Ser       Phe        Asn       Gln         Gly
          10        Boc       Gly         Arg       Arg        AMC        -         -
          11        -         -           Bz        Arg        NH2        -         -
          12        -         -           Bz         Gly       Arg        -         -
          13        Tyr       Leu         Lys       Arg        Leu        Cys       Gly         Thr
                                                  30

SEQ ID
         P4   P3   P2      P1  P1'   P2'   P3'   P4'
  NO:
   14  Lys  Arg  Leu     Cys  Gly  Thr   Phe   Leu
   15  Phe  Val  Asn     Gln  His  Leu   Cya   Gly
   16  Leu  Cya  Gly     Ser  His  Leu   Val   Glu
   17  His  Leu  Val     Glu  Ala  Leu   Tyr   Leu
   18  Val  Glu  Ala     Leu  Tyr  Leu   Val   Cya
   19  Glu  Ala  Leu     Tyr  Leu  Val   Cya   Gly
   20  Leu  Tyr  Leu    Val   Cya  Gly   Glu   Arg
   21  Val  Cya  Gly     Glu  Arg  Gly   Phe   Phe
   22  Gly  Glu  Arg     Gly  Phe  Phe   Tyr   Thr
   23  Gly  Phe  Phe     Tyr  Thr  Pro   Lys   Ala
   24  Leu  Lys  Pro    Ala   Lys  Ser   Ala   Arg
   25  Ala  Pro  Leu     Lys  Pro  Ala   Lys   Ser
   26  Lys  Pro  Ala     Lys  Ser  Ala   Arg   Ser
   27  Lys  Leu  Ser     Gly  Phe  Ser   Phe   Lys
   28  Lys  Ser  Phe     Lys  Leu  Ser   Gly   Phe
   29  Ala  Tyr  Arg    Arg   Phe  Tyr   Gly   Pro
   30  Gln  Trp  Leu     Gly  Ala  Pro   Val   Pro
   31  Met  Lys  Leu     Thr  Leu  Lys   Gly   Gly
   32  Lys  Lys  Leu     Thr  Val  Asn   Pro   Gly
   33  Leu  Ser  Lys     Lys  Val  Lys   Asn   Met
   34  Thr  Phe  Leu    Arg   Leu  Ala   Ala   Leu
   35  Ser  Leu  Asn    His   Tyr  Ala   Gly   Tyr
   36  Leu  Leu  Val     Tyr  AMC  -     -
   37  Arg  Glu  Ala    Ala   Ser  Gly   Asn   Phe
   38  Pro  Thr  Val     Gly  Ser  Phe   Gly   Phe
   39  Glu  Val  Asp     Leu  Leu  Ile   Gly   Ser
   40  Pro  Arg  Phe     Lys  Ile  Ile   Gly   Gly
   41  -    Z    Arg    Arg   AMC  -     -
   42  -    Z    Arg    Arg   NAN  -     -
   43  -    Z    Leu    Arg   AMC  -     -
   44  -    Z    Phe    Arg   AMC  -     -
   45  -    Z    Phe    Arg   AMC  -     -
   46  -    Z    Phe    Arg   NAN  -     -
                      31

               Table 2: Cathepsin D substrates
SEQ ID
         P4   P3        P2        P1       P1'  P2'  P3'   P4'
  NO:
   47  Abz  Ile       Glu      Phe       Nph   Arg  Leu  NH2
   48  Leu  Leu       Ser      Ala       Leu   Val  Glu  Thr
   49  Ile  Thr       Leu       Leu      Ser   Ala  Leu  Val
   50  Leu  Ser      Ala        Leu      Val   Glu  Thr  Arg
   51  Val  Val       Ile      Ala       Thr   Val  Ile  Val
   52  Ile  Ile       Gly       Leu      Met   Val  Gly  Gly
   53  Val  Ile       Thr       Leu      Val   Met  Leu  Lys
   54  Lys  Leu      Val       Phe       Phe   Ala  Glu  Asp
   55  Leu  Val      Phe       Phe       Ala   Glu  Asp  Val
   56  Thr  Tyr       Lys      Phe       Phe   Glu  Gln  Met
   57  Val  Ile      Ala        Thr      Val   Ile  Val  Ile
   58  Ile  Val       Ile       Thr      Leu   Val  Met  Leu
   59  Leu  Gly      Asp       Phe       Phe   Arg  Lys  Ser
   60  Ile  Lys      Asp       Phe       Leu   Arg  Asn  Leu
   61  Gly  Tyr      Asp        Leu      Ser   Phe  Leu  Pro
   62  Ala  Pro       Gly      Phe       Leu   Gly  Leu  Pro
   63  Thr  Met       Thr       Leu      Ser   Lys  Ser  Thr
   64  Asn  Tyr      Phe        Leu      Asp   Val  Glu  Leu
   65  Ala  Leu      Asp       Phe       Ala   Val  Gly  Glu
   66  Phe  Gln       Ile       Tyr      Ala   Val  Pro  Trp
   67  Lys  Asp      Val        Leu      Asp   Ser  Val  Leu
   68  Val  Glu      Asp        Leu      Glu   Ser  Val  Gly
   69  Gly  Asn      Phe        Lys      Ser   Gln  Leu  Gln
   70  Trp  Gly       Thr      Phe       Glu   Glu  Val  Ser
   71  Leu  Gly       Glu      Phe       Val   Ser  Glu  Thr
   72  Ser  His       Cys       Leu      Leu   Val  Thr  Leu
   73  Leu  Val       Thr       Leu      Ala   Ala  His  Leu
   74  Ser  Thr      Val        Leu      Thr   Ser  Lys  Tyr
   75  Ala  Glu      Ala        Leu      Glu   Arg  Met  Phe
   76  Leu  Glu      Arg       Met       Phe   Leu  Ser  Phe
   77  Leu  Asp       Lys      Phe       Leu   Ala  Ser  Val
   78  Glu  Arg      Met       Phe       Leu   Ser  Phe  Pro
                             32

SEQ ID
         P4   P3   P2      P1  Pl'  P2'  P3'   P4'
  NO:
   79  Phe  Leu  Ser    Phe   Pro  Thr  Thr  Lys
   80  Ala  Asn  Val     Ser  Thr  Val  Leu  Thr
   81  Ala  Ser  Val     Ser  Thr  Val  Leu  Thr
   82  Leu  Leu  Val     Thr  Leu  Ala  Ser  His
   83  Leu  Leu  Val     Thr  Leu  Ala  Ala  His
   84  Ala  Ala  Glu     Tyr  Gly  Ala  Glu  Ala
   85                   Val   Leu  Ser  Ala  Ala
   86  Val  Gln  Ala    Ala   Tyr  Gln  Lys  Val
   87  Thr  Ala  Glu     Glu  Lys  Ala  Ala  Val
   88  Val  Thr  Ala     Leu  Trp  Gly  Lys  Val
   89  -    Val  His     Leu  Thr  Pro  Glu  Glu
   90  Leu  Gly  Arg     Leu  Leu  Val  Val  Tyr
   91  Leu  Gly  Arg     Leu  Leu  Val  Val  Tyr
   92  Gly  Arg  Leu     Leu  Val  Val  Tyr  Pro
   93  Gly  Arg  Leu     Leu  Val  Val  Tyr  Pro
   94  Val  Thr  Ala    Phe   Trp  Gly  Lys  Val
   95  Thr  Gln  Arg    Phe   Phe  Glu  Ser  Phe
   96  Thr  Gln  Arg    Phe   Phe  Glu  Ser  Phe
   97  Phe  Glu  Ser    Phe   Gly  Asp  Leu  Ser
   98  Phe  Glu  Ser    Phe   Gly  Asp  Leu  Ser
   99  Lys  Gly  Thr    Phe   Ala  Thr  Leu  Ser
  100  Thr  Ala  Leu     Trp  Gly  Lys  Val  Asn
  101  Ala  Asp  Ala    Val   Met  Asn  Asn  Pro
  102  Val  Glu  Ala     Leu  Tyr  Leu  Val  Cya
  103  Ala  Leu  Tyr     Leu  Val  Cya  Gly  Glu
  104  Glu  Arg  Gly    Phe   Phe  Tyr  Thr  Pro
  105  Arg  Leu  Arg    Ala   Tyr  Leu  Leu  Pro
  106  Leu  Lys  Phe     Leu  Asn  Val  Leu  Ser
  107  Ser  Gln  Arg     Tyr  Lys  Val  Asp  Tyr
  108  Lys  Val  Asp     Tyr  Glu  Ser  Gln  Ser
  109  Ser  Gly  Gly     Lys  Met  Lys  Val  Asn
  110  Arg  Pro  Phe     Leu  Val  Val  Ile  Phe
  111  Ala  Ile  Lys    Phe   Phe  Ser  Ala  Gln
  112  Ile  Lys  Phe    Phe   Ser  Ala  Gln  Thr
                      33

SEQ ID
         P4   P3   P2      P1  P1'  P2'  P3'   P4'
  NO:
  113  Ile  Thr  Lys     Leu  Asn  Ala  Glu  Asn
  114  Ala  Gly  Lys     Lys  Tyr  Phe  Ile  Asp
  115  Phe  Ile  Asp    Phe   Val  Ala  Arg  Glu
  116  Pro  Tyr  Ile     Leu  Lys  Arg  Gly  Ser
  117  Phe  Gln  Glu    Ala   Tyr  Arg  Arg  Phe
  118  Leu  Leu  Lys     Glu  Ala  Gln  Leu  Pro
  119  Val  Val  Leu     Leu  Pro  Asp  Val  Glu
  120  Asp  Val  Val     Leu  Phe  Glu  Lys  Lys
  121  Gly  Met  Glu     Leu  Ile  Val  Ser  Gln
  122  Tyr  Pro  Val     Trp  Ser  Gly  Leu  Pro
  123  Asn  Glu  Ile     Tyr  Pro  Val  Trp  Ser
  124  Phe  Ile  Val     Gly  Phe  Thr  Arg  Gln
  125  Ala  Asn  Pro     Lys  Gln  Thr  Trp  Val
  126  His  Pro  Lys    Phe   Ile  Val  Gly  Phe
  127  Lys  Gln  Thr     Trp  Val  Lys  Tyr  Ile
  128  Trp  Val  Lys     Tyr  Ile  Val  Arg  Leu
  129  Pro  Lys  Glu     Leu  Trp  Val  Gln  Gln
  130  Leu  Arg  Tyr    Asp   Thr  Glu  Tyr  Tyr
  131  Lys  Ile  Leu     Gly  Cys  Asp  Trp  Tyr
  132  Asp  Val  Gln     Leu  Lys  Asn  Ile  Thr
  133  Phe  Asn  Asn     Leu  Asp  Arg  Ile  Leu
  134  Gln  Leu  Lys     Leu  Tyr  Asp  Asp  Lys
  135  Ser  Leu  Gly     Leu  Val  Gly  Thr  His
  136  Arg  Asp  Ile     Leu  Ile  Ala  Ser  Asn
  137  Thr  Asp  Tyr    Met   Tyr  Leu  Thr  Asn
  138  Ser  Ile  Thr    Phe   Leu  Arg  Asp  Phe
  139  Gly  Leu  Lys    Phe   Ile  Ile  Lys  Arg
  140  Ile  Asp  Ser    Phe   Val  Lys  Ser  Gly
  141  Glu  Ile  Asp     Ser  Phe  Val  Lys  Ser
  142  Lys  Thr  Tyr     Ser  Val  Gln  Leu  Lys
  143  Ala  Ser  Asn     Trp  Tyr  Phe  Asn  His
  144  Gly  Cys  Asp     Trp  Tyr  Phe  Val  Pro
  145  Asp  Thr  Glu     Tyr  Tyr  Leu  Ile  Pro
  146  Ile  Thr  Asp     Tyr  Met  Tyr  Leu  Thr
                      34

SEQ ID
         P4   P3        P2        P1       P1'   P2'   P3'   P4'
  NO:
  147  Asp  Tyr      Met        Tyr      Leu   Thr   Asn   Ala
  148  Leu  Asn      Ile        Tyr      Tyr   Arg   Arg   Leu
  149  Ile  Pro      Leu        Tyr      Lys   Lys   Met   Glu
  150  Lys  Phe      Leu       Ala       Ser   Leu   Leu   Glu
  151  Thr  Thr      Glu        Leu      Phe   Ser   Pro   Val
  152  Asp  Gly      His       Phe       Leu   Arg   Glu   Pro
  153  Phe  Ser      His       Phe       Ile   Arg   Ser   Gly
               Table 3: Cathepsin L substrates
SEQ ID
         P4   P3        P2        P1       P1'   P2'   P3'   P4'
  NO:
  154  -    Abz      Phe       Arg       Ala   Lyd   NH2
  155  Met  Phe      Leu        Glu      Ala   Ile   Pro   Met
  156  Ala  Ile      Pro       Met       Ser   Ile   Pro   Pro
  157  Cys  Pro      Val        Thr      Tyr   Gly   Gln   Cys
  158  Gln  Ala      Ser       Arg       Ser   Phe   Asn   Gln
  159  Lys  Val      Phe        Gln      Glu   Pro   Leu   Phe
  160  Leu  Phe      Tyr        Glu      Ala   Pro   Arg   Ser
  161  Ala  Thr      Leu        Thr      Phe   Asp   His   Ser
  162  Pro  Leu      Phe        Tyr      Glu   Ala   Pro   Arg
  163  Gln  Gly      Phe        Gln      Gly   Pro   Hyp   Gly
  164  Gly  Pro      Arg        Gly      Leu   Hyp   Gly   Pro
  165  Gly  Pro      Hyp        Gly      Ala   Hyp   Gly   Pro
  166  Arg  Leu      Val        Gly      Gly   Pro   Met   Asp
  167  Thr  Gly      Leu       Arg       Asp   Pro   Phe   Asn
  168  Lys  Ile      Leu       His       Leu   Pro   Thr   Ser
  169  Ala  His      Leu        Lys      Asn   Ser   Gln   Glu
  170  Ile  Gln      Gln        Lys      Ile   Leu   His   Leu
  171  Ala  Pro      Leu        Thr      Ala   Glu   Ile   Gln
  172  Ile  Met      Phe        Thr      Ser   Leu   Pro   Leu
  173  -    Cap      Leu        CyB      AMC   -     -
  174  -    Cap      Leu       Phe       AMC   -     -
  175  -    Cap      Leu        ThB      AMC   -     -
                             35

       SEQ ID
                       P4         P3        P2         P1      P1'        P2'       P3'         P4'
         NO:
         176         Glu       His       Tyr         Gln      Lys       Lys       Phe         Lys
         177         -         Phe       Val        Asn       Gln       His       Leu         Cya
         178        His         Leu      Val         Glu      Ala       Leu       Tyr         Leu
         179        Ala         Leu      Tyr         Leu      Val       Cya       Gly         Glu
         180        Arg         Gly      Phe        Phe       Tyr       Thr       Pro         Lys
         181         Gly       Phe       Phe         Tyr      Thr       Pro       Lys        Ala
         182        His         Ser      Lys         Ile      Ile       Ile       Ile         Lys
         183        Val         Leu      Pro        Arg       Ser       Ala       Lys         Glu
         184         Glu       Ala       Tyr        Arg       Arg       Phe       Tyr         Gly
         185         Gln        Trp      Leu         Gly      Ala       Pro       Val        Pro
         186         Leu        Ser      Leu        Ala       His       Thr       His         Gln
         187         Lys        Leu      Leu        Ala       Val       Ser       Gly        Pro
         188         Gln        Leu      Phe        Arg       Arg       Ala       Val         Leu
         189         Glu       Phe       Ser        Arg       Lys       Val       Pro         Thr
         190         Leu        Leu      Ile         Gly      Ser       Ser       Gln        Asp
         191        Pro        Arg       Phe         Lys      Ile       Ile       Gly         Gly
         192         -          Z        Leu        Arg       AMC       -         -
         193         -          Z        Phe        Arg       AMC       -         -
         194         -         -         Tyr         Gly      Gly       Phe       Met
           In some variations, a releasable form of this disclosure includes a condensate
   particle of a peptide and a nucleic acid and an endosomolytic compound. In these
   variations, an endosomolytic compound can assist in release of the core particle and
 5 active agent into the cell from an endosome, while the peptide component can include
   crosslinks that may be cleaved to effect release and dissociation of the nucleic acid from
   the core condensate particle within the cell.
           Examples of endosomolytic compounds include Chloroquin, 4-aminoquinoline,
   aminoquinoline, Amodiaquine, cell penetrating peptides, Transportan, Penetratin, a
10 hemagglutinin fusion peptide from influenza virus (see for example Han et al., Nat.
   Struct. Biol. Vol. 8, 715-720, 2001), and influenza-based peptide diINF7.
           In certain embodiments, carrier particles or constructs can be formulated with a
   targeting agent for cellular or sub-cellular delivery. In some variations, a carrier particle
   may be combined with a synthetic polymer such as polyethylene glycol (PEG) to reduce
                                                  36

   non-specific effects or interaction with blood components. A suitable synthetic polymer
   includes a polyethylene glycol chain (PEG), or a PEG copolymer such as PEG
   polyurethane or PEG-polypropylene. See, e.g., J. Milton Harris, Poly(ethylene glycol)
   chemistry: biotechnical and biomedical applications (1992).
 5 Methods of use
           This disclosure includes a method for delivering a therapeutic nucleic acid to a
   cell comprising preparing a composition containing a carrier particle containing a nucleic
   acid agent and treating a cell with the composition.
           This disclosure includes a method for inhibiting expression of a gene in a cell
10 comprising preparing a composition containing a carrier particle containing a nucleic acid
   agent and treating a cell with the composition.
           This disclosure includes a method for inhibiting expression of a gene in a mammal
   comprising preparing a composition containing a carrier particle containing a nucleic acid
   agent and administering the composition to the mammal.
15         This disclosure includes a method for treating a disease in a human, the disease
   being selected from inflammatory diseases including rheumatoid arthritis, metabolic
   diseases including hypercholesterolemia, liver disease, encephalitis, bone fracture, heart
   disease, viral disease including hepatitis and influenza, and cancer, comprising preparing
   a liposomal composition and administering the composition to the human.
20 Active agents
           In some aspects, this disclosure provides methods for making compositions
   suitable for delivery of therapeutic agents. The methods of this disclosure may provide
   compositions of nucleic acid agents, such as condensed RNA nanoparticles, two- or three
   stranded RNA structures, RNA peptide conjugates, dicer substrate RNAs, dsRNAs,
25 siRNAs, microRNAs, hairpin RNAs, other active and regulatory RNA forms, antisense
   therapeutic forms including antisense RNA and DNA, and DNA and DNA-containing
   forms.
           The active agent of this disclosure may be a single-stranded or double-stranded
   nucleic acid. The active agent of this disclosure may be an antigenic or immunogenic
30 protein or polypeptide.
           The active agent of this disclosure may be a peptide condensate of an active agent.
   For example, an active agent may be composed of nanoparticles formed by condensing an
   active agent with a peptide or other biomolecule, or a condensate or complex of an active
   agent with a peptide, biomolecule, or polymeric molecule. Nanoparticles or condensates
                                                 37

   may be crosslinked. Nanoparticles or condensates can be loaded as cargo into a
   liposomal composition.
           The active agent of this disclosure may be an antisense or sense, DNA or RNA
   oligonucleotide, or a modified DNA or RNA oligonucleotide which binds to target
 5 nucleic acid sequence to block transcription or translation of the target sequence by
   various interactions. An antisense or sense agent may form a triple helix with a
   nucleotide double helix, or may be a ribozyme, or may encode transcriptional or
   translational regulatory sequences including promoter sequences or enhancer sequences.
   An antisense or sense oligonucleotide may be used to block expression of a protein and
10 may have modified nucleobases or sugar groups, or other groups, or may be a conjugate
   with a biomolecule, peptide, or protein, for enhanced stability or activity. An antisense or
   sense oligonucleotide may be delivered into a cell containing its target nucleic acid by the
   compositions and methods described herein. An antisense or sense oligonucleotide may
   be delivered into a cell containing its target nucleic acid using an oligonucleotide-carrier
15 complex, or a liposomal formulation, as described herein.
   Crosslinkable and cleavable peptides
           Crosslinkable peptides of this invention include those having the structure shown
   in Formula I:
20                 A-B     Formula I
           where A is a peptide of from two to about 16 amino acid residues which may
   contain a cationic binding region, and B is a crosslinkable group, wherein A contains one
   or more positively charged residues at pH 7.
25         Examples of B include cysteine.
           Other examples of B include organic groups having up to 1000 atoms, a
   bifunctional linker, a bifunctional crosslinker, a heterobifunctional linker, a carbamate,
   and an ester.
           Examples of A include cationic peptides.
30         Examples of A include cationic peptides having the structure shown in Formula II:
                   (Xaa )m-(Xaa 2)1 -(Xaa 3) 0-(Xaa 4 )p   Formula II
                                                   38

                                                              1    2      34
            where Xaa is an amino acid residue, each of Xaa , Xaa , Xaa , and Xaa4 are
   independently selected amino acid residues which are the same or different, each of m, n,
   o, and p is from zero to four provided that the sum of m, n, o, and p is two or more,
                                 1     2     34
   wherein one or more of Xaa , Xaa , Xaa , and Xaa4 is a positively charged residue at pH
 5 7.
            Cationic peptides can be prepared where, for example, a residue of A has a basic
   side chain. Examples of amino acids having a basic side chain include arginine (Arg),
   homoarginine (homoArg) (side chain -(CH2) 4 NH(C=NH)NH2), norarginine (norArg)
   (side chain -(CH 2) 2NH(C=NH)NH 2), nor-norarginine (nornorArg) (side chain
10 -(CH 2)NH(C=NH)NH 2 ), ornithine, lysine, homolysine, histidine, 1-methylhistidine,
   pyridylalanine (Pal), asparagine, N-ethylasparagine, glutamine, and
   4-aminophenylalanine, and side chain modified derivatives thereof.
            As used herein, the term "homo," when referring to an amino acid, means that an
   additional carbon is added to the side chain, while the term "nor," when referring to an
15 amino acid, means that a carbon is subtracted from the side chain. Thus, homolysine
   refers to side chain-(CH2) 5NH 2.
            Cationic peptides can also be prepared where the side chain of a residue contains
   an ionizable group or substituent.
            In some embodiments, the cationic residue is N -methylarginine, symmetric or
20 asymmetric NG,NG-dimethylarginine, NG-methyl-homoarginine, symmetric or
   asymmetric N G,N G-dimethyl-homoarginine, N G-methyl-norarginine, symmetric or
   asymmetric N G,N G-dimethyl-norarginine, or N -methyl-nor-norarginine, symmetric or
   asymmetric NG,NG-dimethyl-nor-norarginine.
            In some embodiments, the cationic residue is NG-ethylarginine, symmetric or
25 asymmetric NG,NG-diethylarginine, NG-ethyl-homoarginine, symmetric or asymmetric
   NG,NG-diethyl-homoarginine, NG-ethyl-norarginine, symmetric or asymmetric NG,NG_
   diethyl-norarginine, or NG-ethyl-nor-norarginine, symmetric or asymmetric NG,NG_
   diethyl-nor-norarginine.
            In certain embodiments, the cationic residue is N G-alkylarginine, symmetric or
30 asymmetric NG,NG-dialkylarginine, NG-alkyl-homoarginine, symmetric or asymmetric
   NG,NG-dialkyl-homoarginine, NG-alkyl-norarginine, symmetric or asymmetric NG,NG_
   dialkyl-norarginine, or NG-alkyl-nor-norarginine, symmetric or asymmetric NG,NG_
   dialkyl-nor-norarginine.
                                                 39

           In some embodiments, the cationic residue is an amino acid having a guanidine
   or amidine-containing side chain. For example, the side chain of the Xaa residue may
   contain a group such as guanido, amidino, dihydroimidazole, 4-guanido-phenyl,
   4-amidino-phenyl, N-amidino-piperidine, N-amidino-piperazine, 4,5-dihydroimidazole,
 5 2-(N-amidino)-pyfrolidinyl, or 4- [(2-aminopyrimidinyl)] ethyl.
           Examples of cationic residues may have side chains that include the following
   structures, as well as their salt forms:
            HN        N                                H 2N      N
                      NH 2                                N
                  H2N
                                                          HN        NH,
                   H2N
                                                               N
                  H2 N
                               UNN
                  H2 N                                   (NN
                               N          N     s                  HH
                   HN
10
           Cleavable peptides of this invention include those which are dimers of the
   structure shown in Formula I, for example, the dimer A-B-B-A, wherein the linker groups
   B are capable of linking to each other, and where the linkage -B-B- can be cleaved.
15         For example, the dimer A-B-B-A may be A-B-(S-S)-B-A where (S-S) is a
   disulfide linkage.
           Other examples of linkage -B-B- include organic groups having up to 1000 atoms,
   a linkage formed with a bifunctional linker, a linkage formed with a bifunctional
                                                 40

   crosslinker, a linkage formed with a heterobifunctional linker, a hydrzone linker, a
   carbamate linkage, and an ester linkage.
           Crosslinkable peptides of this invention include those having the structure shown
   in Formula II:
 5
                    B-A-B Formula II
           where A is a peptide of from about two to about 16 amino acid residues, and B is
   a crosslinkable group as defined above, wherein A contains one or more positively
10 charged residues at pH 7.
           Examples of B include cysteine.
           Examples of A include cationic peptides.
           Cleavable peptides of this invention include those which are dimers, trimers, or
   multimers of the structure shown in Formula II, for example, the dimer B-A-B-B-A-B,
15 and the multimer -(B-A-B) 1 -, wherein the linker groups B are capable of linking to each
   other, and where the linkage -B-B- can be cleaved. Some of these cleavable peptides
   remain crosslinkable because they retain a crosslinkable group at each terminus.
           Examples of cationic binding regions suitable for preparation of peptides of this
   disclosure are shown in Table 4. A crosslinkable peptide of this disclosure may have a
20 binding region shown in Table 4 with a cysteine attached at either the N-terminus or the
   C-terminus of the peptide shown in Table 4. A crosslinkable peptide of this disclosure
   may form a dimer.
                       Table 4: Binding regions for preparation of peptides
                          SEQ ID NO:                BINDING REGION
                              195           GRKKRRQRRRPPQ
                              196           KKKRKV
                              197           KKKRKVKKKRKV
                              198           GRKKRR
                              199           RRRPPQ
                              200           WKKKK
                              201           RRRPPQH
                              202           KKRRQH
                                                 41

SEQ ID NO:        BINDING REGION
   203     RRR
   204     RRRR
   205     RRRRR
   206     KKK
   207     RRRRWW
   208     RRRWW
   209     RRWW
   210     KKWW
   211     KKKWW
   212     WHHRRKK
   213     RRKKHHWW
   214     KKRRW
   215     KKRRHW
   216     KKRRHHW
   217     KKRRQ
   218     KKRRQ
   219     GRKKRRQ
   220     QGRKKRR
   221     RRH
   222     RRRH
   223     RRRRH
   224     RRRRRH
   225     KKH
   226     KKKH
   227     HWKKRR
   228     HWKKRR
   229     PPHRRR
   230     PPHRRR
   231     GRKKRRVRRRPPQ
   232     WWHHKKRRGGRRKKHHWW
   233     WWHHKKRR
               42

SEQ ID NO:       BINDING REGION
   234     YYHHKKRR
   235     RRKKHHYY
   236     VQAAIDYING
   237     WWRRHH
   238     HHRRWW
   239     YYRRHH
   240     HHRRYY
   241     WWRRR
   242     RRRWW
   243     YYRRR
   244     RRRYY
   245     WWRRRHH
   246     HHRRRWW
   247     YYRRRHH
   248     HHRRRYY
   249     WWRRRR
   250     RRRRWW
   251     YYRRRR
   252     RRRRYY
   253     WWRRRRHH
   254     HHRRRRWW
   255     YYRRRRHH
   256     HHRRRRYY
   257     WWHH-Orn-Orn-RR
   258     WWHHHRRR
   259     WWHHHRRR
   260     WWWHHHHRRR
   261     WWWKKRRR
   262     KKKWRRW
   263     WRRRWRR
   264     WWHHKKRR
              43

             SEQ ID NO:                BINDING REGION
                 265           WWCHHKKCRR
                 266           WWHHHRRR
                 267           WWHHCKKRR
                 268           WWHHKKCRR
                 269           RRWWKKHH
                 270           WWHHKKKK
                 271           WWHHRRRR
                 272           RRRRHH
                 273           HHKKKK
                 274           HHRRRR
                 275           YYRRRRHH
                 276           YYKKKKHH
Examples of cleavable peptides of this disclosure are shown in Table 5.
                      Table 5: Cleavable Peptides
    SEQ ID NO:                                PEPTIDE
         277           GRKKRRV-Cit-RRRPPQ
         278           GRKKRRV-Cit-RRKKRG
         279           RRRPPQV-Cit-PPRRR
         280           RRKKRGV-Cit-GRKKRR
         281           QPPRRRV-Cit-RRRPPQ
         282           WKKKKV-Cit-KKKKW
         283           KKKKWV-Cit-WKKKK
         284           HQPPRRRV-Cit-RRRPPQH
         285           QPPRRRV-Cit-RRRPPQ
         286           HQRRKKV-Cit-KKRRQH
         287           RRV-Cit-RR
         288           RRRV-Cit-RRR
         289           RRRRV-Cit-RRRR
         290           RRRRRV-Cit-RRRRR
                                    44

SEQ ID NO:                PEPTIDE
   291     KKV-Cit-KK
   292     KKKV-Cit-KKK
   293     KKKKV-Cit-KKKK
   294     KKKKKV-Cit-KKKKK
   295     WWRRRRV-Cit-RRRRWW
   296     WWRRRV-Cit-RRRWW
   297     WWRRV-Cit-RRWW
   298     WWKKV-Cit-KKWW
   299     WWKKKV-Cit-KKKWW
   300     WWKKKKV-Cit-KKKKWW
   301     KKRRHHWV-Cit-WHHRRKK
   302     WWHHKKRRV-Cit-RRKKHHWW
   303     WRRKKV-Cit-KKRRW
   304     WHRRKKV-Cit-KKRRHW
   305     WHHRRKKV-Cit-KKRRHHW
   306     QRRKKV-Cit-KKRRQ
   307     KKRRQV-Cit-QRRKK
   308     RRKKRGV-Cit-GRKKRR
   309     GRKKRRV-Cit-RRKKRG
   310     QRRKKRGV-Cit-GRKKRRQ
   311     QGRKKRRV-Cit-RRKKRGQ
   312     HRRV-Cit-RRH
   313     HRRRV-Cit-RRRH
   314     HRRRRV-Cit-RRRRH
   315     HRRRRRV-Cit-RRRRRH
   316     HKKV-Cit-KKH
   317     HKKKV-Cit-KKKH
   318     HKKKKV-Cit-KKKKH
   319     HKKKKKV-Cit-KKKKKH
   320     HWKKRRV-Cit-RRKKWH
   321     RRKKWHV-Cit-HWKKRR
                    45

SEQ ID NO:                PEPTIDE
   322     PPHRRRV-Cit-RRRHPP
   323     RRRHPPV-Cit-PPHRRR
   324     YYHHKKRRC-disulfide-CRRKKHHYY
   325     YYHHKKRRV-Cit-RRKKHHYY
   326     WWRRC-disulfide-CRRWW
   327     WWRRV-Cit-RRWW
   328     YYRRC-disulfide-CRRYY
   329     YYRRV-Cit-RRYY
   330     WWRRHHC-disulfide-CHHRRWW
   331     WWRRHHV-Cit-HHRRWW
   332     YYRRHHC-disulfide-CRRHHYY
   333     YYRRHHV-Cit-RRHHYY
   334     WWRRRC-disulfide-CRRRWW
   335     WWRRRV-Cit-RRRWW
   336     YYRRRC-disulfide-CRRRYY
   337     YYRRRV-Cit-RRRYY
   338     WWRRRHHC-disulfide-CHHRRRWW
   339     WWRRRHHV-Cit-HHRRRWW
   340     YYRRRHHC-disulfide-CRRRHHYY
   341     YYRRRHHV-Cit-RRRHHYY
   342     WWRRRRC-disulfide-CRRRRWW
   343     WWRRRRV-Cit-RRRRWW
   344     YYRRRRC-disulfide-CRRRRYY
   345     YYRRRRV-Cit-RRRRYY
   346     WWRRRRHHC-disulfide-CHHRRRRWW
   347     WWRRRRHHV-Cit-HHRRRRWW
   348     YYRRRRHHC-disulfide-CRRRRHHYY
   349     YYRRRRHHV-Cit-RRRRHHYY
   350     WWHHKKRRWV-Cit-WRRKKHHWW
   351     WWHH-Orn-Orn-RRV-Cit-RR-Orn-Orn-HHWW
   352     WWHHC-disulfide-CKKRR
                    46

           As used herein, amino acid names and designations refer to any stereoisomer of
   the corresponding amino acid.
           In Table 5, a group which is internal to the peptide sequence may provide a
   cleavage site. For example, an internal cleavage site can be a disulfide bond or a Val-Cit
 5 linkage.
           Examples of cleavable linkages include Phe-Lys, Val-Cit, Ala-Leu, Leu-Ala-Leu,
   and Ala-Leu-Ala-Leu (SEQ ID NO: 376), as described in U.S. Pat. Publ. No.
   20080166363.
   Routes of administration
10         The active agent compositions of this disclosure may be used in pharmaceutical
   compositions. Administration of liposomal formulations of this disclosure to a subject
   may be parenteral, oral, by inhalation, topical, mucosal, rectal, or buccal. Parenteral use
   includes subcutaneous, intracutaneous, intravenous, intramuscular, intraarticular,
   intrasynovial, intrastemal, intrathecal, intralesional, and intracranial injection or infusion
15 techniques.
   Effective amount
           An effective amount of an active agent composition of this disclosure for treating
   a particular disease is generally an amount sufficient to ameliorate or reduce a symptom
   of the disease. An effective amount of an active agent composition of this disclosure may
20 be an amount sufficient to cause any biological effect attributed to the agent. The
   composition may be administered as a single dosage, or may be administered by repeated
   dosing.
   DILA2 amino acid liposome-forming compounds
           Liposomal compositions of this disclosure may include one or more DILA2 amino
25 acid compounds which are disclosed in US 2008-0317839 Al.
           DILA2 amino acid compounds are synthetic organic compounds that may form
   liposomal structures under certain conditions. DILA2 amino acid compounds may be
   formed by substituting a delivery-enhancing or lipophilic tail at either the N-terminus or
   the C-terminus of an amino acid, or at both termini. In some embodiments, the amino
30 acid core may include one or more amino acids, or may be a peptide of 2-20 amino acid
   residues.
           DILA2 amino acid compounds can be cationic or non-cationic, where
   non-cationic includes neutral and anionic. As used herein, the physical state or ionicity of
   a species refers to an environment having pH about 7, unless otherwise specified.
                                                   47

            In some aspects, DILA2 amino acid compounds may provide delivery of a
   therapeutic agent in a releasable form. Releasable forms and compositions are designed
   to provide sufficient uptake of an agent by a cell to provide a therapeutic effect.
            Releasable forms include DILA2 amino acid compounds that bind and release an
 5 active agent. In some embodiments, release of the active agent may be provided by an
   acid-labile linker.
            Examples of acid-labile linkers include linkers containing an orthoester group, a
   hydrazone, a cis-acetonyl, an acetal, a ketal, a silyl ether, a silazane, an imine, a citriconic
   anhydride, a maleic anhydride, a crown ether, an azacrown ether, a thiacrown ether, a
10 dithiobenzyl group, a cis-aconitic acid, a cis-carboxylic alkatriene, methacrylic acid, and
   mixtures thereof.
            Examples of acid-labile groups and linkers are given in U.S. Patent Nos.
   7,098,032; 6,897,196; 6,426,086; 7,138,382; 5,563,250; and 5,505,931.
            Releasable forms of compounds and compositions of this disclosure include
15 molecules that bind an active agent and discharge a moiety that assists in release of the
   agent. In some embodiments, a DILA2 amino acid compound may include a group which
   releases a small molecule such as ethanol that assists in delivering an agent to a cell. A
   DILA2 amino acid compound may bind an active agent and, subsequent to contact with a
   cell, or subsequent to transport within a biological compartment having a local pH lower
20 than physiological pH, be hydrolyzed in an acidic environment to release ethanol to assist
   in delivery of the agent. In some embodiments, a small molecule such as ethanol, which
   assists in delivery of the agent, may be bound to a lipophilic component.
            In some embodiments, a DILA2 amino acid compound may be admixed with a
   compound that releases a small molecule such as ethanol to assists in delivering an agent
25 to a cell.
            Releasable forms of compounds and compositions of this disclosure include
   DILA2 amino acid compounds which may bind an active agent and, subsequent to
   contact with a cell, or subsequent to transport within a biological compartment having a
   local pH lower than physiological pH, be modulated in an acidic environment into a
30 cationic form to assist in release of the agent.
            In some embodiments, a DILA2 amino acid compound may bind an active agent,
   and may be admixed with a compound that can be modulated in an acidic environment
   into a cationic form to assist in release of an active agent.
                                                  48

           Examples of hydrolysable and modulatable groups are given in U.S. Patent Nos.
   6,849,272; 6,200,599; as well as Z. H. Huang and F. C. Szoka, "Bioresponsive liposomes
   and their use for macromolecular delivery," in: G. Gregoriadis (ed.), Liposome
   Technology, 3rd ed. (CRC Press 2006).
 5         In some embodiments, releasable forms of compounds and compositions of this
   disclosure include DILA2 amino acid compounds which can bind an active agent, and
   may be admixed with a lipid or compound that can be modulated in an acidic
   environment into a neutral form to assist in release of an active agent. The acidic
   environment may be entered subsequent to contact with a cell, or subsequent to transport
10 within a biological compartment having a local pH lower than physiological pH.
           Examples of compounds which are modulatable from anionic to neutral forms
   include cholesteryl hemisuccinate (CHEMS) as described in U.S. Patent Nos. 6,897,196;
   6,426,086; and 7,108,863. In some examples, CHEMS exhibits pH sensitive
   polymorphism as described in Cullis, 1463 Biochimica et Biophysica Acta 107-14
15 (2000).
           In some embodiments, releasable forms of compounds and compositions of this
   disclosure include DILA2 amino acid compounds which can bind an active agent, and
   may be admixed with a pH-sensitive polymeric material.
           Examples of pH-sensitive polymeric materials are given in U.S. Patent No.
20 6,835,393.
           In some embodiments, release of the active agent may be provided by an enzyme
   cleavable peptide.
           In some aspects, this disclosure provides a range of DILA2 amino acid
   compounds as shown in Formula I:
25
                R 3-(C=O)-Xaa-Z-R 4                                   Formula I
   wherein
           Xaa is any D- or L-amino acid residue having the general formula
           -NRN-CR R2-(C=O)-, or a peptide of 2-20 amino acid residues, wherein
30                 R 1 is a non-hydrogen, substituted or unsubstituted side chain of an amino
                        acid;
                   R2 is hydrogen, or an organic group consisting of carbon, oxygen,
                        nitrogen, sulfur, and hydrogen atoms, and having from 1 to 20 carbon
                                                  49

                        atoms, or C(1-5)alkyl, cycloalkyl, cycloalkylalkyl, C(3-5)alkenyl, C(3
                        5)alkynyl, C(1-5)alkanoyl, C(1-5)alkanoyloxy, C(1-5)alkoxy, C(1
                        5)alkoxy-C(1-5)alkyl, C(1-5)alkoxy-C(1-5)alkoxy, C(1
                        5)alkyl-amino-C(1-5)alkyl-, C(1-5)dialkyl-amino-C(1-5)alkyl-, nitro
 5                      C(1-5)alkyl, cyano-C(1-5)alkyl, aryl-C(1-5)alkyl, 4-biphenyl-C(1
                        5)alkyl, carboxyl, or hydroxyl,
                    RN is hydrogen, or an organic group consisting of carbon, oxygen,
                        nitrogen, sulfur, and hydrogen atoms, and having from 1 to 20 carbon
                        atoms, or C(1-5)alkyl, cycloalkyl, cycloalkylalkyl, C(3-5)alkenyl, C(3
10                      5)alkynyl, C(1-5)alkanoyl, C(1-5)alkanoyloxy, C(1-5)alkoxy, C(1
                        5)alkoxy-C(1-5)alkyl, C(1-5)alkoxy-C(1-5)alkoxy, C(1
                        5)alkyl-amino-C(1-5)alkyl-, C(1-5)dialkyl-amino-C(1-5)alkyl-, nitro
                        C(1-5)alkyl, cyano-C(1-5)alkyl, aryl-C(1-5)alkyl, 4-biphenyl-C(1
                        5)alkyl, carboxyl, or hydroxyl,
15         R3 is a lipophilic tail derived from a naturally-occurring or synthetic phospholipid,
                glycolipid, triacylglycerol, glycerophospholipid, sphingolipid, ceramide,
                sphingomyelin, cerebroside, or ganglioside; or a substituted or unsubstituted
                C(3-22)alkyl, C(6-12)cycloalkyl, C(6-12)cycloalkyl-C(3-22)alkyl, C(3
                22)alkenyl, C(3-22)alkynyl, C(3-22)alkoxy, or C(6-12)alkoxy-C(3-22)alkyl;
20              or a lipophilic tail of any other naturally-occurring or synthetic lipid, or a
                lipophilic tail of any one of the lipids described hereinbelow, and may contain
                a steroid;
           R 4 is a lipophilic tail derived from a naturally-occurring or synthetic phospholipid,
                glycolipid, triacylglycerol, glycerophospholipid, sphingolipid, ceramide,
25              sphingomyelin, cerebroside, or ganglioside; or substituted or unsubstituted
                C(3-22)alkyl, C(6-12)cycloalkyl, C(6-12)cycloalkyl-C(3-22)alkyl, C(3
                22)alkenyl, C(3-22)alkynyl, C(3-22)alkoxy, or C(6-12)alkoxy-C(3-22)alkyl;
                or a lipophilic tail of any other naturally-occurring or synthetic lipid, or a
                lipophilic tail of any one of the lipids described hereinbelow, and may contain
30              a steroid;
           Z is NH, 0, S, -CH 2S-, -CH 2S(O)-, or an organic linker consisting of 1-40 atoms
                selected from hydrogen, carbon, oxygen, nitrogen, and sulfur atoms;
   and salts thereof.
                                                    50

           In some embodiments, R3 is independently a substituted or unsubstituted C(6
   22)alkyl or C(6-22)alkenyl; R 4 is independently a substituted or unsubstituted C(6
   22)alkyl or C(6-22)alkenyl.
           The residue Xaa may be a D- or L-stereocenter.
 5         In some embodiments, R 1 is a non-hydrogen, substituted or unsubstituted side
   chain of an amino acid wherein a substituent of a side chain is an organic group
   consisting of 1 to 40 atoms selected from hydrogen, carbon, oxygen, nitrogen, and sulfur
   atoms.
           In some embodiments, Z is an alkyl or an organic linker synthetic polymer such as
10 a polyethylene glycol chain (PEG), or a PEG copolymer such as PEG-polyurethane or
   PEG-polypropylene. See, e.g., J. Milton Harris, Poly(ethylene glycol) chemistry:
   biotechnical and biomedical applications (1992).
           In some embodiments, this invention provides a range of DILA2 amino acid
   compounds as shown in Formula I above wherein:
15         Xaa is any D- or L-amino acid having the general formula -NRN-CR R2-(C=O)-,
                wherein
                    R is a non-hydrogen, substituted or unsubstituted basic side chain of an
                        amino acid;
                    R2 is hydrogen, or C(1-5)alkyl,
20                  RN is hydrogen, or C(1-5)alkyl,
           R3 is a lipophilic tail derived from a naturally-occurring or synthetic phospholipid,
                glycolipid, triacylglycerol, glycerophospholipid, sphingolipid, ceramide,
                sphingomyelin, cerebroside, or ganglioside; or a substituted or unsubstituted
                C(3-22)alkyl, C(6-12)cycloalkyl, C(6-12)cycloalkyl-C(3-22)alkyl, C(3
25              22)alkenyl, C(3-22)alkynyl, C(3-22)alkoxy, or C(6-12)alkoxy-C(3-22)alkyl;
                or a lipophilic tail of any other naturally-occurring or synthetic lipid, or a
                lipophilic tail of any one of the lipids described hereinbelow, and may contain
                a steroid;
           R 4 is a lipophilic tail derived from a naturally-occurring or synthetic phospholipid,
30              glycolipid, triacylglycerol, glycerophospholipid, sphingolipid, ceramide,
                sphingomyelin, cerebroside, or ganglioside; or substituted or unsubstituted
                C(3-22)alkyl, C(6-12)cycloalkyl, C(6-12)cycloalkyl-C(3-22)alkyl, C(3
                22)alkenyl, C(3-22)alkynyl, C(3-22)alkoxy, or C(6-12)alkoxy-C(3-22)alkyl;
                or a lipophilic tail of any other naturally-occurring or synthetic lipid, or a
                                                    51

              lipophilic tail of any one of the lipids described hereinbelow, and may contain
              a steroid;
         Z is NH, 0, S, -CH 2S-, -CH 2S(O)-, or an organic linker consisting of 1-40 atoms
              selected from hydrogen, carbon, oxygen, nitrogen, and sulfur atoms.
 5       In some embodiments, this invention provides a range of DILA2 amino acid
   compounds as shown in Formula I above wherein:
         Xaa is any D- or L-amino acid having the general formula -NRN-CRRR2(C=0)-,
              wherein
                  R is a non-hydrogen, substituted or unsubstituted basic side chain of an
10                     amino acid;
                  R2 is hydrogen, or C(1-5)alkyl,
                  RN is hydrogen, or C(1-5)alkyl,
         R3 is a substituted or unsubstituted C(3-22)alkyl, C(6-12)cycloalkyl, C(6
              12)cycloalkyl-C(3-22)alkyl, C(3-22)alkenyl, C(3-22)alkynyl, C(3-22)alkoxy,
15            or C(6-12)alkoxy-C(3-22)alkyl;
         R 4 is a substituted or unsubstituted C(3-22)alkyl, C(6-12)cycloalkyl, C(6
              12)cycloalkyl-C(3-22)alkyl, C(3-22)alkenyl, C(3-22)alkynyl, C(3-22)alkoxy,
              or C(6-12)alkoxy-C(3-22)alkyl;
         Z is NH, 0, S, -CH 2S-, -CH 2S(O)-, or an organic linker consisting of 1-40 atoms
20            selected from hydrogen, carbon, oxygen, nitrogen, and sulfur atoms.
         In some embodiments, this invention provides a range of DILA2 amino acid
   compounds as shown in Formula I above wherein:
         Xaa is any D- or L-amino acid having the general formula -NR -CR R -(C=O)-,
              wherein
25                R 1 is a non-hydrogen, substituted or unsubstituted basic side chain of an
                       amino acid;
                  R2 is hydrogen, or C(1-5)alkyl,
                  RN is hydrogen, or C(1-5)alkyl,
         R3 is a substituted or unsubstituted C(3-22)alkyl, C(6-12)cycloalkyl, C(6
30            12)cycloalkyl-C(3-22)alkyl, C(3-22)alkenyl, C(3-22)alkynyl, C(3-22)alkoxy,
              or C(6-12)alkoxy-C(3-22)alkyl;
                                                  52

            R4 is a substituted or unsubstituted C(3-22)alkyl, C(6-12)cycloalkyl, C(6
                 12)cycloalkyl-C(3-22)alkyl, C(3-22)alkenyl, C(3-22)alkynyl, C(3-22)alkoxy,
                 or C(6-12)alkoxy-C(3-22)alkyl;
            Z is NH.
 5          In some embodiments, this invention provides a range of DILA2 amino acid
   compounds as shown in Formula I above wherein:
            Xaa is any D- or L-amino acid having the general formula -NRN-CR R2-(C=0)-,
                 wherein
                     R is a non-hydrogen, substituted or unsubstituted basic side chain of an
10                       amino acid;
                     R2 is hydrogen, or C(1-5)alkyl,
                     RN is hydrogen, or C(1-5)alkyl,
            R3 is a substituted or unsubstituted C(3-22)alkyl, C(6-12)cycloalkyl, C(6
                 12)cycloalkyl-C(3-22)alkyl, C(3-22)alkenyl, C(3-22)alkynyl, C(3-22)alkoxy,
15               or C(6-12)alkoxy-C(3-22)alkyl;
            R 4 is a substituted or unsubstituted C(3-22)alkyl, C(6-12)cycloalkyl, C(6
                 12)cycloalkyl-C(3-22)alkyl, C(3-22)alkenyl, C(3-22)alkynyl, C(3-22)alkoxy,
                 or C(6-12)alkoxy-C(3-22)alkyl;
            Z is O.
20          Cationic DILA2 amino acid compounds can be prepared where, for example, Xaa
   has a basic side chain. Examples of amino acids having a basic side chain include
   arginine (Arg), homoarginine (homoArg) (side chain -(CH 2) 4NH(C=NH)NH 2),
   norarginine (norArg) (side chain -(CH 2) 2NH(C=NH)NH 2), nor-norarginine (nornorArg)
   (side chain -(CH 2)NH(C=NH)NH 2), ornithine, lysine, homolysine, histidine, 1
25 methylhistidine, pyridylalanine (Pal), asparagine, N-ethylasparagine, glutamine, and
   4-aminophenylalanine, and side chain modified derivatives thereof.
            As used herein, the term "homo," when referring to an amino acid, means that an
   additional carbon is added to the side chain, while the term "nor," when referring to an
   amino acid, means that a carbon is subtracted from the side chain. Thus, homolysine
30 refers to side chain-(CH 2) 5NH 2 .
            Anionic DILA2 amino acid compounds can be prepared where, for example, Xaa
   is glutamate or aspartate.
                                                   53

           Cationic and anionic DILA2 amino acid compounds can also be prepared where
   the amino acid side chain contains an ionizable group or substituent.
           Non-cationic DILA2 amino acid compounds can be prepared where, for example,
   Xaa is leucine, valine, alanine, or serine.
 5         In some embodiments, Xaa is NG-methylarginine, symmetric or asymmetric
   NG,NG-dimethylarginine, NG-methyl-homoarginine, symmetric or asymmetric NG,NG_
   dimethyl-homoarginine, NG-methyl-norarginine, symmetric or asymmetric NG,NG_
   dimethyl-norarginine, or NG-methyl-nor-norarginine, symmetric or asymmetric NG,NG_
   dimethyl-nor-norarginine.
10         In some embodiments, Xaa is NG-ethylarginine, symmetric or asymmetric NG,NG_
   diethylarginine, NG-ethyl-homoarginine, symmetric or asymmetric NG,NG-diethyl
   homoarginine, NG-ethyl-norarginine, symmetric or asymmetric NG,NG-diethyl
   norarginine, or NG-ethyl-nor-norarginine, symmetric or asymmetric NG,NG-diethyl-nor
   norarginine.
15         In certain embodiments, Xaa is NG-alkylarginine, symmetric or asymmetric
   NG,NG-dialkylarginine, NG-alkyl-homoarginine, symmetric or asymmetric NG,NG dialkyl
   homoarginine, NG-alkyl-noarginine, symmetric or asymmetric NG,NG dialkyl
   norarginine, or NG-alkyl-nor-norarginine, symmetric or asymmetric NG,NG-dialkyl-nor
   norarginine.
20         In some embodiments, Xaa is an amino acid having a guanidine- or
   amidine-containing side chain. For example, the side chain of the Xaa residue may
   contain a group such as guanido, amidino, dihydroimidazole, 4-guanido-phenyl,
   4-amidino-phenyl, N-amidino-piperidine, N-amidino-piperazine, 4,5-dihydroimidazole,
   2-(N-amidino)-pyfrolidinyl, or 4- [(2-aminopyrimidinyl)] ethyl.
25         Examples of Xaa side chains include the following structures, as well as their salt
   forms:
                                               54

                     H
                     NH2                                N
                 H2N
                                                        HNyNH,
                                                            N
                 H2 N                                      N        N
                                                           NH
                  HN/    -N   \-       N,/                          H NNH
           Examples of a substituted side chain of an amino acid suitable for a releasable
   form of a DILA2 amino acid compound include a releasing functional group having a
 5 pKa from about 5 to about 7.5, or from about 6 to about 7. In general, a releasing
   functional group which is a weak base may exhibit a predominant neutral form at a local
   pH above pKa, and may exhibit a predominant ionic form at a local pH below pKa. A
   releasing functional group which is a weak acid may exhibit an ionic form at a local pH
   above pKa, and may exhibit a neutral form at a local pH below pKa. See, e.g., P.
10 Heinrich Stahl, Handbook of Pharmaceutical Salts (2002).
           In some embodiments, Xaa may have a side chain containing a functional group
   having a pKa from 5 to 7.5.
           Examples of a substituted side chain of an amino acid suitable for a releasable
   form of a DILA2 amino acid compound include 1-methylhistidine.
15         Examples of a substituted side chain of an amino acid suitable for a releasable
   form of a DILA2 amino acid compound include 3,5-diiodo-tyrosine.
           Examples of a substituted side chain of an amino acid suitable for a releasable
   form of a DILA2 amino acid compound include the following structures:
                                                55

                          _OHO                                       /\
           Examples of DILA2 amino acid compounds include the structures:
                    HON
                                           0
             HOOH7
                          I0
 5                                       0
           Examples of a substituent on a side chain of an amino acid suitable for a
   releasable form of a DILA2 amino acid compound include releasing functional groups
   derived from 3,5 -diiodo-tyrosine, 1-methylhistidine, 2-Methylbutanoic acid,
10 2-o-Anisylpropanoic acid, meso-Tartaric acid, 4,6-Dimethylpyrimidinamine, p-Phthalic
   acid, Creatinine, Butanoic acid, NN-Dimethyl-1-naphthylamine, Pentanoic acid,
   4-Methylpentanoic acid, N-Methylaniline, 1,10-Phenanthroline, 3-Pyridinecarboxylic
   acid, Hexanoic acid, Propanoic acid, 4-Animobenzoic acid, 2-Methylpropanoic acid,
   Heptanoic acid, Octanoic acid, Cyclohexanecarboxylic acid, Quinoline, 3-Quinolinamine,
15 2-Aminobenzoic acid, 4-Pyridinecarboxylic acid, Nonanic acid, Melamine, 8-Quinolinol,
   Trimethylacetic acid, 6-Methoxyquinoline, 4-(Methylamino)benzoic acid, p
   Methylaniline, 3-(Methylamino)benzoic acid, Malic acid, N-Ethylaniline, 2
   Benzylpyridine, 3,6-Dinitrophenol, N,N-Dimethylaniline, 2,5-Dimethylpiperazine, p
   Phenetidine, 5-Methylquinoline, 2-Phenylbenzimidazole, Pyridine, Picolinic acid, 3,5
                                                56

   Diiodityrosine, p-Anisidine, 2-(Methylamino)benzoic acid, 2-Thiazolamine, Glutaric
   acid, Adipic acid, Isoquinoline, Itaconic acid, o-Phthalic acid, Benzimidazole, Piperazine,
   Heptanedioic acid, Acridine, Phenanthridine, Succinic acid, Methylsuccinic acid, 4
   Methylquinoline, 3-Methylpyridine, 7-Isoquinolinol, Malonic acid, Methymalonic acid,
 5 2-Methylquinoline, 2-Ethylpyridine, 2-Methylpyridine, 4-Methylpyridine, Histamine,
   Histidine, Maleic acid, cis- 1,2-Cyclohexanediamine, 3,5-Dimethylpyridine, 2
   Ethylbenzimidazole, 2-Methylbenzimidazole, Cacodylic acid, Perimidine, Citric acid,
   Isocitric acid, 2,5-Dimethylpyridine, Papaverine, 6-Hydroxy-4-methylpteridine, L
   Thyroxine, 3,4-Dimethylpyridine, Methoxypyridine, trans-1,2-Cyclohexanediamine,
10 2,5-Pyridinediamine, i-1-Methylhistidine, l-3-Methylhistidine, 2,3-Dimethylpyridine,
   Xanthopterin, 1,2-Propanediamine, NN-Diethylaniline, Alloxanic acid,
   2,6-Dimethylpyridine, L-Carnosine, 2-Pyridinamine, N-b-Alanylhistidine, Pilocarpine,
   1-Methylimidazol, 1H-Imidazole, 2,4-Dimethylpyridine, 4-Nitrophenol, 2-Nitrophenol,
   Tyrosineamide, 5-Hydoxxyquinazoline, 1,1-Cyclopropanedicarboxylic acid,
15 2,4,6-Trimethylpyridine, Veronal, 2,3-Dichlorophenol, 1,2-Ethanediamine,
   1-Isoquinolinamine, and combinations thereof.
            In some embodiments, a range of DILA2 amino acid compounds corresponding to
   Formula I are represented by the structures
                                    O      RN     R2           H
                                   311-     1      1    11     H4   4
                                    -N-C-C-N-R
                                                  Ri
                                            Structure 1A
20 and
                                     o      RN     R2   0
                                     11      1     1     11-0-     R4
                             R-C-N-C
                                                   R1
                                             Structure lB
             1   2  N   3        4
   where R , R ,      ,R , and R are defined as above.
                                                   57

           In some embodiments, R3 and R4 are independently selected lipophilic tails which
   impart sufficient lipophilic character or lipophilicity, such as defined by water/octanol
   partitioning, to provide delivery across a membrane or uptake by a cell. These tails
   provide, when used in a DILA2 amino acid compound, an amphipathic molecule.
 5 Lipophilic tails may be derived from phospholipids, glycolipids, triacylglycerols,
   glycerophospholipids, sphingolipids, ceramides, sphingomyelins, cerebrosides, or
   gangliosides, among others, and may contain a steroid.
           In certain embodiments, R3 and R4 may independently be a lipophilic tail having a
   glycerol backbone.
10         In some embodiments, R3 and R4 may independently be ClOalkyl, C lalkyl,
   Cl2alkyl, Cl3alkyl, Cl4alkyl, C15alkyl, Cl6alkyl, Cl7alkyl, Cl8alkyl, Cl9alkyl,
   C20alkyl, C21alkyl, or C22alkyl.
           In some embodiments, R3 and R4 may independently be lipophilic tails having one
   of the following structures:
15
                                                                                   18:3
                                                                                    18:2
                                                                                   18:1
                                                                                   18:0
                                                                             16:1
                                                                             16:0
                                                                      14:1
                                                                      14
                                                               12
                                                         10
                                                  8
   In the structures above, X represents the atom of the tail that is directly attached to the
   amino acid residue terminus, and is counted as one of the atoms in the numerical
                                                 58

   designation, for example, "18:3." In some embodiments, X may be a carbon, nitrogen, or
   oxygen atom.
            In some embodiments, R3 and R4 may independently be lipophilic tails having one
   of the following structures:
 5
    x
                                                                                          20:4
                                                                                        20:1
                                                                              Phytanoyl
   where X is as defined above.
            In some embodiments, R3 and R4 are independently selected lipophilic tails which
10 may contain a cholesterol, a sterol, or a steroid such as gonanes, estranes, androstanes,
   pregnanes, cholanes, cholestanes, ergostanes, campestanes, poriferastanes, stigmastanes,
   gorgostanes, lanostanes, cycloartanes, as well as sterol or zoosterol derivatives of any of
   the foregoing, and their biological intermediates and precursors, which may include, for
   example, cholesterol, lanosterol, stigmastanol, dihydrolanosterol, zymosterol,
15 zymostenol, desmosterol, 7-dehydrocholesterol, and mixtures and derivatives thereof.
            In certain embodiments, R3 and R4 may independently be derived from fatty acid
   like tails such as tails from myristic acid (C14:0)alkenyl, palmitic acid (C16:0)alkenyl,
   stearic acid (C18:0)alkenyl, oleic acid (C 18:1, double bond at carbon 9)alkenyl, linoleic
   acid (C18:2, double bond at carbon 9 or 12)alkenyl, linonenic acid (C18:3, double bond at
20 carbon 9, 12, or 15)alkenyl, arachidonic acid (C20:4, double bond at carbon 5, 8, 11, or
   14)alkenyl, and eicosapentaenoic acid (C20:5, double bond at carbon 5, 8, 11, 14, or
   17)alkenyl. Other examples of fatty acid-like tails are found at Donald Voet and Judith
   Voet, Biochemistry, 3rd Edition (2005), p. 383.
            In some embodiments, R3 and R4 may independently be derived from an
25 isoprenoid.
            As used herein, the term "amino acid" includes naturally-occurring and non
   naturally occurring amino acids. Thus, a DILA2 amino acid compound can be made from
                                                  59

   a genetically encoded amino acid, a naturally occurring non-genetically encoded amino
   acid, or a synthetic amino acid.
           Examples of amino acids include Ala, Arg, Asn, Asp, Cys, Gln, Glu, Gly, His, Ile,
   Leu, Lys, Met, Phe, Pro, Ser, Thr, Trp, Tyr, and Val.
 5         Examples of amino acids include azetidine, 2-aminooctadecanoic acid, 2
   aminoadipic acid, 3-aminoadipic acid, 2,3-diaminopropionic acid, 2-aminobutyric acid, 4
   aminobutyric acid, 2,3-diaminobutyric acid, 2,4-diaminobutyric acid, 2-aminoisobutyric
   acid, 4-aminoisobutyric acid, 2-aminopimelic acid, 2,2'-diaminopimelic acid,
   6-aminohexanoic acid, 6-aminocaproic acid, 2-aminoheptanoic acid, desmosine,
10 ornithine, citrulline, N-methylisoleucine, norleucine, tert-leucine, phenylglycine,
   t-butylglycine, N-methylglycine, sacrosine, N-ethylglycine, cyclohexylglycine, 4-oxo
   cyclohexylglycine, N-ethylasparagine, cyclohexylalanine, t-butylalanine,
   naphthylalanine, pyridylalanine, 3-chloroalanine, 3-benzothienylalanine, 4
   halophenylalanine, 4-chlorophenylalanine, 2-fluorophenylalanine, 3-fluorophenylalanine,
15 4-fluorophenylalanine, penicillamine, 2-thienylalanine, methionine, methionine sulfoxide,
   homoarginine, norarginine, nor-norarginine, N-acetyllysine, 4-aminophenylalanine,
   N-methylvaline, homocysteine, homoserine, hydroxylysine, allo-hydroxylysine, 3
   hydroxyproline, 4-hydroxyproline, isodesmosine, allo-isoleucine, 6-N-methyllysine,
   norvaline, 0-allyl-serine, 0-allyl-threonine, alpha-aminohexanoic acid, alpha
20 aminovaleric acid, and pyroglutamic acid.
           As used herein, the term "amino acid" includes alpha- and beta- amino acids.
           Other amino acid residues can be found in Fasman, CRC PracticalHandbook of
   Biochemistry and MolecularBiology, CRC Press, Inc. (1989).
           In general, a compound may contain one or more chiral centers. Compounds
25 containing one or more chiral centers may include those described as an "isomer," a
   "stereoisomer," a "diastereomer," an "enantiomer," an "optical isomer," or as a "racemic
   mixture." Conventions for stereochemical nomenclature, for example the stereoisomer
   naming rules of Cahn, Ingold and Prelog, as well as methods for the determination of
   stereochemistry and the separation of stereoisomers are known in the art. See, for
30 example, Michael B. Smith and Jerry March, March'sAdvanced Organic Chemistry, 5th
   edition, 2001. The compounds and structures of this disclosure are meant to encompass
   all possible isomers, stereoisomers, diastereomers, enantiomers, and/or optical isomers
   that would be understood to exist for the specified compound or structure, including any
   mixture, racemic or otherwise, thereof.
                                                 60

         Examples of DILA2 amino acid compounds include R 3-(C=O)-Arg-NH-R 4
  wherein Arg is D- or L-arginine, and R3 and R 4 are independently alkyl or alkenyl.
         Examples of DILA2 amino acid compounds include the following structures:
                  HAN             NH
                  HN            NH
                                   0
       H2 N-<
5               NH 2 Cl
         Examples of DILA2 amino acid compounds include the following structures:
                                       NH 2 OH
                               /11111111H     IIIIIIII(CH 2 )1 4 CH
                                                                    3
                             0         H    H
                                     0
                HN              NH
        H2N       NH(
                  NH
                                              61

                                       NH 2 OH
                                IIIIIIIII    II1II IIICH=CHiII(CH    ) CH 3
                                                                    2 12
                             o         H    H
                                    0
                 NH
         Examples of DILA2 amino acid compounds include the following structures:
                        HN
                               0
               HN           NH
         H2N-         O=
                NH          0
                        HN
                               0
               HN           NH
         H 2N-<       O   /
                NH2         0
                        HN
                               O
               HN           NH
                 NHO
5
         Examples of DILA2 amino acid compounds include R -(C=O)-norArg-NH-R 4
  wherein norArg is D- or L-norarginine, and R 3 and R 4 are independently alkyl or alkenyl.
         Examples of DILA2 amino acid compounds include the following structures:
                                               62

                     HN
                            0
    H2NyNH        H
         NH              0
                     HN
    H2N     NH    HN
         NH2*            0
                         HN
                              0
         H                     Oy
       -NyNH        H
            NH               0
                        HN
        N      NH   HN
5NH                       O
                     HN
                            O
    H2NyNH        H
         NH           O
                         HN
         H      r         --   O
    -N         NH    HN
            NH             O
                                  63

                                   HN
                H         r      --     O
           -N            N
                    NH                0
                                   HN
                    NH                0
                                   HN
                    N               O
                                   HN
                N        NH
                    N               O
                                   HN
                N,,NHHN
                    N               O
 5
                                                                                         4
           Examples of DILA2 amino acid compounds include R3-(C=O)-nornorArg-NH-R
   wherein nornorArg is D- or L-nor-norarginine, and R 3 and R 4 are independently alkyl
   such as heptyl, octyl, nonyl, decyl, and undecyl.
           Examples of DILA2 amino acid compounds include the following structures:
10
                                                64

                        HN
           H2 N              0
                        HN
                         O       0
                H
                        HN
                               0
                            HN
                         HN
                    N       HN
 5
           Examples of DILA2 amino acid compounds include R3 -(C=O)-homoArg-NH-R 4
   wherein homoArg is D- or L-homoarginine, and R3 and R4 are independently alkyl such
   as heptyl, octyl, nonyl, decyl, and undecyl.
           Examples of DILA2 amino acid compounds include
10 R3-(C=O)-4-pyridylalanine-NH-R 4 wherein the pyridylalanine is D- or L-pyridylalanine,
   and R3 and R4 are independently alkyl such as heptyl, octyl, nonyl, decyl, and undecyl.
   Examples of R3-(C=O)-pyridylalanine-NH-R 4 DILA2 amino acid compounds include
   pharmaceutically-acceptable pyridyl salts, such as 4-[N-methylpyridyl]alanine chloride.
   Examples of pyridylalanine DILA2 amino acid compounds include the following
15 structures:
                                                65

          N
                       HN
                               0
                           NH
              Cl           HN
              \      I
                              NH
         Examples of DILA2 amino acid compounds include R -(C=O)-Lys-NH-R 4
  wherein R 3 and R 4 are independently alkyl or alkenyl.
5        Examples of DILA2 amino acid compounds include the following structures:
                           HN
                                0
          NH2
                           HN0
          NH
                           HN
          N            H
                                0
                                               66

             HN
                 0
      N            0
              HN
H2N                O
             HN
    A
              HN 0
    N                O
                HN
        H2HN
               HN 0
              HNy*
                       67

                           HN
                               0
              HN
                                 O
                         HN
                                   0
                               HN
                                     0
               N
                           HHN     0
                           HN
                 NH
              H2HN
                        HN
                             HN
            NO
                         HN
5
         Examples of DILA2 amino acid compounds include R'-(C=O)-His-NH-R4
  wherein R3 and R4 are independently alkyl or alkenyl. Examples of His DILA2 amino
  acid compounds include the following structures:
                                             68

              HN             H
                                HN
                                   HN
                                  HN
                                        0
 5HN
             Examples of DILA2 amino acid compounds include R3-(C=0)-Xaa-O-R 4 wherein
     R3 is alkyl and R4 is a sphingoid.
             Examples of DILA2 amino acid compounds include the following structures:
10
                                             69

                                               OH
           HN      /                  O     H2
                      N            OO
                         H2
                                                  OH
                    N                     O   NH2
 5                              H
          Examples of DILA2 amino acid compounds include R'-(C=O)-Xaa-NH-R 4
   wherein R3 and R4 are alkyl or alkenyl. Examples of DILA2 amino acid compounds
   include the following structure:
10
                                               70

    HN           H2
                    HN..
           00
           Examples of DILA2 amino acid compounds include the following structure:
                       0
       C--OH
          00
                                    18:1-Glu-C 1 6
 5C    HO     N
           Examples of DILA2 amino acid compounds include the following structure:
                      HN
    HO-C\O
                   H
                                   C18:1-Asp-C16
10         Examples of DILA2 amino acid compounds include the following structure:
                                             71

                    0              HN
                         0e            0
        OH
                                         C1 8 :1-Ser(succinylated)-C 16
          Examples of DILA2 amino acid compounds include
 5 (C10acyl)-Arg-NH-(Cl0alkyl) (SEQ ID NO: 11), (C12acyl)-Arg-NH-(Cl2alkyl) (SEQ
   ID NO: 11), (C14acyl)-Arg-NH-(Cl4alkyl) (SEQ ID NO: 11),
   (C16acyl)-Arg-NH-(C 16alkyl) (SEQ ID NO: 11), (C1 8acyl)-Arg-NH-(C 18alkyl) (SEQ
   ID NO: 11), (ClOacyl)-homoArg-NH-(ClOalkyl), (Cl2acyl)-homoArg-NH-(C12alkyl),
   (C14acyl)-homoArg-NH-(C 14alkyl), (C16acyl)-homoArg-NH-(C 16alkyl),
10 (Cl8acyl)-homoArg-NH-(C18alkyl), (ClOacyl)-norArg-NH-(C10alkyl),
   (C12acyl)-norArg-NH-(C 12alkyl), (C14acyl)-norArg-NH-(C 14alkyl),
   (C16acyl)-norArg-NH-(C 16alkyl), (C1 8acyl)-norArg-NH-(C 18alkyl),
   (ClOacyl)-nornorArg-NH-(C10alkyl), (Cl2acyl)-nornorArg-NH-(C12alkyl),
   (C14acyl)-nornorArg-NH-(C 14alkyl), (C16acyl)-nornorArg-NH-(C 16alkyl),
15 (Cl8acyl)-nornorArg-NH-(C18alkyl), (ClOacyl)-4-Pal-NH-(C10alkyl),
   (Cl2acyl)-4-Pal-NH-(C12alkyl), (Cl4acyl)-4-Pal-NH-(C14alkyl),
   (Cl6acyl)-4-Pal-NH-(C16alkyl), (Cl8acyl)-4-Pal-NH-(C18alkyl),
   (ClOacyl)-4-Pal(Me)-NH-(C10alkyl), (Cl2acyl)-4-Pal(Me)-NH-(C12alkyl),
   (C14acyl)-4-Pal(Me)-NH-(C 14alkyl), (C16acyl)-4-Pal(Me)-NH-(C 16alkyl), and
20 (C18acyl)-4-Pal(Me)-NH-(C 18alkyl).
          In general, the designation "C14-norArg-C14," for example, refers to
   (C13alkyl)-(C=O)-norArg-NH-(C 14alkyl) which is the same as
   (C 14acyl)-norArg-NH-(C l4alkyl).
          Examples of DILA2 amino acid compounds include (ClOacyl)-D-Arg-L
25 Arg-NH-(ClOalkyl), (Cl2acyl)-D-Arg-L-Arg-NH-(C12alkyl), (Cl4acyl)-D-Arg-L
   Arg-NH-(C 14alkyl), (C1 6acyl)-D-Arg-L-Arg-NH-(C 16alkyl), (C1 8acyl)-D-Arg-L
   Arg-NH-(C18alkyl), (ClOacyl)-D-homoArg-L-homoArg-NH-(ClOalkyl), (Cl2acyl)-D
   homoArg-L-homoArg-NH-(C12alkyl), (C14acyl)-D-homoArg-L
                                                  72

   homoArg-NH-(C14alkyl), (C16acyl)-D-homoArg-L-homoArg-NH-(C16alkyl),
   (Cl8acyl)-D-homoArg-L-homoArg-NH-(C18alkyl), (ClOacyl)-D-norArg-L
   norArg-NH-(C1Oalkyl), (Cl2acyl)-D-norArg-L-norArg-NH-(C12alkyl), (Cl4acyl)-D
   norArg-L-norArg-NH-(C14alkyl), (C16acyl)-D-norArg-L-norArg-NH-(C16alkyl),
 5 (Cl8acyl)-D-norArg-L-norArg-NH-(C18alkyl), (ClOacyl)-D-nornorArg-L
   nornorArg-NH-(C1Oalkyl), (Cl2acyl)-D-nornorArg-L-nornorArg-NH-(C12alkyl),
   (C14acyl)-D-nornorArg-L-nornorArg-NH-(C14alkyl), (C16acyl)-D-nornorArg-L
   nornorArg-NH-(C16alkyl), (Cl8acyl)-D-nornorArg-L-nornorArg-NH-(C18alkyl).
          Examples of DILA2 amino acid compounds include (ClOacyl)-His
10 Arg-NH-(ClOalkyl), (Cl2acyl)-His-Arg-NH-(C12alkyl), (Cl4acyl)-His
   Arg-NH-(Cl4alkyl), (Cl6acyl)-His-Arg-NH-(C16alkyl), (Cl8acyl)-His
   Arg-NH-(C18alkyl), (ClOacyl)-His-Arg-NH-(ClOalkyl), (Cl2acyl)-His
   Arg-NH-(C12alkyl), (Cl4acyl)-His-Arg-NH-(Cl4alkyl), (Cl6acyl)-His
   Arg-NH-(C16alkyl), (Cl8acyl)-His-Arg-NH-(C18alkyl), (ClOacyl)-His-Arg-(ClOalkyl),
15 (Cl2acyl)-His-Arg-NH-(C12alkyl), (Cl4acyl)-His-Arg-NH-(Cl4alkyl), (Cl6acyl)-His
   Arg-NH-(C16alkyl), (Cl8acyl)-His-Arg-NH-(C18alkyl), (ClOacyl)-His
   Arg-NH-(ClOalkyl), (Cl2acyl)-His-Arg-NH-(C12alkyl), (Cl4acyl)-His
   Arg-NH-(Cl4alkyl), (Cl6acyl)-His-Arg-NH-(C16alkyl), (Cl8acyl)-His
   Arg-NH-(C 18alkyl).
20        Examples of DILA2 amino acid compounds include (ClOacyl)-His
   Asp-NH-(ClOalkyl), (Cl2acyl)-His-Asp-NH-(C12alkyl), (Cl4acyl)-His
   Asp-NH-(Cl4alkyl), (Cl6acyl)-His-Asp-NH-(C16alkyl), (Cl8acyl)-His
   Asp-NH-(C18alkyl), (ClOacyl)-His-Asp-NH-(ClOalkyl), (Cl2acyl)-His
   Asp-NH-(C12alkyl), (Cl4acyl)-His-Asp-NH-(Cl4alkyl), (Cl6acyl)-His
25 Asp-NH-(C16alkyl), (Cl8acyl)-His-Asp-NH-(C18alkyl), (ClOacyl)-His-Asp-(ClOalkyl),
   (Cl2acyl)-His-Asp-NH-(C12alkyl), (Cl4acyl)-His-Asp-NH-(Cl4alkyl), (Cl6acyl)-His
   Asp-NH-(C16alkyl), (Cl8acyl)-His-Asp-NH-(C18alkyl), (ClOacyl)-His
   Asp-NH-(ClOalkyl), (Cl2acyl)-His-Asp-NH-(C12alkyl), (Cl4acyl)-His
   Asp-NH-(Cl4alkyl), (Cl6acyl)-His-Asp-NH-(C16alkyl), (Cl8acyl)-His
30 Asp-NH-(Cl8alkyl).
          Examples of DILA2 amino acid compounds include (ClOacyl)-Pal
   Arg-NH-(C10alkyl), (Cl2acyl)-Pal-Arg-NH-(C12alkyl), (Cl4acyl)-Pal
   Arg-NH-(C14alkyl), (Cl6acyl)-Pal-Arg-NH-(C16alkyl), (Cl8acyl)-Pal
   Arg-NH-(C18alkyl), (ClOacyl)-Pal-Arg-NH-(C10alkyl), (Cl2acyl)-Pal
                                           73

   Arg-NH-(C 12alkyl), (C14acyl)-Pal-Arg-NH-(C 14alkyl), (C16acyl)-Pal
   Arg-NH-(C16alkyl), (Cl8acyl)-Pal-Arg-NH-(C18alkyl), (ClOacyl)-Pal-Arg-(C1Oalkyl),
   (Cl2acyl)-Pal-Arg-NH-(C12alkyl), (Cl4acyl)-Pal-Arg-NH-(C14alkyl), (Cl6acyl)-Pal
   Arg-NH-(C16alkyl), (Cl8acyl)-Pal-Arg-NH-(C18alkyl), (ClOacyl)-Pal
 5 Arg-NH-(C10alkyl), (Cl2acyl)-Pal-Arg-NH-(C12alkyl), (Cl4acyl)-Pal
   Arg-NH-(C14alkyl), (Cl6acyl)-Pal-Arg-NH-(C16alkyl), (Cl8acyl)-Pal
   Arg-NH-(C 18alkyl).
           DILA2 amino acid compounds can be prepared as poly-mer or multi-mer species,
   such as dimers, trimers, or tetramers. The poly-mer or multi-mer species can be prepared
10 from a single DILA2 amino acid compound, or from more than one species. Poly-mer or
   multi-mer DILA2 amino acid compounds can be prepared in some embodiments by
   providing a sulfhydryl group or other cross-linkable group on a side chain of the amino
   acid, or with linked or tethered amino acid structures such as desmosine or citrulline. In
   other embodiments, a poly-mer or multi-mer DILA2 amino acid compound can be
15 prepared with bioconjugate linker chemistries.
           Examples of DILA2 amino acid compounds include the following structures:
                        H2                     H2            H2
                        C -SH                  C    S-S-C
               HN                     HN                      HN      NH
                    0                      0                      0
           A DILA2 amino acid compound can be prepared as a conjugate having a peptide
20 or polymer chain covalently attached to the amino acid side chain. The peptide or
   polymer chain can be attached using a reactive group of the amino acid side chain, for
   example, using the thiol or methylmercaptan group of cysteine or methionine,
                                                74

   respectively, or the alcohol group of serine, or the amino group of lysine. The peptide or
   polymer chain can be attached using any reactive group of a substituted or modified
   amino acid side chain. Various linker groups such as NHS, maleimido, and bioconjugate
   techniques and linkers can be used.
 5          DILA2 amino acid compounds can be prepared as constructs attached to an
   oligomeric or polymeric framework. For example, a DILA2 amino acid compound can
   be attached to polyethylene glycol, polypropylene glycol, an oilgonucleotide network or
   lattice, a poly(amino acid), a carbohydrate, a dextran, a hydrogel, or a starch.
            DILA2 amino acid compounds can be prepared as constructs attached to a
10 pharmaceutical drug compound or composition, or a biologically active agent. For
   example, a DILA2 amino acid compound can be conjugated to a nucleic acid drug such as
   a regulatory or interfering RNA.
            Examples of DILA2 amino acid compounds include the following structures:
                               H      0      R       H     0      R
                             "2                YN         N
                                         H       0             H     0
                                                        S
                                      S
                            HN                   HN
                         O             NH     O             NH
                                  0                    0
15 where R is any amino acid side chain.
            The compounds and compositions of this disclosure may incorporate solubilizing
   or functionalizing groups or structures including polymeric structures. See, e.g., R. L.
                                                  75

   Dunn and R. M. Ottenbrite, Polymeric Drugs and Drug Delivery Systems, ACS Symp.
   Ser. 469 (1991). DILA2 amino acid compounds can be derivatized to enhance solubility
   such as, for example, to attach a diol, to prepare a quaternary ammonium or charged
   group, to attach hydroxyl or amine groups such as alcohols, polyols, or polyethers, or to
 5 attach a polyethyleneimine, a polyethyleneglycol or a polypropyleneglycol. The
   molecular mass of an attached polymeric component such as a polyethyleneglycol can be
   any value, for example, 200, 300, 400, 500, 750, 1000, 1250, 1500, 2000, 3000, 4000,
   5000, 7500, 10,000, 15,000, 20,000, 25,000, or 30,000 Da, or greater. For example, a
   polyethyleneglycol chain can be attached through an amino group or other reactive group
10 of an amino acid side chain.
            In general, as used herein, general chemical terms refer to all groups of a specified
   type, including groups having any number and type of atoms, unless otherwise specified.
   For example "alkenyl" refers broadly to alkyls having 2 to 22 carbon atoms, as defined
   below, while (C 18: 1)alkenyl refers to alkenyls having 18 carbon atoms and one double
15 bond.
            The term "alkyl" as used herein refers to a saturated, branched or unbranched,
   substituted or unsubstituted aliphatic group containing from 1-22 carbon atoms. This
   definition applies to the alkyl portion of other groups such as, for example, alkoxy,
   alkanoyl, aralkyl, and other groups defined below. The term "cycloalkyl" as used herein
20 refers to a saturated, substituted or unsubstituted cyclic alkyl ring containing from 3 to 12
   carbon atoms.
            The term "alkenyl" as used herein refers to an unsaturated, branched or
   unbranched, substituted or unsubstituted alkyl or cycloalkyl having 2 to 22 carbon atoms
   and at least one carbon-carbon double bond. The term "alkynyl" as used herein refers to
25 an unsaturated, branched or unbranched, substituted or unsubstituted alkyl or cycloalkyl
   having 2 to 22 carbon atoms and at least one carbon-carbon triple bond.
            The term "alkoxy" as used herein refers to an alkyl, cycloalkyl, alkenyl, or alkynyl
   group covalently bonded to an oxygen atom. The term "alkanoyl" as used herein refers to
   -C(=O)-alkyl, which may alternatively be referred to as "acyl." The term "alkanoyloxy" as
30 used herein refers to -O-C(=O)-alkyl groups. The term "alkylamino" as used herein refers
   to the group -NRR', where R and R' are each either hydrogen or alkyl, and at least one of
   R and R' is alkyl. Alkylamino includes groups such as piperidino wherein R and R' form
   a ring. The term "alkylaminoalkyl" refers to -alkyl-NRR'.
                                                  76

            The term "aryl" as used herein refers to any stable monocyclic, bicyclic, or
   polycyclic carbon ring system of from 4 to 12 atoms in each ring, wherein at least one
   ring is aromatic. Some examples of an aryl include phenyl, naphthyl, tetrahydro
   naphthyl, indanyl, and biphenyl. Where an aryl substituent is bicyclic and one ring is
 5 non-aromatic, it is understood that attachment is to the aromatic ring. An aryl may be
   substituted or unsubstituted.
            The term "heteroaryl" as used herein refers to any stable monocyclic, bicyclic, or
   polycyclic carbon ring system of from 4 to 12 atoms in each ring, wherein at least one
   ring is aromatic and contains from 1 to 4 heteroatoms selected from oxygen, nitrogen and
10 sulfur. Some examples of a heteroaryl include acridinyl, quinoxalinyl, pyrazolyl, indolyl,
   benzotriazolyl, furanyl, thienyl, benzothienyl, benzofuranyl, quinolinyl, isoquinolinyl,
   oxazolyl, isoxazolyl, pyrazinyl, pyridazinyl, pyridinyl, pyrimidinyl, pyrrolyl, and
   tetrahydroquinolinyl. A heteroaryl includes the N-oxide derivative of a nitrogen
   containing heteroaryl.
15          The term "heterocycle" or "heterocyclyl" as used herein refers to an aromatic or
   nonaromatic ring system of from five to twenty-two atoms, wherein from 1 to 4 of the
   ring atoms are heteroatoms selected from oxygen, nitrogen, and sulfur. Thus, a
   heterocycle may be a heteroaryl or a dihydro or tetrathydro version thereof.
            The term "aroyl" as used herein refers to an aryl radical derived from an aromatic
20 carboxylic acid, such as a substituted benzoic acid. The term "aralkyl" as used herein
   refers to an aryl group bonded to an alkyl group, for example, a benzyl group.
            The term "carboxyl" as used herein represents a group of the formula -C(=O)OH
   or -C(=O)O-. The terms "carbonyl" and "acyl" as used herein refer to a group in which
   an oxygen atom is double-bonded to a carbon atom >C=O. The term "hydroxyl" as used
25 herein refers to -OH or -0-. The term "nitrile" or "cyano" as used herein refers to -CN.
   The term "halogen" or "halo" refers to fluoro (-F), chloro (-Cl), bromo (-Br), and iodo
   (-I).
            The term "substituted" as used herein refers to an atom having one or more
   substitutions or substituents which can be the same or different and may include a
30 hydrogen substituent. Thus, the terms alkyl, cycloalkyl, alkenyl, alkynyl, alkoxy,
   alkanoyl, alkanoyloxy, alkylamino, alkylaminoalkyl, aryl, heteroaryl, heterocycle, aroyl,
   and aralkyl as used herein refer to groups which include substituted variations.
   Substituted variations include linear, branched, and cyclic variations, and groups having a
   substituent or substituents replacing one or more hydrogens attached to any carbon atom
                                                 77

   of the group. Substituents that may be attached to a carbon atom of the group include
   alkyl, cycloalkyl, alkenyl, alkynyl, alkoxy, alkanoyl, alkanoyloxy, alkylamino,
   alkylaminoalkyl, aryl, heteroaryl, heterocycle, aroyl, aralkyl, acyl, hydroxyl, cyano, halo,
   haloalkyl, amino, aminoacyl, alkylaminoacyl, acyloxy, aryloxy, aryloxyalkyl, mercapto,
 5 nitro, carbamyl, carbamoyl, and heterocycle. For example, the term ethyl includes without
   limitation -CH 2CH 3 , -CHFCH 3 , -CF 2CH 3, -CHFCH 2F, -CHFCHF 2, -CHFCF 3, -CF 2 CH 2F,
   -CF 2CHF2 , -CF 2CF 3 , and other variations as described above. In general, substituents
   may be further substituted with any atom or group of atoms.
            DILA2 amino acid compounds can be synthesized by methods known in the art.
10          Methods to prepare various organic groups and protective groups are known in the
   art and their use and modification is generally within the ability of one of skill in the art.
   See, e.g., Stanley R. Sandler and Wolf Karo, Organic Functional Group Preparations
   (1989); Greg T. Hermanson, Bioconjugate Techniques (1996); Leroy G. Wade,
   Compendium Of Organic Synthetic Methods (1980); examples of protective groups are
15 found in T. W. Greene and P. G. M. Wuts, Protective Groups In Organic Synthesis (3rd
   ed. 1991).
            For example, the DILA2 amino acid compound PONA can be synthesized
   according to the following scheme:
                           o       2-chlorotrityl                        0
           H                       chloride resin         H                          20% piperidine
                                              ON____N__   N
                              Oo
                              0H       DPA           Boo                    Resin       DMF
                     HNI *Fmoc
                                                                   HNN* Fmoc
               1                                               2
                            o            1.1 eq Oleic acid
             H                           1 eq HCTU
     Boc                        Resin
                                         2.2 eq DIPEA
                       NH2
20                 3
                                                   78

                  0
      H
  Boc                 Resin                                 Cleavage
              HN      (COH2 ) 7 ,      , (CH 2 )7         1%TFADCM
          4       0
                  0
      H
  Boc N               OH                              1) 1.5 eq EDC; 2 eq HOBT
                                                         1.5 eq DIPEA; 1 eq Hexadecylamine
              HN       (CH 2 )7        (CH 2 ) 7 \        (RT)
           5      o                                  2) Cation exchange resin
        solid phase yield 100%                          removal of C16-amine
                    0
      H
  Boc N                 N(CH2)15                        1 M HCI/AcOEt
                        H
               HN       (CH2)7            (CH2)7
                    0
              6 6
                   75%
5
                O                                         Boc-NH 9
                                             1) 1.1 eq            N-S-CF 3 , 2 eq TEA DCM
  H2N               N(CH2)15                              Boc-N      0
                    H
                    HH                                            rt
          HN        (CH 2 ) 7     ,(OH     2 )7
                 D                                           2) HCI/EtOH
                0
            7
                                              79

                                  0
                  H
    H2N           N                        -(CH2)15,
                                       H
            NH 2            HN         (CH          2)7(CH2)7,
                 C-
                                  II(C         7
                         70%      0
                                    8
                       overall yield 53 %
            A pharmaceutically acceptable salt of a peptide or protein composition of this
   invention which is sufficiently basic may be an acid-addition salt with, for example, an
 5 inorganic or organic acid such as hydrochloric, hydrobromic, sulfuric, nitric, phosphoric,
   chlorosulfonic, trifluoroacetic, citric, maleic, acetic, propionic, oxalic, malic, maleic,
   malonic, fumaric, or tartaric acids, and alkane- or arenesulfonic acids such as
   methanesulfonic, ethanesulfonic, benzenesulfonic, chlorobenzenesulfonic,
   toluenesulfonic, naphthalenesulfonic, naphthalenedisulfonic, and camphorsulfonic acids.
10          A pharmaceutically acceptable salt of a peptide or protein composition of this
   invention which is sufficiently acidic may be an alkali metal salt, for example, a sodium
   or potassium salt, or an alkaline earth metal salt, for example, a calcium or magnesium
   salt, or a zinc or manganese salt, or an ammonium salt or a salt with an organic base
   which provides a physiologically-acceptable cation, for example, a salt with
15 methylamine, dimethylamine, trimethylamine, triethylamine, ethanolamine,
   diethanolamine, triethanolamine, ethylenediamine, tromethamine, N-methylglucamine,
   piperidine, morpholine or tris-(2-hydroxyethyl)amine, and including salts of amino acids
   such as arginate, and salts of organic acids such as glucuronic or galactunoric acids. See,
   for example, Berge et al., J. Pharm.Sci. 66:1-19, 1977.
20          A salt or pharmaceutically-acceptable salt of a composition of this disclosure
   which contains an interfering-RNA agent and a DILA2 amino acid compound, a lipid, a
   peptide, or protein, among other components, may contain a salt complex of the
   interfering-RNA agent and the DILA2 amino acid compound, lipid, peptide, or protein.
   A salt complex of the interfering-RNA agent and the DILA2 amino acid compound, lipid,
25 peptide, or protein may be formed from a pharmaceutically-acceptable salt of an
   interfering-RNA agent, or from a pharmaceutically-acceptable salt of the DILA2 amino
   acid compound, lipid, peptide, or protein.
                                                   80

            Some compounds of this disclosure may contain both basic and acidic
   functionalities that may allow the compounds to be made into either a base or acid
   addition salt.
            Some compounds, peptides and/or protein compositions of this invention may
 5 have one or more chiral centers and/or geometric isomeric centers (E- and Z-isomers),
   and it is to be understood that the invention encompasses all such optical isomers,
   diastereoisomers, geometric isomers, and mixtures thereof.
            This disclosure encompasses any and all tautomeric, solvated or unsolvated,
   hydrated or unhydrated forms, as well as any atom isotope forms of the compounds,
10 peptides and/or protein compositions disclosed herein.
   Lipids
            In some aspects of this invention, one or more DILA2 amino acid compounds and
   one or more lipids may be employed for delivery and administration of regulatory RNA
   components, RNA antagonists, interfering RNA, or nucleic acids. More particularly, a
15 composition of this invention may include one or more DILA2 amino acid compounds
   along with cationic lipids and non-cationic lipids.
            Cationic lipids may be monocationic or polycationic. Some cationic lipids include
   neutral lipids and lipids having approximately zero net charge at a particular pH, for
   example, a zwitterionic lipid. Non-cationic lipids also include anionic lipids.
20          In some embodiments, a composition is a mixture or complex of an RNA
   component with a DILA2 amino acid compound and a cationic lipid. In some
   embodiments, a composition may be a mixture or complex of one or more regulatory or
   interfering RNA agents with one or more DILA2 amino acid compounds and one or more
   cationic lipids.
25          The compounds and compositions of this disclosure can be admixed with, or
   attached to various targeting ligands or agents to deliver an active agent to a cell, tissue,
   organ or region of an organism. Examples of targeting agents include antibodies, ligands
   for receptors, peptides, proteins, lectins, (poly)saccharides, galactose, mannose,
   cyclodextrins, nucleic acids, DNA, RNA, aptamers, and polyamino acids.
30          Examples of cationic lipids include N-[1-(2,3-dioleoyloxy)propyl]-N,N,N
   trimethylammonium chloride (DOTMA); 1,2-bis(oleoyloxy)-3-3
   (trimethylammonium)propane (DOTAP), 1,2-bis(dimyrstoyloxy)-3-3
   (trimethylammonia)propane (DMTAP); 1,2-dimyristyloxypropyl-3
   dimethylhydroxyethylammonium bromide (DMRIE); dimethyldioctadecylammonium
                                                   81

   bromide (DDAB); 3-(N-(N',N'-dimethylaminoethane)carbamoyl)cholesterol (DC-Chol);
   3p-[N',N'-diguanidinoethyl-aminoethane)carbamoyl      cholesterol (BGTC); 2-(2-(3-(bis(3
   aminopropyl)amino)propylamino)acetamido)-N,N-ditetradecylacetamide        (RPR209120);
   pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof, and mixtures thereof.
 5         Examples of cationic lipids include 1,2-dialkenoyl-sn-glycero-3
   ethylphosphocholines (EPCs), such as 1,2-dioleoyl-sn-glycero-3-ethylphosphocholine,
   1,2-distearoyl-sn-glycero-3-ethylphosphocholine, 1,2-dipalmitoyl-sn-glycero-3
   ethylphosphocholine, pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof, and mixtures thereof.
           Examples of cationic lipids include 1,2-distearyloxy-N,N-dimethyl-3
10 aminopropane (DSDMA), 1,2-dioleyloxy-N,Ndimethyl-3-aminopropane (DODMA), 1,2
   dilinoleyloxy-N,N-dimethyl-3-aminopropane (DLinDMA), and 1,2-dilinolenyloxy-N,N
   dimethyl-3-aminopropane (DLenDMA).
           Examples of polycationic lipids include tetramethyltetrapalmitoyl spermine
   (TMTPS), tetramethyltetraoleyl spermine (TMTOS), tetramethlytetralauryl spermine
15 (TMTLS), tetramethyltetramyristyl spermine (TMTMS), tetramethyldioleyl spermine
   (TMDOS), pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof, and mixtures thereof.
           Examples of polycationic lipids include 2,5-bis(3-aminopropylamino)-N-(2
   (dioctadecylamino)-2-oxoethyl) pentanamide (DOGS); 2,5-bis(3-aminopropylamino)-N
   (2-(di(Z)-octadeca-9-dienylamino)-2-oxoethyl) pentanamide (DOGS-9-en); 2,5-bis(3
20 aminopropylamino)-N-(2-(di(9Z, 12Z)-octadeca-9,12-dienylamino)-2-oxoethyl)
   pentanamide (DLinGS); 3-beta-(N 4-(N 1,N8
   dicarbobenzoxyspermidine)carbamoyl)cholesterol (GL-67); (9Z,9'Z)-2-(2,5-bis(3
   aminopropylamino)pentanamido)propane-1,3-diyl-dioctadec-9-enoate        (DOSPER); 2,3
   dioleyloxy-N- [2(sperminecarboxamido)ethyl] -N,N-dimethyl- 1-propanaminium trifluoro
25 acetate (DOSPA); pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof, and mixtures thereof.
           Examples of cationic lipids include DS404-28 BGTC (CAS 182056-06-0),
   DOSPER (CAS 178532-92-8), GL-67 (179075-30-0), RPR209120 (CAS 433292-13-8),
   DOGS (12050-77-7), DOGS (9-en, C18:1), DLinGS (C18:2), and DOTMA (104162-48
   3).
30         Examples of cationic lipids are described in U.S. Patent Nos. 4,897,355;
   5,279,833; 6,733,777; 6,376,248; 5,736,392; 5,334,761; 5,459,127; 2005/0064595;
   5,208,036; 5,264,618; 5,279,833; 5,283,185; 5,753,613; and 5,785,992.
           In some embodiments, the composition is a mixture or complex of an RNA
   component with a DILA2 amino acid compound and a non-cationic lipid. In some
                                                82

   embodiments, the composition is a mixture or complex of one or more RNA components
   with one or more DILA2 amino acid compounds and one or more non-cationic lipids.
           Non-cationic lipids include neutral, zwitterionic, and anionic lipids. Thus, a non
   cationic zwitterionic lipid may contain a cationic head group.
 5         Examples of non-cationic lipids include 1,2-Dilauroyl-sn-glycerol (DLG);
   1,2-Dimyristoyl-sn-glycerol (DMG); 1,2-Dipalmitoyl-sn-glycerol (DPG); 1,2-Distearoyl
   sn-glycerol (DSG); 1,2-Dilauroyl-sn-glycero-3-phosphatidic acid (sodium salt; DLPA);
   1,2-Dimyristoyl-sn-glycero-3-phosphatidic acid (sodium salt; DMPA); 1,2-Dipalmitoyl
   sn-glycero-3-phosphatidic acid (sodium salt; DPPA); 1,2-Distearoyl-sn-glycero-3
10 phosphatidic acid (sodium salt; DSPA); 1,2-Diarachidoyl-sn-glycero-3-phosphocholine
   (DAPC); 1,2-Dilauroyl-sn-glycero-3-phosphocholine (DLPC); 1,2-Dimyristoyl-sn
   glycero-3-phosphocholine (DMPC); 1,2-Dipalmitoyl-sn-glycero-0-ethyl-3
   phosphocholine (chloride or triflate; DPePC); 1,2-Dipalmitoyl-sn-glycero-3
   phosphocholine (DPPC); 1,2-Distearoyl- sn-glycero-3-phosphocholine (DSPC);
15 1,2-Dilauroyl-sn-glycero-3-phosphoethanolamine (DLPE); 1,2-Dimyristoyl-sn-glycero-3
   phosphoethanolamine (DMPE); 1,2-Dipalmitoyl-sn-glycero-3-phosphoethanolamine
   (DPPE); 1,2-Distearoyl-sn-glycero-3-phosphoethanolamine (DSPE); 1,2-Dilauroyl-sn
   glycero-3-phosphoglycerol (sodium salt; DLPG); 1,2-Dimyristoyl-sn-glycero-3
   phosphoglycerol (sodium salt; DMPG); 1,2-Dimyristoyl-sn-glycero-3-phospho-sn-i
20 glycerol (ammonium salt; DMP-sn-1-G); 1,2-Dipalmitoyl-sn-glycero-3-phosphoglycerol
   (sodium salt; DPPG); 1,2-Distearoyl-sn-glycero-3-phosphoglycero (sodium salt; DSPG);
   1,2-Distearoyl-sn-glycero-3-phospho-sn- 1-glycerol (sodium salt; DSP-sn-1-G); 1,2
   Dipalmitoyl-sn-glycero-3-phospho-L-serine (sodium salt; DPPS); 1-Palmitoyl-2
   linoleoyl-sn-glycero-3-phosphocholine (PLinoPC); 1-Palmitoyl-2-oleoyl-sn-glycero-3
25 phosphocholine (POPC); 1-Palmitoyl-2-oleoyl-sn-glycero-3-phosphoglycerol (sodium
   salt; POPG); 1-Palmitoyl-2-oleoyl-sn-glycero-3-phosphoglycerol      (sodium salt; POPG);
   1-Palmitoyl-2-oleoyl-sn-glycero-3-phosphoglycerol     (ammonium salt; POPG); 1
   Palmitoyl-2-4o-sn-glycero-3-phosphocholine (P-lyso-PC); 1-Stearoyl-2-lyso-sn-glycero
   3-phosphocholine (S-lyso-PC); and mixtures thereof.
30         Examples of non-cationic lipids include polymeric compounds and polymer-lipid
   conjugates or polymeric lipids, such as pegylated lipids having PEG regions of 300, 500,
   1000, 1500, 2000, 3500, or 5000 molecular weight, including polyethyleneglycols, N
   (Carbonyl-methoxypolyethyleneglycol-2000)-1,2-dimyristoyl-sn-glycero-3
   phosphoethanolamine (sodium salt; DMPE-MPEG-2000); N-(Carbonyl
                                                 83

   methoxypolyethyleneglycol-5000)-1,2-dimyristoyl-sn-glycero-3-phosphoethanolamine
   (sodium salt; DMPE-MPEG-5000); N-(Carbonyl-methoxypolyethyleneglycol 2000)-1,2
   dipalmitoyl-sn-glycero-3-phosphoethanolamine (sodium salt; DPPE-MPEG-2000); N
   (Carbonyl-methoxypolyethyleneglycol 5000)-1,2-dipalmitoyl-sn-glycero-3
 5 phosphoethanolamine (sodium salt; DPPE-MPEG-5000); N-(Carbonyl
   methoxypolyethyleneglycol 750)-1,2-distearoyl-sn-glycero-3-phosphoethanolamine
   (sodium salt; DSPE-MPEG-750); N-(Carbonyl-methoxypolyethyleneglycol 2000)-1,2
   distearoyl-sn-glycero-3-phosphoethanolamine (sodium salt; DSPE-MPEG-2000); N
   (Carbonyl-methoxypolyethyleneglycol 5000)-1,2-distearoyl-sn-glycero-3
10 phosphoethanolamine (sodium salt; DSPE-MPEG-5000); sodium cholesteryl sulfate
   (SCS); pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof, and mixtures thereof.
           Examples of non-cationic lipids include polymeric lipids such as DOPE-PEG,
   DLPE-PEG, DDPE-PEG DLinPE-PEG, and diacylglycerol-PEG-2000 or -5000.
           Examples of non-cationic lipids include polymeric lipids such as multi-branched
15 pegylated compounds, for example DSPE-PTE020 and DSPE-AM0530K.
           Examples of non-cationic lipids include polymeric lipids such as DSPE-PG8G
   polyglycerine lipids.
           Examples of non-cationic lipids include dioleoylphosphatidylethanolamine
   (DOPE), diphytanoylphosphatidylethanolamine (DPhPE), 1,2-Dioleoyl-sn-Glycero-3
20 Phosphocholine (DOPC), and 1,2-Diphytanoyl-sn-Glycero-3-Phosphocholine (DPhPC).
           Examples of non-cationic lipids include cholesterols, sterols, and steroids such as
   gonanes, estranes, androstanes, pregnanes, cholanes, cholestanes, ergostanes,
   campestanes, poriferastanes, stigmastanes, gorgostanes, lanostanes, cycloartanes, as well
   as sterol or zoosterol derivatives of any of the foregoing, and their biological
25 intermediates and precursors, which may include, for example, cholesterol, lanosterol,
   stigmastanol, dihydrolanosterol, zymosterol, zymostenol, desmosterol,
   7-dehydrocholesterol, and mixtures and derivatives thereof.
           Examples of non-cationic lipids include pegylated cholesterols, and cholestane
   3-oxo(Ci-22acyl) derivatives such as cholesteryl acetate, cholesteryl arachidonate,
30 cholesteryl butyrate, cholesteryl hexanoate, cholesteryl caprylate, cholesteryl n
   decanoate, cholesteryl dodecanoate, cholesteryl myristate, cholesteryl palmitate,
   cholesteryl behenate, cholesteryl stearate, cholesteryl nervonate, cholesteryl pelargonate,
   cholesteryl n-valerate, cholesteryl oleate, cholesteryl elaidate, cholesteryl erucate,
                                                  84

   cholesteryl heptanoate, cholesteryl linolelaidate, cholesteryl linoleate, and mixtures and
   derivatives thereof.
           Examples of non-cationic lipids include compounds derived from plant sterols
   including phytosterols, beta-sitosterol, campesterol, ergosterol, brassicasterol, delta-7
 5 stigmasterol, delta-7-avenasterol, and mixtures and derivatives thereof.
           Examples of non-cationic lipids include bile acids, cholic acid, chenodeoxycholic
   acid, glycocholic acid, taurocholic acid, deoxycholic acid, lithocholic acid, methyl
   lithocholic acid, and mixtures and derivatives thereof.
           Examples of non-cationic lipids include compounds derived from steroids
10 including glucocorticoids, cortisol, hydrocortisone, corticosterone, A5-pregnenolone,
   progesterone, deoxycorticosterone, 17-OH-pregnenolone, 17-OH-progesterone, 11
   dioxycortisol, dehydroepiandrosterone, dehydroepiandrosterone sulfate, androstenedione,
   aldosterone, 18-hydroxycorticosterone, tetrahydrocortisol, tetrahydrocortisone, cortisone,
   prednisone, 6a-methylpredisone, 9a-fluoro-16a-hydroxyprednisolone, 9a-fluoro-16a
15 methylprednisolone, 9a-fluorocortisol, and mixtures and derivatives thereof.
           Examples of non-cationic lipids include compounds derived from steroids
   including adrogens, testosterone, dihydrotestosterone, androstenediol, androstenedione,
   androstenedione, 3a,5a-androstanediol, and mixtures and derivatives thereof.
           Examples of non-cationic lipids include compounds derived from steroids
20 including estrogens, estriols, estrones, estradiols, and mixtures and derivatives thereof.
           Examples of non-cationic lipids include compounds derived from lumisterol and
   vitamin D compounds.
           Examples of non-cationic lipids include lipids having tails ranging from C10:0 to
   C22:6, for example, DDPE (C 10:0) (CAS 253685-27-7), DLPE (C 12:0) (CAS 59752-57
25 7), DSPE (C18:0) (CAS 1069-79-0), DOPE (C18:1) (CAS 4004-05-1), DLinPE (C 18:2)
   (CAS 20707-71-5), DLenPE (C18:3) (CAS 34813-40-6), DARAPE (C20:4) (CAS 5634
   86-6), DDHAPE (C22:6) (CAS 123284-81-1), DPhPE (16:0[(CH 3) 4]) (CAS 201036-16
   0).
           Examples of anionic lipids include phosphatidylserine, phosphatidic acid,
30 phosphatidylcholine, platelet-activation factor (PAF), phosphatidylethanolamine,
   phosphatidyl-DL-glycerol, phosphatidylinositol, phosphatidylinositol (pi(4)p, pi(4,5)p2),
   cardiolipin (sodium salt), lysophosphatides, hydrogenated phospholipids, sphingoplipids,
   gangliosides, phytosphingosine, sphinganines, pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof,
   and mixtures thereof.
                                                  85

   Uses for delivering RNA therapeutics
           In some aspects, this disclosure relates generally to the fields of regulatory RNA
   and RNA interference, antisense therapeutics, and delivery of RNA therapeutics. More
   particularly, this invention relates to compositions and formulations for ribonucleic acids,
 5 and their uses for medicaments and for delivery as therapeutics. This invention relates
   generally to methods of using ribonucleic acids in RNA interference for gene-specific
   inhibition of gene expression in cells, or in mammals to alter a disease state or a
   phenotype.
           RNA interference refers to methods of sequence-specific post-transcriptional gene
10 silencing which is mediated by a double-stranded RNA (dsRNA) called a short interfering
   RNA (siRNA). See Fire, et al., Nature 391:806, 1998, and Hamilton, et al., Science
   286:950-951, 1999. RNAi is shared by diverse flora and phyla and is believed to be an
   evolutionarily-conserved cellular defense mechanism against the expression of foreign
   genes. See Fire, et al., Trends Genet. 15:358, 1999.
15         RNAi is therefore a ubiquitous, endogenous mechanism that uses small noncoding
   RNAs to silence gene expression. See Dykxhoorn, D.M. and J. Lieberman, Annu. Rev.
   Biomed. Eng. 8:377-402, 2006. RNAi can regulate important genes involved in cell
   death, differentiation, and development. RNAi may also protect the genome from
   invading genetic elements, encoded by transposons and viruses. When a siRNA is
20 introduced into a cell, it binds to the endogenous RNAi machinery to disrupt the
   expression of mRNA containing complementary sequences with high specificity. Any
   disease-causing gene and any cell type or tissue can potentially be targeted. This
   technique has been rapidly utilized for gene-function analysis and drug-target discovery
   and validation. Harnessing RNAi also holds great promise for therapy, although
25 introducing siRNAs into cells in vivo remains an important obstacle.
           The mechanism of RNAi, although not yet fully characterized, is through cleavage
   of a target mRNA. The RNAi response involves an endonuclease complex known as the
   RNA-induced silencing complex (RISC), which mediates cleavage of a single-stranded
   RNA complementary to the antisense strand of the siRNA duplex. Cleavage of the target
30 RNA takes place in the middle of the region complementary to the antisense strand of the
   siRNA duplex (Elbashir, et al., Genes Dev. 15:188, 2001).
           One way to carry out RNAi is to introduce or express a siRNA in cells. Another
   way is to make use of an endogenous ribonuclease III enzyme called dicer. One activity
   of dicer is to process a long dsRNA into siRNAs. See Hamilton, et al., Science 286:950
                                                  86

   951, 1999; Berstein, et al., Nature 409:363, 2001. A siRNA derived from dicer is
   typically about 21-23 nucleotides in overall length with about 19 base pairs duplexed.
   See Hamilton, et al., supra; Elbashir,et al., Genes Dev. 15:188, 2001. In essence, a long
   dsRNA can be introduced in a cell as a precursor of a siRNA.
 5         This invention provides a range of compositions, formulations and methods which
   include a regulatory RNA, an interfering nucleic acid or a precursor thereof in
   combination with various components including DILA2 amino acid compounds, lipids,
   and natural or synthetic polymers.
           The term "dsRNA" as used herein refers to any double-stranded RNA molecule
10 capable of inhibiting or down regulating gene expression, for example, by promoting
   RNA interference ("RNAi" or "iRNA") or gene silencing in a sequence-specific manner.
   The dsRNAs of this disclosure may be suitable substrates for Dicer or for association with
   RISC to mediate gene silencing by RNAi. One or both strands of the dsRNA can further
   comprise a terminal phosphate group, such as a 5'-phosphate or 5', 3'-diphosphate. As
15 used herein, dsRNA molecules, in addition to at least one ribonucleotide, can further
   include substitutions, chemically-modified nucleotides, and non-nucleotides.
           Examples of dsRNA molecules can be found in, for example, U.S. Patent
   Application No. 11/681,725, U.S. Patent Nos. 7,022,828 and 7,034,009, and PCT
   International Application Publication No. WO/2003/070897.
20         Examples of a nucleic acid agent of this disclosure may contain one or more
   acyclic monomers described in PCT International Application Publication No.
   W02008/147824. Examples of an acyclic monomer include monomers D through J
   shown in Figs. 1 and 2 of W02008/147824.
           Examples of an active agent of this disclosure include nucleic acid molecules
25 containing an acyclic monomer of W02008/147824.
           Examples of an active agent of this disclosure include UsiRNAs. A UsiRNA is a
   UNA-containing siRNA, where a UNA is an "unlocked nucleobase analog." The acyclic
   monomers D through J of W02008/147824 are examples of UNAs.
           Examples of modified nucleosides are found in U.S. Patent Nos. 6,403,566,
30 6,509,320, 6,479,463, 6,191,266, 6,083,482, 5,712,378, and 5,681,940. A modified
   nucleoside may have the following structure:
                                                 87

                                                 R2
                                        R3
                                           Y
   wherein, X is 0 or CH 2, Y is 0, and Z is CH 2; R1 is selected from the group of adenine,
   cytosine, guanine, hypoxanthine, uracil, thymine, and a heterocycle wherein the
   heterocycle is selected from the group of a substituted 1,3-diazine, an unsubstituted 1,3
 5 diazine, and an unsubstituted 7H imidazo[4,5]1,3 diazine; and R 2 , R 3 are independently
   selected from the group of H, OH, DMTO, TBDMSO, BnO, THPO, AcO, BzO,
   OP(NiPr 2)O(CH 2 )2CN, OPO 3 H, diphosphate, and triphosphate, wherein R 2 and R 3
   together may be PhCHO 2 , TIPDSO 2 or DTBSO 2. As used herein, the abbreviation "Ac"
   refers to acetyl; the abbreviation "Bn" refers to benzyl; the abbreviation "Bz" refers to
10 benzoyl; the abbreviation "DMT" refers to dimethoxytrityl; the abbreviation "THP" refers
   to tetrahydropyranyl; the abbreviation "TBDMS" refers to t-butyldimethylsilyl; the
   abbreviation "TIPDS" refers to tetraisopropyldisilyl; and the abbreviation "DTBS" refers
   to di(t-butyl)silyl.
            In addition, as used herein, the terms "dsRNA," "RNAi-inducing agent, "and
15 "RNAi-agent" are meant to be synonymous with other terms used to describe nucleic acid
   molecules that are capable of mediating sequence specific RNAi including meroduplex
   RNA (mdRNA), nicked dsRNA (ndsRNA), gapped dsRNA (gdsRNA), short interfering
   nucleic acid (siRNA), siRNA, microRNA (miRNA), single strand RNA, short hairpin
   RNA (shRNA), short interfering oligonucleotide, short interfering substituted
20 oligonucleotide, short interfering modified oligonucleotide, chemically-modified dsRNA,
   and post-transcriptional gene silencing RNA (ptgsRNA), as well as precursors of any of
   the above.
            The term "large double-stranded (ds) RNA" refers to any double-stranded RNA
   longer than about 40 base pairs (bp) to about 100 bp or more, particularly up to about
25 300 bp to about 500 bp. The sequence of a large dsRNA may represent a segment of an
   mRNA or an entire mRNA. A double-stranded structure may be formed by
   self-complementary nucleic acid molecule or by annealing of two or more distinct
   complementary nucleic acid molecule strands.
                                                   88

            In some aspects, a dsRNA comprises two separate oligonucleotides, comprising a
   first strand (antisense) and a second strand (sense), wherein the antisense and sense
   strands are self-complementary (i.e., each strand comprises a nucleotide sequence that is
   complementary to a nucleotide sequence in the other strand and the two separate strands
 5 form a duplex or double-stranded structure, for example, wherein the double-stranded
   region is about 15 to about 24 base pairs or about 26 to about 40 base pairs); the antisense
   strand comprises a nucleotide sequence that is complementary to a nucleotide sequence in
   a target nucleic acid molecule or a portion thereof (e.g., a human mRNA); and the sense
   strand comprises a nucleotide sequence corresponding (i.e., homologous) to the target
10 nucleic acid sequence or a portion thereof (e.g., a sense strand of about 15 to about
   25 nucleotides or about 26 to about 40 nucleotides corresponds to the target nucleic acid
   or a portion thereof).
            In some embodiments, the dsRNA may be assembled from a single
   oligonucleotide in which the self-complementary sense and antisense strands of the
15 dsRNA are linked by together by a nucleic acid based-linker or a non-nucleic acid-based
   linker. In some embodiments, the first (antisense) and second (sense) strands of the
   dsRNA molecule are covalently linked by a nucleotide or non-nucleotide linker as
   described herein and known in the art. In some embodiments, a first dsRNA molecule is
   covalently linked to at least one second dsRNA molecule by a nucleotide or
20 non-nucleotide linker known in the art, wherein the first dsRNA molecule can be linked
   to a plurality of other dsRNA molecules that can be the same or different, or any
   combination thereof. In some embodiments, the linked dsRNA may include a third strand
   that forms a meroduplex with the linked dsRNA.
            In some respects, dsRNA molecules described herein form a meroduplex RNA
25 (mdRNA) having three or more strands, for example, an 'A' (first or antisense) strand, 'SF
   (second) strand, and 'S2' (third) strand in which the 'SF and 'S2' strands are
   complementary to and form base pairs (bp) with non-overlapping regions of the 'A' strand
   (e.g., an mdRNA can have the form of A:S1S2). The Si, S2, or more strands together
   essentially comprise a sense strand to the 'A' strand. The double-stranded region formed
30 by the annealing of the 'SF and 'A' strands is distinct from and non-overlapping with the
   double-stranded region formed by the annealing of the 'S2' and 'A' strands. An mdRNA
   molecule is a "gapped" molecule, meaning a "gap" ranging from 0 nucleotides up to about
   10 nucleotides. In some embodiments, the A:Sl duplex is separated from the A:S2
   duplex by a gap resulting from at least one unpaired nucleotide (up to about 10 unpaired
                                                  89

   nucleotides) in the 'A' strand that is positioned between the A:S 1 duplex and the A:S2
   duplex and that is distinct from any one or more unpaired nucleotide at the 3'-end of one
   or more of the 'A', 'Sl', or 'S2' strands. In some embodiments, the A:Sl duplex is
   separated from the A:B2 duplex by a gap of zero nucleotides (i.e., a nick in which only a
 5 phosphodiester bond between two nucleotides is broken or missing in the polynucleotide
   molecule) between the A:S 1 duplex and the A:S2 duplex - which can also be referred to
   as nicked dsRNA (ndsRNA). For example, A:S1S2 may be comprised of a dsRNA
   having at least two double-stranded regions that combined total about 14 base pairs to
   about 40 base pairs and the double-stranded regions are separated by a gap of about 0 to
10 about 10 nucleotides, optionally having blunt ends, or A:S1S2 may comprise a dsRNA
   having at least two double-stranded regions separated by a gap of up to 10 nucleotides
   wherein at least one of the double-stranded regions comprises between about 5 base pairs
   and 13 base pairs.
            As described herein, a dsRNA molecule which contains three or more strands may
15 be referred to as a "meroduplex" RNA (mdRNA). Examples of mdRNA molecules can
   be found in U.S. Provisional Patent Application Nos. 60/934,930 and 60/973,398.
            A dsRNA or large dsRNA may include a substitution or modification in which the
   substitution or modification may be in a phosphate backbone bond, a sugar, a base, or a
   nucleoside. Such nucleoside substitutions can include natural non-standard nucleosides
20 (e.g., 5-methyluridine or 5-methylcytidine or a 2-thioribothymidine), and such backbone,
   sugar, or nucleoside modifications can include an alkyl or heteroatom substitution or
   addition, such as a methyl, alkoxyalkyl, halogen, nitrogen or sulfur, or other
   modifications known in the art.
            In addition, as used herein, the term "RNAi" is meant to be equivalent to other
25 terms used to describe sequence specific RNA interference, such as post transcriptional
   gene silencing, translational inhibition, or epigenetics. For example, dsRNA molecules of
   this disclosure can be used to epigenetically silence genes at the post-transcriptional level
   or the pre-transcriptional level or any combination thereof.
            In some aspects, this invention provides compositions containing one or more
30 RNAi-inducing agents which are targeted to one or more genes or target transcripts, along
   with one or more delivery components. Examples of delivery components include
   DILA2 amino acid compounds, lipids, peptides, polymers, polymeric lipids, and
   conjugates thereof.
                                                   90

            The compositions and formulations of this disclosure may be used for delivery of
   RNAi-inducing entities such as dsRNA, siRNA, mdRNA, miRNA, shRNA, or RNAi
   inducing vectors to cells in intact mammalian subjects, and may also be used for delivery
   of these agents to cells in culture.
 5          This disclosure also provides methods for the delivery of one or more RNAi
   inducing agents or entities to cells, organs and tissues within the body of a mammal. In
   some respects, compositions containing an RNAi-inducing entity may be introduced by
   various routes to be transported within the body and taken up by cells in one or more
   organs or tissues, where expression of a target transcript is modulated.
10          In general, this disclosure encompasses RNAi-inducing agents that are useful
   therapeutics to prevent and treat diseases or disorders characterized by various aberrant
   processes. For instance, viruses that infect mammals can replicate by taking control of
   cellular machinery of the host cell. See, e.g., Fields Virology (2001). Thus, dsRNAs are
   useful to disrupt viral pathways which control virus production or replication.
15          This disclosure includes methods for treating or preventing a viral infection in a
   subject by use of one or more therapeutic RNAi-inducing agents having a broad spectrum
   of efficacy against strains of a target virus. An RNAi-inducing agent of this invention can
   be targeted to a sequence of a viral gene in a known variant strain or variants of a virus,
   and exhibit sequence-specific gene silencing of the targeted viral gene in those variants.
20 For example, an RNAi-inducing agent may be targeted to, and exhibit efficacy against a
   seasonal strain of influenza virus, as well as variant strains of influenza.
           Compositions and formulations of this disclosure may be used for delivery of drug
   agents or biologically active agents to a variety of cells in vitro. Examples of cells for
   which in vitro delivery is encompassed include epithelial cells such as A549, immortal
25 cell lines such as HeLa, hepatoma cells such as HepG2, rat gliosarcoma cells such as
   9L/LacZ, human monocyte cells such as THP-1, Madin-Darby canine kidney cells
   (MDCK), various fibroblast cell lines, and primary cells in culture in the presence or
   absence of various sera, among others.
           Compositions and formulations of this disclosure may be used for delivery of drug
30 agents or biologically active agents to a variety of cells, tissues or organs in vivo.
   Modalities for delivering an agent in vivo include topical, enteral, and parenteral routes.
   Examples of modalities for delivering an agent in vivo include inhalation of particles or
   droplets, delivery of nasal or nasal-pharngyl drops, particles, or suspensions, transdermal
   and transmucosal routes, as well as injection or infusion by intramuscular, subcutaneous,
                                                  91

   intravenous, intraarterial, intracardiac, intrathecal, intraosseus, intraperitoneal, and
   epidural routes.
           In some embodiments, an agent can be administered ex vivo by direct exposure to
   cells, tissues or organs originating from a mammalian subject.
 5         A drug agent or biologically active agent to be delivered using a composition or
   formulation of this disclosure may be found in any form including, for example, a pure
   form, a crystalline form, a solid form, a nanoparticle, a condensed form, a complexed
   form, or a conjugated form.
           This invention also provides methods for the delivery of one or more RNAi
10 inducing entities to organs and tissues within the body of a mammal. In some
   embodiments, compositions containing an RNAi-inducing entity, one or more DILA2
   amino acid compounds, and one or more lipid components are introduced by various
   routes to be transported within the body and taken up by cells in one or more organs or
   tissues, where expression of a target transcript is modulated.
15          This disclosure provides pharmaceutically acceptable nucleic acid compositions
   with various DILA2 amino acid compounds or lipids useful for therapeutic delivery of
   nucleic acids and gene-silencing RNAs. In particular, this invention provides
   compositions and methods for in vitro and in vivo delivery of dsRNAs for decreasing,
   downregulating, or silencing the translation of a target nucleic acid sequence or
20 expression of a gene. These compositions and methods may be used for prevention
   and/or treatment of diseases in a mammal. In exemplary methods of this invention, a
   ribonucleic acid molecule such as an siRNA or shRNA is contacted with a DILA2 amino
   acid compound to formulate a composition which can be administered to cells or subjects
   such as mammals. In some embodiments, this invention provides methods for delivering
25 an siRNA or shRNA intracellularly by contacting a nucleic acid-containing composition
   with a cell.
            In exemplary embodiments, this invention includes compositions containing a
   nucleic acid molecule, such as a double-stranded RNA (dsRNA), a short interfering RNA
   (siRNA), or a short hairpin RNA (shRNA), admixed or complexed with a DILA2 amino
30 acid compound, and a polymeric lipid to form a composition that enhances intracellular
   delivery of the nucleic acid molecule. In some embodiments, a delivery composition of
   this invention may contain a dsRNA and one, two, or more DILA2 amino acid
   compounds, which may be cationic or non-cationic. In some variations, a delivery
   composition may contain a dsRNA, DILA2 amino acid compounds, and one or more
                                                   92

   polymeric lipids. In some embodiments, a delivery composition may contain a dsRNA,
   one or more DILA2 amino acid compounds, one or more lipids, and one or more
   polymeric lipids. The compositions of this invention can form stable particles which may
   incorporate a dsRNA as an interfering RNA agent. Compositions and formulations of
 5 this invention may include further delivery-enhancing components or excipients.
           In some embodiments, compositions of this invention contain stable RNA
   containing particles having diameters from about 5 nm to about 400 nm. In some
   embodiments, the particles may have a uniform diameter of from about 10 nm to about
   300 nm. In some embodiments, the particles may have a uniform diameter of from about
10 50 nm to about 150 nm.
           Within exemplary compositions of this invention, a double-stranded RNA may be
   admixed or complexed with DILA2 amino acid compounds to form a composition that
   enhances intracellular delivery of the dsRNA as compared to contacting target cells with
   naked dsRNA.
15         In some embodiments, a composition of this invention may contain one or more
   DILA2 amino acid compounds which are from about 0.5% to about 70% (mol%) of the
   total amount of DILA2 amino acid compounds and lipids, if any, and delivery-enhancing
   components, including any polymeric component, but not including the RNA component.
   In some embodiments, a composition of this invention may contain one or more DILA2
20 amino acid compounds from about 10% to about 55%. In some embodiments, a
   composition of this invention may contain one or more DILA2 amino acid compounds
   from about 15% to about 35%.
           In certain embodiments, a composition of this invention may contain one or more
   non-cationic lipids, where the non-cationic lipids are from about 2% to about 95%
25 (mol%) of the total amount of DILA2 amino acid compounds and lipids, if any, and
   delivery-enhancing components, including any polymeric component, but not including
   the RNA component. In some embodiments, a composition of this invention may contain
   one or more non-cationic lipids from about 20% to about 75%, or from about 45% to
   about 75%, or from about 45% to about 55%. In some embodiments, a composition of
30 this invention may contain one or more non-cationic lipids from about 10% to about 50%.
           In some embodiments, a composition of this invention may contain one or more
   polymeric lipids, where the polymeric lipids are from about 0.2% to about 20% (mol%)
   of the total amount of DILA2 amino acid compounds and lipids, if any, and delivery
   enhancing components, including any polymeric component, but not including the RNA
                                                93

   component. In some embodiments, a composition of this invention may contain one or
   more polymeric lipids from about 0.5% to about 10%. In some embodiments, a
   composition of this invention may contain one or more polymeric lipids from about 1% to
   about 5% of the composition.
 5 Compositions and uses for nucleic acid therapeutics
           In some embodiments, this invention provides a method of treating a disease or
   disorder in a mammalian subject. A therapeutically effective amount of a composition of
   this invention containing an interfering RNA, a DILA2 amino acid compound, a non
   cationic lipid, a polymeric lipid, and one or more delivery-enhancing components or
10 excipients may be administered to a subject having a disease or disorder associated with
   expression or overexpression of a gene that can be reduced, decreased, downregulated, or
   silenced by the composition.
           This invention encompasses methods for treating a disease of the lung such as
   respiratory distress, asthma, cystic fibrosis, pulmonary fibrosis, chronic obstructive
15 pulmonary disease, bronchitis, or emphysema, by administering to the subject a
   therapeutically effective amount of a composition.
           This invention encompasses methods for treating a disease including cancer,
   bladder cancer, liver cancer, liver disease, hypercholesterolemia, an inflammatory
   disease, a metabolic disease, inflammation, arthritis, rheumatoid arthritis, encephalitis,
20 bone fracture, heart disease, viral disease, hepatitis, and influenza.
           Methods for making liposomes are given in, for example, G. Gregoriadis,
   Liposome Technology (CRC Press 1984), and M. J. Ostro, Liposomes (Marcel Dekker
   1987).
           The nucleic acid component, DILA2 amino acid compounds, and other
25 components may be mixed together first in a suitable medium such as a cell culture
   medium, after which one or more lipids or compounds may be added to the mixture.
   Alternatively, the DILA2 amino acid compounds can be mixed together first in a suitable
   medium such as a cell culture medium, after which the nucleic acid component can be
   added.
30         Within certain embodiments of the invention, a dsRNA is admixed with one or
   more DILA2 amino acid compounds, or a combination of one or more DILA2 amino acid
   compounds and non-cationic lipids.
                                                   94

           The interfering RNA agent may also be complexed with, or conjugated to a
   DILA2 amino acid compound or polymeric lipid, and admixed with one or more non
   cationic lipids, or a combination of one or more non-cationic and cationic lipids.
           An interfering RNA agent and a DILA2 amino acid compound may be mixed
 5 together first, followed by the addition of one or more non-cationic lipids, or a
   combination of non-cationic and cationic lipids added in a suitable medium such as a cell
   culture medium. Alternatively, the DILA2 amino acid compounds and lipid components
   may be mixed first, followed by the addition of the RNA agent in a suitable medium.
           In some embodiments, this disclosure includes micellar dispersion compositions
10 containing a drug or active agent admixed or complexed with an DILA2 amino acid
   compounds and a dispersant to form a composition that provides intracellular delivery of
   the drug or active agent.
           In certain embodiments, a dispersion composition of this disclosure may contain
   one or more drugs or active agents, one or more DILA2 amino acid compounds, and one
15 or more dispersants. In some variations, a delivery composition may contain a drug or
   active agent, a dispersant, a DILA2 amino acid compound, and an optional polymeric
   lipid. The dispersion compositions of this disclosure can form stable particles which may
   incorporate the drug or active agent.
           In some aspects, a dispersion composition of this disclosure may contain stable
20 nucleic acid dispersion particles having diameters from about 5 nm to about 400 nm. In
   some embodiments, the particles may have a uniform diameter of from about 10 nm to
   about 300 nm. In some embodiments, the particles may have a uniform diameter of from
   about 50 nm to about 150 nm.
           A micellar dispersion can be used to formulate and improve the bioavailability of
25 a drug or active agent, including RNAi therapeutics. A micellar dispersion can provide
   dispersion droplets or nanoparticles having a hydrophobic oil-like core. The dispersion
   nanoparticles can be suspended in a continuous aqueous phase. A dispersion structure
   can avoid some disadvantages inherent in using a liposomal structure for delivery of
   active agents, and can provide advantages in delivery because of the lipophilic core.
30         This disclosure provides a range of micellar dispersion compositions containing
   DILA2 amino acid compounds or lipids and dispersants for drugs or medicaments, and
   for delivery and administration of RNA agents.
           Examples of dispersants include synthetic compounds including
   polyoxyglycerides such as polyglycolated capryl glycerides, ethoxy diglycol, pegylated
                                                 95

   fatty glycerides, diethylene glycol monoethyl ethers, and mixtures thereof. Examples of
   dispersants include LABRAFIL, LABRASOL, ARLATONE, TRANSCUTOL, and
   mixtures thereof. Examples of dispersants include synthetic compounds such as
   alkylphospho-N-methylethanolamines and alkoylsarcosines. Examples of dispersants
 5 include FOS-MEA and CRODASINIC.
            In some embodiments, a delivery composition of this disclosure may contain a
   drug or active agent, one or more oils, one or more DILA2 amino acid compounds, and
   emulsifier and stabilizer lipids. In some variations, a delivery composition may contain a
   drug or active agent, an oil, a lipid emulsifier, a DILA2 amino acid compound, a non
10 cationic lipid, and a polymeric lipid.
            The compositions of this disclosure can form stable particles which may
   incorporate a drug or active agent. In some aspects, compositions of this disclosure
   contain stable drug or active agent emulsion particles having diameters from about 5 nm
   to about 400 nm. In some embodiments, the particles may have a uniform diameter of
15 from about 10 nm to about 300 nm. In some embodiments, the particles may have a
   uniform diameter of from about 50 nm to about 150 nm.
            In some embodiments, a drug or active agent may be admixed or complexed with
   an oil, an emulsifier, a DILA2 amino acid compound, and a polymeric stabilizing lipid, to
   form a composition that enhances intracellular delivery of the drug or active agent.
20          An oil-in-water emulsion can be used to formulate and improve the bioavailability
   of a drug or active agent, including RNAi therapeutics.
            An oil-in-water emulsion can provide emulsion droplets or nanoparticles having a
   DILA2 amino acid compound or lipid layer surrounding a hydrophobic oil core. The
   emulsion droplets or nanoparticles can be suspended in a continuous aqueous phase. An
25 emulsion structure can avoid some disadvantages inherent in using a liposomal structure
   for delivery of active agents, and can provide advantages in delivery because of the
   lipophilic core.
            A range of novel emulsion compositions are provided in this disclosure including
   novel compositions and uses of oils, emulsifiers, DILA2 amino acid compounds and lipid
30 components with interfering-RNA agents.
            Examples of oils include synthetic oils, fatty acid esters of propylene glycols,
   ethers of ethylene glycols, glyceryl oils, cholesteryl oils, vegetable oils, nut oils, essential
   oils, mineral oil, lipid-soluble compounds such as tocopherols and Vitamin E, and
   mixtures thereof. Examples of oils include synthetic oils such as CAPRYOL 90
                                                  96

   (propylene glycol monoester), CAPRYOL PGMC (propylene glycol monoester),
   LABRAFAC PC (propylene glycol monoester), LABRAFAC PG (propylene glycol
   diester), LAUROGLYCOL 90 (propylene glycol monoester), LAUROGLYCOL FCC
   (propylene glycol monoester), PLUROL OLEIQUE CC 497 (propylene glycol
 5 monoester), LABRAFAC LIPOPHILE WL 1349 (triglyceride), PECEOL (glyceryl
   monoester), MAISINE 35-1 (glyceryl monoester), and mixtures thereof.
   Compositions and methods for RNA therapeutics
            This invention provides compositions and methods for modulating gene
   expression using regulatory RNA such as by RNA interference. A composition of this
10 invention can deliver a ribonucleic acid agent to a cell which can produce the response of
   RNAi. Examples of nucleic acid agents useful for this invention include double-stranded
   nucleic acids, modified or degradation-resistant nucleic acids, RNA, siRNA, siRNA,
   shRNA, miRNA, piRNA, RNA antagonists, single-stranded nucleic acids, DNA-RNA
   chimeras, antisense nucleic acids, and ribozymes. As used herein, the terms siRNA,
15 siRNA, and shRNA include precursors of siRNA, siRNA, and shRNA, respectively. For
   example, the term siRNA includes an RNA or double-stranded RNA that is suitable as a
   substrate of dicer enzyme.
            Ribonucleic acid agents useful for this invention may be targeted to various genes.
   Examples of human genes suitable as targets include TNF, FLT1, the VEGF family, the
20 ERBB family, the PDGFR family, BCR-ABL, and the MAPK family, among others.
   Examples of human genes suitable as targets and nucleic acid sequences thereto include
   those disclosed in PCT/US08/55333, PCT/US08/55339, PCT/US08/55340,
   PCT/US08/55341, PCT/US08/55350, PCT/US08/55353, PCT/US08/55356,
   PCT/US08/55357, PCT/US08/55360, PCT/US08/55362, PCT/US08/55365,
25 PCT/US08/55366, PCT/US08/55369, PCT/US08/55370, PCT/US08/55371,
   PCT/US08/55372, PCT/US08/55373, PCT/US08/55374, PCT/US08/55375,
   PCT/US08/55376, PCT/US08/55377, PCT/US08/55378, PCT/US08/55380,
   PCT/US08/55381, PCT/US08/55382, PCT/US08/55383, PCT/US08/55385,
   PCT/US08/55386, PCT/US08/55505, PCT/US08/555 11, PCT/US08/55515,
30 PCT/US08/55516, PCT/US08/55519, PCT/US08/55524, PCT/US08/55526,
   PCT/US08/55527, PCT/US08/55532, PCT/US08/55533, PCT/US08/55542,
   PCT/US08/55548, PCT/US08/55550, PCT/US08/55551, PCT/US08/55554,
   PCT/US08/55556, PCT/US08/55560, PCT/US08/55563, PCT/US08/55597,
   PCT/US08/55599, PCT/US08/55601, PCT/US08/55603, PCT/US08/55604,
                                                 97

   PCT/US08/55606, PCT/US08/55608, PCT/US08/556 11, PCT/US08/55612,
   PCT/US08/55615, PCT/US08/55618, PCT/US08/55622, PCT/US08/55625,
   PCT/US08/55627, PCT/US08/55631, PCT/US08/55635, PCT/US08/55644,
   PCT/US08/55649, PCT/US08/55651, PCT/US08/55662, PCT/US08/55672,
 5 PCT/US08/55676, PCT/US08/55678, PCT/US08/55695, PCT/US08/55697,
   PCT/US08/55698, PCT/US08/55701, PCT/US08/55704, PCT/US08/55708,
   PCT/US08/55709, and PCT/US08/55711.
            An RNA of this disclosure to be delivered may have a sequence that is
   complementary to a region of a viral gene. For example, some compositions and methods
10 of this invention are useful to regulate expression of the viral genome of an influenza
   virus. In some embodiments, this invention provides compositions and methods for
   modulating expression and infectious activity of an influenza by RNA interference.
   Expression and/or activity of an influenza can be modulated by delivering to a cell, for
   example, a short interfering RNA molecule having a sequence that is complementary to a
15 region of a RNA polymerase subunit of an influenza. Examples of RNAs targeted to an
   influenza virus are given in U.S. Patent Publication No. 20070213293 Al.
            In some embodiments, this invention provides compositions and methods for
   inhibiting expression of a target transcript in a subject by administering to the subject a
   composition containing an effective amount of an RNAi-inducing compound such as a
20 short interfering oligonucleotide molecule, or a precursor thereof. RNAi uses small
   interfering RNAs (siRNAs) to target messenger RNA (mRNAs) and attenuate translation.
   A siRNA as used in this invention may be a precursor for dicer processing such as, for
   example, a long dsRNA processed into a siRNA. This invention provides methods of
   treating or preventing diseases or conditions associated with expression of a target
25 transcript or activity of a peptide or protein encoded by the target transcript.
            A therapeutic strategy based on RNAi can be used to treat a wide range of
   diseases by shutting down the growth or function of a virus or microorganism, as well as
   by shutting down the function of an endogenous gene product in the pathway of the
   disease.
30          In some embodiments, this invention provides novel compositions and methods
   for delivery of RNAi-inducing entities such as short interfering oligonucleotide
   molecules, and precursors thereof. In particular, this invention provides compositions
   containing an RNAi-inducing entity which is targeted to one or more transcripts of a cell,
   tissue, and/or organ of a subject.
                                                   98

           A siRNA can be two RNA strands having a region of complementarity about
   19 nucleotides in length. A siRNA optionally includes one or two single-stranded
   overhangs or loops.
           A shRNA can be a single RNA strand having a region of self-complementarity.
 5 The single RNA strand may form a hairpin structure with a stem and loop and, optionally,
   one or more unpaired portions at the 5' and/or 3' portion of the RNA.
           The active therapeutic agent can be a chemically-modified RNA with improved
   resistance to nuclease degradation in vivo, and/or improved cellular uptake, which retains
   RNAi activity.
10         A siRNA agent of this invention may have a sequence that is complementary to a
   region of a target gene. A siRNA of this invention may have 29-50 base pairs, for
   example, a dsRNA having a sequence that is complementary to a region of a target gene.
   Alternately, the double-stranded nucleic acid can be a dsDNA.
           In certain embodiments, the active agent can be a short interfering nucleic acid
15 (siRNA), short interfering RNA (siRNA), double-stranded RNA (dsRNA), micro-RNA,
   or short hairpin RNA (shRNA) that can modulate expression of a gene product.
           Comparable methods and compositions are provided that target expression of one
   or more different genes associated with a particular disease condition in a subject,
   including any of a large number of genes whose expression is known to be aberrantly
20 increased as a causal or contributing factor associated with the selected disease condition.
           The RNAi-inducing compound of this invention can be administered in
   conjunction with other known treatments for a disease condition.
           In some embodiments, this invention features compositions containing a small
   nucleic acid molecule, such as short interfering nucleic acid, a short interfering RNA, a
25 double-stranded RNA, a micro-RNA, or a short hairpin RNA, admixed or complexed
   with, or conjugated to, a delivery-enhancing compound.
           As used herein, the terms "regulatory RNA," "short interfering nucleic acid,"
   "siRNA," "short interfering RNA," "short interfering oligonucleotide molecule," and
   "chemically-modified short interfering nucleic acid molecule," refer to any nucleic acid
30 molecule capable of regulating, inhibiting or down regulating gene expression or, for
   example, viral replication, by mediating RNA interference (RNAi) or gene silencing in a
   sequence-specific manner. Regulatory RNA includes single-stranded RNA antagonists.
           In some embodiments, the siRNA is a double-stranded polynucleotide molecule
   comprising self-complementary sense and antisense regions, wherein the antisense region
                                                 99

   comprises a nucleotide sequence that is complementary to a nucleotide sequence in a
   target ribonucleic acid molecule for down regulating expression, or a portion thereof, and
   the sense region comprises a nucleotide sequence corresponding to (i.e., which is
   substantially identical in sequence to) the target ribonucleic acid sequence or portion
 5 thereof.
            As used herein, "siRNA" means a small interfering ribonucleic acid that is a
   relatively short-length double-stranded nucleic acid, or optionally a longer precursor
   thereof. The length of useful siRNAs within this invention will in some embodiments be
   preferred at a length of approximately 20 to 50 bp. However, there is no particular
10 limitation to the length of useful siRNAs, including siRNAs. For example, siRNAs can
   initially be presented to cells in a precursor form that is substantially different than a final
   or processed form of the siRNA that will exist and exert gene silencing activity upon
   delivery, or after delivery, to the target cell. Precursor forms of siRNAs may, for
   example, include precursor sequence elements that are processed, degraded, altered, or
15 cleaved at or after the time of delivery to yield a siRNA that is active within the cell to
   mediate gene silencing. In some embodiments, useful siRNAs will have a precursor
   length, for example, of approximately 100-200 base pairs, or 50-100 base pairs, or less
   than about 50 base pairs, which will yield an active, processed siRNA within the target
   cell. In other embodiments, a useful siRNA or siRNA precursor will be approximately
20 10 to 49 bp, or 15 to 35 bp, or about 21 to 30 bp in length.
            In certain embodiments of this invention, polynucleotide delivery-enhancing
   polypeptides may be used to facilitate delivery of nucleic acid molecules, including large
   nucleic acid precursors of siRNAs. For example, the methods and compositions herein
   may be employed for enhancing delivery of larger nucleic acids that represent
25 "precursors" to desired siRNAs, wherein the precursor amino acids may be cleaved or
   otherwise processed before, during or after delivery to a target cell to form an active
   siRNA for modulating gene expression within the target cell.
            For example, a dsRNA precursor polynucleotide may be selected as a circular,
   single-stranded polynucleotide, having two or more loop structures and a stem comprising
30 self-complementary sense and antisense regions, wherein the antisense region comprises
   a nucleotide sequence that is complementary to a nucleotide sequence in a target nucleic
   acid molecule or a portion thereof, and the sense region having nucleotide sequence
   corresponding to the target nucleic acid sequence or a portion thereof, and wherein the
                                                   100

   circular polynucleotide can be processed either in vivo or in vitro to generate an active
   dsRNA molecule capable of inducing RNAi.
           siRNA molecules of this invention, particularly non-precursor forms, can be less
   than 30 base pairs, or about 17-19 bp, or 19-21 bp, or 21-23 bp.
 5         siRNAs can mediate selective gene silencing in the mammalian system. Hairpin
   RNAs, with a short loop and 19 to 27 base pairs in the stem, also selectively silence
   expression of genes that are homologous to the sequence in the double-stranded stem.
   Mammalian cells can convert short hairpin RNA into siRNA to mediate selective gene
   silencing.
10         RISC mediates cleavage of single stranded RNA having sequence complementary
   to the antisense strand of the siRNA duplex. Cleavage of the target RNA takes place
   within the region complementary to the antisense strand of the siRNA duplex. siRNA
   duplexes of 21 nucleotides are typically most active when containing two-nucleotide 3'
   overhangs.
15         Replacing the 3'-overhanging segments of a 21-mer siRNA duplex having
   2-nucleotide Y overhangs with deoxyribonucleotides may not have an adverse effect on
   RNAi activity. Replacing up to 4 nucleotides on each end of the siRNA with
   deoxyribonucleotides can be tolerated.
           Alternatively, siRNAs can be delivered as single or multiple transcription
20 products expressed by a polynucleotide vector encoding the single or multiple siRNAs
   and directing their expression within target cells. In these embodiments the double
   stranded portion of a final transcription product of the siRNAs to be expressed within the
   target cell can be, for example, 15 to 49 bp, 15 to 35 bp, or about 21 to 30 bp long.
           In some embodiments of this invention, the double-stranded region of siRNAs in
25 which two strands are paired may contain bulge or mismatched portions, or both.
   Double-stranded portions of siRNAs in which two strands are paired are not limited to
   completely paired nucleotide segments, and may contain nonpairing portions due to, for
   example, mismatch (the corresponding nucleotides not being complementary), bulge
   (lacking in the corresponding complementary nucleotide on one strand), or overhang.
30 Nonpairing portions can be contained to the extent that they do not interfere with siRNA
   formation. In some embodiments, a "bulge" may comprise 1 to 2 nonpairing nucleotides,
   and the double-stranded region of siRNAs in which two strands pair up may contain from
   about 1 to 7, or about 1 to 5 bulges. In addition, "mismatch" portions contained in the
   double-stranded region of siRNAs may be present in numbers from about 1 to 7, or about
                                                 101

   I to 5. Most often in the case of mismatches, one of the nucleotides is guanine, and the
   other is uracil. Such mismatching may be attributable, for example, to a mutation from C
   to T, G to A, or mixtures thereof, in a corresponding DNA coding for sense RNA, but
   other causes are also contemplated.
 5         The terminal structure of siRNAs of this invention may be either blunt or cohesive
   (overhanging) as long as the siRNA retains its activity to silence expression of target
   genes. The cohesive (overhanging) end structure is not limited to the 3' overhang, but
   includes the 5' overhanging structure as long as it retains activity for inducing gene
   silencing. In addition, the number of overhanging nucleotides is not limited to 2 or 3
10 nucleotides, but can be any number of nucleotides as long as it retains activity for
   inducing gene silencing. For example, overhangs may comprise from 1 to about 8
   nucleotides, or from 2 to 4 nucleotides.
           The length of siRNAs having overhang end structure may be expressed in terms
   of the paired duplex portion and any overhanging portion at each end. For example, a
15 25/27-mer siRNA duplex with a 2-bp 3' antisense overhang has a 25-mer sense strand
   and a 27-mer antisense strand, where the paired portion has a length of 25 bp.
           Any overhang sequence may have low specificity to a target gene, and may not be
   complementary (antisense) or identical (sense) to the target gene sequence. As long as
   the siRNA retains activity for gene silencing, it may contain in the overhang portion a low
20 molecular weight structure, for example, a natural RNA molecule such as a tRNA, an
   rRNA, a viral RNA, or an artificial RNA molecule.
           The terminal structure of the siRNAs may have a stem-loop structure in which
   ends of one side of the double-stranded nucleic acid are connected by a linker nucleic
   acid, for example, a linker RNA. The length of the double-stranded region (stem portion)
25 can be, for example, 15 to 49 bp, or 15 to 35 bp, or about 21 to 30 bp long. Alternatively,
   the length of the double-stranded region that is a final transcription product of siRNAs to
   be expressed in a target cell may be, for example, approximately 15 to 49 bp, or 15 to 35
   bp, or about 21 to 30 bp long.
           The siRNA can contain a single stranded polynucleotide having a nucleotide
30 sequence complementary to a nucleotide sequence in a target nucleic acid molecule, or a
   portion thereof, wherein the single stranded polynucleotide can contain a terminal
   phosphate group, such as a 5'-phosphate (see e.g. Martinez, et al., Cell. 110:563-574,
   2002, and Schwarz, et al., Molecular Cell 10:537-568, 2002, or 5',3'-diphosphate.
                                                 102

            As used herein, the term siRNA is not limited to molecules containing only
   naturally-occurring RNA or DNA, but also encompasses chemically-modified nucleotides
   and non-nucleotides. In some embodiments, the short interfering nucleic acid molecules
   of the invention lack 2T-hydroxy (2'-OH) containing nucleotides. In some embodiments,
 5 short interfering nucleic acids do not require the presence of nucleotides having a 2'
   hydroxy group for mediating RNAi and as such, short interfering nucleic acid molecules
   of this invention optionally do not include any ribonucleotides (e.g., nucleotides having a
   2'-OH group). siRNA molecules that do not require the presence of ribonucleotides
   within the siRNA molecule to support RNAi can, however, have an attached linker or
10 linkers or other attached or associated groups, moieties, or chains containing one or more
   nucleotides with 2'-OH groups. siRNA molecules can comprise ribonucleotides in at
   least about 5, 10, 20, 30, 40, or 50% of the nucleotide positions.
            As used herein, the term siRNA encompasses nucleic acid molecules that are
   capable of mediating sequence specific RNAi such as, for example, short interfering RNA
15 (siRNA) molecules, double-stranded RNA (dsRNA) molecules, micro-RNA molecules,
   short hairpin RNA (shRNA) molecules, short interfering oligonucleotide molecules, short
   interfering nucleic acid molecules, short interfering modified oligonucleotide molecules,
   chemically-modified siRNA molecules, and post-transcriptional gene silencing RNA
   (ptgsRNA) molecules, among others.
20          In some embodiments, siRNA molecules comprise separate sense and antisense
   sequences or regions, wherein the sense and antisense regions are covalently linked by
   nucleotide or non-nucleotide linker molecules, or are non-covalently linked by ionic
   interactions, hydrogen bonding, van der waals interactions, hydrophobic interactions,
   and/or stacking interactions.
25          "Antisense RNA" is an RNA strand having a sequence complementary to a target
   gene mRNA, that can induce RNAi by binding to the target gene mRNA.
            "Sense RNA" is an RNA strand having a sequence complementary to an antisense
   RNA, and anneals to its complementary antisense RNA to form a siRNA.
            As used herein, the term "RNAi construct" or "RNAi precursor" refers to an
30 RNAi-inducing compound such as small interfering RNAs (siRNAs), hairpin RNAs, and
   other RNA species which can be cleaved in vivo to form a siRNA. RNAi precursors
   herein also include expression vectors (also referred to as RNAi expression vectors)
   capable of giving rise to transcripts which form dsRNAs or hairpin RNAs in cells, and/or
   transcripts which can produce siRNAs in vivo.
                                                 103

           A siHybrid molecule is a double-stranded nucleic acid that has a similar function
   to siRNA. Instead of a double-stranded RNA molecule, a siHybrid is comprised of an
   RNA strand and a DNA strand. Preferably, the RNA strand is the antisense strand which
   binds to a target mRNA. The siHybrid created by the hybridization of the DNA and RNA
 5 strands have a hybridized complementary portion and preferably at least one
   3'overhanging end.
            siRNAs for use within the invention can be assembled from two separate
   oligonucleotides, where one strand is the sense strand and the other is the antisense
   strand, wherein the antisense and sense strands are self-complementary (i.e., each strand
10 comprises nucleotide sequence that is complementary to nucleotide sequence in the other
   strand; such as where the antisense strand and sense strand form a duplex or double
   stranded structure, for example wherein the double stranded region is about 19 base
   pairs). The antisense strand may comprise a nucleotide sequence that is complementary
   to a nucleotide sequence in a target nucleic acid molecule or a portion thereof, and the
15 sense strand may comprise a nucleotide sequence corresponding to the target nucleic acid
   sequence or a portion thereof. Alternatively, the siRNA can be assembled from a single
   oligonucleotide, where the self-complementary sense and antisense regions of the siRNA
   are linked by means of a nucleic acid-based or non-nucleic acid-based linker(s).
           In some embodiments, siRNAs for intracellular delivery can be a polynucleotide
20 with a duplex, asymmetric duplex, hairpin or asymmetric hairpin secondary structure,
   having self-complementary sense and antisense regions, wherein the antisense region
   comprises a nucleotide sequence that is complementary to a nucleotide sequence in a
   separate target nucleic acid molecule or a portion thereof, and the sense region comprises
   a nucleotide sequence corresponding to the target nucleic acid sequence or a portion
25 thereof.
           Examples of chemical modifications that can be made in an siRNA include
   phosphorothioate internucleotide linkages, 2'-deoxyribonucleotides, 2'-O-methyl
   ribonucleotides, 2'-deoxy-2'-fluoro ribonucleotides, "universal base" nucleotides,
   "acyclic" nucleotides, 5-C-methyl nucleotides, and terminal glyceryl and/or inverted
30 deoxy abasic residue incorporation.
           The antisense region of a siRNA molecule can include a phosphorothioate
   internucleotide linkage at the 3'-end of said antisense region. The antisense region can
   comprise about one to about five phosphorothioate internucleotide linkages at the 5'-end
   of said antisense region. The 3'-terminal nucleotide overhangs of a siRNA molecule can
                                                 104

   include ribonucleotides or deoxyribonucleotides that are chemically-modified at a nucleic
   acid sugar, base, or backbone. The 3'-terminal nucleotide overhangs can include one or
   more universal base ribonucleotides. The 3'-terminal nucleotide overhangs can comprise
   one or more acyclic nucleotides.
 5         For example, a chemically-modified siRNA can have 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, or more
   phosphorothioate internucleotide linkages in one strand, or can have 1 to 8 or more
   phosphorothioate internucleotide linkages in each strand. The phosphorothioate
   internucleotide linkages can be present in one or both oligonucleotide strands of the
   siRNA duplex, for example in the sense strand, the antisense strand, or both strands.
10         siRNA molecules can comprise one or more phosphorothioate internucleotide
   linkages at the 3'-end, the 5'-end, or both of the 3'- and 5'-ends of the sense strand, the
   antisense strand, or in both strands. For example, an exemplary siRNA molecule can
   include 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, or more consecutive phosphorothioate internucleotide linkages at the
   5'-end of the sense strand, the antisense strand, or both strands.
15         In certain embodiments, a siRNA molecule includes 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, or
   more pyrimidine phosphorothioate internucleotide linkages in the sense strand, the
   antisense strand, or in both strands.
           In some embodiments, a siRNA molecule includes 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, or
   more purine phosphorothioate internucleotide linkages in the sense strand, the antisense
20 strand, or in both strands.
           A siRNA molecule can include a circular nucleic acid molecule, wherein the
   siRNA is about 38 to about 70, for example, about 38, 40, 45, 50, 55, 60, 65, or 70
   nucleotides in length, having about 18 to about 23, for example, about 18, 19, 20, 21, 22,
   or 23 base pairs, wherein the circular oligonucleotide forms a dumbbell-shaped structure
25 having about 19 base pairs and 2 loops.
           A circular siRNA molecule can contain two loop motifs, wherein one or both loop
   portions of the siRNA molecule is biodegradable. For example, the loop portions of a
   circular siRNA molecule may be transformed in vivo to generate a double-stranded
   siRNA molecule with 3'-terminal overhangs, such as 3'-terminal nucleotide overhangs
30 comprising about 2 nucleotides.
           Modified nucleotides in a siRNA molecule can be in the antisense strand, the
   sense strand, or both. For example, modified nucleotides can have a Northern
   conformation (e.g., Northern pseudorotation cycle; see e.g., Saenger, Principlesof
   Nucleic Acid Structure, Springer-Verlag ed., 1984). Examples of nucleotides having a
                                                  105

   Northern configuration include locked nucleic acid (LNA) nucleotides (e.g., 2'-O, 4'-C
   methylene-(D-ribofuranosyl) nucleotides), 2'-methoxyethoxy (MOE) nucleotides, 2'
   methyl-thio-ethyl, 2'-deoxy-2'-fluoro nucleotides, 2'-deoxy-2'-chloro nucleotides, 2'-azido
   nucleotides, and 2'-O-methyl nucleotides.
 5          Chemically modified nucleotides can be resistant to nuclease degradation while at
   the same time maintaining the capacity to mediate RNAi.
            The sense strand of a double stranded siRNA molecule may have a terminal cap
   moiety such as an inverted deoxyabasic moiety, at the 3'-end, 5'-end, or both 3' and 5'
   ends of the sense strand.
10          Examples of conjugates include conjugates and ligands described in Vargeese, et
   al., U.S. Application Serial No. 10/427,160, filed April 30, 2003, incorporated by
   reference herein in its entirety, including the drawings.
            In some embodiments of this invention, the conjugate may be covalently attached
   to the chemically-modified siRNA molecule via a biodegradable linker. For example, the
15 conjugate molecule may be attached at the 3'-end of either the sense strand, the antisense
   strand, or both strands of the chemically-modified siRNA molecule.
            In certain embodiments, the conjugate molecule is attached at the 5'-end of either
   the sense strand, the antisense strand, or both strands of the chemically-modified siRNA
   molecule. In some embodiments, the conjugate molecule is attached both the 3'-end and
20 5'-end of either the sense strand, the antisense strand, or both strands of the chemically
   modified siRNA molecule, or any combination thereof.
            In some embodiments, a conjugate molecule comprises a molecule that facilitates
   delivery of a chemically-modified siRNA molecule into a biological system, such as a
   cell.
25          In some embodiments, a conjugate molecule attached to the chemically-modified
   siRNA molecule is a polyethylene glycol, human serum albumin, or a ligand for a cellular
   receptor that can mediate cellular uptake. Examples of specific conjugate molecules
   contemplated by the instant invention that can be attached to chemically-modified siRNA
   molecules are described in Vargeese, et al., U.S. Patent Publication Nos. 20030130186
30 and 20040110296.
            A siRNA may be contain a nucleotide, non-nucleotide, or mixed nucleotide/non
   nucleotide linker that joins the sense region of the siRNA to the antisense region of the
   siRNA. In some embodiments, a nucleotide linker can be 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, or 10
   nucleotides in length. In some embodiments, the nucleotide linker can be a nucleic acid
                                                  106

   aptamer. As used herein, the terms "aptamer" or "nucleic acid aptamer" encompass a
   nucleic acid molecule that binds specifically to a target molecule, wherein the nucleic
   acid molecule contains a sequence that is recognized by the target molecule in its natural
   setting. Alternately, an aptamer can be a nucleic acid molecule that binds to a target
 5 molecule where the target molecule does not naturally bind to a nucleic acid.
            For example, the aptamer can be used to bind to a ligand-binding domain of a
   protein, thereby preventing interaction of the naturally occurring ligand with the protein.
   See, for example, Gold, et al., Annu. Rev. Biochem. 64:763, 1995; Brody and Gold, J.
   Biotechnol. 74:5, 2000; Sun, Curr.Opin. Mol. Ther. 2:100, 2000; Kusser, J. Biotechnol.
10 74:27, 2000; Hermann and Patel, Science 287:820, 2000; and Jayasena, Clinical
   Chemistry 45:1628, 1999.
            A non-nucleotide linker can be an abasic nucleotide, polyether, polyamine,
   polyamide, peptide, carbohydrate, lipid, polyhydrocarbon, or other polymeric compounds
   (e.g., polyethylene glycols such as those having between 2 and 100 ethylene glycol units).
15 Specific examples include those described by Seela and Kaiser, Nucleic Acids Res.
   18:6353, 1990, and Nucleic Acids Res. 15:3113, 1987; Cload and Schepartz, J. Am.
   Chem. Soc. 113:6324, 1991; Richardson and Schepartz, J. Am. Chem. Soc. 113:5109,
   1991; Ma, et al., Nucleic Acids Res. 21:2585, 1993, and Biochemistry 32:1751, 1993;
   Durand, et al., Nucleic Acids Res. 18:6353, 1990; McCurdy, et al., Nucleosides &
20 Nucleotides 10:287, 1991; Jaschke, et al., Tetrahedron Lett. 34:301-304, 1993; Ono, et
   al., Biochemistry 30:9914, 1991; Arnold, et al., International Publication
   No. WO 89/02439; Usman, et al., International Publication No. WO 95/06731; Dudycz,
   et al., International Publication No. WO 95/11910, and Ferentz and Verdine, J. Am.
   Chem. Soc. 113:4000, 1991.
25          A "non-nucleotide linker" refers to a group or compound that can be incorporated
   into a nucleic acid chain in the place of one or more nucleotide units, including either
   sugar and/or phosphate substitutions, and allows the remaining bases to exhibit their
   enzymatic activity. The group or compound can be abasic in that it does not contain a
   commonly recognized nucleotide base, such as adenosine, guanine, cytosine, uracil or
30 thymine, for example at the C1 position of the sugar.
            In some embodiments, modified siRNA molecule can have phosphate backbone
   modifications including one or more phosphorothioate, phosphorodithioate,
   methylphosphonate, phosphotriester, morpholino, amidate carbamate, carboxymethyl,
   acetamidate, polyamide, sulfonate, sulfonamide, sulfamate, formacetal, thioformacetal,
                                                 107

   and/or alkylsilyl substitutions. Examples of oligonucleotide backbone modifications are
   given in Hunziker and Leumann, Nucleic Acid Analogues: Synthesis and Properties,in
   Modern Synthetic Methods, VCH, pp. 331-417, 1995, and Mesmaeker, et al., Novel
   Backbone Replacementsfor Oligonucleotides,in CarbohydrateModifications in
 5 Antisense Research, ACS, pp. 24-39, 1994.
            siRNA molecules, which can be chemically-modified, can be synthesized by:
   (a) synthesis of two complementary strands of the siRNA molecule; and (b) annealing the
   two complementary strands together under conditions suitable to obtain a double-stranded
   siRNA molecule. In some embodiments, synthesis of the complementary portions of the
10 siRNA molecule is by solid phase oligonucleotide synthesis, or by solid phase tandem
   oligonucleotide synthesis.
            Oligonucleotides (e.g., certain modified oligonucleotides or portions of
   oligonucleotides lacking ribonucleotides) are synthesized using protocols known in the
   art, for example, as described in Caruthers, et al., Methods in Enzymology 211:3-19,
15 1992; Thompson, et al., International PCT Publication No. WO 99/54459; Wincott, et al.,
   Nucleic Acids Res. 23:2677-2684, 1995; Wincott, et al., Methods Mol. Bio. 74:59, 1997;
   Brennan, et al., Biotechnol Bioeng. 61:33-45, 1998; and Brennan, U.S. Patent
   No. 6,001,311. Synthesis of RNA, including certain siRNA molecules of the invention,
   follows general procedures as described, for example, in Usman, et al., J. Am. Chem. Soc.
20 109:7845, 1987; Scaringe, et al., Nucleic Acids Res. 18:5433, 1990; and Wincott, et al.,
   Nucleic Acids Res. 23:2677-2684, 1995; Wincott, et al., Methods Mol. Bio. 74:59, 1997.
            An "asymmetric hairpin" as used herein is a linear siRNA molecule comprising an
   antisense region, a loop portion that can comprise nucleotides or non-nucleotides, and a
   sense region that comprises fewer nucleotides than the antisense region to the extent that
25 the sense region has enough complementary nucleotides to base pair with the antisense
   region and form a duplex with loop.
            An "asymmetric duplex" as used herein is a siRNA molecule having two separate
   strands comprising a sense region and an antisense region, wherein the sense region
   comprises fewer nucleotides than the antisense region to the extent that the sense region
30 has enough complementary nucleotides to base pair with the antisense region and form a
   duplex.
            To "modulate gene expression" as used herein is to upregulate or downregulate
   expression of a target gene, which can include upregulation or downregulation of mRNA
                                                 108

   levels present in a cell, or of mRNA translation, or of synthesis of protein or protein
   subunits, encoded by the target gene.
           The terms "inhibit," "down-regulate," or "reduce expression," as used herein mean
   that the expression of the gene, or level of RNA molecules or equivalent RNA molecules
 5 encoding one or more proteins or protein subunits, or level or activity of one or more
   proteins or protein subunits encoded by a target gene, is reduced below that observed in
   the absence of the nucleic acid molecules (e.g., siRNA) of the invention.
            "Gene silencing" as used herein refers to partial or complete inhibition of gene
   expression in a cell and may also be referred to as "gene knockdown." The extent of gene
10 silencing may be determined by methods known in the art, some of which are
   summarized in International Publication No. WO 99/32619.
           As used herein, the terms "ribonucleic acid" and "RNA" refer to a molecule
   containing at least one ribonucleotide residue. A ribonucleotide is a nucleotide with a
   hydroxyl group at the 2' position of a beta-D-ribo-furanose moiety. These terms include
15 double-stranded RNA, single-stranded RNA, isolated RNA such as partially purified
   RNA, essentially pure RNA, synthetic RNA, recombinantly produced RNA, as well as
   modified and altered RNA that differs from naturally occurring RNA by the addition,
   deletion, substitution, modification, and/or alteration of one or more nucleotides.
   Alterations of an RNA can include addition of non-nucleotide material, such as to the
20 end(s) of a siRNA or internally, for example at one or more nucleotides of an RNA.
           Nucleotides in an RNA molecule include non-standard nucleotides, such as non
   naturally occurring nucleotides or chemically synthesized nucleotides or
   deoxynucleotides. These altered RNAs can be referred to as analogs.
           By "highly conserved sequence region" is meant, a nucleotide sequence of one or
25 more regions in a target gene does not vary significantly from one generation to the other
   or from one biological system to the other.
           By "sense region" is meant a nucleotide sequence of a siRNA molecule having
   complementarity to an antisense region of the siRNA molecule. In addition, the sense
   region of a siRNA molecule can comprise a nucleic acid sequence having homology with
30 a target nucleic acid sequence.
           By "antisense region" is meant a nucleotide sequence of a siRNA molecule having
   complementarity to a target nucleic acid sequence. In addition, the antisense region of a
   siRNA molecule can include a nucleic acid sequence having complementarity to a sense
   region of the siRNA molecule.
                                                 109

           By "target nucleic acid" is meant any nucleic acid sequence whose expression or
   activity is to be modulated. A target nucleic acid can be DNA or RNA.
           By "complementarity" is meant that a nucleic acid can form hydrogen bond(s)
   with another nucleic acid sequence either by traditional Watson-Crick or by other non
 5 traditional modes of binding.
           The term "biodegradable linker" as used herein, refers to a nucleic acid or non
   nucleic acid linker molecule that is designed as a biodegradable linker to connect one
   molecule to another molecule, for example, a biologically active molecule to a siRNA
   molecule or the sense and antisense strands of a siRNA molecule. The biodegradable
10 linker is designed such that its stability can be modulated for a particular purpose, such as
   delivery to a particular tissue or cell type. The stability of a nucleic acid-based
   biodegradable linker molecule can be variously modulated, for example, by combinations
   of ribonucleotides, deoxyribonucleotides, and chemically-modified nucleotides, such as
   2'-O-methyl, 2'-fluoro, 2'-amino, 2'-O-amino, 2'-C-allyl, 2'-O-allyl, and other 2'-modified
15 or base modified nucleotides. The biodegradable nucleic acid linker molecule can be a
   dimer, trimer, tetramer or longer nucleic acid molecule, for example, an oligonucleotide
   of about 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, or 20 nucleotides in
   length, or can comprise a single nucleotide with a phosphorus-based linkage, for example,
   a phosphoramidate or phosphodiester linkage. The biodegradable nucleic acid linker
20 molecule can also comprise nucleic acid backbone, nucleic acid sugar, or nucleic acid
   base modifications.
           In connection with 2'-modified nucleotides as described herein, by "amino" is
   meant 2'-NH 2 or 2'-O-NH 2 , which can be modified or unmodified. Such modified groups
   are described, for example, in Eckstein, et al., U.S. Patent No. 5,672,695 and Matulic
25 Adamic, et al., U.S. Patent. No. 6,248,878.
           Supplemental or complementary methods for delivery of nucleic acid molecules
   for use within then invention are described, for example, in Akhtar et al., Trends Cell Bio.
   2:139, 1992; "Delivery Strategies for Antisense Oligonucleotide Therapeutics," ed.
   Akhtar, 1995, Maurer et al., Mol. Membr. Biol. 16:129-140, 1999; Hofland and Huang,
30 Handb. Exp. Pharmacol.137:165-192, 1999; and Lee et al., ACS Symp. Ser. 752:184
   192, 2000. Sullivan, et al., International PCT Publication No. WO 94/02595, further
   describes general methods for delivery of enzymatic nucleic acid molecules.
                                                    110

           Nucleic acid molecules can be administered within formulations that include one
   or more components, such as a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier, diluent, excipient,
   adjuvant, emulsifier, buffer, stabilizer, or preservative.
           As used herein, the term "carrier" means a pharmaceutically acceptable solid or
 5 liquid diluent, solvent, filler, or encapsulating material. Examples of carriers include
   saline, biological and pharmaceutical buffer systems, and biologically acceptable media.
   A water-containing liquid carrier can contain pharmaceutically acceptable additives such
   as acidifying agents, alkalizing agents, antimicrobial preservatives, antioxidants,
   buffering agents, chelating agents, complexing agents, solubilizing agents, humectants,
10 solvents, suspending and/or viscosity-increasing agents, tonicity agents, wetting agents or
   other biocompatible materials. Examples of ingredients of the above categories can be
   found in the U.S. PharmacopeiaNationalFormulary, 1990, pp. 1857-1859, as well as in
   Raymond C. Rowe, et al., Handbook of PharmaceuticalExcipients , 5th ed., 2006, and
   "Remington: The Science and Practice of Pharmacy," 21st ed., 2006, editor David B.
15 Troy.
           Examples of preservatives include phenol, methyl paraben, paraben, m-cresol,
   thiomersal, benzylalkonium chloride, and mixtures thereof.
           Examples of surfactants include oleic acid, sorbitan trioleate, polysorbates,
   lecithin, phosphotidylcholines, various long chain diglycerides and phospholipids, and
20 mixtures thereof.
           Examples of phospholipids include phosphatidylcholine, lecithin,
   phosphatidylglycerol, phosphatidylinositol, phosphatidylserine, and
   phosphatidylethanolamine, and mixtures thereof.
           Examples of dispersants include ethylenediaminetetraacetic acid.
25         Examples of gases include nitrogen, helium, chlorofluorocarbons (CFCs),
   hydrofluorocarbons (HFCs), carbon dioxide, air, and mixtures thereof.
           In certain embodiments, the siRNA and/or the polypeptide can be encapsulated in
   liposomes, or reside either internal or external to a liposome, or exist within liposome
   layers, or be administered by iontophoresis, or incorporated into other vehicles, such as
30 hydrogels, cyclodextrins, biodegradable nanocapsules, bioadhesive microspheres, or
   proteinaceous vectors. See, for example, O'Hare and Normand, PCT International
   Publication No. WO 00/53722. Alternatively, a nucleic acid composition can be locally
   delivered by direct injection or by use of an infusion pump. Direct injection of the
   nucleic acid molecules of the invention, whether subcutaneous, intramuscular, or
                                                   111

   intradermal, can take place using standard needle and syringe methodologies, or by
   needle-free technologies such as those described in Conry et al., Clin. CancerRes.
   5:2330-2337, 1999, and Barry et al., International PCT Publication No. WO 99/31262.
            The compositions of this invention can be effectively employed as pharmaceutical
 5 agents. Pharmaceutical agents prevent, modulate the occurrence or severity of, or treat
   (alleviate one or more symptom(s) to a detectable or measurable extent) of a disease state
   or other adverse condition in a patient.
            In some embodiments, this invention provides pharmaceutical compositions and
   methods featuring the presence or administration of one or more polynucleic acid(s),
10 typically one or more siRNAs, combined, complexed, or conjugated with a DILA2 amino
   acid compound or lipid, which may further be formulated with a pharmaceutically
   acceptable carrier, such as a diluent, stabilizer, or buffer.
            Typically, the siRNA will target a gene that is expressed at an elevated level as a
   causal or contributing factor associated with the subject disease state or adverse
15 condition. In this context, the siRNA will effectively downregulate expression of the
   gene to levels that prevent, alleviate, or reduce the severity or recurrence of one or more
   associated disease symptoms. Alternatively, for various distinct disease models where
   expression of the target gene is not necessarily elevated as a consequence or sequel of
   disease or other adverse condition, down regulation of the target gene will nonetheless
20 result in a therapeutic result by lowering gene expression (i.e., to reduce levels of a
   selected mRNA and/or protein product of the target gene). Alternatively, siRNAs of the
   invention may be targeted to lower expression of one gene, which can result in
   upregulation of a "downstream" gene whose expression is negatively regulated by a
   product or activity of the target gene.
25          This siRNAs of this disclosure may be administered in any form, for example
   transdermally or by local injection (e.g., local injection at sites of psoriatic plaques to
   treat psoriasis, or into the joints of patients afflicted with psoriatic arthritis or RA). In
   more detailed embodiments, the invention provides formulations and methods to
   administer therapeutically effective amounts of siRNAs directed against of a mRNA of
30 TNF-a, which effectively down-regulate the TNF-a RNA and thereby reduce or prevent
   one or more TNF-a-associated inflammatory condition(s). Comparable methods and
   compositions are provided that target expression of one or more different genes
   associated with a selected disease condition in animal subjects, including any of a large
                                                    112

   number of genes whose expression is known to be aberrantly increased as a causal or
   contributing factor associated with the selected disease condition.
            The compositions of the present invention may also be formulated and used as
   tablets, capsules or elixirs for oral administration, suppositories for rectal administration,
 5 sterile solutions, suspensions for injectable administration, and the other forms known in
   the art.
            A pharmacological composition or formulation refers to a composition or
   formulation in a form suitable for administration, for example, systemic administration,
   into a cell or patient, including for example a human. Suitable forms, in part, depend
10 upon the use or the route of entry, for example oral, transdermal, transepithelial, or by
   injection. Such forms should not prevent the composition or formulation from reaching a
   target cell (i.e., a cell to which the negatively charged nucleic acid is desirable for
   delivery). For example, pharmacological compositions injected into the blood stream
   should be soluble. Other factors are known in the art, and include considerations such as
15 toxicity.
            By "systemic administration" is meant in vivo systemic absorption or
   accumulation of drugs in the blood stream followed by distribution throughout the entire
   body. Administration routes which lead to systemic absorption include, without
   limitation: intravenous, subcutaneous, intraperitoneal, inhalation, oral, intrapulmonary
20 and intramuscular.
            Examples of agents suitable for formulation with the nucleic acid molecules of
   this invention include: P-glycoprotein inhibitors (such as Pluronic P85), which can
   enhance entry of drugs into the CNS (Jolliet-Riant and Tillement, Fundam. Clin.
   Pharmacol.13:16-26, 1999); biodegradable polymers, such as poly (DL-lactide
25 coglycolide) microspheres for sustained release delivery after intracerebral implantation
   (Emerich, D.F., et al., Cell Transplant8:47-58, 1999, Alkermes, Inc., Cambridge, Mass.);
   and loaded nanoparticles, such as those made of polybutylcyanoacrylate, which can
   deliver drugs across the blood brain barrier and can alter neuronal uptake mechanisms
   (Prog.NeuropsychopharmacolBiol. Psychiatry 23:941-949, 1999). Other examples of
30 delivery strategies for the nucleic acid molecules of the instant invention include material
   described in Boado, et al., J. Pharm. Sci. 87:1308-1315, 1998; Tyler, et al., FEBS Lett.
   421:280-284, 1999; Pardridge, et al., PNAS USA. 92:5592-5596, 1995; Boado, Adv. Drug
   Delivery Rev. 15:73-107, 1995; Aldrian-Herrada et al., Nucleic Acids Res. 26:4910-4916,
   1998; and Tyler, et al., PNAS USA. 96:7053-7058, 1999.
                                                   113

           The present invention also includes compositions prepared for storage or
   administration, which include a pharmaceutically effective amount of the desired
   compounds in a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier or diluent. Acceptable carriers or
   diluents for therapeutic use are well known in the pharmaceutical art, and are described,
 5 for example, in Remington's PharmaceuticalSciences, Mack Publishing Co. (A.R.
   Gennaro ed. 1985). For example, preservatives, stabilizers, dyes and flavoring agents
   may be provided. These include sodium benzoate, sorbic acid and esters of p
   hydroxybenzoic acid. In addition, antioxidants and suspending agents may be used.
           A pharmaceutically effective dose is that dose required to prevent, inhibit the
10 occurrence of, treat, or alleviate a symptom to some extent of a disease state. An amount
   of from 0.01 mg/kg to 50 mg/kg body weight/day of active nucleic acid should be
   administered.
           Aqueous suspensions contain the active materials in admixture with excipients
   suitable for the manufacture of aqueous suspensions. Such excipients are suspending
15 agents, for example sodium carboxymethylcellulose, methylcellulose, hydropropyl
   methylcellulose, sodium alginate, polyvinylpyrrolidone, gum tragacanth and gum acacia;
   dispersing or wetting agents can be a naturally-occurring phosphatide, for example,
   lecithin, or condensation products of an alkylene oxide with fatty acids, for example
   polyoxyethylene stearate, or condensation products of ethylene oxide with long chain
20 aliphatic alcohols, for example heptadecaethyleneoxycetanol, or condensation products of
   ethylene oxide with partial esters derived from fatty acids and a hexitol such as
   polyoxyethylene sorbitol monooleate, or condensation products of ethylene oxide with
   partial esters derived from fatty acids and hexitol anhydrides, for example polyethylene
   sorbitan monooleate. The aqueous suspensions can also contain one or more
25 preservatives, for example ethyl, or n-propyl p-hydroxybenzoate, one or more coloring
   agents, one or more flavoring agents, and one or more sweetening agents, such as sucrose
   or saccharin.
           Oily suspensions can be formulated by suspending the active ingredients in a
   vegetable oil, for example arachis oil, olive oil, sesame oil or coconut oil, or in a mineral
30 oil such as liquid paraffin. The oily suspensions can contain a thickening agent, for
   example beeswax, hard paraffin or cetyl alcohol. Sweetening agents and flavoring agents
   can be added to provide palatable oral preparations. These compositions can be preserved
   by the addition of an anti-oxidant such as ascorbic acid.
                                                 114

           Dispersible powders and granules suitable for preparation of an aqueous
   suspension by the addition of water provide the active ingredient in admixture with a
   dispersing or wetting agent, suspending agent and one or more preservatives. Other
   excipients, for example sweetening, flavoring and coloring agents, can also be present.
 5         Pharmaceutical compositions of the invention can also be in the form of oil-in
   water emulsions. The oily phase can be a vegetable oil or a mineral oil or mixtures of
   these. Suitable emulsifying agents can be naturally-occurring gums, for example gum
   acacia or gum tragacanth, naturally-occurring phosphatides, for example soy bean,
   lecithin, and esters or partial esters derived from fatty acids and hexitol, anhydrides, for
10 example sorbitan monooleate, and condensation products of the said partial esters with
   ethylene oxide, for example polyoxyethylene sorbitan monooleate. The emulsions can
   also contain sweetening and flavoring agents.
           The pharmaceutical compositions can be in the form of a sterile injectable
   aqueous or oleaginous suspension. This suspension can be formulated according to the
15 known art using those suitable dispersing or wetting agents and suspending agents that
   have been mentioned above. The sterile injectable preparation can also be a sterile
   injectable solution or suspension in a non-toxic parentally acceptable diluent or solvent,
   for example as a solution in 1,3-butanediol. Among the acceptable vehicles and solvents
   that can be employed are water, Ringer's solution and isotonic sodium chloride solution.
20 In addition, sterile, fixed oils may be employed as a solvent or suspending medium. For
   this purpose, any bland fixed oil can be employed including synthetic mono-or
   diglycerides. In addition, fatty acids such as oleic acid find use in the preparation of
   injectables.
           The siRNAs can also be administered in the form of suppositories, for example,
25 for rectal administration of the drug. These compositions can be prepared by mixing the
   drug with a suitable non-irritating excipient that is solid at ordinary temperatures but
   liquid at the rectal temperature and will therefore melt in the rectum to release the drug.
   Such materials include cocoa butter and polyethylene glycols.
           The siRNAs can be modified extensively to enhance stability by modification
30 with nuclease resistant groups, for example, 2'-amino, 2'-C-allyl, 2'-fluoro, 2'-O-methyl,
   2'-H. For a review see Usman and Cedergren, TIBS 17:34, 1992; Usman, et al., Nucleic
   Acids Symp. Ser. 31:163, 1994. siRNA constructs can be purified by gel electrophoresis
   using general methods or can be purified by high pressure liquid chromatography and re
   suspended in water.
                                                   115

            Chemically synthesizing nucleic acid molecules with modifications (base, sugar
   and/or phosphate) can prevent their degradation by serum ribonucleases, which can
   increase their potency. See for example, Eckstein, et al., International Publication
   No. WO 92/07065; Perrault et al., Nature 344:565, 1990; Pieken, et al., Science 253, 314,
 5 1991; Usman and Cedergren, Trends in Biochem. Sci. 17:334, 1992; Usman, et al.,
   International Publication No. WO 93/15187; and Rossi et al., International Publication
   No. WO 91/03162; Sproat, U.S. Patent No. 5,334,711; and Gold, et al., U.S. Patent
   No. 6,300,074. All of the above references describe various chemical modifications that
   can be made to the base, phosphate and/or sugar moieties of the nucleic acid molecules
10 described herein.
            There are several examples in the art describing sugar, base and phosphate
   modifications that can be introduced into nucleic acid molecules with significant
   enhancement in their nuclease stability and efficacy. For example, oligonucleotides are
   modified to enhance stability and/or enhance biological activity by modification with
15 nuclease resistant groups, for example, 2'-amino, 2'-C-allyl, 2'-fluoro, 2'-O-methyl, 2'-0
   allyl, 2'-H, nucleotide base modifications. For a review, see Usman and Cedergren, TIBS
   17:34, 1992; Usman, et al., Nucleic Acids Symp. Ser. 31:163, 1994; Burgin, et al.,
   Biochemistry 35:14090, 1996. Sugar modification of nucleic acid molecules have been
   extensively described in the art. See Eckstein et al., International Publication PCT
20 No. WO 92/07065; Perrault, et al. Nature 344:565-568, 1990; Pieken, et al. Science
   253:314-317, 1991; Usman and Cedergren, Trends in Biochem. Sci. 17:334-339, 1992;
   Usman et al. International Publication PCT No. WO 93/15187; Sproat, U.S. Patent
   No. 5,334,711 and Beigelman, et al., J. Biol. Chem. 270:25702, 1995; Beigelman, et al.,
   International PCT Publication No. WO 97/26270; Beigelman, et al., U.S. Patent
25 No. 5,716,824; Usman, et al., U.S. Patent No. 5,627,053; Woolf, et al., International PCT
   Publication No. WO 98/13526; Thompson, et al., Karpeisky, et al., Tetrahedron Lett.
   39:1131, 1998; Earnshaw and Gait, Biopolymers (NucleicAcid Sciences) 48:39-55, 1998;
   Verma and Eckstein, Annu. Rev. Biochem. 67:99-134, 1998; and Burlina, et al., Bioorg.
   Med. Chem. 5:1999-2010, 1997. Such publications describe general methods and
30 strategies to determine the location of incorporation of sugar, base and/or phosphate
   modifications and the like into nucleic acid molecules without modulating catalysis. In
   view of such teachings, similar modifications can be used as described herein to modify
   the siRNA nucleic acid molecules of the instant invention so long as the ability of siRNA
   to promote RNAi in cells is not significantly inhibited.
                                                 116

            While chemical modification of oligonucleotide internucleotide linkages with
   phosphorothioate, phosphorodithioate, and/or 5'-methylphosphonate linkages improves
   stability, excessive modifications can cause some toxicity or decreased activity.
   Therefore, when designing nucleic acid molecules, the amount of these internucleotide
 5 linkages should be minimized. The reduction in the concentration of these linkages
   should lower toxicity, resulting in increased efficacy and higher specificity of these
   molecules.
            In some embodiments, the invention features modified siRNA molecules, with
   phosphate backbone modifications comprising one or more phosphorothioate,
10 phosphorodithioate, methylphosphonate, phosphotriester, morpholino, amidate
   carbamate, carboxymethyl, acetamidate, polyamide, sulfonate, sulfonamide, sulfamate,
   formacetal, thioformacetal, and/or alkylsilyl, substitutions. For a review of
   oligonucleotide backbone modifications, see Hunziker and Leumann, Nucleic Acid
   Analogues: Synthesis and Properties,in Modern Synthetic Methods, VCH, 1995,
15 pp. 331-417, and Mesmaeker, et al., "Novel Backbone Replacements for
   Oligonucleotides, in Carbohydrate Modifications in Antisense Research," ACS, 1994,
   pp. 24-39.
            Methods for the delivery of nucleic acid molecules are described in Akhtar, et al.,
   Trends Cell Bio. 2:139, 1992; "Delivery Strategies for Antisense Oligonucleotide
20 Therapeutics," ed. Akhtar, 1995; Maurer, et al., Mol. Membr. Biol. 16:129-140, 1999;
   Hofland and Huang, Handb. Exp. Pharmacol.137:165-192, 1999; and Lee, et al., ACS
   Symp. Ser. 752:184-192, 2000. Beigelman, et al., U.S. Patent No. 6,395,713, and
   Sullivan et al., PCT WO 94/02595 further describe the general methods for delivery of
   nucleic acid molecules. These protocols can be utilized for the delivery of virtually any
25 nucleic acid molecule. Nucleic acid molecules can be administered to cells by a variety
   of methods known to those of skill in the art, including, but not restricted to,
   encapsulation internally or externally by liposomes, by iontophoresis, or by incorporation
   into other vehicles, such as biodegradable polymers, hydrogels, cyclodextrins (see e.g.
   Gonzalez, et al., Bioconjugate Chem. 10: 1068-1074, 1999; Wang, et al., International
30 PCT Publication Nos. WO 03/47518 and WO 03/46185), poly(lactic-co-glycolic)ac- id
   (PLGA) and PLCA microspheres (see e.g. U.S. Patent No. 6,447,796 and U.S. Patent
   Application Publication No. US 2002130430), biodegradable nanocapsules, and
   bioadhesive microspheres, or by proteinaceous vectors (O'Hare and Normand,
   International PCT Publication No. WO 00/53722). Alternatively, the nucleic acid/vehicle
                                                117

   combination is locally delivered by direct injection or by use of an infusion pump. Direct
   injection of the nucleic acid molecules of the invention, whether subcutaneous,
   intramuscular, or intradermal, can take place using standard needle and syringe
   methodologies, or by needle-free technologies such as those described in Conry, et
 5 al., Clin. CancerRes. 5:2330-2337, 1999, and Barry, et al., International PCT Publication
   No. WO 99/31262. The molecules of the instant invention can be used as pharmaceutical
   agents. Pharmaceutical agents prevent, modulate the occurrence, or treat (alleviate a
   symptom to some extent, preferably all of the symptoms) of a disease state in a subject.
           By "RNA" is meant a molecule comprising at least one ribonucleotide residue.
10 By "ribonucleotide" is meant a nucleotide with a hydroxyl group at the 2' position of a
   .beta.-D-ribo-furanose moiety. The terms include double-stranded RNA, single-stranded
   RNA, isolated RNA such as partially purified RNA, essentially pure RNA, synthetic
   RNA, recombinantly produced RNA, as well as altered RNA that differs from naturally
   occurring RNA by the addition, deletion, substitution and/or alteration of one or more
15 nucleotides. Such alterations can include addition of non-nucleotide material, such as to
   the end(s) of the siRNA or internally, for example, at one or more nucleotides of the
   RNA. Nucleotides in the RNA molecules of the instant invention can also comprise non
   standard nucleotides, such as non-naturally occurring nucleotides or chemically
   synthesized nucleotides or deoxynucleotides. These altered RNAs can be referred to as
20 analogs or analogs of naturally-occurring RNA.
           By "cap structure" is meant chemical modifications, which have been incorporated
   at either terminus of the oligonucleotide (see, e.g. Adamic, et al., U.S. Patent
   No. 5,998,203, incorporated by reference herein). These terminal modifications protect
   the nucleic acid molecule from exonuclease degradation, and may help in delivery and/or
25 localization within a cell. The cap may be present at the 5'-terminus (5'-cap) or at the 3'
   terminal (3'-cap) or may be present on both termini. In non-limiting examples, the 5'-cap
   includes, but is not limited to, glyceryl, inverted deoxy abasic residue (moiety); 4',5'
   methylene nucleotide; 1-(beta-D-erythrofuranosyl) nucleotide, 4'-thio nucleotide;
   carbocyclic nucleotide; 1,5-anhydrohexitol nucleotide; L-nucleotides; alpha-nucleotides;
30 modified base nucleotide; phosphorodithioate linkage; threo-pentofuranosyl nucleotide;
   acyclic 3',4'-seco nucleotide; acyclic 3,4-dihydroxybutyl nucleotide; acyclic 3,5
   dihydroxypentyl nucleotide, 3'-3'-inverted nucleotide moiety; 3'-3'-inverted abasic
   moiety; 3'-2T-inverted nucleotide moiety; 3'-2'-inverted abasic moiety; 1,4-butanediol
   phosphate; 3'-phosphoramidate; hexylphosphate; aminohexyl phosphate; 3'-phosphate; 3
                                                  118

   phosphorothioate; phosphorodithioate; or bridging or non-bridging methylphosphonate
   moiety.
           Examples of the 3'-cap include, but are not limited to, glyceryl, inverted deoxy
   abasic residue (moiety), 4',5'-methylene nucleotide; 1-(beta-D-erythrofuranosyl)
 5 nucleotide; 4'-thio nucleotide, carbocyclic nucleotide; 5'-amino-alkyl phosphate; 1,3
   diamino-2-propyl phosphate; 3-aminopropyl phosphate; 6-aminohexyl phosphate; 1,2
   aminododecyl phosphate; hydroxypropyl phosphate; 1,5-anhydrohexitol nucleotide; L
   nucleotide; alpha-nucleotide; modified base nucleotide; phosphorodithioate; threo
   pentofuranosyl nucleotide; acyclic 3',4'-seco nucleotide; 3,4-dihydroxybutyl nucleotide;
10 3,5-dihydroxypentyl nucleotide, 5'-5'-inverted nucleotide moiety; 5'-5'-inverted abasic
   moiety; 5'-phosphoramidate; 5'-phosphorothioate; 1,4-butanediol phosphate; 5'-amino;
   bridging and/or non-bridging 5'-phosphoramidate, phosphorothioate and/or
   phosphorodithioate, bridging or non bridging methylphosphonate and 5'-mercapto
   moieties (for more details see Beaucage and Lyer, Tetrahedron49:1925, 1993;
15 incorporated by reference herein).
           By the term "non-nucleotide" is meant any group or compound which can be
   incorporated into a nucleic acid chain in the place of one or more nucleotide units,
   including either sugar and/or phosphate substitutions, and allows the remaining bases to
   exhibit their enzymatic activity. The group or compound is abasic in that it does not
20 contain a commonly recognized nucleotide base, such as adenosine, guanine, cytosine,
   uracil or thymine and therefore lacks a base at the l'-position.
           By "nucleotide" as used herein is as recognized in the art to include natural bases
   (standard), and modified bases well known in the art. Such bases are generally located at
   the l position of a nucleotide sugar moiety. Nucleotides generally comprise a base, sugar
25 and a phosphate group. The nucleotides can be unmodified or modified at the sugar,
   phosphate and/or base moiety, (also referred to interchangeably as nucleotide analogs,
   modified nucleotides, non-natural nucleotides, non-standard nucleotides and other; see,
   e.g. Usman and McSwiggen, supra; Eckstein, et al., International PCT Publication
   No. WO 92/07065; Usman, et al, International PCT Publication No. WO 93/15187;
30 Uhlman & Peyman, supra, all are hereby incorporated by reference herein). There are
   several examples of modified nucleic acid bases known in the art as summarized by
   Limbach, et al., Nucleic Acids Res. 22:2183, 1994. Some of the non-limiting examples of
   base modifications that can be introduced into nucleic acid molecules include, inosine,
   purine, pyridin-4-one, pyridin-2-one, phenyl, pseudouracil, 2, 4, 6-trimethoxy benzene,
                                                119

   3-methyl uracil, dihydrouridine, naphthyl, aminophenyl, 5-alkylcytidines (e.g.,
   5-methylcytidine), 5-alkyluridines (e.g., ribothymidine), 5-halouridine (e.g., 5
   bromouridine) or 6-azapyrimidines or 6-alkylpyrimidines (e.g. 6-methyluridine), propyne,
   and others (Burgin, et al., Biochemistry 35:14090, 1996; Uhlman & Peyman, supra). By
 5 "modified bases" in this aspect is meant nucleotide bases other than adenine, guanine,
   cytosine and uracil at l position or their equivalents.
           By "target site" or "target sequence" or "targeted sequence" is meant a sequence
   within a target nucleic acid (e.g., RNA) that is "targeted" for cleavage mediated by a
   siRNA construct which contains sequences within its antisense region that are
10 complementary to the target sequence.
           The siRNA molecules can be complexed with DILA2 amino acid compounds or
   cationic lipids, packaged within liposomes, or otherwise delivered to target cells or
   tissues. The nucleic acid or nucleic acid complexes can be locally administered to
   through injection, infusion pump or stent, with or without their incorporation in
15 biopolymers. In another embodiment, polyethylene glycol (PEG) can be covalently
   attached to siRNA compounds of the present invention, to the polypeptide, or both. The
   attached PEG can be any molecular weight, preferably from about 2,000 to about 50,000
   daltons (Da).
           The sense region can be connected to the antisense region via a linker molecule,
20 such as a polynucleotide linker or a non-nucleotide linker.
           "Inverted repeat" refers to a nucleic acid sequence comprising a sense and an
   antisense element positioned so that they are able to form a double stranded siRNA when
   the repeat is transcribed. The inverted repeat may optionally include a linker or a
   heterologous sequence such as a self-cleaving ribozyme between the two elements of the
25 repeat. The elements of the inverted repeat have a length sufficient to form a double
   stranded RNA. Typically, each element of the inverted repeat is about 15 to about 100
   nucleotides in length, preferably about 20-30 base nucleotides, preferably about 20-25
   nucleotides in length, e.g., 20, 21, 22, 23, 24, 25, 26, 27, 28, 29, or 30 nucleotides in
   length.
30         "Nucleic acid" refers to deoxyribonucleotides or ribonucleotides and polymers
   thereof in single- or double-stranded form. The term encompasses nucleic acids
   containing known nucleotide analogs or modified backbone residues or linkages, which
   are synthetic, naturally occurring, and non-naturally occurring, which have similar
   binding properties as the reference nucleic acid, and which are metabolized in a manner
                                                  120

   similar to the reference nucleotides. Examples of such analogs include, without
   limitation, phosphorothioates, phosphoramidates, methyl phosphonates, chiral-methyl
   phosphonates, 2'-O-methyl ribonucleotides, peptide-nucleic acids (PNAs).
            "Large double-stranded RNA" refers to any double-stranded RNA having a size
 5 greater than about 40 bp for example, larger than 100 bp or more particularly larger than
   300 bp. The sequence of a large dsRNA may represent a segment of a mRNA or the
   entire mRNA. The maximum size of the large dsRNA is not limited herein. The double
   stranded RNA may include modified bases where the modification may be to the
   phosphate sugar backbone or to the nucleoside. Such modifications may include a
10 nitrogen or sulfur heteroatom or any other modification known in the art.
           The double-stranded structure may be formed by self-complementary RNA strand
   such as occurs for a hairpin or a micro RNA or by annealing of two distinct
   complementary RNA strands.
            "Overlapping" refers to when two RNA fragments have sequences which overlap
15 by a plurality of nucleotides on one strand, for example, where the plurality of nucleotides
   (nt) numbers as few as 2-5 nucleotides or by 5-10 nucleotides or more.
            "One or more dsRNAs" refers to dsRNAs that differ from each other on the basis
   of primary sequence.
            "Target gene or mRNA" refers to any gene or mRNA of interest. Target genes or
20 mRNA may include developmental genes and regulatory genes as well as metabolic or
   structural genes or genes encoding enzymes. The target gene may be endogenous or
   exogenous. The target gene may be expressed in those cells in which a phenotype is
   being investigated or in an organism in a manner that directly or indirectly impacts a
   phenotypic characteristic. Such cells include any cell in the body of an adult or
25 embryonic animal or plant including gamete or any isolated cell such as occurs in an
   immortal cell line or primary cell culture.
   Uses for delivery of active agents
           The compounds and compositions of this invention may be used for delivery of
   any physiologically or biologically active agent, as well as any combination of active
30 agents, as described above or known in the art. The active agent may be present in the
   compositions and uses of this invention in an amount sufficient to provide the desired
   physiological or ameliorative effect.
           The compounds and compositions of this invention are directed toward enhancing
   delivery of a range of drug agents and biologically active agents in mammalian subjects
                                                 121

   including small molecule compounds and drugs, peptides, proteins, antibodies,
   monoclonal antibodies, antibody-based drugs, and vaccine agents.
            Examples of active agents include a peptide, a protein, a nucleic acid, a double
   stranded RNA, a hematopoietic, an antiinfective; an antidementia; an antiviral, an
 5 antitumoral, an antipyretic, an analgesic, an anti-inflammatory, an antiulcerative, an
   antiallergenic, an antidepressant, a psychotropic, a cardiotonic, an antiarrythmic, a
   vasodilator, an antihypertensive, a hypotensive diuretic, an antidiabetic, an anticoagulant,
   a cholesterol-lowering agent, a therapeutic for osteoporosis, a hormone, an antibiotic, a
   vaccine, a cytokine, a hormone, a growth factor, a cardiovascular factor, a cell adhesion
10 factor, a central or peripheral nervous system factor, a humoral electrolyte factor, a hemal
   organic substance, a bone growth factor, a gastrointestinal factor, a kidney factor, a
   connective tissue factor, a sense organ factor, an immune system factor, a respiratory
   system factor, a genital organ factor, an androgen, an estrogen, a prostaglandin, a
   somatotropin, a gonadotropin, an interleukin, a steroid, a bacterial toxoid, an antibody, a
15 monoclonal antibody, a polyclonal antibody, a humanized antibody, an antibody
   fragment, and an immunoglobin.
            Examples of active agents include erythropoietin, granulocyte-colony stimulating
   factor, insulin, Factor VII, Factor VIII, Factor IX, interferon, heparin, hirugen, hirulos,
   and hirudine.
20          Examples of active agents include morphine, hydromorphone, oxymorphone,
   lovorphanol, levallorphan, codeine, nalmefene, nalorphine, nalozone, naltrexone,
   buprenorphine, butorphanol, or nalbufine, cortisone, hydrocortisone, fludrocortisone,
   prednisone, prednisolone, methylprednisolone, triamcinolone, dexamethoasone,
   betamethoasone, paramethosone, fluocinolone, colchicine, acetaminophen, a non
25 steroidal anti-inflammatory agent NSAID, acyclovir, ribavarin, trifluorothyridine, Ara-A
   Arabinofuranosyladenine, acylguanosine, nordeoxyguanosine, azidothymidine,
   dideoxyadenosine, dideoxycytidine, spironolactone, testosterone, estradiol, progestin,
   gonadotrophin, estrogen, progesterone, papaverine, nitroglycerin, a vasoactive intestinal
   peptide, calcitonin gene-related peptide, cyproheptadine, doxepin, imipramine,
30 cimetidine, dextromethorphan, clozaril, superoxide dismutase, neuroenkephalinase,
   amphotericin B, griseofulvin, miconazole, ketoconazole, tioconazol, itraconazole,
   fluconazole, cephalosporin, tetracycline, aminoglucoside, erythromicin, gentamicin,
   polymyxin B, 5-fluorouracil, bleomycin, methotrexate, hydroxyurea, dideoxyinosine,
   floxuridine, 6-mercaptopurine, doxorubicin, daunorubicin, 1-darubicin, taxol, paclitaxel,
                                                 122

   tocopherol, quinidine, prazosin, verapamil, nifedipine, diltiazem, tissue plasminogen
   activator TPA, epidermal growth factor EGF, fibroblast growth factor FGF-acidic or
   basic, platelet derived growth factor PDGF, transforming growth factor TGF-alpha or
   beta, vasoactive intestinal peptide, tumor necrosis factor TNF, hypothalmic releasing
 5 factor, prolactin, thyroid stimulating hormone TSH, adrenocorticotropic hormone ACTH,
   parathyroid hormone PTH, follicle stimulating hormone FSF, luteinizing hormone
   releasing hormone LHRH, endorphin, glucagon, calcitonin, oxytocin, carbetocin,
   aldoetecone, enkaphalin, somatostin, somatotropin, somatomedin, alpha-melanocyte
   stimulating hormone, lidocaine, sufentainil, terbutaline, droperidol, scopolamine,
10 gonadorelin, ciclopirox, buspirone, cromolyn sodium, midazolam, cyclosporin, lisinopril,
   captopril, delapril, ranitidine, famotidine, superoxide dismutase, asparaginase, arginase,
   arginine deaminease, adenosine deaminase ribonuclease, trypsin, chemotrypsin, papain,
   bombesin, substance P, vasopressin, alpha-globulins, transferrin, fibrinogen, beta
   lipoprotein, beta-globulin, prothrombin, ceruloplasmin, alpha2-glycoprotein, alpha2
15 globulin, fetuin, alphal-lipoprotein, alphal-globulin, albumin, and prealbumin.
           Examples of active agents include opioids or opioid antagonists, such as
   morphine, hydromorphone, oxymorphone, lovorphanol, levallorphan, codeine,
   nalmefene, nalorphine, nalozone, naltrexone, buprenorphine, butorphanol, and nalbufine;
   corticosterones, such as cortisone, hydrocortisone, fludrocortisone, prednisone,
20 prednisolone, methylprednisolone, triamcinolone, dexamethoasone, betamethoasone,
   paramethosone, and fluocinolone; other anti-inflammatories, such as colchicine,
   ibuprofen, indomethacin, and piroxicam; anti-viral agents such as acyclovir, ribavarin,
   trifluorothyridine, Ara-A (Arabinofuranosyladenine), acylguanosine, nordeoxyguanosine,
   azidothymidine, dideoxyadenosine, and dideoxycytidine; antiandrogens such as
25 spironolactone; androgens, such as testosterone; estrogens, such as estradiol; progestins;
   muscle relaxants, such as papaverine; vasodilators, such as nitroglycerin, vasoactive
   intestinal peptide and calcitonin related gene peptide; antihistamines, such as
   cyproheptadine; agents with histamine receptor site blocking activity, such as doxepin,
   imipramine, and cimetidine; antitussives, such as dextromethorphan; neuroleptics such as
30 clozaril; antiarrhythmics; antiepileptics; enzymes, such as superoxide dismutase and
   neuroenkephalinase; anti-fungal agents, such as amphotericin B, griseofulvin,
   miconazole, ketoconazole, tioconazol, itraconazole, and fluconazole; antibacterials, such
   as penicillins, cephalosporins, tetracyclines, aminoglucosides, erythromicin, gentamicins,
   polymyxin B; anti-cancer agents, such as 5-fluorouracil, bleomycin, methotrexate, and
                                                  123

   hydroxyurea, dideoxyinosine, floxuridine, 6-mercaptopurine, doxorubicin, daunorubicin,
   I-darubicin, taxol, and paclitaxel; antioxidants, such as tocopherols, retinoids,
   carotenoids, ubiquinones, metal chelators, and phytic acid; antiarrhythmic agents, such as
   quinidine; antihypertensive agents such as prazosin, verapamil, nifedipine, and diltiazem;
 5 analgesics such as acetaminophen and aspirin; monoclonal and polyclonal antibodies,
   including humanized antibodies, and antibody fragments; anti-sense oligonucleotides; and
   RNA, regulatory RNA, interfering RNA, DNA, and viral vectors comprising genes
   encoding therapeutic peptides and proteins.
   Compositions and Formulations for Administration
10         As used herein, the terms "administering" and "administration" encompass all
   means for directly and indirectly delivering a compound or composition to a site of
   action. The compounds and compositions of this disclosure may be administered alone,
   or in combination with other compounds, compositions, or therapeutic agents which are
   not disclosed herein.
15         The compositions and methods of the invention may be administered to subjects
   by a variety of mucosal administration modes, including by oral, rectal, vaginal,
   intranasal, intrapulmonary, or transdermal delivery, or by topical delivery to the eyes,
   ears, skin or other mucosal surfaces. In some aspects of this invention, the mucosal tissue
   layer includes an epithelial cell layer. The epithelial cell can be pulmonary, tracheal,
20 bronchial, alveolar, nasal, buccal, epidermal, or gastrointestinal. Compositions of this
   invention can be administered using actuators such as mechanical spray devices, as well
   as pressurized, electrically activated, or other types of actuators.
           Compositions of this invention may be administered in an aqueous solution as a
   nasal or pulmonary spray and may be dispensed in spray form by a variety of methods
25 known to those skilled in the art. Pulmonary delivery of a composition of this invention
   may be achieved by administering the composition in the form of drops, particles, or
   spray, which can be, for example, aerosolized, atomized, or nebulized. Pulmonary
   delivery may be performed by administering the composition in the form of drops,
   particles, or spray, via the nasal or bronchial passages. Particles of the composition,
30 spray, or aerosol can be in a either liquid or solid form. Preferred systems for dispensing
   liquids as a nasal spray are disclosed in U.S. Patent No. 4,511,069. Such formulations
   may be conveniently prepared by dissolving compositions according to the present
   invention in water to produce an aqueous solution, and rendering said solution sterile.
   The formulations may be presented in multi-dose containers, for example in the sealed
                                                  124

   dispensing system disclosed in U.S. Patent No. 4,511,069. Other suitable nasal spray
   delivery systems have been described in TransdermalSystemic Medication, Y.W. Chien
   ed., Elsevier Publishers, New York, 1985; and in U.S. Patent No. 4,778,810. Additional
   aerosol delivery forms may include, for example, compressed air-, jet-, ultrasonic-, and
 5 piezoelectric nebulizers, which deliver the biologically active agent dissolved or
   suspended in a pharmaceutical solvent, for example, water, ethanol, or mixtures thereof.
           Nasal and pulmonary spray solutions of the present invention typically comprise
   the drug or drug to be delivered, optionally formulated with a surface active agent, such
   as a nonionic surfactant (e.g., polysorbate-80), and one or more buffers. In some
10 embodiments of the present invention, the nasal spray solution further comprises a
   propellant. The pH of the nasal spray solution may be from about pH 6.8 to 7.2. The
   pharmaceutical solvents employed can also be a slightly acidic aqueous buffer of pH 4-6.
   Other components may be added to enhance or maintain chemical stability, including
   preservatives, surfactants, dispersants, or gases.
15         In some embodiments, this invention is a pharmaceutical product which includes a
   solution containing a composition of this invention and an actuator for a pulmonary,
   mucosal, or intranasal spray or aerosol.
           A dosage form of the composition of this invention can be liquid, in the form of
   droplets or an emulsion, or in the form of an aerosol.
20         A dosage form of the composition of this invention can be solid, which can be
   reconstituted in a liquid prior to administration. The solid can be administered as a
   powder. The solid can be in the form of a capsule, tablet or gel.
           To formulate compositions for pulmonary delivery within the present invention,
   the biologically active agent can be combined with various pharmaceutically acceptable
25 additives or delivery-enhancing components, as well as a base or carrier for dispersion of
   the active agent(s). Examples of additives or delivery-enhancing components include pH
   control agents such as arginine, sodium hydroxide, glycine, hydrochloric acid, citric acid,
   and mixtures thereof. Other additives or delivery-enhancing components include local
   anesthetics (e.g., benzyl alcohol), isotonizing agents (e.g., sodium chloride, mannitol,
30 sorbitol), adsorption inhibitors (e.g., Tween 80), solubility enhancing agents (e.g.,
   cyclodextrins and derivatives thereof), stabilizers (e.g., serum albumin), and reducing
   agents (e.g., glutathione). When the composition for mucosal delivery is a liquid, the
   tonicity of the formulation, as measured with reference to the tonicity of 0.9% (w/v)
   physiological saline solution taken as unity, is typically adjusted to a value at which no
                                                  125

   substantial, irreversible tissue damage will be induced in the mucosa at the site of
   administration. Generally, the tonicity of the solution is adjusted to a value of about 1/3
   to 3, more typically 1/2 to 2, and most often 3/4 to 1.7.
           The biologically active agent may be dispersed in a base or vehicle, which may
 5 comprise a hydrophilic compound having a capacity to disperse the active agent and any
   desired additives. The base may be selected from a wide range of suitable carriers,
   including but not limited to, copolymers of polycarboxylic acids or salts thereof,
   carboxylic anhydrides (e.g., maleic anhydride) with other monomers (e.g., methyl
   (meth)acrylate, acrylic acid, etc.), hydrophilic vinyl polymers such as polyvinyl acetate,
10 polyvinyl alcohol, polyvinylpyrrolidone, cellulose derivatives such as
   hydroxymethylcellulose, hydroxypropylcellulose, etc., and natural polymers such as
   chitosan, collagen, sodium alginate, gelatin, hyaluronic acid, and nontoxic metal salts
   thereof. A biodegradable polymer may be selected as a base or carrier, for example,
   polylactic acid, poly(lactic acid-glycolic acid) copolymer, polyhydroxybutyric acid,
15 poly(hydroxybutyric acid-glycolic acid) copolymer and mixtures thereof. Synthetic fatty
   acid esters such as polyglycerin fatty acid esters, sucrose fatty acid esters, etc., can be
   employed as carriers. Hydrophilic polymers and other carriers can be used alone or in
   combination, and enhanced structural integrity can be imparted to the carrier by partial
   crystallization, ionic bonding, crosslinking and the like. The carrier can be provided in a
20 variety of forms, including, fluid or viscous solutions, gels, pastes, powders, microspheres
   and films for direct application to the nasal mucosa. The use of a selected carrier in this
   context may result in promotion of absorption of the biologically active agent.
           The biologically active agent can be combined with the base or carrier according
   to a variety of methods, and release of the active agent may be by diffusion, disintegration
25 of the carrier, or associated formulation of water channels. In some circumstances, the
   active agent is dispersed in microcapsules (microspheres) or nanocapsules (nanospheres)
   prepared from a suitable polymer, e.g., isobutyl 2-cyanoacrylate (see, e.g., Michael, et al.,
   J. Pharmacy Pharmacol.43:1-5, 1991), and dispersed in a biocompatible dispersing
   medium applied to the nasal mucosa, which yields sustained delivery and biological
30 activity over a protracted time.
           Formulations for mucosal, nasal, or pulmonary delivery may contain a hydrophilic
   low molecular weight compound as a base or excipient. Such hydrophilic low molecular
   weight compounds provide a passage medium through which a water-soluble active
   agent, such as a physiologically active peptide or protein, may diffuse through the base to
                                                 126

   the body surface where the active agent is absorbed. The hydrophilic low molecular
   weight compound optionally absorbs moisture from the mucosa or the administration
   atmosphere and dissolves the water-soluble active peptide. The molecular weight of the
   hydrophilic low molecular weight compound is generally not more than 10,000 and
 5 preferably not more than 3000. Examples of hydrophilic low molecular weight
   compounds include polyol compounds, such as oligo-, di- and monosaccarides including
   sucrose, mannitol, lactose, L-arabinose, D-erythrose, D-ribose, D-xylose, D-mannose, D
   galactose, lactulose, cellobiose, gentibiose, glycerin, polyethylene glycol, and mixtures
   thereof. Further examples of hydrophilic low molecular weight compounds include N
10 methylpyrrolidone, alcohols (e.g., oligovinyl alcohol, ethanol, ethylene glycol, propylene
   glycol, etc.), and mixtures thereof.
           The compositions of this invention may alternatively contain as pharmaceutically
   acceptable carriers substances as required to approximate physiological conditions, such
   as pH adjusting and buffering agents, tonicity adjusting agents, and wetting agents, for
15 example, sodium acetate, sodium lactate, sodium chloride, potassium chloride, calcium
   chloride, sorbitan monolaurate, triethanolamine oleate, and mixtures thereof. For solid
   compositions, nontoxic pharmaceutically acceptable carriers can be used which include,
   for example, pharmaceutical grades of mannitol, lactose, starch, magnesium stearate,
   sodium saccharin, talcum, cellulose, glucose, sucrose, magnesium carbonate, and the like.
20         In certain embodiments of the invention, the biologically active agent may be
   administered in a time release formulation, for example in a composition which includes a
   slow release polymer. The active agent can be prepared with carriers that will protect
   against rapid release, for example a controlled release vehicle such as a polymer,
   microencapsulated delivery system or bioadhesive gel. Prolonged delivery of the active
25 agent, in various compositions of the invention can be brought about by including in the
   composition agents that delay absorption, for example, aluminum monosterate hydrogels
   and gelatin.
           Within certain embodiments of this invention, a composition may contain one or
   more natural or synthetic surfactants. Certain natural surfactants are found in human lung
30 (pulmonary surfactant), and are a complex mixture of phospholipids and proteins that
   form a monolayer at the alveolar air-liquid interface and reduces surface tension to near
   zero at expiration and prevents alveolar collapse. Over 90% (by weight) of pulmonary
   surfactant is composed of phospholipids with approximately 40-80% being DPPC and the
   remainder being unsaturated phosphatidylcholines POPG, POPC and
                                                 127

   phosphatidylglycerols. The remaining 10% (by weight) of surfactant is composed of
   plasma proteins and apoproteins, such as surface proteins (SP)-A, SP-B, SP-C and SP-D.
           Examples of natural surfactants that may be used in this invention include
   SURVANTA       TM
                      (beractant), CUROSURF T M (poractant alfa) and INFASURFTM
 5 (calfactant), and mixtures thereof.
           Examples of synthetic surfactants include sinapultide; a combination of
   dipalmitoylphosphatidylcholine, palmitoyloleoyl phosphatidylglycerol and palmitic acid;
   SURFAXIN      TM (lucinactant);  and EXOSURF TM (colfosceril); components which may
   contain tyloxapol, DPPC, and hexadecanol; and mixtures thereof.
10         Methods of making delivery compositions include ethanol injection methods and
   extrusion methods using a Northern Lipids Lipex Extruder system with stacked
   polycarbonate membrane filters of defined pore size. Sonication using probe tip and bath
   sonicators can be employed to produce particles of uniform size. Homogenous and
   monodisperse particle sizes can be obtained without the addition of the nucleic acid
15 component. For in vitro transfection compositions, the nucleic acid component can be
   added after the transfection agent is made and stabilized by buffer components. For in
   vivo delivery compositions, the nucleic acid component is part of the formulation.
           The compositions and formulations of this invention may be administered by
   various routes, for example, to effect systemic delivery via intravenous, parenteral, or
20 intraperitoneal routes. In some embodiments, an agent may be delivered intracellularly,
   for example, in cells of a target tissue such as lung or liver, or in inflamed tissues.
   Included within this disclosure are compositions and methods for delivery of an agent by
   removing cells of a subject, delivering an agent to the removed cells, and reintroducing
   the cells into a subject. In some embodiments, this invention provides a method for
25 delivery of an agent in vivo. A composition may be administered intravenously,
   subcutaneously, or intraperitoneally to a subject. In some embodiments, the invention
   provides methods for in vivo delivery of an agent to the lung of a mammalian subject.
           The active agent liposomal compositions of this disclosure may be used in
   pharmaceutical compositions in vivo. Administration of the active agent liposomal
30 compositions of this disclosure to a subject may be parenteral, oral, by inhalation, topical,
   mucosal, rectal, or buccal routes. Parenteral use includes subcutaneous, intracutaneous,
   intravenous, intramuscular, intraarticular, intrasynovial, intrastemal, intrathecal,
   intralesional, and intracranial injection or infusion techniques.
                                                  128

            An effective amount of an active agent liposomal composition of this disclosure
   for treating a particular disease is generally an amount sufficient to ameliorate or reduce a
   symptom of the disease. The composition may be administered as a single dosage, or
   may be administered by repeated dosing.
 5 Additional Embodiments
            All publications, references, patents, patent publications and patent applications
   cited herein are each hereby specifically incorporated by reference in their entirety.
            While this invention has been described in relation to certain embodiments, and
   many details have been set forth for purposes of illustration, it will be apparent to those
10 skilled in the art that this invention includes additional embodiments, and that some of the
   details described herein may be varied considerably without departing from this
   invention. This invention includes such additional embodiments, modifications and
   equivalents. In particular, this invention includes any combination of the features, terms,
   or elements of the various illustrative components and examples.
15          The use herein of the terms "a," "an," "the" and similar terms in describing the
   invention, and in the claims, are to be construed to include both the singular and the
   plural.
            The terms "comprising," "having," "including" and "containing" are to be
   construed as open-ended terms which mean, for example, "including, but not limited to."
20 Thus, terms such as "comprising," "having," "including" and "containing" are to be
   construed as being inclusive, not exclusive.
            Recitation of a range of values herein refers individually to each and any separate
   value falling within the range as if it were individually recited herein, whether or not
   some of the values within the range are expressly recited. For example, the range "4 to
25 12" includes without limitation the values 5, 5.1, 5.35 and any other whole, integer,
   fractional, or rational value greater than or equal to 4 and less than or equal to 12.
   Specific values employed herein will be understood as exemplary and not to limit the
   scope of the invention.
            Recitation of a range of number of carbon atoms herein refers individually to each
30 and any separate value falling within the range as if it were individually recited herein,
   whether or not some of the values within the range are expressly recited. For example,
   the term "C1-22" includes without limitation the species C1, C2, C3, C4, C5, C6, C7, C8,
   C9, C1O, C1, C12, C13, C14, C15, C16, C17, C18, C19, C20, C21, and C22.
                                                  129

            Definitions of technical terms provided herein should be construed to include
   without recitation those meanings associated with these terms known to those skilled in
   the art, and are not intended to limit the scope of the invention. Definitions of technical
   terms provided herein shall be construed to dominate over alternative definitions in the art
 5 or definitions which become incorporated herein by reference to the extent that the
   alternative definitions conflict with the definition provided herein.
            The examples given herein, and the exemplary language used herein are solely for
   the purpose of illustration, and are not intended to limit the scope of the invention.
            When a list of examples is given, such as a list of compounds or molecules
10 suitable for this invention, it will be apparent to those skilled in the art that mixtures of
   the listed compounds or molecules are also suitable.
                                             EXAMPLES
                                             EXAMPLE 1
                 Methods for preparing an RNA-containing liposomal formulation
15          This example describes embodiments of methods for making an RNA-containing
   liposomal formulation. Some materials used in the method are summarized below:
            C18:1 -norArg-C 16 (Palmitoyl Oleyl nor-Arginine, PONA) (MDRNA, Inc.)
   (formula weight 683.3)
            1,2-Dimyristoyl-sn-Glycero-3-Phosphoethanolamine-N-[Methoxy(Polyethylene
20 glycol)-2000] (Ammonium Salt) (DMPE-PEG2k) (Genzyme Pharmaceuticals,
   Cambridge, Mass.)
            Cholesterol (Solvay Pharmaceuticals)
            Cholesteryl-hemisuccinate (CHEMS) GMP (Merck Eprova AG)
            Ethanol (absolute, 200 proof); Sterile water for injection
25          Sodium phosphate: monobasic, anhydrous, dibasic, anhydrous
            Sucrose, 99+%
            5 N sodium hydroxide; 2 N hydrochloric acid; Glacial acetic acid
            Tromethamine (Tris) USP Grade (Research Organics)
            150 mL Capacity 0.2 pm filter bottles, PES
30          Calibrated Rainin 20 uL, 200 uL, and 1 mL pipettors
            Iso-disc filter PTFE25-10
            Cole-Parmer In-line static mixer
                                                  130

            Watson Marlow 520 Di pump; Watson Marlow 523 pump; Filtertec pump
            Vivaflow 50 100,00 MWCO PES (Sartorius)
            Slide-a-Lyser dialysis cassette 10,000 MWCO (Pierce)
 5          The buffer solution Sucrose Phosphate (SUP) Formulation Buffer (20 mM sodium
   phosphate, 215 mM sucrose, pH 7.4) was prepared as follows. 2.17 g anhydrous
   monobasic sodium phosphate and 8.79 g anhydrous dibasic sodium phosphate were added
   to 3600 mL of Milli-Q DI water in a graduated cylinder and mixed thoroughly with a stir
   bar. The pH was adjusted with 5N sodium hydroxide or 2N hydrogen chloride to pH 7.4.
10 294.38 g sucrose was added slowly and dissolved thoroughly. Final water volume was
   adjusted to 4 L. The solution was filtered with a 0.2 pm filter.
            A 25 mM stock solution of liposome-forming molecules in 90% v/v ethanol USP
   was prepared as follows. 90 mL of ethanol USP (200 proof) was dispensed into a clean
   autoclaved 100 mL Pyrex bottle. To the ethanol were added successively 1291 umol of
15 C18:1-norArg-C16 (PONA), 721.6 umol of cholesteryl-hemisuccinate (CHEMS) powder,
   61.7 umol of DMPE-PEG2K powder, and 515 umol of cholesterol. The ingredients were
   each added to the solution and mixed thoroughly with a stir bar. The mixture was
   sonicated for 15 minutes. 10 mL of sterile water for injection USP was added with
   thorough mixing. The stock solution was filtered through an ISO-DISC filter PTFE-25
20 mm, 1 um pore size. The stock solution was stored at 80 'C and analyzed for DILA2
   amino acid compounds and lipid components by Reverse Phase HPLC with Evaporative
   Light Scattering Detection.
            An siRNA stock solution was prepared in sterile water for injection as follows. 5
   mL of sterile water for injection was dispensed into a sterile 15 mL Falcon tube. 100 mg
25 of siRNA powder was added to the tube and vortexed thoroughly. The solution was
   filtered through a 0.22 uM Millex GP filter unit using a 10 mL syringe. The siRNA
   solution was stored at -20'C and tested by OD (A260 and A280) for purity and
   concentration with 1:1000 dilution.
            A Watson Marlow 520Di peristaltic pump was calibrated to a flow rate of 40
30 mL/min. The pump was set to 210 rpm and disconnected from the tubing. 40 mL of 90%
   ethanol was pumped through to rinse the line. Ethanol was pumped into a beaker for 15
   sec and weighed to determine the flow rate in mL/min. The pump speed was adjusted to
   provide a flow rate of 40  0.5 mL/min. Pumps for siRNA and sucrose phosphate
   solutions were calibrated in a similar manner.
                                                 131

            Three solutions were used to prepare an siRNA formulation as follows. (a) The
   first solution for pumping was an siRNA solution. The first solution was made by
   diluting the siRNA with SUP buffer in a 50 mL conical tube and vortexing thoroughly.
   (b) The second solution for pumping was a solution of a DILA2 amino acid compound
 5 plus three lipids. A mixed lipid stock in 90% ethanol was prepared containing the
   following lipids: CHEMS, cholesterol, and DMPE-PEG. To the lipid stock was added a
   DILA2 amino acid compound. To the lipid stock was added an aliquot of Tris in sterile
   water for injection to make a 1:1 molar Tris:CHEMS concentration in the solution. The
   second solution for pumping was made with the mixed lipid stock by pipetting with a
10 positive displacement pipette into a 50 mL conical tube, diluting with 90% ethanol, and
   vortexing thoroughly. (c) A third solution for pumping was an SUP buffer solution.
            An siRNA formulation was prepared as follows. The first siRNA solution and the
   second solution of liposome-forming molecules were simultaneously pumped into an
   impinging stream. The first 1 mL of the effluent impinging stream was discarded, then
15 the siRNA formulation was collected in a vessel. A Watson Marlow 323 pump was used
   to pump SUP buffer solution into the vessel to adjust the concentration of ethanol to be
   about 33%. The siRNA formulation in the vessel was incubated with gentle agitation on
   magnetic stir plate for 1 hr.
            After incubation, the formulation was loaded into a Pierce slide-a-lyzer dialysis
20 cassette with 10,000 MWCO, and dialyzed for 12-18 hrs at 4 'C against 100 volumes of
   SUP.
            This example further describes embodiments of methods for making an RNA
   containing liposomal formulation by tangential flow and diafiltration. A siRNA
   formulation was provided as described above, except that the last dialysis step was
25 replaced by a tangential flow filtration (TFF) process.
            The siRNA formulation was diluted to 10% (v/v) final ethanol concentration
   under gentle agitation on magnetic stir plate for 2 min.
            A TFF system using a Sartorius Vivaflow 50 100,000 MWCO PES membrane
   was rinsed with 50 mL of 70% ethanol USP, and then re-circulated with 100 mL of 70%
30 ethanol at a pump flow rate of 60 mL/min. The TFF system was rinsed with 50 mL of
   sterile water and then re-circulated with 100 mL of sterile water at a pump flow rate of 60
   mL/min. The TFF system was rinsed with 50 mL of SUP and then re-circulated with 100
   mL of SUP at a pump flow rate of 60 mL/min.
                                                132

           The diluted siRNA formulation was loaded into the TFF vessel and concentrated
   by 5 times to a final siRNA concentration of 0.5 mg/mL (feed pressure -20 psi, retentate
   pressure <0.2 psi and a permeate flow rate of -2 mL/min). A maximum of 1 mg of
   siRNA formulated in the liposomal composition was processed per cm2 of membrane.
 5         The concentrated siRNA formulation was filtered by diafiltration against 5
   volumes of SUP, in which ethanol was removed, at flow rate 2mL/min.
           The concentrated siRNA formulation was further concentrated to the desired
   volume, at 1 mg/ml siRNA.
           This example further describes embodiments of methods for making an RNA
10 containing liposomal formulation by sterile filtration of the siRNA liposomal formulation.
   A siRNA formulation was provided as described above. 10 mL of the siRNA formulation
   was drawn up in a 10 mL polypropylene syringe, and air bubbles were removed. The
   siRNA formulation was filtered through a 0.22 uM Millex GP filter unit. 10 mg of
   siRNA formulation (1 mg siRNA/mL) was filtered though the Millex GP filter unit with
15 moderate pressure on the syringe. 1 mL aliquots of this drug product were stored in 3 mL
   type I sterile glass vials at 80 'C prior to use.
                                             EXAMPLE 2
                                    siRNA Liposomal Formulation
20         An example of a liposomal siRNA formulation embodiment of this disclosure is
   shown in Table 6.
                               Table 6: Liposomal siRNA Formulation
           Component                  PM              MW           mg/ml      mg/kg dosed
             dsRNA                    7.5           13255.4        0.100           1.0
        DMPE-PEG2K                    38.5           2815          0.108           1.1
                chol                 366.2             386         0.141           1.4
             CHEMS                   506.8             486         0.246           2.5
              PONA                   929.3             683         0.635           6.3
25
                                                   133

                                            EXAMPLE 3
       Effects of physical process parameters on RNA-containing liposomal compositions
           In this example, the effects of certain process parameters for collection, incubation
   and quenching on the properties of siRNA liposomal compositions were observed.
 5 Compositions were prepared by using the basic protocol described in Example 1.
           In each example, the active agent of the composition was a dsRNA for silencing
   ApoB. The liposome-forming component was an ethanol-water solution containing the
   DILA2 amino acid compound C 18:1 -norArg(NH 3Cl)-C 16, along with the lipids
   cholesteryl hemisuccinate (CHEMS, Anatrace, CH210), cholesterol (Anatrace CH200),
10 and DMPE-PEG2k (Genzyme).
           In a first example, the effects of the concentration of organic solvent at the
   collection step on liposome particle size and dispersity were observed as shown in Table
   7. The concentration of organic solvent ethanol was calculated from flow rates and
   transfer tube diameters. The incubating period for each of the formulations in Table 7
15 was 4 hours.
              Table 7: Collection and incubation of liposomal siRNA formulations
                      Formulation                pH       Z-avg     PdI Avg    Encapsulation
               Collection at 33% EtOH            7.4       152        0.11           89%
               Collection at 37% EtOH            7.4       161        0.12           89%
               Collection at 40% EtOH            7.4       242        0.30           89%
           The results in Table 7 showed in general that the size of liposomal particles
   increased as the concentration of organic solvent ethanol in the collection reservoir
20 increased. The dispersity of the particle size distribution also increased as the
   concentration of organic solvent increased. The results in Table 7 showed that high levels
   of encapsulation of the active siRNA agent were achieved with liposomal compositions
   prepared from an impinging stream and collection reservoir mixture at pH 7.4.
           In a second example, effects of the incubating period on the gene-silencing
25 activity of the liposomal siRNA formulation in vivo mouse were observed. ApoB gene
   silencing activity was determined in vivo mouse liver for liposomal formulations. Some
   RNAi-agents for silencing ApoB are described in W008/109357.
                                                  134

           ApoB gene silencing activity was determined in vivo mouse liver for certain
   liposomal formulations and compared to mouse serum cholesterol levels. The ApoB
   mRNA reduction activity in vivo and the corresponding serum cholesterol reduction in
   vivo are shown in Table 8. Each liposomal formulation in Table 8 was [C18-norArg
 5 C16/CHEMS/chol/DMPE-PEG2k (50/28/20/2)]. The dose in each case was 1.0
   mg/kg/day. Each of the formulations was prepared with a concentration of ethanol in the
   collection reservoir of 33% based on flow rates and transfer tube diameters.
          Table 8: Effect of incubation period on in vivo gene-silencing activity in mouse
                                     In vivo ApoB knockdown           Reduction in serum
         Incubating period (hr)                  (%)                     cholesterol (%)
                     0                            19                             8
                     1                            31                            24
                     2                            38                             6
                     4                            51                            27
10
           The results in Table 8 showed that the in vivo gene-silencing knockdown activity
   for liposomal formulations containing an ApoB gene silencing RNAi-agent increased to
   advantageous levels as the incubating period increased.
           In a third example, the effects of an incubating period on the in vivo gene
15 silencing activity of liposomal siRNA formulations were observed as shown in Table 9.
   In these experiments, the liposomal siRNA formulations were prepared with dialysis
   rather than TFF filtration. The compositions were prepared with an impinging stream and
   collection reservoir mixture at pH 7.4. The concentration of organic solvent ethanol in
   the collection reservoir was varied from 30-36% as shown in Table 9. Each liposomal
20 formulation in Table 9 was [C18-norArg-C16/CHEMS/chol/DMPE-PEG2k
   (50/28/20/2)].
          Table 9: Incubation effects on in vivo gene-silencing activity of liposomal
                    siRNA formulations at various ethanol concentrations in the
                    collection reservoir
                                                                               Reduction in
                     Protocol                Incubating    In vivo ApoB            serum
                                             period (hr)  knockdown (%)       cholesterol (%)
                   EtOH 30%                       0              11                   6
                   EtOH 30%                       4              48                  31
                                                   135

                                           Incubating       In vivo ApoB        Reduction in
                    Protocol               period (hr)     knockdown (%)       cholesterol (%)
                   EtOH 33%                     0                 50                   31
                   EtOH 33%                     4                 72                   52
         EtOH 33%, turbulent mixing             0                  8                   19
         EtOH 33%, turbulent mixing             4                 62                   54
                   EtOH 36%                     0                 15                   18
                   EtOH 36%                     4                 59                   40
           The results in Table 9 showed that the in vivo mouse gene-silencing activity for
   liposomal formulations containing an ApoB gene silencing RNAi-agent significantly
   increased to advantageous levels when an incubating period was used.
 5         In a fourth example, the effects of quenching the liposomal siRNA formulations
   on their in vivo mouse gene-silencing activity were observed as shown in Table 10. In
   these experiments, the liposomal siRNA formulations were prepared with an impinging
   stream and collection reservoir mixture at pH 7.4 and an incubating period of 1 hour. The
   concentration of organic solvent ethanol in the collection reservoir was quenched from
10 33% to a lower concentration as shown in Table 10. Each liposomal formulation in Table
   10 was [C18-norArg-C16/CHEMS/chol/DMPE-PEG2k].                The stability of the formulation
   was determined by measuring average particle size and encapsulation of the siRNA active
   agent at 1 hour and 48 hours after quenching.
                      Table 10: Quenching of liposomal siRNA formulations
                                       Z-avg particle size (nm)       % Encapsulation
                  Reduced EtOH
                                          lhr            48hr           1hr         48hr
                        30                171             186           85           72
                        25                163             169           83           87
                        20                158             159           84           88
                        15                164             166           83           87
                        10                158             162           83           85
                         5                160             161           83           85
15
                                                 136

           The results in Table 10 showed that liposomal formulations containing an RNAi
   agent maintained a stable average particle size and high level of encapsulation of the
   RNAi-agent over 48 hours after quenching to a concentration of ethanol below about
   25%.
 5                                         EXAMPLE 4
                  Effect of pH on liposomal compositions prepared by incubation
           In this example, the effect of pH on the preparation of liposomal compositions
   was observed. Compositions were prepared by impinging and incubating using the basic
   protocol described in Example 1.
10         The active agent was a dsRNA for silencing ApoB that was prepared in an
   aqueous solution to 1 mg/mL.
           The liposome-forming component was an ethanol solution containing the DILA2
   amino acid compound C 18:1 -norArg(NH 3Cl)-C 16, along with the lipids cholesteryl
   hemisuccinate (CHEMS, Anatrace, CH210), cholesterol (Anatrace CH200), and
15 DMPE-PEG2k (Genzyme). The relative amounts of the DILA2 amino acid compound
   and the lipids was (50/28/20/2), which represents the percent (w/w) of each component
   with respect to the total amount of the DILA2 amino acid compound plus lipids, for the
   composition (C18:1-norArg(NH 3Cl)-C16 / CHEMS / cholesterol / DMPE-PEG2k).
           As shown in Table 11, dsRNA formulations having a Z-avg particle size from
20 128-137 nm were made at both pH 7.4 and pH 4. The protocol for making the
   formulations of Table 11 was to add buffer to the impinging stream to adjust the
   concentration of ethanol to about 33%, followed by turbulent mixing. The stream was
   collected, and the collected mixture was incubated for 1 hour.
25                      Table 11: Liposomal compositions at pH 7.4 and 4
               pH          PdI       Z-Avg     D(v) 0.25     D(v) 0.5   % Encapsulation
                          0.11        134           94         120           90
               7.4
                          0.13        128           80         107            89
                          0.15        137           59         99             --
                4
                          0.12        130           78         105
                                                137

            In sum, the results shown in Table 11, as well as the results shown in Tables 7, 9
   and 10 of Example 3 showed that a formulation of a liposome-encapsulated RNAi
   inducing agent was prepared at a pH of 7.4.
                                           EXAMPLE 5
 5         Preparation of RNA-containing liposomal compositions by flow rate control
            In this example, liposomal compositions were prepared by controlling the
   composition of an impinging stream using the flow rates of the RNAi-agent solution and
   the solution of liposome-forming components. Compositions were prepared by
   impinging and incubating using the basic protocol described in Example 1, except that the
10 flow rates of the RNAi-agent solution and the solution of liposome-forming components
   were adjusted to achieve a certain concentration of organic solvent and RNAi-agent in the
   collection reservoir without additional SUP buffer. The formulations were prepared with
   an impinging stream that was collected and incubated for 1 hour. The pH was 7.4 and the
   active agent was a dsRNA for silencing ApoB.
15          The liposome-forming component was an ethanol solution containing the DILA2
   amino acid compound C 18:1 -norArg(NH 3Cl)-C 16, along with the lipids cholesteryl
   hemisuccinate (CHEMS, Anatrace, CH210), cholesterol (Anatrace CH200), and
   DMPE-PEG2k (Genzyme). The relative amounts of the DILA2 amino acid compound
   and lipids was (50/28/20/2).
20          As shown in Table 12, dsRNA formulations were prepared using a ratio of the
   flow rate of the RNAi-agent solution to the flow rate of the solution of liposome-forming
   components of 1.7:1, 3:1 and 5:1.
         Table 12: Preparation of liposomal compositions with controlled flow rate ratio
      dsRNA         Flow ratio    EtOH        Z-avg                          %       In Vivo
        PM         RNAi:DILA2      (%)         (nm)                    Encapsulation   (%)
         12             5:1         15           80          0.21           58          48
         12             5:1         15          170          0.16           83          71
         18             3:1         22           80          0.10           75          59
         18             3:1         22          170          0.22           91          69
         26            1.7:1        33          189          0.17           73          75
25
                                                 138

            The results in Table 12 showed that liposomal compositions having good
   encapsulation of active agent and gene-silencing activity for ApoB in vivo mouse were
   prepared with a ratio of the flow rate of the RNAi-agent solution to the flow rate of the
   solution of liposome-forming components of from about 2 to about 5.
 5          The results in Table 12 show that an average particle size as low as 80 nm with
   low particle size dispersity was achieved with a ratio of the flow rate of the RNAi-agent
   solution to the flow rate of the solution of liposome-forming components of from about 3
   to about 5.
                                            EXAMPLE 6
10                      Filtration of RNA-containing liposomal compositions
            In this example, the effect of concentrating the active RNAi-agent by tangential
   flow filtration in the preparation of liposomal compositions was observed. Compositions
   were prepared at pH 7.4 using the basic protocol described in Example 1 by collecting the
   impinging stream at 22% EtOH in the collection reservoir and incubating for 30 minutes.
15 The composition was quenched to a concentration of EtOH of 10% for tangential flow
   filtration.
            The liposome-forming component was an ethanol solution containing the DILA2
   amino acid compound C 18:1 -norArg-C 16, along with the lipids cholesteryl hemisuccinate
   (CHEMS, Anatrace, CH210), cholesterol (Anatrace CH200), and DMPE-PEG2k
20 (Genzyme). The relative amounts of the DILA2 amino acid compound and lipids was
   (50/28/20/2).
            The formulations were filtered by tangential flow filtration using an Amersham
   PES column. As shown in Table 13, the compositions remained stable regarding particle
   size and encapsulation of the active RNAi-agent under tangential flow filtration
25 performed to concentrate the active RNAi-agent by a factor of up to sixteen. The final
   concentration of the active RNAi-agent was up to 5 mg/ml.
                 Table 13: In vivo gene-silencing activity of liposomal RNAi
                          formulations made with incubation and filtration
               Protocol      Conc.      Z-avg         PdI         % Encapsulation
                             factor      (nm)
                 TFF           1X         130         0.17              85
                 TFF           2X         132         0.13              84
                                                  139

             Protocol      Conc.        Z-avg         PdI        % Encapsulation
                           factor       (nm)
               TFF           4X          130          0.16              84
               TFF           8X          133          0.15              80
               TFF          12X          132          0.16              82
               TFF          16X          134          0.17              84
                                            EXAMPLE 7
                       Stability of RNA-containing liposomal compositions
           In this example, the stability of a liposomal compositions was observed after
 5 being held for 7 days at elevated temperature. The composition was prepared by
   impinging and incubating for 1 hour using the basic protocol described in Example 1. A
   turbulent mixing tube was used and the concentration of EtOH in the collection reservoir
   was 33%. After preparation, the formulation was held for 7 days at a temperature of
   45 'C. After 7 days, the average particle size was 116 nm and the encapsulation was
10 71%. For the heat-treated formulation, no loss of gene-silencing activity for ApoB in vivo
   mouse was observed after 7 days.
                                            EXAMPLE 8
                                      Peptide Binding Regions
           The relative strength of the binding of a cationic peptide to an RNAi-inducing
15 agent was measured with a dye binding assay.
           The RNAi-inducing agent was prepared at 7.8 pl in 10ml to make a 20 pg/ml
   stock, then 75 pl/well. A SYBR gold dilution was prepared at 3.75 Pl in 15 ml for 1:4000
   dilution for a 2.5X stock.
           Peptides were dissolved in Hepes buffer with 5% dextrose and diluted. Peptides
20 were further diluted so that 75 pl could be added to each well resulting in the desired N:P
   (ranging from 0-4). Peptides were assumed to have a purity of 50%, but actual peptide
   amount was unknown.
           A SYBR-GOLD Dye Binding Assay was performed. A 96-well plate assay with
   sample volume of 150 1dper well. Final dsRNA concentration was 10 g/ml in 10mM
25 hepes/5%dextrose at pH 7.4. Peptides were diluted into different working solutions such
   that equal volumes were added to reach different N/P ratios. For the addition procedure,
                                                  140

   dsRNA was first added (75 pl of 20 pg/ml), followed by 150pl of 2.5X SYBR Gold.
   Peptide (75pl) was then added to compete off the SYBR dye. Total volume was 300pl.
   Fluorescence was corrected from background of dye alone in buffer. SYBR-Gold ex/em
   was 495nm/537nm, read on Molecular Devices plate reader.
 5         Formulation particle sizes were determined by transferring to 384-well plate to be
   tested using the Wyatt particle sizer. Each well of the 96 well plate was transferred in
   duplicate. Volume remaining in plate was 200 pl.
           Peptide release was triggered by disulfide reduction or enzymatic cleavage where
   appropriate. Cysteine-terminated peptides were cleavable by glutathione reduction. V
10 Cit containing peptides were cleavable by enzymatic cleavage by Cathepsin B.
   Glutathione was present at 0.1-10 mM intracellularly; Cathepsin B was 1 mM in
   lysosomes. (For Cathepsin B at 0.14ng/pl, see Teich et al BMC Gastroenterology 2002,
   2:16).
           For release, the appropriate molecule was added to a final concentration of 1mM
15 in one of the duplicated wells followed by measurement of SYBR GOLD fluorescence
   with time.
           As shown in Figure 6, the binding of a polyarginine binding region to dsRNA
   increased with the length of the polyarginine binding region. In Figure 6, the strongest
   binding (best ability to displace SYBR-Gold dye) was observed with PN3499, peptide
20 (SEQ ID NO:353) RRRRRCCRRRRR, which was a dimer peptide containing a total of
   10 arginines.
                                            EXAMPLE 9
               In Vitro Assay for PPIB Gene Expression Knockdown in A549 cells
           Cyclophilin B (PPIB) gene knockdown measurements can be used as a primary
25 activity-based in vitro assay for interfering RNA delivery formulations. Typically, the
   measurements were made as described below, with minor variations.
           Cyclophilin B (PPIB) gene expression knockdown was measured in A549 human
   alveolar basal epithelial cells. For PPIB gene knockdown measurements, A549 cells were
   transfected with an interfering RNA formulation, total RNA prepared 24 hours after
30 transfection, and PPIB mRNA assayed by RT-PCR. QRT-PCR of 36B4 (acidic
   ribosomal phosphoprotein PO) mRNA expression was performed for normalization.
                                                 141

           A549 cells were seeded at 7,500 cells/well (96-well) and incubated overnight in
   medium. Confluency was about 50% at the time of transfection. Transfection complex
   was prepared by adding an interfering RNA to medium (OptiMEM TM ) and vortexing,
   separately adding a delivery formulation to medium (OptiMEMTM) and vortexing, and
 5 finally mixing the interfering RNA in medium with the delivery formulation in medium
   and incubating 20 minutes at room temperature to make the transfection complex. The
   medium for incubated cells was replaced with fresh OptiMEMTM and transfection
   complex was added to each well. Cells were incubated for 5 hrs at 37'C and 5% C0 2,
   then complete medium was added (to a final fetal bovine serum concentration 10%) and
10 incubation continued until 24 hours post-transfection.
           For PPIB gene knockdown cells were lysed and RNA prepared (Invisorb RNA
   Cell HTS 96-Kit/C, Invitek, Berlin, or RNeasy 96 Kit, Qiagen). Quantitative RT-PCR
   was performed using One-Step qRT-PCR kit (Invitrogen) on a DNA Engine Opticon2
   thermal cycler (BioRad).
15         Primers used for PPIB were:
           (SEQ ID NO:354)
           5'-GGCTCCCAGTTCTTCATCAC-3' (forward) and
           (SEQ ID NO:355)
           5'-CCTTCCGCACCACCTC-3' (reverse) with
20         (SEQ ID NO:356)
           5'-FAM-CTAGATGGCAAGCATGTGGTGTTTGG-TAMRA-3'                        for the probe.
           For 36B4, primers were:
           (SEQ ID NO:357)
25         5'-TCTATCATCAACGGGTACAAACGA-3' (forward) and
           (SEQ ID NO:358)
           5'-CTTTTCAGCAAGTGGGAAGGTG-3' (reverse) with
           (SEQ ID NO:359)
           5'-FAM-CCTGGCCTTGTCTGTGGAGACGGATTA-TAMRA-3'                         for the probe.
30
           The structures of some double-stranded RNAs (dsRNA) of this disclosure are
   shown in Table 14.
                                               142

                                 Table 14: Double-stranded RNAs
               RNA                                   SEQUENCES
                         (SEQ ID NO:360)
             DX4227      Sense   5'-GGAAUCmUmUAmUAmUmUmUGAUCmCAsA-3'
             ApoB        (SEQ ID NO:361)
                         Antisense      5'-mUmUGGAUmCAAAmUAmUAAGAmUUCmCsmCsU-3'
                         (SEQ ID NO:362)
             DX4221      Sense 5'-GGAAAGACUGUUCCAAAAACAGUdGdG-3'
             PPIB        (SEQ ID NO:363)
                         Antisense      5'-CCACUGUUUUUGGAACAGUCUUUCCUU-3'
                         (SEQ ID NO:364)
                         Sense 5'-GGAAAGACUGUUCCAAAAAUU-3'
             DC4377      (SEQ ID NO:365)
             PPIB        Antisense      5'-UUUUUGGAACAGUCUUUCCUU-3'
             conjugate   Conjugated with Transportan on 3' end of sense strand:
                         (SEQ ID NO:366)
                         Mal-GWTLNSAGYLLGKINLKALAALAKKIL-amide
             DX2816      (SEQ ID NO:367)
                         Sense 5'-UUCUCCGAACGUGUCACGUdTdT-3'
             Non-target  (SEQ ID NO:368)
             Qneg        Antisense      5'-ACGUGACACGUUCGGAGAAdTdT-3'
                         (SEQ ID NO:369)
             DX2940      Sense 5'-CUACACAAAUCAGCGAUUUdTdT-3'
             LacZ        (SEQ ID NO:370)
                         Antisense      5'-AAAUCGCUGAUUUGUGUAGdTdC-3'
             DX2742      (SEQ ID NO:371)
             PPIB        Sense 5'-GGAAAGACUGUUCCAAAAAUU-3'
             MoCypB      (SEQ ID NO:372)
                         Antisense      5'-UUUUUGGAACAGUCUUUCCUU-3'
           In Table 14, "mU" represents 2'-O-methyl uridine, "mC" represents 2'-O-methyl
 5 cytidine, and "s" represents a phosphorothioate linkage.
                                           EXAMPLE 10
     PPIB gene expression knockdown using a layered carrier and triggered release peptide
           Nanoparticle carriers for an RNAi-inducing agent were tested for PPIB gene
   knockdown activity in A549 cells. A binary complex of a dsRNA RNAi-inducing agent
10 with a triggered release peptide was initially formed at a particular N/P ratio. An
   endosomolytic agent was added, which adjusted the N/P ratio to a final value.
           Formulations of layered carriers were in general prepared by first vortexing a
   dsRNA into HEPES/Dextrose buffer. Triggered release peptide was added with
   vortexing to complex the dsRNA. The complex was incubated for 15 minutes.
                                                 143

   Glutaraldehyde was added and the core allowed to crosslink for 1.5 h. The reaction was
   quenched by addition of 1 M Tris buffer pH 7.4 Endosomolytic agent was added, and the
   carrier mixture incubated for 15 minutes before adding to cells.
           PPIB gene expression knockdown measurements using a layered carrier
 5 comprising a triggered release peptide are shown in Table 15. The results in Table 15
   indicate that the carrier comprising a triggered release peptide was effective in the
   presence of an endosomolytic agent to deliver an active dsRNA agent to cells to produce
   a significant gene silencing effect.
10        Table 15: PPIB gene expression knockdown using a triggered release peptide
            Triggered     Endosomolytic    Binary     Final             Knockdown (%)
              release         agent         N/P       N/P   dsRNA     (vs dsRNA control)
             peptide
                                                            DC4377
             PN4110            none          5         ---                     0
                                                            100 nM
                                                            DC4377
             PN4110          PN3033          5         2.5                     65
                                                            100 nM
                                                            DC4377
             PN4110          PN3033          10         5                      63
                                                            100 nM
                                                            DC4377
           RNAIMAX             none                                            94
                                                             25 nM
           Materials used in this example were the following:
                     PN41 10
                     SEQ ID NO:373
15                   WWHHKKRRCCRRKKHHWW
                     PN3033 (diINF7)
                     SEQ ID NO:374
                     NH 2-GLFEAIEGFIENGWEGMIDGWYGC-CO 2H
20
           The effect of the final N/P ratio on PPIB gene expression knockdown
   measurements using a layered carrier comprising a triggered release peptide was
   determined, and the results are shown in Table 16. The results in Table 16 indicate that
   the carrier comprising a triggered release peptide was effective in the presence of an
                                                  144

   endosomolytic agent to deliver an active dsRNA agent to cells to produce a significant
   gene silencing effects. Further, the results in Table 16 indicate that in vitro knockdown
   for a layered carrier comprising a triggered release peptide is enhanced at a lower final
   N/P ratio of 2.5-3.5.
 5
                   Table 16: Effect of final N/P ratio on gen knockdown in vitro
      Triggered      Endosomolytic     Binary  Final                    Knockdown (%)
        peptide           agent         N/P    N/P      dsRNA     vs untransf      vs control
                                                       DX4221
       PN4110             none           5      ---                    11              14
                                                        100 nM
                                                       DX4221
       PN4110            PN3033          5      2.5                   70              72
                                                        100 nM
                                                       DX4221
       PN4110            PN3033          5      3.5                   72              74
                                                        100 nM
                                                       DX4221
       PN4110            PN3033          5      4.5                   40              36
                                                        100 nM
                                                       DX4221
       PN4110            PN3033          4      2.5                   55              50
                                                        100 nM
                                                       DX4221
       PN4110            PN3033          4      3.5                   36              41
                                                        100 nM
                                            EXAMPLE 11
                Carrier particles having advantageously low delivery efficiency ratio
10          A batch of carrier nanoparticles was prepared using DX4227 condensed with
   PN41 10. The delivery efficiency ratio of the batch was 0.63. The particle diameter was
   223 nm (Z-avg, PDI 0.2).
            A batch of carrier nanoparticles was prepared using DX4227 condensed with
   PN183. The delivery efficiency ratio of the batch was 1.28. The particle diameter was
15 208 nm (Z-avg, PDI 0.2).
            Materials used in this example were the following:
                    PN183
                    SEQ ID NO:375
                    NH 2-KETWWETWWTEWSQPGRKKRRQRRRPPQ
                                                  145

                                         EXAMPLE 12
      Liposomal formulations prepared from amino acid lipids loaded with carrier particles
           Liposomal formulations of an RNAi-agent with an amino acid lipid were prepared
   with the compositions shown in Table 17. RNAi-agents directed to ApoB are described
 5 in WO08/109357.
        Table 17: Liposomal formulations of an ApoB RNAi-agent with an amino acid lipid
                                                        Initial     Particle size      Delivery
     No.   Liposomal formulation     Carrier particles  N/P        Z-avg diameter      efficiency
                                                                    (nm)               ratio
           C18:1-norArg-C16/
           CHEMS/                                                   185 (pH 7.4)
      1    Chol/                     DX4227/PN4110      1.6         202 (pH 4.0)       9.21
           DMPE-PEG2k
           (50/32/16/2)
           C18:1-norArg-C16/
           CHEMS/                                                   298 (pH 7.4)
      2    Chol/                     DX4227/PN183       1.6         312 (pH 4.0)       9.86
           DMPE-PEG2k
           (50/32/16/2)
           C18:1-norArg-C16/
           CHEMS/
      3    Chol/                     DX4227/PN183       1.6         180 (pH 7.4)       9.86
           DMPE-PEG2k
           (50/32/16/2)
           C18:1-norArg-C16/
           CHEMS/
      4    Chol/                     DX4227/PN183       0.8         192                --
           DMPE-PEG2k
           (50/32/16/2)
                                         EXAMPLE 13
10     ApoB gene silencing knockdown in vitro HepG2 cells using liposomal formulations
         prepared from amino acid lipids loaded with peptide condensate carrier particles
           ApoB gene silencing activity was determined in vitro for a liposomal formulation
   prepared from an amino acid lipid loaded with peptide condensate carrier particles. ApoB
   gene knockdown activity was obtained from an in vitro assay in HepG2 cells. The
15 normalized ApoB mRNA expression values for the formulation were measured.
           Methods and protocol for the HepG2 assay were as follows:
           Day 1: 25 pL complexes were added to wells, then 75 pL cells were added to
   wells in DMEM with 10% FBS or in OPTIMEM, no-serum. If in no-serum OPTIMEM,
                                                 146

   100 p L full medium with 20% serum was added 4-5 hrs later, with final 10% FBS
   concentration.
           Day 2: Cells were lysed at 24 hrs, RNA was prepared, and qRT-PCR was
   performed for ApoB and 36B4, or GAPDH mRNA was performed on Day 3.
 5         The liposomal formulation [C 18:1 -norArg-C 16/CHEMS/chol/DMPE-PEG2k
   (50/32/16/2)] was prepared, where C18:1-norArg-C16 is an amino acid lipid as described
   in U.S. Pat. Application No. 12/114,284. The liposomal formulation was loaded with
   peptide condensate carrier particles DX4227/PN41 10. The initial N/P ratio was 0.8. This
   formulation exhibited 91% knockdown compared to Qneg for a concentration of 100 nM
10 of the DX4227 RNAi-agent.
           Additional liposomal formulations [C 18:1 -norArg-C 16/CHEMS/chol/DMPE
   PEG2k (50/32/16/2)] were prepared and loaded with peptide condensate carrier particles
   DX4227/PN183 as shown in Table 18.
     Table 18: ApoB gene silencing knockdown in vitro HepG2 for liposomal formulations
                                          N:P with       Delivery      %KD vs       %KD vs
                  Carrier particles in
       No.      liposomal formulation      peptide      efficiency       Qneg         Qneg
                                                           ratio       (25 nM)      (2.5 nM)
         1         DX4227/PN183              0.6           9.54           95            95
        2          DX4227/PN183              0.7            9.7           95            89
        3          DX4227/PN183              0.8           9.86           87            76
        4          DX4227/PN183              0.6           11.69          89            88
        5          DX4227/PN183              0.7           11.85          91            88
        6          DX4227/PN183              0.8           12.01          90            80
        7         DX4227 control in          ---            ---           69            78
                     RNAIMAX
15
           As shown in Table 18, these formulations exhibited advantageously high
   knockdown activity compared to Qneg for concentrations of the DX4227 RNAi-agent of
   25 nM and 2.5 nM.
                                          EXAMPLE 14
20    ApoB gene silencing knockdown in vivo using liposomal formulations prepared from
                 amino acid lipids loaded with peptide condensate carrier particles
           Liposomal formulations were prepared with an amino acid lipid loaded with
   peptide condensate carrier particles containing an ApoB gene silencing RNAi-agent.
                                                 147

   ApoB gene silencing activity was determined in vivo mouse for these liposomal
   formulations and compared to mouse serum cholesterol levels. The ApoB mRNA
   reduction activity in vivo and the corresponding serum cholesterol reduction in vivo are
   shown in Table 19. The liposomal formulation in Table 19 was [C18:1-norArg
 5 C16/CHEMS/chol/DMPE-PEG2k (50/32/16/2)] and the dose in each case was 2 mg/kg.
    Table 19: ApoB gene silencing in vivo mouse using liposomal formulations loaded with
                                    peptide condensate carrier particles
                    Carrier particles       %Reduction        % Body     %Reduction
            No.       (initial N/P)/       ApoB mRNA       weight change    serum
                        (final N/P)           (p-value)        (48 hrs)   (p-value)
             1       DX4227 alone                 55             -0.6         45
                       (0.8) / (---)           (0.003)                     (0.000)
                                                  64             +1.3         56
             2       DX4227 alone
                       (1.4)/   (---)          (0.001)                     (0.000)
                                                  50             +0.8         43
             3      DX4227/PN183
                       (0.8) / (0.6)           (0.009)                     (0.004)
                    DX4227/PN183                  48             +0.9         38
             4
                       (0.8) / (0.7)           (0.007)                     (0.000)
                                                  34             +1.1         27
             5      DX4227/PN183
                       (0.8) / (0.8)           (0.036)                     (0.002)
                    DX4227/PN183                  70             +1.4         52
             6
                       (1.0) / (0.6)           (0.001)                     (0.000)
                                                  42             +0.6         31
             7      DX4227/PN183
                       (1.0) / (0.7)           (0.014)                     (0.001)
                    DX4227/PN183                  26             +3.2         18
             8
                       (1.0) / (0.8)           (0.073)                     (0.004)
             9            Control                  0             +3.5         0
10         The results in Table 19 show that the liposomal formulations loaded with peptide
   condensate carrier particles containing an ApoB gene silencing RNAi-agent were
   advantageously well-tolerated in mouse because of the generally higher body weight
   increase 48 hours after administration as compared to the same formulations without the
   peptide condensate carrier particles.
15         Further, the results in Table 19 show that the liposomal formulations loaded with
   peptide condensate carrier particles were advantageously highly active for ApoB gene
   silencing in vivo, both in terms of reducing ApoB mRNA and reducing serum cholesterol.
   The results in Table 19 show that a higher initial N/P of 1.0 and a lower final N/P of 0.6
   0.7 was preferred.
20
                                                      148

           Additional liposomal formulations were prepared with an amino acid lipid loaded
   with peptide condensate carrier particles containing an ApoB gene silencing RNAi-agent.
   ApoB gene silencing activity was determined in vivo mouse for these liposomal
   formulations and compared to mouse serum cholesterol levels. The ApoB mRNA
 5 reduction activity in vivo and the corresponding serum cholesterol reduction in vivo are
   shown in Table 20.
    Table 20: ApoB gene silencing in vivo mouse using liposomal formulations loaded with
                                peptide condensate carrier particles
                                                      %Reduction                    %Reduction
                                Carrier particles
               Liposomal          (initial N/P)       ApoB mRNA    %Body weight         serum
   No.
              formulation        Dose (mg/kg)          (p-value)   change (48 hrs)   cholesterol
                                                                                      (p-value)
          C18:1-norArg-C16/
                CHEMS/          DX4227 alone               71                             64
     1           Chol/                (0.8)             (0.001)          0.5           (0.000)
            DMPE-PEG2k             2 (mg/kg)
             (50/32/16/2)
          C18:1-norArg-C16/
                CHEMS/          DX4227 alone               82                             71
    2            Chol/                (1.6)            (0.0001)           1.2          (0.000)
            DMPE-PEG2k             2 (mg/kg)
             (50/32/16/2)
          C18:1-norArg-C16/
                CHEMS/        DX4227/PN41 10               71                             52
    3            Chol/                (1.6)            (0.0001)         +0.5           0.0001)
            DMPE-PEG2k           1.7 (mg/kg)
             (50/32/16/2)
          C18:1-norArg-C16/
                CHEMS/         DX4227/PN183                88                             64
    4            Chol/                (1.6)            (0.0002)         +3.7           0.0001)
            DMPE-PEG2k           1.4 (mg/kg)
             (50/32/16/2)
    5           Control               PBS                  -2            0.2               0
10
           For the liposomal formulations loaded with peptide condensate carrier particles in
   Table 20, the delivery efficiency ratio for Formulation 3 was 9.21 and the delivery
   efficiency ratio for Formulation 4 was 9.86.
           The results in Table 20 show that the liposomal formulations loaded with peptide
15 condensate carrier particles containing an ApoB gene silencing RNAi-agent were
   advantageously well-tolerated in mouse because of the body weight increase 48 hours
   after administration as compared to the body weight loss for the same formulations
   without the peptide condensate carrier particles.
                                                  149

        Further, the results in Table 20 show that the liposomal formulations loaded with
peptide condensate carrier particles were advantageously highly active for ApoB gene
silencing in vivo, both in terms of reducing ApoB mRNA and reducing serum cholesterol.
                                             150

WHAT IS CLAIMED IS:
1.      A process for making a composition comprising an active agent, the process
comprising:
     a) providing a first stream comprising an aqueous buffer solution of an active agent;
     b) providing a second stream comprising a non-aqueous solution of one or more
        liposome-forming compounds in organic solvent;
     c) impinging the first stream on the second stream, thereby forming an impinging stream
        having a concentration of the organic solvent of from about 20% to about 50% v/v,
        and having a pH of from about 6 to about 7.4;
     d) incubating the impinging stream in a collection reservoir for a period of from about
        0.5 hours to about 8 hours at a temperature of from about 20 'C to about 35 'C,
        thereby forming an incubate comprising liposomes.
2.      The process of claim 1, further comprising quenching the incubate by adding buffer
to the incubate sufficient to make the concentration of the organic solvent less than about
20% v/v.
3.      The process of claim 1, wherein the liposome-forming compounds are one or more
DILA2 amino acid compounds.
4.      The process of claim 1, wherein one of the liposome-forming compounds is PONA,
C18:1-norArg-C16.
5.      The process of claim 1, further comprising that the volume flow rate of the first
stream is two times or more the volume flow rate of the second stream.
6.      The process of claim 1, further comprising that the volume flow rate of the first
stream is three times or more the volume flow rate of the second stream.
7.      The process of claim 1, further comprising the volume flow rate of the first stream
being five times or more the volume flow rate of the second stream.
                                              151

8.      The process of claim 1, further comprising adjusting the pH of the impinging stream
to be from about 3 to about 6.
9.      The process of claim 1, further comprising incubating at a pH from about 3 to about
6.
10.     The process of claim 1, further comprising adding buffer to the collection reservoir to
adjust the concentration of the organic solvent.
11.     The process of claim 1, further comprising that the active agent is encapsulated in
liposomes at a level greater than about 50%.
12.     The process of claim 1, further comprising that the active agent is encapsulated in
liposomes at a level greater than about 70%.
13.     The process of claim 1, wherein the active agent is a gene-silencing agent, a gene
regulating agent, an antisense agent, a peptide nucleic acid agent, a ribozyme agent, an RNA
agent, or a DNA agent.
14.     The process of claim 1, wherein the active agent is a UsiRNA.
15.     The process of claim 1, wherein the active agent is a pharmaceutical compound.
16.     The process of claim 1, wherein the liposomal composition retains gene-silencing
activity for 7 days at a temperature of 45 'C.
17.     The process of claim 1, wherein the liposomal composition retains encapsulation of
the active agent for 7 days at a temperature of 45 'C.
18.     The process of claim 1, wherein after tangential flow filtration the liposomes are of
uniform size less than about 160 nm in diameter.
19.     The process of claim 1, wherein after tangential flow filtration the liposomes are of
uniform size with an average diameter from about 40 nm to about 160 nm.
                                               152

20.      The process of claim 1, wherein after tangential flow filtration the liposomes are of
uniform size with an average diameter from about 80 nm to about 150 nm.
21.      The process of claim 1, further comprising filtering the incubate by tangential flow
filtration and diafiltration.
22.      The process of claim 1, further comprising sterilizing the incubate.
23.      The process of claim 1, further comprising exchanging the organic solvent with a
different pharmaceutically-acceptable buffer.
24.      The process of claim 1, further comprising adding organic solvent to the first stream
at a concentration of from about 1% to about 40% v/v.
25.      The process of claim 1, wherein the organic solvent is a (C1-6)alkanol at a
concentration of about 40 to about 99% v/v in sterile water for injection.
26.      The process of claim 1, wherein the organic solvent is a (C1-6)alkanol at a
concentration of about 70 to about 95% v/v in sterile water for injection.
27.      The process of claim 1, wherein the incubating period is from about 1 hours to about
4 hours.
28.      A pharmaceutical composition made by a process of any one of claims 1-27.
29.      A method for delivering a therapeutic nucleic acid to a biological cell comprising
preparing a composition according to a process of any one of claims 1-27 and treating the
cell with the composition.
30.      A method for inhibiting expression of a gene in a biological cell comprising preparing
a composition according to a process of any one of claims 1-27 and treating the cell with the
composition.
31.      A method for inhibiting expression of a gene in a mammal comprising preparing a
composition according to a process of any one of claims 1-27 and administering the
composition to the mammal.
                                               153

32.     A method for treating a disease in a human comprising preparing a composition
according to a process of any one of claims 1-27 and administering the composition to the
human, wherein the disease is cancer, bladder cancer, liver cancer, liver disease,
hypercholesterolemia, an inflammatory disease, a metabolic disease, inflammation, arthritis,
rheumatoid arthritis, encephalitis, bone fracture, heart disease, and viral disease.
33.     A use of a composition made according to a process of any one of claims 1-27 for
treating a disease including cancer, bladder cancer, liver cancer, liver disease,
hypercholesterolemia, an inflammatory disease, a metabolic disease, inflammation, arthritis,
rheumatoid arthritis, encephalitis, bone fracture, heart disease, and viral disease.
34.     A use of a composition made according to a process of any one of claims 1-27 in the
preparation of a medicament for treating a disease including cancer, bladder cancer, liver
cancer, liver disease, hypercholesterolemia, an inflammatory disease, a metabolic disease,
inflammation, arthritis, rheumatoid arthritis, encephalitis, bone fracture, heart disease, and
viral disease.
35.     A composition comprising a liposome containing one or more carrier particles, each
carrier particle comprising an active nucleic acid agent and a peptide, wherein the ratio of the
mass of the peptide plus the mass of the liposome to the mass of the nucleic acid agent is less
than about 15.
36.     The composition of claim 35, wherein the ratio of the mass of the peptide plus the
mass of the liposome to the mass of the nucleic acid agent is less than about 12.
37.     The composition of claim 35, wherein the ratio of the mass of the peptide plus the
mass of the liposome to the mass of the nucleic acid agent is less than about 10.
38.     The composition of claim 35, wherein the ratio of the mass of the peptide plus the
mass of the liposome to the mass of the nucleic acid agent is less than about 9.
39.     The composition of claim 35, wherein the ratio of the mass of the peptide plus the
mass of the liposome to the mass of the nucleic acid agent is less than about 8.
                                               154

40.     The composition of claim 35, wherein the ratio of the mass of the peptide plus the
mass of the liposome to the mass of the nucleic acid agent is less than about 5.
41.     The composition of claim 35, wherein the composition has a knockdown activity of
50% or greater for gene silencing of ApoB in vivo.
42.     The composition of claim 35, wherein the composition has a knockdown activity of
70% or greater for gene silencing of ApoB in vivo.
43.     The composition of claim 35, wherein the composition has a knockdown activity of
90% or greater for gene silencing of ApoB in vivo.
44.     The composition of claim 35, wherein the composition contains a liposome
comprising an amino acid lipid.
45.     The composition of claim 35, wherein the composition contains a charged carrier
particle.
46.     The composition of claim 35, wherein the composition contains a negatively charged
carrier particle.
47.     The composition of claim 35, wherein the composition contains a positively charged
carrier particle.
48.     The composition of claim 35, wherein the active nucleic acid agent is an RNAi
inducing agent or an antisense agent.
49.     The composition of claim 35, wherein the active nucleic acid agent is an RNAi
inducing agent or an antisense agent and each liposome contains 500 or more copies of the
active agent molecule.
50.     The composition of claim 35, wherein the active nucleic acid agent is an RNAi
inducing agent or an antisense agent and each liposome contains 1000 or more copies of the
active agent molecule.
                                             155

51.      The composition of claim 35, wherein the active nucleic acid agent is an RNAi
inducing agent or an antisense agent and each liposome contains 5000 or more copies of the
active agent molecule.
52.      The composition of claim 35, wherein the peptide is a cleavable peptide.
53.      The composition of claim 35, wherein the peptide is a crosslinkable peptide.
54.      The composition of claim 35, wherein the peptide is PN41 10 having SEQ ID
NO:373.
55.      The composition of claim 35, wherein the peptide is PN183 having SEQ ID NO:375.
56.      A method for delivering an active nucleic acid agent to a cell comprising preparing a
composition according to any one of claims 35-55 and treating the cell with the composition.
57.      A method for inhibiting expression of a gene in a cell comprising preparing a
composition according to any one of claims 35-55 and treating the cell with the composition.
58.      A method for inhibiting expression of a gene in a mammal comprising preparing a
composition according to any one of claims 35-55 and administering the composition to the
mammal.
59.      A method for treating a disease in a human, the disease being selected from
inflammatory diseases including rheumatoid arthritis, metabolic diseases including
hypercholesterolemia, liver disease, encephalitis, bone fracture, heart disease, viral disease
including hepatitis and influenza, and cancer, comprising preparing a composition according
to any one of claims 35-55 and administering the composition to the human.
60.      A use of a composition according to any one of claims 35-55 in the preparation of a
medicament for treating a disease including inflammatory diseases including rheumatoid
arthritis, metabolic diseases including hypercholesterolemia, liver disease, encephalitis, bone
fracture, heart disease, viral disease including hepatitis and influenza, and cancer.
                                                156

61.     A use of a composition according to any of claims 35-55 for treating a disease
selected from inflammatory diseases including rheumatoid arthritis, metabolic diseases
including hypercholesterolemia, liver disease, encephalitis, bone fracture, heart disease, viral
disease including hepatitis and influenza, and cancer.
                                              157

<removed-date>
                  1/6
<removed-apn>
                        ..11.-,..
                                     20
                                      10
                                     30
              Fig. 1

<removed-date>
                                         2/ 6
<removed-apn>
              Fig. 2
                                                     200
                       Reagent solution reservoirs
                                                     210
                           Impinging stream
                                    1
                                                     220
                          Collection reservoir
                                                     230
                           Incubation process
                                                     240
                        Quenching stabilization
                                                     250
                            Filtration process
                                    1
                                   260

<removed-date>                  3/6
<removed-apn>
              Fig. 3
                                       300
                       Sterilization
                                       310
                          Filling
                                       320
                        Finishing
                                       330
                         Freezing
                                       340
                         Storage
                            350

                                                                <removed-apn>                <removed-date>
                         430                       430
  Impinging process                  434                            Impinging process
 Active agent solution   0                         0       DILA2-AA Compound and lipid solution
   Reagent reservoir         402     mr 402                          Reagent reservoir
                     400                                                                      410
                                 436
                                                       430
                                                                   Impinging process
                                                                Buffer solution reservoir
                                                                                          420
                                  402
                                             402
                                                       402     Quenching process
                              Incubation process
                                                                 Buffer solution
                              Collection reservoir
                                                                    Reservoir
                                                 440
                                  402                             450
Fig. 4
                                     460

                                      <removed-apn>          <removed-date>
460
   Stabilized liposomal             Diafiltration buffer
  composition reservoir             solution reservoir
                     500                             520
                                           Filtrate
                                                     530
                         504
                                506
                                     Dialysis buffer
                             4
                                    solution reservoir
                                                      540
                     550

                                                                                        <removed-apn>            <removed-date>
Fig. 6
            D8
            C
            (t)                                                        - <U+2666> - PN3496 = peptide 12, CRR
            0
                    4
            C 7
                                                                       EPN3497 = peptide 13, CRRR
        00
        C)                 '-                                                PN3498 = peptide 14, CRRRR
                      N.       'v im
       is       6                      **,                             mPN3499 = peptide 15, CRRRRR
        rn                  \ 
                                 *a. 
                5
         O
                4
        (1)                                                          =
               3                                                         "+.  
                                                                                    ti
        O                                                                                
                                                                                             :"."-
                                                                                                 
                                                                                                        
       ;4=                                                                                                 
       2        2
        0
       CZ
       CO       1-
       >
       U)
                0
                  0   0.5               1          1.5          2               2.5          3            3.5    4
                                           N:P assuming peptides are 50% pure

                                                  MD-08-16PCT.tXt
<removed-date>
                                                SEQUENCE LISTING
              <110> MDRNA, INC.
              <120> PROCESSES AND COMPOSITIONS FOR LIPOSOMAL AND EFFICIENT
                    DELIVERY OF GENE SILENCING THERAPEUTICS
              <130> 08-16PCT
              <140>
              <141>
<removed-apn>
              <150> 61/106,062
              <151> 2008-10-16
              <150> 61/167,379
              <151> 2009-04-07
              <160> 376
              <170> PatentIn version 3.5
              <210>   1
              <211>   5
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <221> source
              <223> /note="Description of Artificial    Sequence: synthetic
                    peptide"
              <220>
              <221> MOD_RES
              <222> (1)..(1)
              <223> Aminobenzoic acid
              <220>
              <221> MOD_RES
              <222> (5)..(5)
              <223> Lysine(2,4-dinitrophenyl)
              <400> 1
              Xaa Phe Arg Ala Lys
              1               5
              <210>   2
              <211>   5
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <221> source
              <223> /note="Description of Artificial    Sequence: Synthetic
                    peptide"
              <220>
              <221> MOD_RES
              <222> (1)..(1)
              <223> Aminobenzoic acid
              <220>
              <221> MOD_RES
              <222> (4)..(4)
              <223> Lysine(2,4-dinitrophenyl)
                                                       Page 1

                                                MD-08-16PCT.txt
<removed-date>
              <400> 2
              xaa Phe Arg Lys Trp
              1               5
              <210> 3
              <211> 5
              <212> PRT
              <213> Artificial   sequence
              <220>
              <221> source
<removed-apn>
              <223> /note="Description of Artificial    sequence: Synthetic
                    peptide"
              <220>
              <221> MOD_RES
              <222> (1)..(1)
              <223> Aminobenzoic acid
              <220>
              <221> MOD_RES
              <222> (4)..(4)
              <223> 4-nitrophenylalanine
              <400> 3
              xaa Phe Arg Phe Phe
              1               5
              <210> 4
              <211> 5
              <212> PRT
              <213> Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <221> source
              <223> /note="Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                    peptide"
              <220>
              <221> MOD_RES
              <222> (1)..(1)
              <223> Aminobenzoic acid
              <220>
              <221> MOD_RES
              <222> (5)..(5)
              <223> Lysine(2,4-dinitrophenyl)
              <400> 4
              xaa Phe Arg Phe Lys
              1               5
              <210> 5
              <211> 8
              <212> PRT
              <213> Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <221> source
              <223> /note="Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                    peptide"
                                                       Page 2

                                                MD-08-16PCT.txt
<removed-date>
              <400> 5
              Asn Phe Phe Gly Val Gly Gly Glu
              1               5
              <210>   6
              <211>   8
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <221> source
              <223> /note="Description of Artificial Sequence: synthetic
<removed-apn>
                      peptide"
              <400> 6
              Cys Pro Val Thr Tyr Gly Gln Cys
              1               5
              <210>   7
              <211>   8
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial sequence
              <220>
              <221> source
              <223> /note="Description of Artificial sequence: synthetic
                      peptide"
              <400> 7
              Gln Ala Ser Arg Ser Phe Asn Gln
              1               5
              <210>   8
              <211>   8
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <221> source
              <223> /note="Description of Artificial   Sequence: synthetic
                    peptide"
              <400> 8
              Ser Arg Ser Phe Asn Gln Gly Arg
              1               5
              <210>   9
              <211>   8
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <221> source
              <223> /note="Description of Artificial   Sequence: Synthetic
                      peptide"
              <400> 9
              Ala Ser Arg Ser Phe Asn Gln Gly
              1                  5
              <210> 10
              <211> 3
              <212> PRT
                                                    Page 3

                                                MD-08-16PCT.txt
<removed-date>
              <213> Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <221> source
              <223> /note="Description of Artificial Sequence:    Synthetic
                      peptide"
              <400> 10
              Gly Arg Arg
              1
<removed-apn>
              <210>   11
              <211>   1
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <221> source
              <223> /note="Description of Artificial    Sequence: Synthetic
                      peptide"
              <400> 11
              Arg
              1
              <210>   12
              <211>   2
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <221> source
              <223> /note="Description of Artificial    Sequence: Synthetic
                      peptide"
              <400> 12
              Gly Arg
              1
              <210>   13
              <211>   8
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial sequence
              <220>
              <221> source
              <223> /note="Description of Artificial    sequence: Synthetic
                      peptide"
              <400> 13
              Tyr Leu Lys Arg Leu Cys Gly Thr
              1               5
              <210>   14
              <211>   8
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <221> source
              <223> /note="Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                      peptide"
              <400> 14
                                                       Page 4

                                                MD-08-16PCT.txt
<removed-date>
              Lys Arg Leu Cys Gly Thr Phe Leu
              1                  5
              <210>   15
              <211>   8
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <221> source
              <223> /note="Description of Artificial sequence: Synthetic
<removed-apn>
                      peptide"
              <220>
              <221> MOD_RES
              <222> (7)..(7)
              <223> Cysteic acid
              <400> 15
              Phe Val Asn Gln His Leu Xaa Gly
              1                  5
              <210>   16
              <211>   8
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <221> source
              <223> /note="Description of Artificial   Sequence: Synthetic
                      peptide"
              <220>
              <221> MOD_RES
              <222> (2)..(2)
              <223> Cysteic acid
              <400> 16
              Leu xaa Gly Ser His Leu Val Glu
              1                  5
              <210>   17
              <211>   8
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <221> source
              <223> /note="Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                      peptide"
              <400> 17
              His Leu Val Glu Ala Leu Tyr Leu
              1               5
              <210> 18
              <211> 8
              <212> PRT
              <213> Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <221> source
                                                    Page 5

                                                MD-08-16PCT.txt
<removed-date>
              <223> /note="Description of Artificial sequence: synthetic
                      peptide"
              <220>
              <221> MOD_RES
              <222> (8)..(8)
              <223> Cysteic acid
              <400> 18
              Val Glu Ala Leu Tyr Leu Val Xaa
              1                  5
<removed-apn>
              <210>   19
              <211>   8
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <221> source
              <223> /note="Description of Artificial sequence:    synthetic
                      peptide"
              <220>
              <221> MOD_RES
              <222> (7)..(7)
              <223> Cysteic acid
              <400> 19
              Glu Ala Leu Tyr Leu Val Xaa Gly
              1                  5
              <210>   20
              <211>   8
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <221> source
              <223> /note="Description of Artificial   Sequence: Synthetic
                      peptide"
              <220>
              <221> MOD_RES
              <222> (5)..(5)
              <223> Cysteic acid
              <400> 20
              Leu Tyr Leu Val Xaa Gly Glu Arg
              1                  5
              <210>   21
              <211>   8
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <221> source
              <223> /note="Description of Artificial   Sequence: Synthetic
                      peptide"
              <220>
                                                    Page 6

                                                MD-08-16PCT.txt
<removed-date>
              <221> MOD_RES
              <222> (2)..(2)
              <223> Cysteic acid
              <400> 21
              val xaa Gly Glu Arg Gly Phe Phe
              1               5
              <210> 22
              <211> 8
              <212> PRT
<removed-apn>
              <213> Artificial sequence
              <220>
              <221> source
              <223> /note="Description of Artificial    Sequence: Synthetic
                      peptide"
              <400> 22
              Gly Glu Arg Gly Phe Phe Tyr Thr
              1               5
              <210>   23
              <211>   8
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <221> source
              <223> /note="Description of Artificial    Sequence: Synthetic
                      peptide"
              <400> 23
              Gly Phe Phe Tyr Thr Pro Lys Ala
              1               5
              <210>   24
              <211>   8
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <221> source
              <223> /note="Description of Artificial    sequence: synthetic
                      peptide"
              <400> 24
              Leu Lys Pro Ala Lys Ser Ala Arg
              1               5
              <210>   25
              <211>   8
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial sequence
              <220>
              <221> source
              <223> /note="Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                      peptide"
              <400> 25
              Ala Pro Leu Lys Pro Ala Lys Ser
              1               5
                                                       Page 7

                                                MD-08-16PCT.txt
<removed-date>
              <210>   26
              <211>   8
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <221> source
              <223> /note="Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                    peptide"
              <400> 26
<removed-apn>
              Lys Pro Ala Lys Ser Ala Arg Ser
              1               5
              <210>   27
              <211>   8
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <221> source
              <223> /note="Description of Artificial sequence: Synthetic
                    peptide"
              <400> 27
              Lys Leu Ser Gly Phe Ser Phe Lys
              1               5
              <210>   28
              <211>   8
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <221> source
              <223> /note="Description of Artificial    sequence: Synthetic
                    peptide"
              <400> 28
              Lys Ser Phe Lys Leu Ser Gly Phe
              1               5
              <210>   29
              <211>   8
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <221> source
              <223> /note="Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                    peptide"
              <400> 29
              Ala Tyr Arg Arg Phe Tyr Gly Pro
              1               5
              <210>   30
              <211>   8
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <221> source
                                                       Page 8

                                                MD-08-16PCT.txt
<removed-date>
              <223> /note="Description of Artificial sequence: Synthetic
                      peptide"
              <400> 30
              Gln Trp Leu Gly Ala Pro Val Pro
              1               5
              <210> 31
              <211> 8
              <212> PRT
              <213> Artificial Sequence
<removed-apn>
              <220>
              <221> source
              <223> /note-"Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                      peptide"
              <400> 31
              met Lys Leu Thr Leu Lys Gly Gly
              1                  5
              <210>   32
              <211>   8
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <221> source
              <223> /note="Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                      peptide"
              <400> 32
              Lys Lys Leu Thr Val Asn Pro Gly
              1                  5
              <210>   33
              <211>   8
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <221> source
              <223> /note="Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                      peptide"
              <400> 33
              Leu Ser Lys Lys Val Lys Asn met
              1                  5
              <210>   34
              <211>   8
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <221> source
              <223> /note="Description of Artificial Sequence: synthetic
                      peptide"
              <400> 34
              Thr Phe Leu Arg Leu Ala Ala Leu
              1                  5
                                                    Page 9

                                                MD-08-16PCT.txt
<removed-date>
              <210>   35
              <211>   8
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial sequence
              <220>
              <221> source
              <223> /note="Description of Artificial Sequence: synthetic
                    peptide"
              <400> 35
              Ser Leu Asn His Tyr Ala Gly Tyr
<removed-apn>
              1               5
              <210>   36
              <211>   4
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <221> source
              <223> /note="Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                    peptide"
              <400> 36
              Leu Leu Val Tyr
              1
              <210>   37
              <211>   8
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial sequence
              <220>
              <221> source
              <223> /note="Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                    peptide"
              <400> 37
              Arg Glu Ala Ala Ser Gly Asn Phe
              1               5
              <210>   38
              <211>   8
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial sequence
              <220>
              <221> source
              <223> /note="Description of Artificial sequence: Synthetic
                    peptide"
              <400> 38
              Pro Thr Val Gly Ser Phe Gly Phe
              1               5
              <210>   39
              <211>   8
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial sequence
              <220>
              <221> source
              <223> /note="Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                                                   Page 10

                                                MD-08-16PCT.txt
<removed-date>
                      peptide"
              <400> 39
              Glu val Asp Leu Leu Ile Gly Ser
              1                  5
              <210>   40
              <211>   8
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
<removed-apn>
              <220>
              <221> source
              <223> /note="Description of Artificial sequence: Synthetic
                      peptide"
              <400> 40
              Pro Arg Phe Lys Ile Ile Gly Gly
              1                  5
              <210> 41
              <211> 2
              <212> PRT
              <213> Artificial sequence
              <220>
              <221> source
              <223> /note="Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                      peptide"
              <400> 41
              Arg Arg
              1
              <210> 42
              <211> 2
              <212> PRT
              <213> Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <221> source
              <223> /note="Description of Artificial Sequence: synthetic
                      peptide"
              <400> 42
              Arg Arg
              1
              <210>   43
              <211>   2
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial sequence
              <220>
              <221> source
              <223> /note="Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                      peptide"
              <400> 43
              Leu Arg
              1
              <210> 44
                                                    Page 11

                                               MD-08-16PCT.txt
<removed-date>
              <211> 2
              <212> PRT
              <213> Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <221> source
              <223> /note="Description of Artificial Sequence: synthetic
                      peptide"
              <400> 44
              Phe Arg
              1
<removed-apn>
              <210>   45
              <211>   2
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial sequence
              <220>
              <221> source
              <223> /note="Description of Artificial sequence: Synthetic
                      peptide"
              <400> 45
              Phe Arg
              1
              <210>   46
              <211>   2
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial sequence
              <220>
              <221> source
              <223> /note="Description of Artificial Sequence: synthetic
                      peptide"
              <400> 46
              Phe Arg
              1
              <210>   47
              <211>   7
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <221> source
              <223> /note="Description of Artificial sequence: Synthetic
                      peptide"
              <220>
              <221> MOD_RES
              <222> (1)..(1)
              <223> Aminobenzoic acid
              <220>
              <221> MOD_RES
              <222> (5)..(5)
              <223> 4-nitrophenylalanine
              <400> 47
              Xaa Ile Glu Phe Phe Arg Feu
              1               5
                                                   Page 12

                                                  MD-08-16PCT.txt
<removed-date>
              <210>   48
              <211>   8
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <221> source
              <223> /note="Description of Artificial sequence: Synthetic
                      peptide"
<removed-apn>
              <400> 48
              Leu Leu Ser Ala Leu Val Glu Thr
              1               5
              <210>   49
              <211>   8
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <221> source
              <223> /note="Description of Artificial    sequence: Synthetic
                      peptide"
              <400> 49
              Ile Thr Leu Leu Ser Ala Leu Val
              1                5
              <210>   50
              <211>   8
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <221> source
              <223> /note="Description of Artificial    sequence: Synthetic
                      peptide"
              <400> 50
              Leu Ser Ala Leu Val Glu Thr Arg
              1               5
              <210> 51
              <211> 8
              <212> PRT
              <213> Artificial   Sequence
              <220>
              <221> source
              <223> /note="Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                    peptide"
              <400> 51
              val Val Ile Ala Thr val   Ile val
              1                5
              <210> 52
              <211> 8
              <212> PRT
              <213> Artificial Sequence
              <220>
                                                      Page 13

                                                MD-08-16PCT.txt
<removed-date>
              <221> source
              <223> /note="Description of Artificial    sequence: Synthetic
                      peptide"
              <400> 52
              Ile Ile Gly Leu Met val Gly Gly
              1                  5
              <210>   53
              <211>   8
              <212>   PRT
<removed-apn>
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <221> source
              <223> /note="Description of Artificial sequence: synthetic
                    peptide"
              <400> 53
              val Ile Thr Leu Val Met Leu Lys
              1                  5
              <210>   54
              <211>   8
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial sequence
              <220>
              <221> source
              <223> /note="Description of Artificial Sequence:     synthetic
                      peptide"
              <400> 54
              Lys Leu val Phe Phe Ala Glu Asp
              1                  5
              <210>   55
              <211>   8
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <221> source
              <223> /note="Description of Artificial     sequence: synthetic
                      peptide"
              <400> 55
              Leu Val Phe Phe Ala Glu Asp val
              1                  5
              <210> 56
              <211> 8
              <212> PRT
              <213> Artificial       sequence
              <220>
              <221> source
              <223> /note="Description of Artificial     Sequence: synthetic
                      peptide"
              <400> 56
              Thr Tyr Lys Phe Phe Glu Gln Met
              1                  5
                                                       Page 14

                                                MD-08-16PCT.txt
<removed-date>
              <210>   57
              <211>   8
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <221> source
              <223> /note="Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                      peptide"
              <400> 57
<removed-apn>
              Val Ile Ala Thr val Ile Val Ile
              1                  5
              <210>   58
              <211>   8
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <221> source
              <223> /note="Description of Artificial   Sequence: Synthetic
                      peptide"
              <400> 58
              Ile val Ile Thr Leu Val Met Leu
              1                  5
              <210>   59
              <211>   8
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <221> source
              <223> /note="Description of Artificial   Sequence: Synthetic
                      peptide"
              <400> 59
              Leu Gly Asp Phe Phe Arg Lys Ser
              1                  5
              <210>   60
              <211>   8
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <221> source
              <223> /note="Description of Artificial   Sequence: Synthetic
                      peptide"
              <400> 60
              Ile Lys Asp Phe Leu Arg Asn Leu
              1                  5
              <210>   61
              <211>   8
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <221> source
                                                    Page 15

                                               MD-08-16PCT.txt
<removed-date>
              <223> /note="Description of Artificial sequence: Synthetic
                    peptide"
              <400> 61
              Gly Tyr Asp Leu Ser Phe Leu Pro
              1               5
              <210>   62
              <211>   8
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial sequence
<removed-apn>
              <220>
              <221> source
              <223> /note="Description of Artificial sequence: Synthetic
                    peptide"
              <400> 62
              Ala Pro Gly Phe Leu Gly Leu Pro
              1               5
              <210>   63
              <211>   8
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <221> source
              <223> /note="Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                    peptide"
              <400> 63
              Thr Met Thr Leu Ser Lys Ser Thr
              1               5
              <210>   64
              <211>   8
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial sequence
              <220>
              <221> source
              <223> /note="Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                    peptide"
              <400> 64
              Asn Tyr Phe Leu Asp Val Glu Leu
              1               5
              <210>   65
              <211>   8
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial sequence
              <220>
              <221> source
              <223> /note="Description of Artificial Sequence: synthetic
                    peptide"
              <400> 65
              Ala Leu Asp Phe Ala val Gly Glu
              1               5
                                                   Page 16

                                                MD-08-16PCT.txt
<removed-date>
              <210>   66
              <211>   8
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <221> source
              <223> /note="Description of Artificial sequence: Synthetic
                      peptide"
              <400> 66
              Phe Gln Ile Tyr Ala val Pro Trp
<removed-apn>
              1               5
              <210>   67
              <211>   8
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <221> source
              <223> /note="Description of Artificial   Sequence:   Synthetic
                      peptide"
              <400> 67
              Lys Asp val Leu Asp Ser Val Leu
              1               5
              <210>   68
              <211>   8
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <221> source
              <223> /note="Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                      peptide"
              <400> 68
              val Glu Asp Leu Glu Ser Val Gly
              1               5
              <210>   69
              <211>   8
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <221> source
              <223> /note="Description of Artificial   Sequence: Synthetic
                      peptide"
              <400> 69
              Gly Asn Phe Lys Ser Gln Leu Gln
              1               5
              <210>   70
              <211>   8
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <221> source
              <223> /note="Description of Artificial  Sequence: Synthetic
                                                    Page 17

                                                MD-08-16PCT.txt
<removed-date>
                      peptide"
              <400> 70
              Trp Gly Thr Phe Glu Glu val Ser
              1               5
              <210> 71
              <211> 8
              <212> PRT
              <213> Artificial Sequence
<removed-apn>
              <220>
              <221> source
              <223> /note="Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                      peptide"
              <400> 71
              Leu Gly Glu Phe Val Ser Glu Thr
              1                  5
              <210>   72
              <211>   8
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <221> source
              <223> /note="Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                      peptide"
              <400> 72
              Ser His Cys Leu Leu val Thr Leu
              1                  5
              <210>   73
              <211>   8
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <221> source
              <223> /note="Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                      peptide"
              <400> 73
              Leu Val Thr Leu Ala Ala His Leu
              1                  5
              <210> 74
              <211> 8
              <212> PRT
              <213> Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <221> source
              <223> /note="Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                      peptide"
              <400> 74
              Ser Thr val Leu Thr Ser Lys Tyr
              1                  5
              <210> 75
                                                    Page 18

                                                MD-08-16PCT.txt
<removed-date>
              <211> 8
              <212> PRT
              <213> Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <221> source
              <223> /note="Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                      peptide"
              <400> 75
              Ala Glu Ala Leu Glu Arg Met Phe
              1               5
<removed-apn>
              <210> 76
              <211> 8
              <212> PRT
              <213> Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <221> source
              <223> /note="Description of Artificial Sequence: synthetic
                      peptide"
              <400> 76
              Leu Glu Arg Met Phe Leu Ser Phe
              1               5
              <210> 77
              <211> 8
              <212> PRT
              <213> Artificial sequence
              <220>
              <221> source
              <223> /note="Description of Artificial   Sequence: Synthetic
                      peptide"
              <400> 77
              Leu Asp Lys Phe Leu Ala Ser Val
              1               5
              <210>   78
              <211>   8
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial sequence
              <220>
              <221> source
              <223> /note="Description of Artificial   Sequence: Synthetic
                      peptide"
              <400> 78
              Glu Arg Met Phe Leu Ser Phe Pro
              1               5
              <210>   79
              <211>   8
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <221> source
              <223> /note="Description of Artificial Sequence: synthetic
                      peptide"
                                                    Page 19

                                                      MD-08-16PCT.txt
<removed-date>
              <400> 79
              Phe Leu Ser Phe Pro Thr Thr Lys
              1                  5
              <210>   80
              <211>   8
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
<removed-apn>
              <221> source
              <223> /note="Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                      peptide"
              <400> 80
              Ala Asn val Ser Thr val Leu Thr
              1                5
              <210> 81
              <211> 8
              <212> PRT
              <213> Artificial       Sequence
              <220>
              <221> source
              <223> /note="Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                      peptide"
              <400> 81
              Ala Ser val Ser Thr val       Leu Thr
              1                5
              <210> 82
              <211> 8
              <212> PRT
              <213> Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <221> source
              <223> /note="Description of Artificial        Sequence: Synthetic
                      peptide"
              <400> 82
              Leu Leu Val Thr Leu Ala Ser His
              1               5
              <210>   83
              <211>   8
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <221> source
              <223> /note="Description of Artificial sequence: Synthetic
                    peptide"
              <400> 83
              Leu Leu Val Thr Leu Ala Ala HiS
              1                  5
              <210> 84
              <211> 8
                                                          Page 20

                                                MD-08-16PCT.txt
<removed-date>
              <212> PRT
              <213> Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <221> source
              <223> /note="Description of Artificial   Sequence: synthetic
                      peptide"
              <400> 84
              Ala Ala Glu Tyr Gly Ala Glu Ala
              1               5
<removed-apn>
              <210> 85
              <211> 5
              <212> PRT
              <213> Artificial sequence
              <220>
              <221> source
              <223> /note="Description of Artificial   Sequence:   Synthetic
                      peptide"
              <400> 85
              Val Leu Ser Ala Ala
              1               5
              <210> 86
              <211> 8
              <212> PRT
              <213> Artificial   Sequence
              <220>
              <221> source
              <223> /note="Description of Artificial   Sequence:   Synthetic
                      peptide"
              <400> 86
              val Gln Ala Ala Tyr Gln Lys Val
              1               5
              <210>   87
              <211>   8
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <221> source
              <223> /note="Description of Artificial Sequence: synthetic
                      peptide"
              <400> 87
              Thr Ala Glu Glu Lys Ala Ala Val
              1               5
              <210> 88
              <211> 8
              <212> PRT
              <213> Artificial sequence
              <220>
              <221> source
              <223> /note="Description of Artificial   sequence: synthetic
                      peptide"
                                                    Page 21

                                                MD-08-16PCT.txt
<removed-date>
              <400> 88
              Val Thr Ala Leu Trp Gly Lys val
              1                5
              <210>   89
              <211>   7
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial sequence
              <220>
              <221> source
<removed-apn>
              <223> /note="Description of Artificial Sequence: synthetic
                      peptide"
              <400> 89
              val His Leu Thr Pro Glu Glu
              1                  5
              <210> 90
              <211> 8
              <212> PRT
              <213> Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <221> source
              <223> /note="Description of Artificial sequence: Synthetic
                      peptide"
              <400> 90
              Leu Gly Arg Leu Leu Val val Tyr
              1                  5
              <210> 91
              <211> 8
              <212> PRT
              <213> Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <221> source
              <223> /note="Description of Artificial   Sequence: synthetic
                      peptide"
              <400> 91
              Leu Gly Arg Leu Leu Val val Tyr
              1               5
              <210>   92
              <211>   8
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <221> source
              <223> /note="Description of Artificial   Sequence: Synthetic
                      peptide"
              <400> 92
              Gly Arg Leu Leu Val Val Tyr Pro
              1                  5
              <210> 93
              <211> 8
              <212> PRT
                                                    Page 22

                                                MD-08-16PCT.txt
<removed-date>
              <213> Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <221> source
              <223> /note="Description of Artificial   Sequence: Synthetic
                    peptide"
              <400> 93
              Gly Arg Leu Leu val val Tyr Pro
              1               5
<removed-apn>
              <210>   94
              <211>   8
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial sequence
              <220>
              <221> source
              <223> /note="Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                    peptide"
              <400> 94
              Val Thr Ala Phe Trp Gly Lys val
              1                5
              <210>   95
              <211>   8
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial sequence
              <220>
              <221> source
              <223> /note="Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                    peptide"
              <400> 95
              Thr Gln Arg Phe Phe Glu Ser Phe
              1               5
              <210>   96
              <211>   8
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <221> source
              <223> /note="Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                    peptide"
              <400> 96
              Thr Gln Arg Phe Phe Glu Ser Phe
              1               5
              <210>   97
              <211>   8
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <221> source
              <223> /note="Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                    peptide"
              <400> 97
                                                    Page 23

                                                MD-08-16PCT.txt
<removed-date>
              Phe Glu Ser Phe Gly Asp Leu Ser
              1               5
              <210>   98
              <211>   8
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <221> source
              <223> /note="Description of Artificial sequence: synthetic
<removed-apn>
                      peptide"
              <400> 98
              Phe Glu Ser Phe Gly Asp Leu Ser
              1                  5
              <210> 99
              <211> 8
              <212> PRT
              <213> Artificial sequence
              <220>
              <221> source
              <223> /note="Description of Artificial sequence: synthetic
                      peptide"
              <400> 99
              Lys Gly Thr Phe Ala Thr Leu Ser
              1                  5
              <210>   100
              <211>   8
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <221> source
              <223> /note="Description of Artificial   sequence: Synthetic
                      peptide"
              <400> 100
              Thr Ala Leu Trp Gly Lys Val Asn
              1                  5
              <210>   101
              <211>   8
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <221> source
              <223> /note="Description of Artificial   sequence: Synthetic
                      peptide"
              <400> 101
              Ala Asp Ala Val Met Asn Asn Pro
              1                  5
              <210>   102
              <211>   8
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
                                                    Page 24

                                                MD-08-16PCT.txt
<removed-date>
              <220>
              <221> source
              <223> /note="Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                      peptide"
              <220>
              <221> MOD_RES
              <222> (8)..(8)
              <223> Cysteic acid
<removed-apn>
              <400> 102
              Val Glu Ala Leu Tyr Leu Val Xaa
              1                  5
              <210> 103
              <211> 8
              <212> PRT
              <213> Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <221> source
              <223> /note="Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                      peptide"
              <220>
              <221> MOD_RES
              <222> (6)..(6)
              <223> Cysteic acid
              <400> 103
              Ala Leu Tyr Leu Val Xaa Gly Glu
              1                  5
              <210>   104
              <211>   8
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <221> source
              <223> /note="Description of Artificial Sequence: synthetic
                      peptide"
              <400> 104
              Glu Arg Gly Phe Phe Tyr Thr Pro
              1               5
              <210> 105
              <211> 8
              <212> PRT
              <213> Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <221> source
              <223> /note="Description of Artificial Sequence: synthetic
                      peptide"
              <400> 105
              Arg Leu Arg Ala Tyr Leu Leu Pro
              1                  5
                                                    Page 25

                                                MD-08-16PCT.txt
<removed-date>
              <210> 106
              <211> 8
              <212> PRT
              <213> Artificial       Sequence
              <220>
              <221> source
              <223> /note="Description of Artificial     Sequence: Synthetic
                      peptide"
              <400> 106
              Leu Lys Phe Leu Asn Val Leu Ser
<removed-apn>
              1                  5
              <210>   107
              <211>   8
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <221> source
              <223> /note="Description of Artificial     Sequence: synthetic
                      peptide"
              <400> 107
              Ser Gln Arg Tyr Lys Val Asp Tyr
              1                  5
              <210> 108
              <211> 8
              <212> PRT
              <213> Artificial sequence
              <220>
              <221> source
              <223> /note="Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                      peptide"
              <400> 108
              Lys Val Asp Tyr Glu Ser Gln Ser
              1                  5
              <210>   109
              <211>   8
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <221> source
              <223> /note="Description of Artificial sequence: Synthetic
                      peptide"
              <400> 109
              Ser Gly Gly Lys Met Lys Val Asn
              1               5
              <210> 110
              <211> 8
              <212> PRT
              <213> Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <221> source
              <223> /note="Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                                                       Page 26

                                                MD-08-16PCT.txt
<removed-date>
                      peptide"
              <400> 110
              Arg Pro Phe Leu Val Val Ile Phe
              1                  5
              <210>   111
              <211>   8
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
<removed-apn>
              <220>
              <221> source
              <223> /note="Description of Artificial   Sequence: synthetic
                      peptide"
              <400> 111
              Ala Ile Lys Phe Phe Ser Ala Gln
              1                  5
              <210> 112
              <211> 8
              <212> PRT
              <213> Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <221> source
              <223> /note="Description of Artificial sequence: Synthetic
                      peptide"
              <400> 112
              Ile Lys Phe Phe Ser Ala Gln Thr
              1                  5
              <210>   113
              <211>   8
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial sequence
              <220>
              <221> source
              <223> /note="Description of Artificial sequence: synthetic
                      peptide"
              <400> 113
              Ile Thr Lys Leu Asn Ala Glu Asn
              1               5
              <210>   114
              <211>   8
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <221> source
              <223> /note="Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                      peptide"
              <400> 114
              Ala Gly Lys Lys Tyr Phe Ile Asp
              1                  5
              <210> 115
                                                    Page 27

                                                MD-08-16PCT.txt
<removed-date>
              <211> 8
              <212> PRT
              <213> Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <221> source
              <223> /note="Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                    peptide"
              <400> 115
              Phe Ile Asp Phe Val Ala Arg Glu
              1               5
<removed-apn>
              <210>   116
              <211>   8
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <221> source
              <223> /note="Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                    peptide"
              <400> 116
              Pro Tyr Ile Leu Lys Arg Gly Ser
              1               5
              <210>   117
              <211>   8
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <221> source
              <223> /note="Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                    peptide"
              <400> 117
              Phe Gln Glu Ala Tyr Arg Arg Phe
              1               5
              <210>   118
              <211>   8
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <221> source
              <223> /note="Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                    peptide"
              <400> 118
              Leu Leu Lys Glu Ala Gln Leu Pro
              1               5
              <210>   119
              <211>   8
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <221> source
              <223> /note="Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                    peptide"
                                                   Page 28

                                                   MD-08-16PCT.txt
<removed-date>
              <400> 119
              val val Leu Leu Pro Asp val Glu
              1                  5
              <210>   120
              <211>   8
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
<removed-apn>
              <221> source
              <223> /note="Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                      peptide"
              <400> 120
              Asp val val Leu Phe Glu Lys Lys
              1                  5
              <210> 121
              <211> 8
              <212> PRT
              <213> Artificial sequence
              <220>
              <221> source
              <223> /note="Description      of Artificial   Sequence: Synthetic
                      peptide"
              <400> 121
              Gly Met Glu Leu Ile val    Ser Gln
              1                  5
              <210>   122
              <211>   8
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <221> source
              <223> /note="Description of Artificial        Sequence: Synthetic
                      peptide"
              <400> 122
              Tyr Pro val Trp Ser Gly Leu Pro
              1                  5
              <210> 123
              <211> 8
              <212> PRT
              <213> Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <221> source
              <223> /note="Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                      peptide"
              <400> 123
              Asn Glu Ile Tyr Pro val Trp Ser
              1                  5
              <210> 124
              <211> 8
                                                        Page 29

                                                MD- 08- 16PCT.txt
<removed-date>
              <212> PRT
              <213> Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <221> source
              <223> /note="Description of Artificial sequence: synthetic
                      peptide"
              <400> 124
              Phe Ile val Gly Phe Thr Arg Gln
              1                  5
<removed-apn>
              <210> 125
              <211> 8
              <212> PRT
              <213> Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <221> source
              <223> /note="Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                      peptide"
              <400> 125
              Ala Asn Pro Lys Gln Thr Trp Val
              1                  5
              <210>   126
              <211>   8
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <221> source
              <223> /note="Description of Artificial sequence: synthetic
                      peptide"
              <400> 126
              His Pro Lys Phe Ile Val Gly Phe
              1                  5
              <210>   127
              <211>   8
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial sequence
              <220>
              <221> source
              <223> /note="Description of Artificial Sequence: synthetic
                      peptide"
              <400> 127
              Lys Gln Thr Trp Val Lys Tyr Ile
              1                  5
              <210>   128
              <211>   8
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <221> source
              <223> /note="Description of Artificial sequence: Synthetic
                      peptide"
                                                     Page 30

                                                MD-08-16PCT.txt
<removed-date>
              <400> 128
              Trp Val Lys Tyr Ile Val Arg Leu
              1               5
              <210>   129
              <211>   8
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial sequence
              <220>
              <221> source
<removed-apn>
              <223> /note="Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                    peptide"
              <400> 129
              Pro Lys Glu Leu Trp val Gin Gin
              1               5
              <210>   130
              <211>   8
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <221> source
              <223> /note="Description of Artificial sequence: Synthetic
                    peptide"
              <400> 130
              Leu Arg Tyr Asp Thr Glu Tyr Tyr
              1               5
              <210>   131
              <211>   8
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <221> source
              <223> /note="Description of Artificial Sequence: synthetic
                    peptide"
              <400> 131
              Lys Ile Leu Gly Cys Asp Trp Tyr
              1               5
              <210>   132
              <211>   8
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial sequence
              <220>
              <221> source
              <223> /note="Description of Artificial sequence: Synthetic
                    peptide"
              <400> 132
              Asp val Gln Leu Lys Asn Ile Thr
              1               5
              <210> 133
              <211> 8
              <212> PRT
                                                    Page 31

                                                MD-08-16PCT.txt
<removed-date>
              <213> Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <221> source
              <223> /note="Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                    peptide"
              <400> 133
              Phe Asn Asn Leu Asp Arg Ile Leu
              1               5
<removed-apn>
              <210>   134
              <211>   8
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial sequence
              <220>
              <221> source
              <223> /note="Description of Artificial sequence: Synthetic
                    peptide"
              <400> 134
              Gln Leu Lys Leu Tyr Asp AS Lys
              1               5
              <210>   135
              <211>   8
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <221> source
              <223> /note="Description of Artificial sequence: Synthetic
                    peptide"
              <400> 135
              ser Leu Gly Leu Val Gly Thr His
              1               5
              <210>   136
              <211>   8
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial sequence
              <220>
              <221> source
              <223> /note="Description of Artificial sequence: Synthetic
                    peptide"
              <400> 136
              Arg Asp Ile Leu Ile Ala Ser Asn
              1               5
              <210>   137
              <211>   8
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <221> source
              <223> /note="Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                    peptide"
              <400> 137
                                                    Page 32

                                                   MD-08-16PCT.txt
<removed-date>
              Thr Asp Tyr Met Tyr Leu Thr Asn
              1               5
              <210>   138
              <211>   8
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <221> source
              <223> /note="Description of Artificial     Sequence: Synthetic
<removed-apn>
                      peptide"
              <400> 138
              Ser Ile Thr Phe Leu Arg Asp Phe
              1               5
              <210>   139
              <211>   8
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial sequence
              <220>
              <221> source
              <223> /note="Description of Artificial     sequence: Synthetic
                      peptide"
              <400> 139
              Gly Leu Lys Phe Ile Ile Lys Arg
              1               5
              <210>   140
              <211>   8
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <221> source
              <223> /note="Description of Artificial     Sequence: Synthetic
                      peptide"
              <400> 140
              Ile Asp Ser Phe Val    Lys Ser Gly
              1                  5
              <210>   141
              <211>   8
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <221> source
              <223> /note="Description of Artificial     sequence: synthetic
                      peptide"
              <400> 141
              Glu Ile Asp Ser Phe Val Lys Ser
              1               5
              <210> 142
              <211> 8
              <212> PRT
              <213> Artificial sequence
                                                       Page 33

                                                  MD-08-16PCT.txt
<removed-date>
              <220>
              <221> source
              <223> /note="Description of Artificial sequence: Synthetic
                    peptide"
              <400> 142
              Lys Thr Tyr Ser val Gln Leu Lys
              1               5
              <210>   143
<removed-apn>
              <211>   8
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial sequence
              <220>
              <221> source
              <223> /note="Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                    peptide"
              <400> 143
              Ala Ser Asn Trp Tyr Phe Asn His
              1               5
              <210>   144
              <211>   8
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial sequence
              <220>
              <221> source
              <223> /note="Description of Artificial Sequence: synthetic
                    peptide"
              <400> 144
              Gly Cys Asp Trp Tyr Phe Val   Pro
              1               5
              <210>   145
              <211>   8
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <221> source
              <223> /note="Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                    peptide"
              <400> 145
              Asp Thr Glu Tyr Tyr Leu Ile Pro
              1               5
              <210>   146
              <211>   8
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial sequence
              <220>
              <221> source
              <223> /note="Description of Artificial sequence: Synthetic
                      peptide"
              <400> 146
              Ile Thr Asp Tyr Met Tyr Leu Thr
                                                      Page 34

                                                MD-08-16PCT.txt
<removed-date>
              1
              <210>   147
              <211>   8
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <221> source
              <223> /note="Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                      peptide"
<removed-apn>
              <400> 147
              Asp Tyr met Tyr Leu Thr Asn Ala
              1               5
              <210> 148
              <211> 8
              <212> PRT
              <213> Artificial sequence
              <220>
              <221> source
              <223> /note="Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                      peptide"
              <400> 148
              Leu Asn Ile Tyr Tyr Arg Arg Leu
              1               5
              <210> 149
              <211> 8
              <212> PRT
              <213> Artificial       Sequence
              <220>
              <221> source
              <223> /note="Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                      peptide"
              <400> 149
              Ile Pro Leu Tyr Lys Lys Met Glu
              1
              <210> 150
              <211> 8
              <212> PRT
              <213> Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <221> source
              <223> /note="Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                      peptide"
              <400> 150
              Lys Phe Leu Ala Ser Leu Leu Glu
              1                  5
              <210> 151
              <211> 8
              <212> PRT
              <213> Artificial Sequence
                                                    Page 35

<removed-date>
                                               MD-08-16PCT.txt
              <220>
              <221> source
              <223> /note="Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                    peptide"
              <400> 151
              Thr Thr Glu Leu Phe Ser Pro Val
              1                5
              <210>   152
              <211>   8
<removed-apn>
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <221> source
              <223> /note="Description of Artificial   Sequence: Synthetic
                    peptide"
              <400> 152
              Asp Gly His Phe Leu Arg Glu Pro
              1               5
              <210>   153
              <211>   8
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <221> source
              <223> /note="Description of Artificial   Sequence: synthetic
                    peptide"
              <400> 153
              Phe Ser His Phe Ile Arg Ser Gly
              1               5
              <210>   154
              <211>   5
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <221> source
              <223> /note="Description of Artificial sequence: synthetic
                    peptide"
              <220>
              <221> MOD_RES
              <222> (1)..(1)
              <223> Aminobenzoic acid
              <220>
              <221> MOD_RES
              <222> (5)(5)
              <223> Lysine(2,4-dinitrophenyl)
              <400> 154
              Xaa Phe Arg Ala Lys
              1               5
              <210> 155
              <211> 8
                                                   Page 36

                                                   MD-08-16PCT.txt
<removed-date>
              <212> PRT
              <213> Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <221> source
              <223> /note="Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                      peptide"
              <400> 155
              Met Phe Leu Glu Ala Ile Pro Met
              1                  5
<removed-apn>
              <210> 156
              <211> 8
              <212> PRT
              <213> Artificial sequence
              <220>
              <221> source
              <223> /note="Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                      peptide"
              <400> 156
              Ala Ile Pro Met Ser Ile Pro Pro
              1                  5
              <210>   157
              <211>   8
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <221> source
              <223> /note="Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                      peptide"
              <400> 157
              Cys Pro Val Thr Tyr Gly Gln Cys
              1                  5
              <210>   158
              <211>   8
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial sequence
              <220>
              <221> source
              <223> /note="Description of Artificial Sequence: synthetic
                      peptide"
              <400> 158
              Gln Ala Ser Arg Ser Phe Asn Gln
              1               5
              <210>   159
              <211>   8
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <221> source
              <223> /note="Description      of Artificial sequence: Synthetic
                      peptide"
                                                       Page 37

                                                MD-08-16PCT.txt
<removed-date>
              <400> 159
              Lys val Phe Gln Glu Pro Leu Phe
              1               5
              <210>   160
              <211>   8
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial sequence
              <220>
              <221> source
<removed-apn>
              <223> /note="Description of Artificial sequence: synthetic
                    peptide"
              <400> 160
              Leu Phe Tyr Glu Ala Pro Arg Ser
              1               5
              <210>   161
              <211>   8
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <221> source
              <223> /note="Description of Artificial Sequence: synthetic
                    peptide"
              <400> 161
              Ala Thr Leu Thr Phe Asp His Ser
              1               5
              <210>   162
              <211>   8
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <221> source
              <223> /note="Description of Artificial Sequence: synthetic
                    peptide"
              <400> 162
              Pro Leu Phe Tyr Glu Ala Pro Arg
              1               5
              <210>   163
              <211>   8
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <221> source
              <223> /note="Description of Artificial   sequence: synthetic
                    peptide"
              <220>
              <221> MOD_RES
              <222> (7).(7)
              <223> Hydroxyproline
              <400> 163
              Gln Gly Phe Gin Gly Pro Pro Gly
                                                    Page 38

                                                MD-08-16PCT.txt
<removed-date>
              1                  5
              <210>   164
              <211>   8
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <221> source
              <223> /note="Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                    peptide"
<removed-apn>
              <220>
              <221> MOD_RES
              <222> (6)..(6)
              <223> Hydroxyproline
              <400> 164
              Gly Pro Arg Gly Leu Pro Gly Pro
              1               5
              <210>   165
              <211>   8
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <221> source
              <223> /note="Description of Artificial   Sequence: synthetic
                      peptide"
              <220>
              <221> MOD_RES
              <222> (3)..(3)
              <223> Hydroxyproline
              <220>
              <221> MOD_RES
              <222> (6)..(6)
              <223> Hydroxyproline
              <400> 165
              Gly Pro Pro Gly Ala Pro Gly Pro
              1               5
              <210>   166
              <211>   8
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <221> source
              <223> /note="Description of Artificial   Sequence: Synthetic
                      peptide"
              <400> 166
              Arg Leu Val Gly Gly Pro Met Asp
              1                  5
              <210> 167
              <211> 8
              <212> PRT
                                                    Page 39

                                                MD-08-16PCT.txt
<removed-date>
              <213> Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <221> source
              <223> /note="Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                      peptide"
              <400> 167
              Thr Gly Leu Arg Asp Pro Phe Asn
              1                  5
<removed-apn>
              <210>   168
              <211>   8
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial sequence
              <220>
              <221> source
              <223> /note="Description of Artificial sequence: Synthetic
                      peptide"
              <400> 168
              Lys Ile Leu His Leu Pro Thr Ser
              1               5
              <210>   169
              <211>   8
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <221> source
              <223> /note="Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                      peptide"
              <400> 169
              Ala His Leu Lys Asn Ser Gln Glu
              1               5
              <210>   170
              <211>   8
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial sequence
              <220>
              <221> source
              <223> /note="Description of Artificial sequence: Synthetic
                      peptide"
              <400> 170
              Ile Gln Gln Lys Ile Leu His Leu
              1               5
              <210>   171
              <211>   8
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <221> source
              <223> /note="Description of Artificial sequence: synthetic
                      peptide"
              <400> 171
                                                    Page 40

                                                MD-08-16PCT.txt
<removed-date>
              Ala Pro Leu Thr Ala Glu Ile Gln
              1                  5
              <210> 172
              <211> 8
              <212> PRT
              <213> Artificial sequence
              <220>
              <221> source
              <223> /note="Description of Artificial   Sequence: Synthetic
<removed-apn>
                      peptide"
              <400> 172
              Ile met Phe Thr Ser Leu Pro Leu
              1                  5
              <210>   173
              <211>   1
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <221> source
              <223> /note="Description of Artificial   sequence: Synthetic
                      peptide"
              <400> 173
              Leu
              1
              <210>   174
              <211>   2
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <221> source
              <223> /note="Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                      peptide"
              <400> 174
              Leu Phe
              1
              <210> 175
              <211> 1
              <212> PRT
              <213> Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <221> source
              <223> /note="Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                      peptide"
              <400> 175
              Leu
              1
              <210>   176
              <211>   8
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
                                                    Page 41

                                                MD-08-16PCT.txt
<removed-date>
              <220>
              <221> source
              <223> /note="Description of Artificial sequence: Synthetic
                      peptide"
              <400> 176
              Glu HiS Tyr Gln Lys Lys Phe Lys
              1                  5
              <210>   177
<removed-apn>
              <211>   7
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial sequence
              <220>
              <221> source
              <223> /note="Description of Artificial sequence: Synthetic
                      peptide"
              <220>
              <221> MOD_RES
              <222> (7)..(7)
              <223> Cysteic acid
              <400> 177
              Phe Val Asn Gln His Leu Xaa
              1                  5
              <210>   178
              <211>   8
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <221> source
              <223> /note="Description of Artificial   Sequence: Synthetic
                      peptide"
              <400> 178
              His Leu val Glu Ala Leu Tyr Leu
              1                  5
              <210>   179
              <211>   8
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial sequence
              <220>
              <221> source
              <223> /note="Description of Artificial   Sequence: synthetic
                      peptide"
              <220>
              <221> MOD_RE5
              <222> (6)..(6)
              <223> Cysteic acid
              <400> 179
              Ala Leu Tyr Leu val Xaa Gly Glu
              1                  5
                                                    Page 42

<removed-date>
                                                MD-08-16PCT.txt
              <210>   180
              <211>   8
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <221> source
              <223> /note="Description of Artificial   Sequence: Synthetic
                    peptide"
              <400> 180
              Arg Gly Phe Phe Tyr Thr Pro Lys
<removed-apn>
              1               5
              <210>   181
              <211>   8
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <221> source
              <223> /note="Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                    peptide"
              <400> 181
              Gly Phe Phe Tyr Thr Pro Lys Ala
              1               5
              <210>   182
              <211>   8
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <221> source
              <223> /note="Description of Artificial sequence: Synthetic
                    peptide"
              <400> 182
              His Ser Lys Ile Ile Ile Ile Lys
              1               5
              <210>   183
              <211>   8
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <221> source
              <223> /note="Description of Artificial Sequence: synthetic
                    peptide"
              <400> 183
              val Leu Pro Arg Ser Ala Lys Glu
              1               5
              <210>   184
              <211>   8
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <221> source
              <223> /note="Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                                                   Page 43

                                                MD-08-16PCT.txt
<removed-date>
                      peptide"
              <400> 184
              Glu Ala Tyr Arg Arg Phe Tyr Gly
              1                  5
              <210>   185
              <211>   8
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
<removed-apn>
              <220>
              <221> source
              <223> /note="Description of Artificial   Sequence: Synthetic
                      peptide"
              <400> 185
              Gln Trp Leu Gly Ala Pro Val Pro
              1               5
              <210> 186
              <211> 8
              <212> PRT
              <213> Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <221> source
              <223> /note="Description of Artificial   Sequence: Synthetic
                      peptide"
              <400> 186
              Leu Ser Leu Ala His Thr His Gln
              1                  5
              <210>   187
              <211>   8
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <221> source
              <223> /note="Description of Artificial   Sequence: Synthetic
                      peptide"
              <400> 187
              Lys Leu Leu Ala Val Ser Gly Pro
              1                  5
              <210>   188
              <211>   8
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <221> source
              <223> /note="Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                      peptide"
              <400> 188
              Gln Leu Phe Arg Arg Ala Val Leu
              1                  5
              <210> 189
                                                    Page 44

                                                      MD-08-16PCT.txt
<removed-date>
              <211> 8
              <212> PRT
              <213> Artificial       sequence
              <220>
              <221> source
              <223> /note="Description of Artificial        sequence: Synthetic
                      peptide"
              <400> 189
              Glu Phe Ser Arg Lys Val       Pro Thr
              1                  5
<removed-apn>
              <210>   190
              <211>   8
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <221> source
              <223> /note="Description of Artificial        sequence: Synthetic
                      peptide"
              <400> 190
              Leu Leu Ile Gly Ser Ser Gln Asp
              1                  5
              <210>   191
              <211>   8
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <221> source
              <223> /note="Description of Artificial        Sequence: synthetic
                      peptide"
              <400> 191
              Pro Arg Phe Lys Ile Ile Gly Gly
              1                  5
              <210>   192
              <211>   2
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <221> source
              <223> /note="Description of Artificial        sequence: synthetic
                      peptide"
              <400> 192
              Leu Arg
              1
              <210>   193
              <211>   2
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <221> source
              <223> /note="Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                      peptide"
                                                          Page 45

                                               MD-08-16PCT.txt
<removed-date>
              <400> 193
              Phe Arg
              1
              <210>   194
              <211>   5
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
<removed-apn>
              <221> source
              <223> /note="Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                      peptide"
              <400> 194
              Tyr Gly Gly Phe Met
              1               5
              <210>   195
              <211>   13
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <221> source
              <223> /note="Description of Artificial   Sequence: Synthetic
                      peptide"
              <400> 195
              Gly Arg Lys Lys Arg Arg Gln Arg Arg Arg Pro Pro Gln
              1                  5                10
              <210>   196
              <211>   6
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <221> source
              <223> /note="Description of Artificial   Sequence: Synthetic
                      peptide"
              <400> 196
              Lys Lys Lys Arg Lys Val
              1               5
              <210>   197
              <211>   12
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <221> source
              <223> /note="Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                      peptide"
              <400> 197
              Lys Lys Lys Arg Lys Val Lys Lys Lys Arg Lys val
              1                  5                10
              <210> 198
              <211> 6
                                                   Page 46

                                               MD-08-16PCT.txt
<removed-date>
              <212> PRT
              <213> Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <221> source
              <223> /note="Description of Artificial sequence: synthetic
                      peptide"
              <400> 198
              Gly Arg Lys Lys Arg Arg
              1                  5
<removed-apn>
              <210>   199
              <211>   6
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <221> source
              <223> /note="Description of Artificial sequence: Synthetic
                    peptide"
              <400> 199
              Arg Arg Arg Pro Pro Gln
              1                  5
              <210> 200
              <211> 5
              <212> PRT
              <213> Artificial sequence
              <220>
              <221> source
              <223> /note="Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                      peptide"
              <400> 200
              Trp Lys Lys Lys Lys
              1                  5
              <210>   201
              <211>   7
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <221> source
              <223> /note="Description of Artificial Sequence: synthetic
                      peptide"
              <400> 201
              Arg Arg Arg Pro Pro Gln His
              1                  5
              <210> 202
              <211> 6
              <212> PRT
              <213> Artificial sequence
              <220>
              <221> source
              <223> /note=."Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                      peptide"
                                                   Page 47

                                               MD-08-16PCT.txt
<removed-date>
              <400> 202
              Lys Lys Arg Arg Gln His
              1                  5
              <210> 203
              <211> 3
              <212> PRT
              <213> Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <221> source
<removed-apn>
              <223> /note="Description of Artificial sequence: synthetic
                      peptide"
              <400> 203
              Arg Arg Arg
              1
              <210> 204
              <211> 4
              <212> PRT
              <213> Artificial sequence
              <220>
              <221> source
              <223> /note="Description of Artificial sequence: Synthetic
                      peptide"
              <400> 204
              Arg Arg Arg Arg
              1
              <210>   205
              <211>   5
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <221> source
              <223> /note="Description of Artificial sequence: Synthetic
                      peptide"
              <400> 205
              Arg Arg Arg Arg Arg
              1               5
              <210> 206
              <211> 3
              <212> PRT
              <213> Artificial sequence
              <220>
              <221> source
              <223> /note="Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                      peptide"
              <400> 206
              Lys Lys Lys
              1
              <210> 207
              <211> 6
              <212> PRT
                                                   Page 48

                                               MD-08-16PCT.txt
<removed-date>
              <213> Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <221> source
              <223> /note="Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                      peptide"
              <400> 207
              Arg Arg Arg Arg Trp Trp
              1                  5
<removed-apn>
              <210>   208
              <211>   5
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <221> source
              <223> /note="Description of Artificial   Sequence: synthetic
                      peptide"
              <400> 208
              Arg Arg Arg Trp Trp
              1               5
              <210>   209
              <211>   4
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial sequence
              <220>
              <221> source
              <223> /note="Description of Artificial   Sequence: Synthetic
                      peptide"
              <400> 209
              Arg Arg Trp Trp
              1
              <210> 210
              <211> 4
              <212> PRT
              <213> Artificial sequence
              <220>
              <221> source
              <223> /note="Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                      peptide"
              <400> 210
              Lys Lys Trp Trp
              1
              <210>   211
              <211>   5
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <221> source
              <223> /note="Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                      peptide"
              <400> 211
                                                   Page 49

                                                MD-08-16PCT.txt
<removed-date>
              Lys Lys Lys Trp Trp
              1                  5
              <210>   212
              <211>   7
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial sequence
              <220>
              <221> source
              <223> /note="Description of Artificial   Sequence: Synthetic
<removed-apn>
                      peptide"
              <400> 212
              Trp His His Arg Arg Lys Lys
              1                  5
              <210>   213
              <211>   8
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <221> source
              <223> /note="Description of Artificial   sequence: synthetic
                      peptide"
              <400> 213
              Arg Arg Lys Lys His His Trp Trp
              1               5
              <210>   214
              <211>   5
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <221> source
              <223> /note="Description of Artificial   Sequence: Synthetic
                      peptide"
              <400> 214
              Lys Lys Arg Arg Trp
              1                  5
              <210>   215
              <211>   6
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <221> source
              <223> /note="Description of Artificial   sequence: Synthetic
                      peptide"
              <400> 215
              Lys Lys Arg Arg His Trp
              1                  5
              <210>   216
              <211>   7
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
                                                    Page 50

                                                MD-08- 16PCT.tXt
<removed-date>
              <220>
              <221> source
              <223> /note="Description of Artificial   Sequence: Synthetic
                      peptide"
              <400> 216
              Lys Lys Arg Arg His His Trp
              1               5
              <210>   217
<removed-apn>
              <211>   5
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <221> source
              <223> /note="Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                    peptide"
              <400> 217
              Lys Lys Arg Arg Gln
              1                  5
              <210> 218
              <211> 5
              <212> PRT
              <213> Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <221> source
              <223> /note="Description of Artificial   Sequence: Synthetic
                      peptide"
              <400> 218
              Lys Lys Arg Arg Gln
              1                  5
              <210> 219
              <211> 7
              <212> PRT
              <213> Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <221> source
              <223> /note="Description of Artificial   sequence: synthetic
                      peptide"
              <400> 219
              Gly Arg Lys Lys Arg Arg Gln
              1                  5
              <210> 220
              <211> 7
              <212> PRT
              <213> Artificial       Sequence
              <220>
              <221> source
              <223> /note="Description of Artificial   Sequence: Synthetic
                      peptide"
              <400> 220
              Gln Gly Arg Lys Lys Arg Arg
                                                    Page 51

                                                   MD-08-16PCT.txt
<removed-date>
              1
              <210> 221
              <211> 3
              <212> PRT
              <213> Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <221> source
              <223> /note="Description of Artificial     Sequence:   Synthetic
                      peptide"
<removed-apn>
              <400> 221
              Arg Arg His
              1
              <210>   222
              <211>   4
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <221> source
              <223> /note="Description of Artificial      Sequence: Synthetic
                      peptide"
              <400> 222
              Arg Arg Arg His
              1
              <210>   223
              <211>   5
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <221> source
              <223> /note="Description      of Artificial sequence: Synthetic
                      peptide"
              <400> 223
              Arg Arg Arg Arg His
              1               5
              <210>   224
              <211>   6
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <221> source
              <223> /note="Description of Artificial      Sequence: Synthetic
                      peptide"
              <400> 224
              Arg Arg Arg Arg Arg His
              1                  5
              <210>   225
              <211>   3
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
                                                        Page 52

                                               MD-08-16PCT.txt
<removed-date>
              <220>
              <221> source
              <223> /note="Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                    peptide"
              <400> 225
              Lys Lys His
              1
              <210> 226
              <211> 4
<removed-apn>
              <212> PRT
              <213> Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <221> source
              <223> /note="Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                    peptide"
              <400> 226
              Lys Lys Lys His
              1
              <210> 227
              <211> 6
              <212> PRT
              <213> Artificial sequence
              <220>
              <221> source
              <223> /note="Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                    peptide"
              <400> 227
              His Trp Lys Lys Arg Arg
              1               5
              <210> 228
              <211> 6
              <212> PRT
              <213> Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <221> source
              <223> /note="Description of Artificial sequence: synthetic
                    peptide"
              <400> 228
              His Trp Lys Lys Arg Arg
              1                 5
              <210> 229
              <211> 6
              <212> PRT
              <213> Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <221> source
              <223> /note="Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                    peptide"
              <400> 229
              Pro Pro His Arg Arg Arg
              1               5
                                                   Page 53

                                                MD-08-16PCT.txt
<removed-date>
              <210> 230
              <211> 6
              <212> PRT
              <213> Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <221> source
              <223> /note="Description of Artificial sequence: Synthetic
                      peptide"
<removed-apn>
              <400> 230
              Pro Pro His Arg Arg Arg
              1                  5
              <210> 231
              <211> 13
              <212> PRT
              <213> Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <221> source
              <223> /note="Description of Artificial    Sequence: Synthetic
                      peptide"
              <400> 231
              Gly Arg Lys Lys Arg Arg Val Arg Arg Arg Pro Pro Gln
              1                  5                 10
              <210>   232
              <211>   18
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <221> source
              <223> /note="Description of Artificial    Sequence: Synthetic
                      peptide"
              <400> 232
              Trp Trp His His Lys Lys Arg Arg Gly Gly Arg Arg Lys Lys His His
              1                  5                 10                    15
              Trp Trp
              <210> 233
              <211> 8
              <212> PRT
              <213> Artificial sequence
              <220>
              <221> source
              <223> /note="Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                      peptide"
              <400> 233
              Trp Trp His His Lys Lys Arg Arg
              1                  5
              <210> 234
              <211> 8
                                                    Page 54

                                                MD-08-16PCT.txt
<removed-date>
              <212> PRT
              <213> Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <221> source
              <223> /note="Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                    peptide"
              <400> 234
              Tyr Tyr His His Lys Lys Arg Arg
              1               5
<removed-apn>
              <210>   235
              <211>   8
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <221> source
              <223> /note="Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                    peptide"
              <400> 235
              Arg Arg Lys Lys His His Tyr Tyr
              1               5
              <210>   236
              <211>   10
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <221> source
              <223> /note="Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                    peptide"
              <400> 236
              val Gln Ala Ala Ile Asp Tyr Ile Asn Gly
              1               5                   10
              <210>   237
              <211>   6
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <221> source
              <223> /note="Description of Artificial sequence: Synthetic
                    peptide"
              <400> 237
              Trp Trp Arg Arg His His
              1               5
              <210>   238
              <211>   6
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <221> source
              <223> /note="Description of Artificial Sequence:    synthetic
                      peptide"
                                                    Page 55

                                               MD-08-16PCT.txt
<removed-date>
              <400> 238
              His His Arg Arg Trp Trp
              1               5
              <210>   239
              <211>   6
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial sequence
              <220>
              <221> source
<removed-apn>
              <223> /note="Description of Artificial sequence: Synthetic
                    peptide"
              <400> 239
              Tyr Tyr Arg Arg His His
              1               5
              <210>   240
              <211>   6
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <221> source
              <223> /note="Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                    peptide"
              <400> 240
              His His Arg Arg Tyr Tyr
              1               5
              <210>   241
              <211>   5
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <221> source
              <223> /note="Description of Artificial Sequence: synthetic
                    peptide"
              <400> 241
              Trp Trp Arg Arg Arg
              1               5
              <210>   242
              <211>   5
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <221> source
              <223> /note="Description of Artificial sequence: Synthetic
                    peptide"
              <400> 242
              Arg Arg Arg Trp Trp
              1               5
              <210> 243
              <211> 5
              <212> PRT
                                                   Page 56

                                               MD-08-16PCT.txt
<removed-date>
              <213> Artificial sequence
              <220>
              <221> source
              <223> /note="Description of Artificial sequence: Synthetic
                    peptide"
              <400> 243
              Tyr Tyr Arg Arg Arg
              1               5
<removed-apn>
              <210> 244
              <211> 5
              <212> PRT
              <213> Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <221> source
              <223> /note="Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                      peptide"
              <400> 244
              Arg Arg Arg Tyr Tyr
              1               5
              <210> 245
              <211> 7
              <212> PRT
              <213> Artificial sequence
              <220>
              <221> source
              <223> /note="Description of Artificial   sequence: Synthetic
                      peptide"
              <400> 245
              Trp Trp Arg Arg Arg His His
              1               5
              <210>   246
              <211>   7
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial sequence
              <220>
              <221> source
              <223> /note="Description of Artificial   Sequence: Synthetic
                      peptide"
              <400> 246
              His His Arg Arg Arg Trp Trp
              1               5
              <210> 247
              <211> 7
              <212> PRT
              <213> Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <221> source
              <223> /note="Description of Artificial sequence: Synthetic
                      peptide"
              <400> 247
                                                   Page 57

                                              MD-08-16PCT.txt
<removed-date>
              Tyr Tyr Arg Arg Arg His His
              1                  5
              <210>   248
              <211>   7
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <221> source
              <223> /note="Description of Artificial sequence: Synthetic
<removed-apn>
                      peptide"
              <400> 248
              His His Arg Arg Arg Tyr Tyr
              1               5
              <210>   249
              <211>   6
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <221> source
              <223> /note="Description of Artificial sequence: Synthetic
                    peptide"
              <400> 249
              Trp Trp Arg Arg Arg Arg
              1                  5
              <210>   250
              <211>   6
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial sequence
              <220>
              <221> source
              <223> /note="Description of Artificial   Sequence: Synthetic
                      peptide"
              <400> 250
              Arg Arg Arg Arg Trp Trp
              1                  5
              <210>   251
              <211>   6
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial sequence
              <220>
              <221> source
              <223> /note="Description of Artificial   Sequence:   Synthetic
                      peptide"
              <400> 251
              Tyr Tyr Arg Arg Arg Arg
              1               5
              <210> 252
              <211> 6
              <212> PRT
              <213> Artificial Sequence
                                                   Page 58

                                                MD-08-16PCT.txt
<removed-date>
              <220>
              <221> source
              <223> /note="Description of Artificial Sequence:    Synthetic
                      peptide"
              <400> 252
              Arg Arg Arg Arg Tyr Tyr
              1                  5
              <210>   253
<removed-apn>
              <211>   8
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <221> source
              <223> /note="Description of Artificial   Sequence: synthetic
                      peptide"
              <400> 253
              Trp Trp Arg Arg Arg Arg His His
              1                  5
              <210>   254
              <211>   8
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <221> source
              <223> /note="Description of Artificial   Sequence: Synthetic
                      peptide"
              <400> 254
              His His Arg Arg Arg Arg Trp Trp
              1                  5
              <210>   255
              <211>   8
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <221> source
              <223> /note="Description of Artificial   Sequence: Synthetic
                      peptide"
              <400> 255
              Tyr Tyr Arg Arg Arg Arg His His
              1                5
              <210>   256
              <211>   8
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <221> source
              <223> /note="Description of Artificial   sequence: Synthetic
                      peptide"
              <400> 256
              His His Arg Arg Arg Arg Tyr Tyr
                                                    Page 59

                                                MD-08-16PCT.txt
<removed-date>
              1                  5
              <210> 257
              <211> 8
              <212> PRT
              <213> Artificial sequence
              <220>
              <221> source
              <223> /note="Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                      peptide"
<removed-apn>
              <220>
              <221> MOD_RES
              <222> (5)..(6)
              <223> Ornithine
              <400> 257
              Trp Trp His His xaa Xaa Arg Arg
              1                  5
              <210>   258
              <211>   8
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <221> source
              <223> /note="Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                      peptide"
              <400> 258
              Trp Trp His His His Arg Arg Arg
              1                  5
              <210>   259
              <211>   8
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <221> source
              <223> /note="Description of Artificial Sequence: synthetic
                      peptide"
              <400> 259
              Trp Trp His His His Arg Arg Arg
              1                  5
              <210> 260
              <211> 10
              <212> PRT
              <213> Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <221> source
              <223> /note="Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                      peptide"
              <400> 260
              Trp Trp Trp His His His His Arg Arg Arg
              1                  5                 10
                                                    Page 60

<removed-date>
                                                MD-08-16PCT.txt
              <210> 261
              <211> 8
              <212> PRT
              <213> Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <221> source
              <223> /note="Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                      peptide"
              <400> 261
<removed-apn>
              Trp Trp Trp Lys Lys Arg Arg Arg
              1               5
              <210>   262
              <211>   7
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <221> source
              <223> /note="Description of Artificial sequence:    Synthetic
                      peptide"
              <400> 262
              Lys Lys Lys Trp Arg Arg Trp
              1                  5
              <210>   263
              <211>   7
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial sequence
              <220>
              <221> source
              <223> /note="Description of Artificial   Sequence: Synthetic
                      peptide"
              <400> 263
              Trp Arg Arg Arg Trp Arg Arg
              1               5
              <210>   264
              <211>   8
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <221> source
              <223> /note="Description of Artificial   Sequence: Synthetic
                      peptide"
              <400> 264
              Trp Trp His His Lys Lys Arg Arg
              1               5
              <210> 265
              <211> 10
              <212> PRT
              <213> Artificial sequence
              <220>
              <221> source
                                                     Page 61

                                                MD-08-16PCT.txt
<removed-date>
              <223> /note="Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                    peptide"
              <400> 265
              Trp Trp Cys His His Lys Lys Cys Arg Arg
              1               5                   10
              <210> 266
              <211> 8
              <212> PRT
              <213> Artificial Sequence
<removed-apn>
              <220>
              <221> source
              <223> /note="Description of Artificial Sequence: synthetic
                    peptide"
              <400> 266
              Trp Trp His His His Arg Arg Arg
              1               5
              <210> 267
              <211> 9
              <212> PRT
              <213> Artificial sequence
              <220>
              <221> source
              <223> /note="Description of Artificial sequence: Synthetic
                    peptide"
              <400> 267
              Trp Trp His His Cys Lys Lys Arg Arg
              1                5
              <210> 268
              <211> 9
              <212> PRT
              <213> Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <221> source
              <223> /note="Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                    peptide"
              <400> 268
              Trp Trp His His Lys Lys Cys Arg Arg
              1               5
              <210> 269
              <211> 8
              <212> PRT
              <213> Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <221> source
              <223> /note="Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                    peptide"
              <400> 269
              Arg Arg Trp Trp Lys Lys His His
              1               5
                                                    Page 62

<removed-date>
                                                MD-08-16PCT.txt
              <210> 270
              <211> 8
              <212> PRT
              <213> Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <221> source
              <223> /note="Description of Artificial sequence: Synthetic
                      peptide"
              <400> 270
              Trp Trp His His Lys Lys Lys Lys
<removed-apn>
              1               5
              <210>   271
              <211>   8
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <221> source
              <223> /note="Description of Artificial   sequence: synthetic
                      peptide"
              <400> 271
              Trp Trp His His Arg Arg Arg Arg
              1               5
              <210>   272
              <211>   6
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial sequence
              <220>
              <221> source
              <223> /note="Description of Artificial   Sequence: Synthetic
                      peptide"
              <400> 272
              Arg Arg Arg Arg His His
              1               5
              <210>   273
              <211>   6
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <221> source
              <223> /note="Description of Artificial   sequence: Synthetic
                      peptide"
              <400> 273
              His His Lys Lys Lys Lys
              1               5
              <210> 274
              <211> 6
              <212> PRT
              <213> Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <221> source
              <223> /note="Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                                                     Page 63

<removed-date>
                                                MD-08-16PCT.txt
                      peptide"
              <400> 274
              His His Arg Arg Arg Arg
              1               5
              <210>   275
              <211>   8
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
<removed-apn>
              <220>
              <221> source
              <223> /note="Description of Artificial   Sequence: Synthetic
                    peptide"
              <400> 275
              Tyr Tyr Arg Arg Arg Arg His His
              1               5
              <210>   276
              <211>   8
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <221> source
              <223> /note="Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                    peptide"
              <400> 276
              Tyr Tyr Lys Lys Lys Lys His His
              1               5
              <210>   277
              <211>   14
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <221> source
              <223> /note="Description of Artificial sequence: synthetic
                    peptide"
              <220>
              <221> MOD_RES
              <222> (8)..(8)
              <223> Citrulline
              <400> 277
              Gly Arg Lys Lys Arg Arg Val Xaa Arg Arg Arg Pro Pro Gln
              1               5                   10
              <210>   278
              <211>   14
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <221> source
              <223> /note="Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                    peptide"
                                                    Page 64

<removed-date>
                                               MD-08-16PCT.tXt
              <220>
              <221> MOD_RES
              <222> (8)..(8)
              <223> Citrulline
              <400> 278
              Gly Arg Lys Lys Arg Arg Val Xaa Arg Arg Lys Lys Arg Gly
              1               5                    10
              <210> 279
<removed-apn>
              <211> 13
              <212> PRT
              <213> Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <221> source
              <223> /note="Description of Artificial sequence: synthetic
                      peptide"
              <220>
              <221> MOD_RES
              <222> (8)..(8)
              <223> Citrulline
              <400> 279
              Arg Arg Arg Pro Pro Gln Val Xaa Pro Pro Arg Arg Arg
              1               5                    10
              <210>   280
              <211>   14
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial sequence
              <220>
              <221> source
              <223> /note="Description of Artificial   Sequence: synthetic
                      peptide"
              <220>
              <221> MOD_RES
              <222> (8)..(8)
              <223> Citrulline
              <400> 280
              Arg Arg Lys Lys Arg Gly val Xaa Gly Arg Lys Lys Arg Arg
              1               5                   10
              <210>   281
              <211>   14
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <221> source
              <223> /note="Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                      peptide"
              <220>
              <221> MOD_RES
              <222> (8)..(8)
              <223> Citrulline
                                                   Page 65

<removed-date>
                                               MD-08-16PCT.txt
              <400> 281
              Gln Pro Pro Arg Arg Arg Val Xaa Arg Arg Arg Pro Pro Gln
              1               5                   10
              <210>   282
              <211>   12
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
<removed-apn>
              <221> source
              <223> /note="Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                    peptide"
              <220>
              <221> MOD_RES
              <222> (7)..(7)
              <223> Citrulline
              <400> 282
              Trp Lys Lys Lys Lys Val Xaa Lys Lys Lys Lys Trp
              1               5                   10
              <210> 283
              <211> 12
              <212> PRT
              <213> Artificial sequence
              <220>
              <221> source
              <223> /note="Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                    peptide"
              <220>
              <221> MOD_RES
              <222> (7)..(7)
              <223> Citrulline
              <400> 283
              Lys Lys Lys Lys Trp Val Xaa Trp Lys Lys Lys Lys
              1               5                    10
              <210>   284
              <211>   16
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <221> source
              <223> /note="Description of Artificial Sequence: synthetic
                    peptide"
              <220>
              <221> MOD_RES
              <222> (9)..(9)
              <223> Citrulline
              <400> 284
              His Gln Pro Pro Arg Arg Arg Val Xaa A rg Arg Arg Pro Pro Gln His
                              5                   10                   15
                                                   Page 66

<removed-date>
                                               MD-08-16PcT.txt
              <210>   285
              <211>   14
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <221> source
              <223> /note="Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                    peptide"
<removed-apn>
              <220>
              <221> MOD_RES
              <222> (8)..(8)
              <223> Citrulline
              <400> 285
              Gln Pro Pro Arg Arg Arg Val Xaa Arg Arg Arg Pro Pro Gln
              1               5                    10
              <210>   286
              <211>   14
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial sequence
              <220>
              <221> source
              <223> /note="Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                    peptide"
              <220>
              <221> MOD_RES
              <222> (8)..(8)
              <223> Citrulline
              <400> 286
              His Gln Arg Arg Lys Lys val Xaa Lys Lys Arg Arg Gln His
              1               5                    10
              <210>   287
              <211>   6
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial sequence
              <220>
              <221> source
              <223> /note="Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                    peptide"
              <220>
              <221> MOD_RES
              <222> (4)..(4)
              <223> Citrulline
              <400> 287
              Arg Arg val Xaa Arg Arg
              1               5
              <210>   288
              <211>   8
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial sequence
                                                   Page 67

<removed-date>
                                                MD-08-16PCT.txt
              <220>
              <221> source
              <223> /note="Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                    peptide"
              <220>
              <221> MOD_RES
              <222> (5)..(5)
              <223> Citrulline
<removed-apn>
              <400> 288
              Arg Arg Arg val Xaa Arg Arg Arg
              1               5
              <210>   289
              <211>   10
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial   Sequence
              <220>
              <221> source
              <223> /note="Description of Artificial Sequence: synthetic
                    peptide"
              <220>
              <221> MOD_RES
              <222> (6)..(6)
              <223> Citrulline
              <400> 289
              Arg Arg Arg Arg Val Xaa Arg Arg Arg Arg
              1               5                   10
              <210>   290
              <211>   12
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <221> source
              <223> /note="Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                    peptide"
              <220>
              <221> MOD_RES
              <222> (7)..(7)
              <223> Citrulline
              <400> 290
              Arg Arg Arg Arg Arg Val Xaa Arg Arg Arg Arg Arg
              1               5                   10
              <210>   291
              <211>   6
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <221> source
              <223> /note="Description of Artificial sequence: Synthetic
                    peptide"
                                                   Page 68

<removed-date>
                                                MD-08-16PCT.txt
              <220>
              <221> MOD_RES
              <222> (4),.(4)
              <223> Citrulline
              <400> 291
              Lys Lys val xaa Lys Lys
              1               5
<removed-apn>
              <210>   292
              <211>   8
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <221> source
              <223> /note="Description of Artificial Sequence:    synthetic
                      peptide"
              <220>
              <221> MOD_RES
              <222> (5)..(5)
              <223> Citrulline
              <400> 292
              Lys Lys Lys val xaa Lys Lys Lys
              1                5
              <210> 293
              <211> 10
              <212> PRT
              <213> Artificial   Sequence
              <220>
              <221> source
              <223> /note="Description of Artificial    Sequence: Synthetic
                      peptide"
              <220>
              <221> MOD_RES
              <222> (6)..(6)
              <223> Citrulline
              <400> 293
              Lys Lys Lys Lys val Xaa Lys Lys Lys Lys
              1               5                   10
              <210>   294
              <211>   12
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <221> source
              <223> /note="Description of Artificial    sequence: Synthetic
                      peptide"
              <220>
              <221> MOD_RES
              <222> (7)..(7)
                                                    Page 69

<removed-date>
                                               MD-08-16PCT.txt
              <223> Citrulline
              <400> 294
              Lys Lys Lys Lys Lys val Xaa Lys Lys Lys Lys Lys
              1               5                   10
              <210>   295
              <211>   14
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial sequence
<removed-apn>
              <220>
              <221> source
              <223> /note="Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                    peptide"
              <220>
              <221> MOD_RES
              <222> (8)..(8)
              <223> Citrulline
              <400> 295
              Trp Trp Arg Arg Arg Arg val Xaa Arg Arg Arg Arg Trp Trp
              1               5                   10
              <210>   296
              <211>   12
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial sequence
              <220>
              <221> source
              <223> /note="Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                    peptide"
              <220>
              <221> MOD_RES
              <222> (7)..(7)
              <223> Citrulline
              <400> 296
              Trp Trp Arg Arg Arg val Xaa Arg Arg Arg Trp Trp
              1               5                   10
              <210>   297
              <211>   10
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <221> source
              <223> /note="Description of Artificial sequence:   synthetic
                    peptide"
              <220>
              <221> MOD_RES
              <222> (6)..(6)
              <223> Citrulline
              <400> 297
              Trp Trp Arg Arg Val Xaa Arg Arg Trp Trp
              1               5                   10
                                                   Page 70

<removed-date>
                                               MD-08-16PCT.txt
              <210> 298
              <211> 10
              <212> PRT
              <213> Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <221> source
              <223> /note="Description of Artificial sequence: Synthetic
                      peptide"
<removed-apn>
              <220>
              <221> MOD_RES
              <222> (6)..(6)
              <223> Citrulline
              <400> 298
              Trp Trp Lys Lys val xaa Lys Lys Trp Trp
              1               5                    10
              <210> 299
              <211> 12
              <212> PRT
              <213> Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <221> source
              <223> /note="Description of Artificial sequence: synthetic
                      peptide"
              <220>
              <221> MOD_RES
              <222> (7)..(7)
              <223> citrulline
              <400> 299
              Trp Trp Lys Lys Lys Val Xaa Lys Lys Lys Trp Trp
              1               5                   10
              <210>   300
              <211>   14
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <221> source
              <223> /note="Description of Artificial sequence: synthetic
                      peptide"
              <220>
              <221> MOD_RES
              <222> (8)..(8)
              <223> Citrulline
              <400> 300
              Trp Trp Lys Lys Lys Lys val Xaa Lys Lys Lys Lys Trp Trp
              1                  5                 10
              <210> 301
              <211> 16
              <212> PRT
                                                   Page 71

<removed-date>
                                               MD-08-16PCT.txt
              <213> Artificial sequence
              <220>
              <221> source
              <223> /note="Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                      peptide"
              <220>
              <221> MOD_RES
              <222> (9)..(9)
              <223> Citrulline
<removed-apn>
              <400> 301
              Lys Lys Arg Arg His His Trp Val Xaa Trp His His Arg Arg Lys Lys
              1               5                   10                   15
              <210>   302
              <211>   18
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <221> source
              <223> /note="Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                      peptide"
              <220>
              <221> MOD_RES
              <222> (10)..(10)
              <223> Citrulline
              <400> 302
              Trp Trp His His Lys Lys Arg Arg Val Xaa Arg Arg    Lys Lys His His
              1               5                    10                    15
              Trp Trp
              <210> 303
              <211> 12
              <212> PRT
              <213> Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <221> source
              <223> /note="Description of Artificial   Sequence: Synthetic
                      peptide"
              <220>
              <221> MOD_RES
              <222> (7)..(7)
              <223> Citrulline
              <400> 303
              Trp Arg Arg Lys Lys Val Xaa Lys Lys Arg Arg Trp
              1               5                   10
              <210> 304
              <211> 14
              <212> PRT
              <213> Artificial Sequence
                                                   Page 72

                                               M D-08-16PCT. txt
<removed-date>
              <220>
              <221> source
              <223> /note="Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                      peptide"
              <220>
              <221> MOD_RES
              <222> (8)..(8)
              <223> Citrulline
<removed-apn>
              <400> 304
              Trp His Arg Arg Lys Lys Val Xaa Lys Lys Arg Arg His Trp
              1                  5                10
              <210> 305
              <211> 16
              <212> PRT
              <213> Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <221> source
              <223> /note="Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                      peptide"
              <220>
              <221> MOD_RES
              <222> (9)..(9)
              <223> Citrulline
              <400> 305
              Trp His His Arg Arg Lys Lys val Xaa Lys Lys Arg Arg His His Trp
              1               5                   10                  15
              <210>   306
              <211>   12
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <221> source
              <223> /note="Description of Artificial   Sequence: Synthetic
                      peptide"
              <220>
              <221> MOD_RES
              <222> (7)..(7)
              <223> Citrulline
              <400> 306
              Gln Arg Arg Lys Lys Val xaa Lys Lys Arg Arg Gln
              1                  5                10
              <210>   307
              <211>   12
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial sequence
              <220>
              <221> source
              <223> /note="Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                      peptide"
                                                   Page 73

<removed-date>
                                              MD-08-16PCT.txt
              <220>
              <221> MOD_RES
              <222> (7)..(7)
              <223> Citrulline
              <400> 307
              Lys Lys Arg Arg Gln Val Xaa Gln Arg Arg Lys Lys
              1               5                   10
<removed-apn>
              <210>   308
              <211>   14
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <221> source
              <223> /note="Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                    peptide"
              <220>
              <221> MOD_RES
              <222> (8)..(8)
              <223> Citrulline
              <400> 308
              Arg Arg Lys Lys Arg Gly Val Xaa Gly Arg Lys Lys Arg Arg
              1               5                   10
              <210>   309
              <211>   14
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <221> source
              <223> /note="Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                    peptide"
              <220>
              <221> MOD_RES
              <222> (8)..(8)
              <223> Citrulline
              <400> 309
              Gly Arg Lys Lys Arg Arg Val xaa Arg Arg Lys Lys Arg Gly
              1               5                   10
              <210>   310
              <211>   16
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <221> source
              <223> /note="Description of Artificial sequence:   Synthetic
                    peptide"
              <220>
              <221> MOD_RES
              <222> (9)(9)
                                                   Page 74

                                                   MD-08-16PCT.txt
<removed-date>
              <223> Citrulline
              <400> 310
              Gln Arg Arg Lys Lys Arg Gly Val Xaa Gly Arg Lys Lys Arg Arg Gln
              1                  5                     10                  15
              <210>   311
              <211>   16
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial sequence
<removed-apn>
              <220>
              <221> source
              <223> /note="Description      of Artificial Sequence: synthetic
                      peptide"
              <220>
              <221> MOD_RES
              <222> (9)..(9)
              <223> Citrulline
              <400> 311
              Gln Gly Arg Lys Lys Arg Arg val Xaa Arg Arg Lys Lys Arg Gly Gln
              1                  5                     10                  15
              <210>   312
              <211>   8
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <221> source
              <223> /note="Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                      peptide"
              <220>
              <221> MOD_RES
              <222> (5)..(5)
              <223> Citrulline
              <400> 312
              His Arg Arg val Xaa Arg Arg His
              1                  5
              <210>   313
              <211>   10
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <221> source
              <223> /note="Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                      peptide"
              <220>
              <221> MOD_RES
              <222> (6)..(6)
              <223> Citrulline
              <400> 313
              His Arg Arg Arg Val Xaa Arg Arg Arg His
              1                  5                     10
                                                       Page 75

                                                MD-08-16PCT.txt
<removed-date>
              <210>   314
              <211>   12
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <221> source
              <223> /note="Description of Artificial sequence: synthetic
                      peptide"
<removed-apn>
              <220>
              <221> MOD_RES
              <222> (7)..(7)
              <223> Citrulline
              <400> 314
              His Arg Arg Arg Arg val Xaa Arg Arg Arg Arg His
              1                  5                 10
              <210>   315
              <211>   14
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial sequence
              <220>
              <221> source
              <223> /note="Description of Artificial    Sequence: synthetic
                      peptide"
              <220>
              <221> MOD_RES
              <222> (8)..(8)
              <223> Citrulline
              <400> 315
              His Arg Arg Arg Arg Arg Val Xaa Arg Arg Arg Arg Arg His
              1                  5                 10
              <210>   316
              <211>   8
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial sequence
              <220>
              <221> source
              <223> /note="Description of Artificial    sequence: Synthetic
                      peptide"
              <220>
              <221> MOD_RES
              <222> (5)..(5)
              <223> Citrulline
              <400> 316
              His Lys Lys val Xaa Lys Lys His
              1                  5
              <210> 317
              <211> 10
              <212> PRT
                                                    Page 76

                                               MD-08-16PCT.txt
<removed-date>
              <213> Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <221> source
              <223> /note="Description of Artificial    Sequence: Synthetic
                      peptide"
              <220>
              <221> MOD_RES
              <222> (6)..(6)
              <223> Citrulline
<removed-apn>
              <400> 317
              His Lys Lys Lys Val Xaa Lys Lys Lys His
              1               5                   10
              <210>   318
              <211>   12
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <221> source
              <223> /note="Description of Artificial    Sequence:   Synthetic
                      peptide"
              <220>
              <221> MOD_RES
              <222> (7)..(7)
              <223> Citrulline
              <400> 318
              His Lys Lys Lys Lys Val Xaa Lys Lys Lys    Lys His
              1               5                    10
              <210>   319
              <211>   14
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial sequence
              <220>
              <221> source
              <223> /note="Description of Artificial    Sequence: Synthetic
                      peptide"
              <220>
              <221> MOD_RES
              <222> (8)..(8)
              <223> Citrulline
              <400> 319
              His Lys Lys Lys Lys Lys val Xaa Lys Lys Lys Lys Lys His
              1               5                   10
              <210> 320
              <211> 14
              <212> PRT
              <213> Artificial   Sequence
              <220>
              <221> source
              <223> /note="Description of Artificial Sequence: synthetic
                                                   Page 77

                                               MD-08-16PCT.txt
<removed-date>
                      peptide"
              <220>
              <221> MOD_RES
              <222> (8)..(8)
              <223> Citrulline
              <400> 320
              His Trp Lys Lys Arg Arg val Xaa Arg Arg Lys Lys Trp His
              1                  5                10
<removed-apn>
              <210>   321
              <211>   14
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial sequence
              <220>
              <221> source
              <223> /note="Description of Artificial sequence:   Synthetic
                      peptide"
              <220>
              <221> MOD_RES
              <222> (8)..(8)
              <223> Citrulline
              <400> 321
              Arg Arg Lys Lys Trp His Val Xaa His Trp Lys Lys Arg Arg
              1               5                    10
              <210>   322
              <211>   14
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial sequence
              <220>
              <221> source
              <223> /note="Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                      peptide"
              <220>
              <221> MOD_RES
              <222> (8)..(8)
              <223> Citrulline
              <400> 322
              Pro Pro HiS Arg Arg Arg Val Xaa Arg Arg Arg His Pro Pro
              1               5                   10
              <210> 323
              <211> 14
              <212> PRT
              <213> Artificial sequence
              <220>
              <221> source
              <223> /note="Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                      peptide"
              <220>
              <221> MOD_RES
                                                   Page 78

                                               MD-08-16PCT.txt
<removed-date>
              <222> (8)..(8)
              <223> Citrulline
              <400> 323
              Arg Arg Arg His Pro Pro Val Xaa Pro Pro His Arg Arg Arg
              1               5                   10
              <210>   324
              <211>   18
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
<removed-apn>
              <220>
              <221> source
              <223> /note="Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                    peptide"
              <400> 324
              Tyr Tyr His His Lys Lys Arg Arg Cys Cys Arg Arg Lys Lys His His
              1               5                    10                  15
              Tyr Tyr
              <210>   325
              <211>   18
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <221> source
              <223> /note="Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                    peptide"
              <220>
              <221> MOD_RES
              <222> (10)..(10)
              <223> Citrulline
              <400> 325
              Tyr Tyr His His Lys Lys Arg Arg Val Xaa Arg Arg Lys Lys His His
              1               5                   10                  15
              Tyr Tyr
              <210>   326
              <211>   10
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial sequence
              <220>
              <221> source
              <223> /note="Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                    peptide"
              <400> 326
              Trp Trp Arg Arg Cys Cys Arg Arg Trp Trp
              1               5                   10
              <210> 327
                                                   Page 79

                                                MD-08-16PCT.txt
<removed-date>
              <211> 10
              <212> PRT
              <213> Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <221> source
              <223> /note="Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                      peptide"
              <220>
              <221> MOD_RES
<removed-apn>
              <222> (6)..(6)
              <223> Citrulline
              <400> 327
              Trp Trp Arg Arg Val Xaa Arg Arg Trp Trp
              1                  5                 10
              <210> 328
              <211> 10
              <212> PRT
              <213> Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <221> source
              <223> /note="Description of Artificial    Sequence: Synthetic
                      peptide"
              <400> 328
              Tyr Tyr Arg Arg Cys Cys Arg Arg Tyr Tyr
              1                  5                 10
              <210>   329
              <211>   10
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <221> source
              <223> /note="Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                      peptide"
              <220>
              <221> MOD_RES
              <222> (6)..(6)
              <223> Citrulline
              <400> 329
              Tyr Tyr Arg Arg Val Xaa Arg Arg Tyr Tyr
              1               5                   10
              <210> 330
              <211> 14
              <212> PRT
              <213> Artificial       Sequence
              <220>
              <221> source
              <223> /note="Description of Artificial    Sequence: Synthetic
                      peptide"
              <400> 330
              Trp Trp Arg Arg His His Cys Cys His His Arg Arg Trp Trp
                                                   Page 80

                                               MD-08-16PCT.txt
<removed-date>
              1                  5                10
              <210>   331
              <211>   14
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <221> source
              <223> /note="Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                      peptide"
<removed-apn>
              <220>
              <221> MOD_RES
              <222> (8)..(8)
              <223> Citrulline
              <400> 331
              Trp Trp Arg Arg His His Val Xaa His His Arg Arg Trp Trp
              1               5                   10
              <210> 332
              <211> 14
              <212> PRT
              <213> Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <221> source
              <223> /note="Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                      peptide"
              <400> 332
              Tyr Tyr Arg Arg His His Cys Cys Arg Arg His His Tyr Tyr
              1               5                    10
              <210> 333
              <211> 14
              <212> PRT
              <213> Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <221> source
              <223> /note="Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                      peptide"
              <220>
              <221> MOD_RES
              <222> (8)..(8)
              <223> Citrulline
              <400> 333
              Tyr Tyr Arg Arg His His Val Xaa Arg Arg His His Tyr Tyr
              1               5                   10
              <210> 334
              <211> 12
              <212> PRT
              <213> Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <221> source
              <223> /note="Description of Artificial sequence: Synthetic
                                                    Page 81

                                               MD-08-16PCT.txt
<removed-date>
                      peptide"
              <400> 334
              Trp Trp Arg Arg Arg Cys Cys Arg Arg Arg Trp Trp
              1                  5                10
              <210> 335
              <211> 12
              <212> PRT
              <213> Artificial Sequence
<removed-apn>
              <220>
              <221> source
              <223> /note="Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                      peptide"
              <220>
              <221> MOD_RES
              <222> (7)..(7)
              <223> Citrulline
              <400> 335
              Trp Trp Arg Arg Arg Val xaa Arg Arg Arg Trp Trp
              1               5                   10
              <210>   336
              <211>   12
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <221> source
              <223> /note="Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                      peptide"
              <400> 336
              Tyr Tyr Arg Arg Arg Cys Cys Arg Arg Arg Tyr Tyr
              1               5                   10
              <210>   337
              <211>   12
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <221> source
              <223> /note="Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                      peptide"
              <220>
              <221> MOD_RES
              <222> (7)..(7)
              <223> Citrulline
              <400> 337
              Tyr Tyr Arg Arg Arg Val Xaa Arg Arg Arg Tyr Tyr
              1               5                   10
              <210> 338
              <211> 16
              <212> PRT
              <213> Artificial Sequence
                                                   Page 82

                                               MD-08-16PCT.txt
<removed-date>
              <220>
              <221> source
              <223> /note "Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                      peptide"
              <400> 338
              Trp Trp Arg Arg Arg His His Cys Cys His His Arg Arg Arg Trp Trp
              1               5                   10                  15
              <210> 339
<removed-apn>
              <211> 16
              <212> PRT
              <213> Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <221> source
              <223> /note="Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                      peptide"
              <220>
              <221> MOD_RES
              <222> (9)..(9)
              <223> Citrulline
              <400> 339
              Trp Trp Arg Arg Arg His His Val Xaa His His Arg Arg Arg Trp Trp
              1               5                   10                  15
              <210> 340
              <211> 16
              <212> PRT
              <213> Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <221> source
              <223> /note="Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                      peptide"
              <400> 340
              Tyr Tyr Arg Arg Arg His His Cys Cys Arg Arg Arg His His Tyr Tyr
              1               5                   10                  15
              <210>   341
              <211>   16
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <221> source
              <223> /note="Description of Artificial   Sequence: Synthetic
                      peptide"
              <220>
              <221> MOD_RES
              <222> (9)..(9)
              <223> Citrulline
              <400> 341
              Tyr Tyr Arg Arg Arg His His Val Xaa Arg Arg Arg His His Tyr Tyr
              1               5                   10                   15
                                                    Page 83

                                              MD-08-16PCT.txt
<removed-date>
              <210> 342
              <211> 14
              <212> PRT
              <213> Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <221> source
              <223> /note="Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                      peptide"
              <400> 342
              Trp Trp Arg Arg Arg Arg Cys Cys Arg Arg Arg Arg Trp Trp
<removed-apn>
              1               5                   10
              <210> 343
              <211> 14
              <212> PRT
              <213> Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <221> source
              <223> /note="Description of Artificial Sequence: synthetic
                      peptide"
              <220>
              <221> MOD_RES
              <222> (8)..(8)
              <223> Citrulline
              <400> 343
              Trp Trp Arg Arg Arg Arg val Xaa Arg Arg Arg Arg Trp Trp
              1                  5                10
              <210>   344
              <211>   14
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <221> source
              <223> /note="Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                      peptide"
              <400> 344
              Tyr Tyr Arg Arg Arg Arg Cys Cys Arg Arg Arg Arg Tyr Tyr
              1                  5                10
              <210>   345
              <211>   14
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <221> source
              <223> /note="Description of Artificial   Sequence:   Synthetic
                      peptide"
              <220>
              <221> MOD_RES
              <222> (8)(8)
              <223> Citrulline
              <400> 345
                                                   Page 84

                                               MD-08-16PCT.txt
<removed-date>
              Tyr Tyr Arg Arg Arg Arg Val Xaa Arg Arg Arg Arg Tyr Tyr
              1                  5                 10
              <210> 346
              <211> 18
              <212> PRT
              <213> Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <221> source
              <223> /note="Description of Artificial sequence: synthetic
<removed-apn>
                    peptide"
              <400> 346
              Trp Trp Arg Arg Arg Arg His His Cys cos His His Arg Arg Arg Arg
                                 5                  0                      15
              Trp Trp
              <210> 347
              <211> 18
              <212> PRT
              <213> Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <221> source
              <223> /note="Description of Artificial    Sequence:   Synthetic
                    peptide"
              <220>
              <221> MOD_RES
              <222> (10)..(10)
              <223> Citrulline
              <400> 347
              Trp Trp Arg Arg Arg Arg His His Val X aa His His Arg Arg Ar g Arg
              1               5                   10                   15
              Trp Trp
              <210> 348
              <211> 18
              <212> PRT
              <213> Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <221> source
              <223> /note="Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                    peptide"
              <400> 348
              Tyr Tyr Arg Arg Arg Arg His His Cys Cys Arg Arg Arg Arg His His
              1               5                   10                  15
              Tyr Tyr
              <210> 349
                                                    Page 85

                                               MD-08-16PCT.txt
<removed-date>
              <211> 18
              <212> PRT
              <213> Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <221> source
              <223> /note="Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                      peptide"
              <220>
              <221> m0D_REs
<removed-apn>
              <222> (10)..(10)
              <223> Citrulline
              <400> 349
              Tyr Tyr Arg Arg Arg Arg His His Val Xaa Arg Arg Arg Arg His His
              1                  5                10                  15
              Tyr Tyr
              <210>   350
              <211>   20
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <221> source
              <223> /note="Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                      peptide"
              <220>
              <221> MOD_RES
              <222> (11)..(11)
              <223> Citrulline
              <400> 350
              Trp Trp His His Lys Lys Arg Arg Trp Val Xaa Trp Arg Arg Lys Lys
              1                  5                10                  15
              His His Trp Trp
                            20
              <210>   351
              <211>   18
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <221> source
              <223> /note="Description of Artificial Sequence: synthetic
                      peptide"
              <220>
              <221> MOD_RES
              <222> (5)..(6)
              <223> ornithine
              <220>
              <221> MOD_RES
              <222> (10)..(10)
                                                   Page 86

                                              MD-08-16PCT.txt
<removed-date>
              <223> Citrulline
              <220>
              <221> MOD_RES
              <222> (13)..(14)
              <223> ornithine
              <400> 351
              Trp Trp His His Xaa Xaa Arg Arg Val Xaa Arg Arg Xaa Xaa His His
              1               5                   10                   15
<removed-apn>
              Trp Trp
              <210> 352
              <211> 10
              <212> PRT
              <213> Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <221> source
              <223> /note="Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                      peptide"
              <400> 352
              Trp Trp His His Cys Cys Lys Lys Arg Arg
              1               5                    10
              <210>   353
              <211>   12
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial sequence
              <220>
              <221> source
              <223> /note="Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                      peptide"
              <400> 353
              Arg Arg Arg Arg Arg Cys Cys Arg Arg Arg Arg Arg
              1               5                   10
              <210>   354
              <211>   20
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <221> source
              <223> /note="Description of Artificial    sequence: Synthetic
                      primer"
              <400> 354
              ggctcccagt tcttcatcac                                             20
              <210>   355
              <211>   16
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <221> source
              <223> /note="Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                                                   Page 87

                                               MD-08-16PCT.txt
<removed-date>
                      primer"
              <400> 355
              ccttccgcac cacctc                                             16
              <210>   356
              <211>   26
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
<removed-apn>
              <221> source
              <223> /note="Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                    probe"
              <400> 356
              ctagatggca agcatgtggt gtttgg                                  26
              <210>   357
              <211>   24
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial sequence
              <220>
              <221> source
              <223> /note="Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                    primer"
              <400> 357
              tctatcatca acgggtacaa acga                                    24
              <210>   358
              <211>   22
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <221> source
              <223> /note="Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                    primer"
              <400> 358
              cttttcagca agtgggaagg tg                                      22
              <210>   359
              <211>   27
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial sequence
              <220>
              <221> source
              <223> /note=-"Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                    probe"
              <400> 359
              cctggccttg tctgtggaga cggatta                                 27
              <210>   360
              <211>   21
              <212>   RNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
                                                   Page 88

                                              MD-08-16PCT.txt
<removed-date>
              <221> source
              <223> /note="Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                      oligonucleotide"
              <400> 360
              ggaaucuuau auuugaucca a                                      21
              <210> 361
              <211> 23
              <212> RNA
              <213> Artificial Sequence
<removed-apn>
              <220>
              <221> source
              <223> /note="Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                      oligonucleotide"
              <400> 361
              uuggaucaaa uauaagauuc ccu                                    23
              <210>   362
              <211>   25
              <212>   RNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <221> source
              <223> /note="Description of Artificial sequence: synthetic
                    oligonucleotide"
              <400> 362
              ggaaagacug uuccaaaaac agugg                                  25
              <210>   363
              <211>   27
              <212>   RNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <221> source
              <223> /note="Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                      oligonucleotide"
              <400> 363
              ccacuguuuu uggaacaguc uuuccuu                                27
              <210>   364
              <211>   21
              <212>   RNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <221> source
              <223> /note="Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                      oligonucleotide"
              <400> 364
              ggaaagacug uuccaaaaau u                                      21
              <210> 365
              <211> 21
              <212> RNA
              <213> Artificial Sequence
                                                   Page 89

                                               MD-08-16PCT.txt
<removed-date>
              <220>
              <221> source
              <223> /note="Description of Artificial sequence: synthetic
                    oligonucleotide"
              <400> 365
              uuuuuggaac agucuuuccu u                                            21
              <210>   366
              <211>   27
<removed-apn>
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <221> source
              <223> /note="Description of Artificial Sequence: Synthetic
                    peptide"
              <400> 366
              Gly Trp Thr Leu Asn Ser Ala Gly Tyr Leu Leu Gly Lys Ile Asn Leu
              1               5                    10                  15
              Lys Ala Leu Ala Ala Leu Ala Lys Lys Ile Leu
                          20                  25
              <210>   367
              <211>   21
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <221> source
              <223> /note="Description of Artificial sequence: Synthetic
                    oligonucleotide"
              <220>
              <221> source
              <223> /note="Description of Combined DNA/RNA Molecule: synthetic
                    oligonucleotide"
              <400> 367
              uucuccgaac gugucacgut t                                            21
              <210>   368
              <211>   21
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <221> source
              <223> /note="Description of Artificial Sequence: synthetic
                    oligonucleotide"
              <220>
              <221> source
              <223> /note="Description of combined DNA/RNA Molecule: synthetic
                    oligonucleotide"
              <400> 368
              acgugacacg uucggagaat t                                            21
              <210> 369
                                                   Page 90

                                              MD-08-16PCT.txt
<removed-date>
              <211> 21
              <212> DNA
              <213> Artificial sequence
              <220>
              <221> source
              <223> /note="Description of Artificial Sequence: synthetic
                      oligonucleotide"
              <220>
              <221> source
              <223> /note="Description of Combined DNA/RNA Molecule: Synthetic
                      oligonucleotide"
<removed-apn>
              <400> 369
              cuacacaaau cagcgauuut t                                            21
              <210>   370
              <211>   21
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Artificial sequence
              <220>
              <221> source
              <223> /note="Description of Artificial sequence: Synthetic
                      oligonucleotide"
              <220>
              <221> source
              <223> /note="Description of Combined DNA/RNA Molecule: Synthetic
                      oligonucleotide"
              <400> 370
              aaaucgcuga uuuguguagt c                                            21
              <210>   371
              <211>   21
              <212>   RNA
              <213>   Artificial sequence
              <220>
              <221> source
              <223> /note="Description of Artificial sequence: synthetic
                      oligonucleotide"
              <400> 371
              ggaaagacug uuccaaaaau u                                            21
              <210> 372
              <211> 21
              <212> RNA
              <213> Artificial sequence
              <220>
              <221> source
              <223> /note="Description of Artificial sequence: Synthetic
                      oligonucleotide"
              <400> 372
              uuuuuggaac agucuuuccu u                                            21
              <210> 373
              <211> 18
              <212> PRT
                                                   Page 91

                                                MD-08-16PCT.txt
<removed-date>
              <213> Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <221> source
              <223> /note="Description of Artificial sequence: Synthetic
                      peptide"
              <400> 373
              Trp Trp His His Lys Lys Arg Arg cys Cys Arg Arg Lys Lys His His
              1                  5                   10                    15
              Trp Trp
<removed-apn>
              <210>   374
              <211>   24
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <221> source
              <223> /note="Description of Artificial      sequence: Synthetic
                      peptide"
              <400> 374
              Gly Leu Phe Glu Ala Ile Glu Gly Phe Ile Glu Asn Gly Trp Glu Gly
              1                  5                   10                    15
              Met Ile Asp Gly Trp Tyr Gly Cys
                            20
              <210> 375
              <211> 28
              <212> PRT
              <213> Artificial sequence
              <220>
              <221> source
              <223> /note="Description of Artificial Sequence: synthetic
                      peptide"
              <400> 375
              Lys Glu Thr Trp Trp Glu Thr Trp Trp Thr Glu Trp Ser Gln Pro Gly
              1               5                   10                   15
              Arg Lys Lys Arg Arg Gln Arg Arg Arg Pro Pro Gln
                            20                  25
              <210> 376
              <211> 4
              <212> PRT
              <213> Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <221> source
              <223> /note="Description of Artificial sequence: synthetic
                      peptide"
              <400> 376
              Ala Leu Ala Leu
              1
                                                     Page 92

              MD-08-16PCT.txt
<removed-date>
<removed-apn>
                 Page 93

