                                               -21
             EXTENDED OPERATION ENGINE COOLANT COMPOSITION
                                           ABSTRACT
          The invention relates to an engine coolant composition, and a method of increasing
the operational life of a coolant composition in an engine, wherein an isononanoic acid is
incorporated into the generally glycol based coolant fluid in place of nitrous acid or its salt to
reduce pitting corrosion on iron containing surfaces.
3563714v1

                                              -1
           EXTENDED OPERATION ENGINE COOLANT COMPOSITION
CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS
  [0001]    This application claims the benefit of and priority to prior filed pending Non
 Provisional Application Serial No. 13/916,141, filed June 12, 2013, and Australian Patent
 Application 2014278404 filed June 9, 2014 which are incorporated herein by reference in its
 entirety.
 FIELD OF THE INVENTION
  [0002]    The invention relates generally to engine coolant compositions with extended
 operational activity, and a method for increasing the operational life of a coolant
 composition in the engine.
BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
  [0003]    A coolant composition introduced into the cooling system for a diesel engine is
 intended to reproducibly carry heat from heat generating components within the engine to a
 cooling portion within the system, and then to be recycled continuously through the engine
 during operation. The coolant composition optimally is not affected by the high temperature
 encountered within the cooling system, nor is it chemically modified as a result of being
 cycled through the system. Further, the coolant composition assists in protecting metal parts
 from corrosion effects which would be encountered in the cooling system environment when
 the engine is not operating.
  [0004]    The coolant composition thus has to carry out a number of functions within the
 cooling system to perform satisfactorily. It must have a sufficiently high thermal
 conductivity to be able to absorb heat, but be sufficiently stable so as to not decompose or
3563714v1

                                                 -2
 otherwise change in chemical composition during engine operation. Further, because the
 interior of the cooling system contains metal components of differing compositions such as
 iron, brass, solder, aluminum, and steel, the coolant must be both unaffected by the metals
 and able to protect the metals in this environment from degradation. Further, the coolant
 composition must be able to provide its heat absorbing and protective function over an
 extended period of time.
  [0005]      Glycols have long been used in coolant compositions as the primary coolant and
 freezing point depressant component. Depending on the temperature range of the internal
 environment in which the engine is to be operated, varying amounts of water may typically
 be added to extend the coolant composition. As a result the user is able to dilute the coolant
 composition as needed to obtain the desired low and high temperature protection under the
 expected duty conditions. It should be noted, though, that the protection against corrosion of
 the internal parts of the cooling system is required over the entire range of dilution of the
 coolant composition.
  [0006]      Certain of the components in the coolant composition may also require
 concentration adjustment, composition adjustment, or both, in response to the nature and
 quantity of the component metals used in the coolant system. Thus, engines which
 incorporate higher levels of aluminum-containing parts should utilize coolant compositions
 providing corrosion protection for aluminum components. Alternatively, where the cooling
 system incorporates primarily or exclusively iron and iron-containing metals, the corrosion
 protection components may differ in concentration, composition, or both, to optimize the
 coolant composition over its duty cycle for use with these metals.
  [0007]      In the case of cast iron cooling systems typically used in connection with diesel
 engines, pitting of the metal surface in contact with the coolant composition is a concern. In
3563714v1

                                               -3
 wet sleeved diesel engines, pitting of the engine cylinder liners is a primary concern. These
 engine liners are made of cast iron, and traditionally rely on the presence of sodium nitrite in
 the coolant composition to prevent or minimize pitting of the liner surface. In a coolant
 composition for use with diesel engines, the sodium nitrite is consumed as it protects the
 iron surfaces, often being oxidized to sodium nitrate. In addition, the sodium nitrite in the
 coolant composition tends to act aggressively on any aluminum or solder surfaces within the
 cooling system. As a result, the concentration of nitrite in the coolant composition must be
 carefully controlled to balance the protective effect on iron surfaces with the corrosive
 effects on the other system components. To evaluate if the nitrite concentration remains
 within defined limits for a particular coolant system application, coolant can be applied to
 commercially-available test strips. Representative test strip products are available as
 Acustrip@ CTS-3 from Acustrip, P.O. Box 413, Mountain Lakes, NJ 07046 or as
 Fleetguard@ Coolant Test Strips from Cummins Filtration, 1200 Fleetguard Road,
 Cookeville, TN 38506.
  [0008]     Even where the nitrite is properly balanced, depletion of this component is a
 function of time and temperature which typically varies with service life and the duty cycle
 of the engine. Though other components are introduced into the coolant composition to
 eliminate or minimize the corrosion effect on the various metal surfaces in the cooling
 system, the sodium nitrite component is generally unique in its capacity to control pitting on
 iron surfaces in the cooling system. As such, depletion of nitrite in the coolant composition
 can compromise the ability of the coolant composition to protect against corrosion.
SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
  [0009]     The present invention addresses the issue of nitrite depletion in the coolant
 composition by providing a coolant composition that includes isononanoic acid at a
3563714v1

                                                -4
 concentration effective to perform the corrosion inhibition function of nitrite in iron
 containing cooling systems such as used in diesel engines. As a result, the nitrite, either as
 the acid or as an alkali metal, alkaline earth, or ammonium salt, typically as sodium nitrite,
 does not need to be incorporated into the coolant composition. The coolant composition of
 the invention utilizes at least 50% by weight of a glycol based coolant liquid, such as but not
 limited to ethylene glycol, propylene glycol, diethylene glycol, and combinations thereof
 Additionally, glycol ethers may be used as the coolant liquid alone or in combination with
 the above glycols. The glycol ethers include the methyl, ethyl, propyl, and butyl ethers of
 ethylene glycol, and mixtures thereof Glycerin may also be used as a coolant liquid. In
 another embodiment, the commercial coolant composition generally will contain from 55%
 to 95% by weight of one or more of the above glycol or glycol ether components. In another
 embodiment, the commercial coolant composition will contain from 70% to 95% by weight
 of one or more of the glycol or glycol ether components. In a preferred embodiment, the
 commercial coolant composition will contain from 85% to 95% by weight of one or more of
 the glycol or glycol ether components.
  [0010]       Other components for the coolant composition for use in iron-containing cooling
 systems may include an aqueous solution of alkali metal, alkaline earth, or ammonium
 hydroxide, typically sodium hydroxide, potassium hydroxide or combinations thereof as a
 corrosion inhibitor; C5 -C1 3 short chain dicarboxylic acids or their alkali metal, alkaline earth,
 or ammonium salts, as a corrosion inhibitor; and other corrosion inhibitors such as azoles,
 nitrates, silicates, molybdates, and phosphates, typically present as the alkali metal, alkaline
 earth, or ammonium salt, usually the sodium or potassium salt. Also, coolant composition
 additives such as dyes, bitterants and defoamers may be incorporated.
3563714v1

                                                  -5
  [0011]       The coolant composition of the invention utilizes isononanoic acid as a
 replacement for sodium nitrite as an iron inhibitor in the coolant composition. Isononanoic
 acid provides excellent pitting protection in an iron-containing cooling system, such as is
 found in diesel engines, but in addition does not degrade nor is it consumed over time in the
 coolant system environment. As a result, compared to a composition containing sodium
 nitrite, the relative percentages of the coolant composition corrosion inhibitor components
 do not change nor do the corrosion inhibitors require balancing to the same extent, if at all.
 Further, the composition does not require periodic chemical analysis, such as by checking
 with test strips to evaluate nitrite levels with possible supplementation of nitrous acid or the
 alkali, alkaline earth, or ammonium salts thereof In comparison, the need to supplement the
 isononanoic acid additive is minimized during the duty cycle of the coolant composition.
 Further, the composition containing isononanoic acid in place of sodium nitrite also provides
 protection against corrosion on the other metal surfaces in the cooling system, such as
 aluminum, brass, and solder. Further, isononanoic acid is generally considered to have a
 lower toxicity relative to sodium nitrite.
DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION
  [0012]       In its broader aspects, the invention is directed to an engine coolant composition
 which is comprised of 50% or more by weight of glycol based coolant liquid, less than about
  10% by weight of a first carboxyl component selected from the group consisting of aliphatic
 dibasic acids or their salts having from 5 to 13 carbons and mixtures thereof, less than about
  10% by weight of isononanoic acid, and at least one inorganic acid or salt as a corrosion
 inhibitor which is selected from the group consisting of molybdates, phosphates, and
 combinations thereof, wherein the engine coolant composition excludes nitrous acids or the
 alkali metal, alkaline earth, or ammonium salts thereof. More particularly, the glycol-based
 coolant liquid is present in the engine coolant composition at a concentration by weight of
3563714v1

                                                -6
 about 55% to about 95% and preferably of about 7 0% to about 95% and more preferably
 about 85% to about 95%. Further, the first carboxyl component is present in a concentration
 by weight between about 0.1% and about 10%. In an alternative embodiment the first
 carboxyl component is present in a concentration by weight between about 0.1% to about
 6%. In a preferred embodiment, the first carboxyl component is present in a concentration
 by weight between about 4% and about 6%. Further, the isononanoic acid is present in the
 engine coolant composition in a concentration by weight between about 0.01% and about
  10%. In a preferred embodiment, the isononanoic acid is present in a concentration by
 weight between about 0.01% and about 1%. In a more preferred embodiment, the
 isononanoic acid is present in a concentration by weight between about 0.25% and about
  1%.
  [0013]     The primary coolant liquid in the coolant composition is a glycol, typically
 ethylene glycol, propylene glycol, and diethylene glycol or mixtures thereof Additionally,
 glycol ethers and glycerin may be used as the coolant liquid alone or in combination with the
 above glycols. The glycol ethers include the methyl, ethyl, propyl, and butyl ethers of
 ethylene glycol, and mixtures thereof In addition, water is also present in the coolant
 composition. A minimum volume of water is present as a result of introducing, for example,
 sodium hydroxide or potassium hydroxide into the coolant composition in the form of a
 solution of the alkali metal, alkaline earth, or ammonium hydroxide for corrosion and pH
 control. If the coolant composition temperature range permits the incorporation of
 additional water as needed to extend the glycol and obtain the desired freezing point
 depression limit, the coolant liquid can be comprised of not only the above glycol and glycol
 ether materials, but also include water as a component.
3563714v1

                                                -7
  [0014]      The first carboxyl component in the engine coolant composition consists of
 aliphatic dibasic acids or their salts having from 5 to 13 carbons. Exemplary aliphatic
 dibasic acids include glutaric acid, adipic acid, pimelic acid, suberic acid, azelaic acid,
 sebacic acid, undecanedioic acid, and dodecanedioic acid. In a preferred embodiment, the
 first carboxyl component is at least one of adipic acid, sebacic acid, and dodecanedioic acid.
  [0015]      The isononanoic acid component provides protection against pitting on iron
 surfaces in a cooling system environment. In addition to this capability, the isononanoic
 acid, having a boiling point over 200'C, is therefore not likely to volatilize out of the cooling
 system environment during operation of the diesel engine. The relative stability of
 isononanoic acid to chemical modification also renders the material unlikely to degrade in
 the coolant system environment. Thus, though under the pH conditions of the coolant
 composition the acid may be present as a salt, typically the sodium or potassium salt, the
 material will remain in the cooling system at a concentration effective to reduce pitting in an
 engine during the service life of the coolant composition.
  [0016]      As used herein, isononanoic acid refers to one or more branched-chain aliphatic
 carboxylic acids with 9 carbon atoms. Embodiments of isononanoic acid used in the engine
 coolant composition may include 7-methyloctanoic acid (e.g., CAS Nos. 693-19-6 and
 26896-18-4), 6,6-dimethylheptanoic acid (e.g., CAS No. 15898-92-7), 3,5,5
 trimethylhexanoic acid (e.g., CAS No. 3302-10-1), 3,4,5-trimethylhexanoic acid, 2,5,5
 trimethylhexanoic acid, 2,2,4,4-tetramethylpentanoic acid (e.g., CAS No. 3302-12-3) and
 combinations thereof. In an embodiment, isononanoic acid has as its main component
 greater than 90% of one of 7-methyloctanoic acid, 6,6-dimethylheptanoic acid, 3,5,5
 trimethylhexanoic acid, 3,4,5-trimethylhexanoic acid, 2,5,5-trimethylhexanoic acid, and
 2,2,4,4-tetramethylpentanoic acid. The balance of the isononanoic acid may include other
3563714v1

                                               -8
 nine carbon carboxylic acid isomers and minor amounts of one or more contaminants. In a
 preferred embodiment, the isononanoic acid has as its main component greater than 90% of
 3,5,5-trimethylhexanoic acid and even more preferably, the main component is greater than
 95% 3,5,5-trimethylhexanoic acid.
  [0017]     In addition to the isononanoic acid component, the composition may include
 additional metal corrosion inhibitors. In this environment such materials would primarily be
 iron corrosion inhibitors. The corrosion inhibitors include alkali metal, alkaline earth metal,
 and ammonium hydroxides such as sodium hydroxide and potassium hydroxide. Typically,
 these hydroxides are introduced to the composition as a 50% (weight/weight) solution in
 water and are provided in the final engine coolant composition at a concentration in a range
 of about 3% by weight to about 5% by weight of the 50% (weight/weight) solution in water.
 Generally enough hydroxide solution is used to generate an alkaline pH in the coolant
 composition.
  [0018]     Transition metal compounds are also used to inhibit corrosion in formulations of
 the present invention. The water-soluble transition metal compounds such as water soluble
 molybdate, which is preferred for use in the aqueous systems of the present invention, can
 be any salt of molybdic acid (H2MoO 4) that is readily soluble in water. These include both
 alkali metal and alkaline earth metal molybdates as well as ammonium molybdate, all of
 which are referred to herein as "alkali molybdate." Examples of useful alkali and other
 molybdates are sodium molybdate, potassium molybdate, lithium molybdate, molybdenum
 trioxide, ammonium molybdates such as ammonium dimolybdate and ammonium
 heptamolybdate, heteropolymolybdates such as silicoheteropolymolybdates and
 phosphoroheteropolymolybdates, and mixtures thereof. Other compatible transition metal
 compounds may be used alone or in combination, including for example, compounds
3563714v1

                                                 -9
 containing cobalt, cerium, mixtures thereof and the like, as well as tungstates and vanadates.
 In addition, any salt of these transition metal compounds may be used including those
 containing sodium, potassium, lithium, calcium, magnesium and the like. The most
 preferred transition metal compound is sodium molybdate. The transition metal compound
 is employed in the coolant composition in amounts so as to provide about 5 ppm to about
 5000 ppm of the transition metal compound in the final engine coolant formulation.
  [0019]      Azole compounds are present in the formulation, in the form of a salt, to inhibit
 corrosion of yellow metal like copper and brass. Brass thermostats and radiator caps are
 common in automobile engines, as well as copper and brass radiators. In one embodiment,
 the azole compound comprises at least three nitrogen atoms. The hydrocarbyl triazole of the
 instant invention is preferably an aromatic triazole or alkyl-substituted aromatic triazole,
 preferably benzotriazole or tolyltriazole (typically a mixture of 4-methylbenzotriazole and 5
 methylbenzotriazole). The preferred hydrocarbyl triazole is tolyltriazole. The azole
 compound providing protection for copper and brass from corrosion can be selected from
 among the water-soluble triazoles, pyrazoles, isooxazoles, isothiazoles, thiazoles,
 thiadiazoles, and the like. Generally, the alkali metal salts of the azole compounds are used.
 Specific preferred azole compounds include salts of 1, 2, 3-benzotriazole and 1, 2, 3
 tolyltriazole, which will react with basic materials in the composition to form the azole
 salts.
  [0020]      It is contemplated that certain azoles such as sodium 2-mercaptobenzimidazole
 and sodium imidazole define substituted and unsubstituted azoles containing two nitrogen
 atoms which provide an active azole molecule to combine with hydrogen to provide a
 neutralizing or buffering capability when used with a carboxylic acid. The hydrocarbyl
 triazoles utilized in embodiments of the invention contain three nitrogen molecules and can
3563714v1

                                              - 10
 be more substituted and thus less active than the two-nitrogen imidazole, and would
 therefore be less corrosive to engine components and seals. Salts of the selected less active
 and more stable azole compounds in the instant formulation are thus important as corrosion
 inhibitors for protecting yellow metal. In the coolant composition as used in the diesel
 engine, the azole component is present in a concentration from about 0.01% to about 10%,
 or alternatively from about 0.05% to about 1%, most narrowly from about 0.1% to about
 0.5%, with all percentages by weight.
  [0021]      The engine coolant additive may optionally include a defoaming agent. Any
 suitable defoamer, well known in the art, is suitable for the present formulations. Suitable
 defoamers include, for example, an organomodified polydimethylsiloxane-containing
 polyalkylene glycol, siloxane polyalkylene oxide copolymer, and polyalkylene oxide. Such
 defoamers are commercially available as Silbreak@ 320 (from Momentive Performance
 Materials, Inc., Friendly, West Virginia, and identified as an organomodified
 polydimethylsiloxane), Plurafac@ LF 224 (commercially available from BASF Corporation,
 Florham Park, New Jersey, and identified as a low foaming nonionic surfactant, including
 alkoxylated, predominantly unbranched fatty alcohols, containing higher alkene oxides
 alongside ethylene oxide), PLURONIC@ L-61 non-ionic surfactant (commercially available
 from BASF Corporation, and identified as an ethylene oxide/propylene oxide block
 copolymer) or PATCOTE@ 415 liquid defoamer (commercially available from Patco
 Specialty Chemicals Division, American Ingredients Company, Kansas City, Missouri, and
 identified as a non-silicone liquid defoamer). The defoamer may be present in the coolant
 additive in an amount up to about 1%by weight and is preferably present in an amount of
 about 0.001% by weight to about 0.75% by weight and more preferably in an amount of
 about 0.003% by weight to about 0.5% by weight, and most preferably, in an amount of
 about 0.005% to about 0. 1% by weight of the coolant composition.
3563714v1

                                               - 11
  [0022]      Other components such as bittering agents, dyes, tracers, or biocides may also
 optionally be added directly to the coolant liquid, and are generally available.
  [0023]      Ethylene glycol or propylene glycol is preferred as the freezing point depressant
 and especially the commercially available mixtures containing largely ethylene glycol and a
 small amount of diethylene glycol. The commercial mixture preferably contains at least
 about 85% to about 95% by weight of ethylene glycol with the remainder being diethylene
 glycol and small amounts of substances which are incidentally present such as water.
  [0024]      Also disclosed herein is a method for imparting corrosion inhibition to a coolant
 composition for use in a cooling system including iron components, wherein the corrosion
 inhibitor does not require periodic supplementation. The iron component can include steel
 alloys, cast iron alloys, and combinations of steel and cast iron alloys. An exemplary cast
 iron alloy component is a wet liner cylinder sleeve utilized in internal combustion engines.
 During use, such sleeves are exposed to elevated temperatures from friction and combustion
 occurring in the cylinder of the sleeve while at least a portion of the outer body of the sleeve
 is in contact with the engine coolant composition. The operating environment of such wet
 sleeves requires constant effective corrosion inhibition in the engine coolant composition.
 Such corrosion inhibition of wet sleeves and other iron containing components of cooling
 systems is obtained by the introduction of isononanoic acid, or its alkali metal, alkaline
 earth, or ammonium salts into the engine coolant composition in an amount effective to
 reduce pitting. Pitting is reduced to a level sufficient to pass engine pitting test ASTM D
 7583-09 in the absence of nitrous acids and salts thereof. While wet sleeves are particularly
 discussed herein, the present engine coolant composition provides effective corrosion
 inhibition to other ferrous metal containing components, such as cast iron engine blocks,
 cylinder heads, and pump housings.
3563714v1

                                              - 12
  [0025]     The following detailed examples illustrate the practice of the invention in an
 embodied form, thereby enabling a person of ordinary skill in the art to practice the
 invention. The principles of this invention, its operating parameters and other obvious
 modifications can be understood in view of the following detailed procedure.
  [0026]     Table 1: Iron Corrosion Inhibition Package Comparison
 Component, wt. %        Example A      Example B      Example C
 Ethylene Glycol          ~90           ~90             ~90
 50% NaOH (aq.)          3              3               3
 Adipic Acid             1              1               1
 Sebacic Acid            3              3               2
 Isononanoic Acid        0.45           0               0
 Sodium Nitrite          0              0               0.44
 Other metal             <3             <3             <3
 inhibitors and
 additives
 Number of Liner         87             125             78
 Pits, Deere Engine
 Test (ASTM D
 7583-09)
  [0027]     Table 1 above sets out various coolant composition examples. Example A
 contains isononanoic acid for iron protection, and is used as a replacement for sodium
 nitrite. The isononanoic acid includes a mixture of branched chain carboxylic acids with 9
 carbon atoms wherein about 88% to about 99% of mixture is 3,5,5-trimethylhexanoic acid.
 The ethylene glycol is included as the coolant liquid, with freeze point depressant properties.
 The 50% solution of sodium hydroxide in water, adipic acid, and sebacic acid contribute to
 providing corrosion inhibition. The isononanoic acid, and alternatively sodium nitrite,
 contributes to inhibiting corrosion on iron surfaces. The entry "other metal inhibitors and
 additives" encompass sodium tolyltriazole, sodium nitrate, sodium silicate, sodium
 molybdate, a dye, and a defoamer.
3563714v1

                                                - 13
  [0028]      Example B contains neither sodium nitrite nor isononanoic acid, though it does
 include an alkaline dicarboxylic acid blend. Relative to Example A, the only difference in
 composition is the absence of isononanoic acid.
  [0029]      Example C includes sodium nitrite as a component, but no isononanoic acid is
 present.
  [0030]      The various examples can be produced by simple addition of the various
 components in an open vessel with mechanical agitation. It is recommended that the coolant
 liquid be introduced to the vessel first, but the order of addition of the remaining materials
 may vary as desired.
  [0031]      The three examples in Table 1 were tested according to ASTM D 7583-09, an
 iron engine pitting test also known as the John Deere Engine Coolant Cavitation (Pitting)
 Test. A formulation which passes the test will provide a test result of 200 pits or less.
 However, a result of 100 pits or less is desired. As shown in Table 1, the number of liner
 pits after running the above ASTM test using the Example A formulation containing
 isononanoic acid was 87, and 78 using the sodium nitrite-containing formula of Example C.
 Both of these test results show less than 100 pits, and would offer superior protection in the
 most severe service conditions. Comparatively, the Example B formula gave a 125 pit
 count. This result technically passes the test, though the result is well above the desired
 maximum of 100 pits which are typical of a system containing nitrite. As a result, the
 pitting protection provided by Example B would be considered suspect under hard cavitation
 conditions encountered in many larger, high powered diesel engines with wet sleeve liners.
 [0032]       Table 2: Coolant A Working Formulation
             Component                 Wt %
3563714v1

                                               - 14
            Component                  Wt %
 Ethylene Glycol                   Balance
 50% NaOH                          3.0
 Adipic Acid                       0.7
 Sebacic Acid                      2.8
 Dodecanedioic Acid                0.1
 Isononanoic Acid                  0.45
 Sodium Molybdate Dihydrate        0.25
 50% Dipotassium Phosphate         0.5
 50% Sodium Tolyltriazole          0.5
 Silbreak 320                      0.005
 Plurafac LF 224                   0.01
 [0033]      Table 2 above describes a working formula containing isononanoic acid, with
 additional additives such as scale inhibitors, bitterants, dye, defoamer and corrosion
 inhibitors, and was made according to the procedure described above. The formula shown
 in Table 2 would be optimized for high lead solder performance. Nonetheless, modifications
 of the individual component concentrations would be expected to provide acceptable results
 when adjusting the formula for optimized performance relative to other metals in the cooling
 system.
  [0034]     The 50% sodium hydroxide solution identified in the formulas above is prepared
 by mixing equal weights of sodium hydroxide (100% active basis) and distilled or deionized
 water, with simple agitation, and back-addition of water to correct for lost water vapor.
  [0035]     While   the  invention    has been      described    in conjunction  with  specific
 embodiments thereof, it is evident that many alternatives, modifications, and variations will
 be apparent to those skilled in the art in light of the foregoing description. Accordingly,
 departures may be made from such details without departing from the spirit or scope of the
 general inventive concept.
3563714v1

                                                - 15
What is claimed:
       1. An engine coolant composition comprising:
          50% or more by weight of a glycol-based coolant liquid;
          between about 0.1% by weight and about 10% by weight of a first carboxyl
          component selected from the group consisting of aliphatic dibasic acids or their salts
          having from five to 13 carbons, and mixtures thereof;
          between about 0.01% by weight and about 10% by weight of isononanoic acid; and
          at least one inorganic acid or its salt as a corrosion inhibitor, selected from the group
          consisting of molybdates, phosphates, and combinations thereof,
          wherein the composition excludes nitrous acid or the alkali metal, alkaline earth, or
          ammonium salts thereof
       2. The composition of claim 1 wherein the isononanoic acid is present at a
          concentration between about 0.010%by weight and about 1% by weight.
       3. The composition of claim 1 wherein the isononanoic acid is present at a
          concentration between about 0.10% by weight and about 1% by weight.
       4. The composition of claim 1 wherein the isononanoic acid is present at a
          concentration between about 0.25% by weight and about 1%by weight.
3563714v1

                                              - 16
       5. The composition of claim 1 wherein the isononanoic acid is selected from the group
           consisting    of  7-methyloctanoic    acid,   6,6-dimethylheptanoic   acid,   3,5,5
           trimethylhexanoic acid, 3,4,5-trimethylhexanoic acid, 2,5,5-trimethylhexanoic acid,
           2,2,4,4-tetramethylpentanoic acid, and combinations thereof
       6. The composition of claim 1 wherein greater than 90% of isononanoic acid is one of
           7-methyloctanoic acid, 6,6-dimethylheptanoic acid, 3,5,5-trimethylhexanoic acid,
           3,4,5-trimethylhexanoic    acid,   2,5,5-trimethylhexanoic    acid,  and    2,2,4,4
           tetramethylpentanoic acid.
       7. The composition of claim 6 wherein greater than 95% of isononanoic acid is 3,5,5
           trimethylhexanoic acid.
       8. The composition of claim 1 further including an azole.
       9. The composition of claim 1 wherein the first carboxyl component is adipic acid.
       10. The composition of claim 1 wherein the first carboxyl component is sebacic acid.
3563714v1

                                                 - 17
       11. The composition of claim 1 wherein the first carboxyl component is dodecanedioic
           acid.
       12. The composition of claim 1 wherein the inorganic acid salt includes sodium
           molybdate.
       13. The composition of claim 1 wherein the inorganic acid salt includes dipotassium
           phosphate.
       14. A method for reducing pitting corrosion in an engine comprising incorporating into
           a coolant composition an amount of isononanoic acid effective to reduce pitting, the
           salt thereof, and combinations of the acid and salt, in the absence of nitrous acid or
           the alkali metal, alkaline earth, or ammonium salts thereof
       15. An engine coolant composition comprising:
           between about 85 % by weight and about 95% by weight of a glycol-based coolant
           liquid;
           between about 0.1% by weight and about 6% by weight of a first carboxyl
           component selected from the group consisting of aliphatic dibasic acids or the alkali
           metal, alkaline earth, or ammonium salts thereof having from 5 to 13 carbons, and
           mixtures thereof;
3563714v1

                                                 - 18
           between about 0.01% by weight and 1% by weight of isononanoic acid; and
           at least one inorganic acid or its salt as a corrosion inhibitor, selected from the group
           consisting of molybdates, phosphates, and combinations thereof,
           wherein the composition excludes nitrous acid or the alkali metal, alkaline earth, or
           ammonium salts thereof
       16. The composition of claim 15 wherein the first carboxylic acid is present at a
           concentration between about 4% by weight and about 6% by weight.
       17. The composition of claim 15 wherein the isononanoic acid is present at a
           concentration between about 0.25% by weight and about 1%by weight.
       18. The composition of claim 15 wherein the isononanoic acid is selected from the
           group consisting of 7-methyloctanoic acid, 6,6-dimethylheptanoic acid, 3,5,5
           trimethylhexanoic acid, 3,4,5-trimethylhexanoic acid, 2,5,5-trimethylhexanoic acid,
           2,2,4,4-tetramethylpentanoic acid, and combinations thereof
       19. The composition of claim 15 wherein greater than 90% of isononanoic acid is one
           of 7-methyloctanoic acid, 6,6-dimethylheptanoic acid, 3,5,5-trimethylhexanoic acid,
           3,4,5-trimethylhexanoic     acid,     2,5,5-trimethylhexanoic      acid,    and   2,2,4,4
           tetramethylpentanoic acid.
3563714v1

                                             - 19
       20. The composition of claim 19 wherein greater than 95% of isononanoic acid is 3,5,5
           trimethylhexanoic acid.
       21. The composition of claim 15, further including an azole.
       22. The composition of claim 15 wherein the first carboxyl component is adipic acid.
       23. The composition of claim 15 wherein the first carboxyl component is sebacic acid.
       24. The composition of claim 15 wherein the first carboxyl component is dodecanedioic
           acid.
       25. The composition of claim 15 wherein the second carboxyl component is
           isononanoic acid.
       26. The composition of claim 15 wherein the inorganic acid salt includes sodium
           molybdate.
3563714v1

                                               - 20
       27. The composition of claim 15 wherein the inorganic acid salt includes dipotassium
           phosphate.
       28. A method of inhibiting corrosion in an iron containing component of an engine
           coolant system comprising adding an amount of isononanoic acid effective to
           reduce pitting in an engine coolant composition; and
           adding the engine coolant composition to an engine coolant system;
           wherein the isononanoic acid in the engine coolant composition is sufficient to pass
           engine pitting test ASTM D 7583-09 in the absence of nitrous acid or the alkali
           metal, alkaline earth, or ammonium salts thereof
3563714v1

