ABSTRACT
A desktop assembly adapted for being positioned on a desk, the assembly
comprising: at least a first work surface adapted for being movable between a
raised configuration and lowered configuration; one or more panels extending
upwardly relative to the work surface; and a fastening arrangement for fastening
said one or more panels relative to the work surface.

                     AUSTRALIA
                  PATENTS ACT 1990
        INNOVATION PATENT SPECIFICATION
                 DESKTOP ASSEMBLY
The following statement is a description of the invention:

                                        1
                             DESKTOP ASSEMBLY
TECHNICAL FIELD
This invention relates to ergonomic workplace environments, and more
particularly to a desktop assembly.
BACKGROUND
Any references to methods, apparatus or documents of the prior art are not to
be taken as constituting any evidence or admission that they formed, or form
part of the common general knowledge.
Adjustable desks (also known in the art as "sit-stand desks") that can be raised
or lowered to allow a user to work in a standing or sitting position (depending
on the user's preferences or requirements) are currently known. A major
problem with the currently available sit-stand desks is that such desks are
typically positioned in open plan offices and used for converting conventional
desks or tables into a sit-stand desk. However, users of currently available sit
stand desks have raised concerns that include: (a) concerns regarding
privacy/security of documents on screen when standing; (b) noise concerns
when people are speaking on the phone in a standing position; and (c)
increased distractions when standing.
In view of the above problems there is at least a need for an improved desktop
assembly that addresses some of the above concerns.
SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
In one aspect, the invention provides a desktop assembly comprising: at least
a first work surface adapted for being movable between a raised configuration
and lowered configuration; one or more panels extending upwardly relative to
the work surface; and fastening arrangement for fastening said one or more
panels relative to the work surface.

                                          2
In another aspect, the invention provides a desk comprising: at least a first work
surface adapted for being movable between a raised configuration and lowered
configuration; one or more panels extending upwardly relative to the work
surface; and fastening arrangement for fastening said one or more panels
relative to the work surface.
In an embodiment, the one or more panels are acoustic panels. In a further
embodiment, the one or more of the acoustical panels comprises a sound
attenuating material preferably covered by a fabric.
In an embodiment, the one or more of the panels are of a generally rectangular
configuration.
In an embodiment, the one or more panels are mounted or fastened along a
peripheral portion of the first work surface.
In another embodiment, the desktop assembly further comprises a panel
assembly wherein the panel assembly comprises a central panel flanked by
laterally located panels, said laterally located panels being hinged relative to
the central panel.
In an embodiment, the one or more panels are adapted for being removably
fastened to one or more mounting brackets arranged along the first work
surface. Preferably, each of the brackets comprises: a fastening portion
adapted for fastening the bracket to the first work surface; and a panel receiving
portion adapted for receiving the one or more panels therein.
In an embodiment, the desktop assembly further comprises a second work
surface positioned below and in a spaced relationship relative to the first work
surface. Preferably, the first work surface and the underlying second work
surface are movable between a raised configuration and lowered configuration
preferably without changing the spacing in between the first and second work
surfaces.

                                         3
In an embodiment, the at least one work surface is mounted to a frame, said
frame    being    movable    between the    raised   configuration   and  lowered
configuration.
In an embodiment, the desktop assembly further comprises a base wherein the
at least first work surface is movable between a raised configuration and
lowered configuration relative to the base. Preferably, the first and second work
surfaces are movable between           the raised    configuration   and lowered
configuration relative to the base.
In an embodiment, the desktop assembly further comprises a connecting arm
for inter-connecting the base relative to the at least one work surface.
In an embodiment, the connecting arm is pivotally connected relative to one or
both of the base and the at least one work surface. Preferably, the connecting
arm is pivotally connected to the frame.
In an embodiment, the desktop assembly further comprises a biasing
mechanism for maintaining the first work surface in a raised configuration.
Preferably, the biasing mechanism is adapted for maintaining the first and
second work surfaces in a raised configuration. More preferably, the biasing
mechanism is adapted for maintaining the frame in a raised configuration
relative to the base.
In an embodiment, at least the first work surface and preferably both the first
and second work surfaces, are adapted to be positioned and maintained in a
plurality of positions in between the raised configuration and the lowered
configuration. Preferably, the frame is adapted to be positioned and maintained
in a plurality of positions in between the raised configuration and the lowered
configuration.

                                          4
BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
Preferred features, embodiments and variations of the invention may be
discerned from the following Detailed Description which provides sufficient
information for those skilled in the art to perform the invention. The Detailed
Description is not to be regarded as limiting the scope of the preceding
Summary of the Invention in any way. The Detailed Description will make
reference to a number of drawings as follows:
Figure 1 is a perspective view of a desktop assembly 100 in accordance with a
first embodiment of the present invention.
Figure 2 is rear view of the desktop assembly 100.
Figure 3 is a side view of the desktop assembly 100.
Figure 4 illustrates side views of the desktop assembly 100 in various operating
configurations     (including  two    raised   configurations and    a  lowered
configuration).
Figure 5 is a perspective view of a desktop assembly 200 in accordance with a
second embodiment of the present invention.
Figure 6 is a first top perspective view of the desktop assembly 200.
Figure 7 is a second top perspective view of the desktop assembly 200.
DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF PREFERRED EMBODIMENTS
Referring to Figures 1 to 4, a height adjustable desktop assembly 100 is
illustrated in accordance with a first embodiment of the present invention.
Figures 1 to 3, in particular illustrate the desktop assembly 100 in a raised
configuration whilst Figure 4 illustrates the desktop assembly 100 in a lowered

                                         5
configuration. The desktop assembly 100 in the preferred embodiment is
adapted for being positioned on a standard desk during use.
Turning to Figures 1 to 3, in particular, the desktop assembly 100 comprises a
first work surface 110 that is spaced apart (by a pre-determined space)from an
underlying second work surface 120. The space between the work surfaces
110 and 120 may be large enough to store a computer keyboard and mouse,
and allow for the use thereof.Each of the first and second work surfaces 110
and 120 are mounted on a frame 115 (shown most clearly in Figure 3). The
frame 115 is configured for mounting and maintaining the work surfaces 110
and 120 in a spaced relationship. The desktop assembly 100 also includes a
base platform 130 that is adapted for being positioned on top of a desk D (such
as a conventional writer's desk- best shown in Figure 2).
The frame 115 is interconnected with the base 130 by a connecting mechanism
for allowing the frame 115 to be raised and lowered relative to the base 130.
The connecting mechanism comprises a connecting arm 170 that inter
connects the base 130 and the frame 115. The connecting arm 170 comprises
an upper end 170A and a lower end 170B (shown in Figure 2). The upper end
170A of the connecting arm 170 is pivotally connected to the frame 115. The
lower end 170B of the connecting arm 170 is pivotally connected to the base
130.
Referring to Figure 4, the pivoted configuration of the connecting arm 170, as
described above, allows the frame 115 and the work surfaces 110 and 120
mounted thereon) to be positioned relatively away from the user when the frame
115 in a raised configuration. In comparison, the frame 115 (and the work
surfaces 110 and 120) are positioned relatively closer to the user when the
frame is in a lowered position. Advantageously, a biasing mechanism (such as
spring assisting mechanism) is also provided for biasing and maintaining the
frame 115 (and the work surfaces 110 and 120) in a raised configuration. The
biasing mechanism assists the user of the desktop assembly 100 in countering
the weight of the working surfaces 110 and 120 and any electronic devices,
such as a computer, screen, keyboard and mouse positioned thereon, to allow
for smooth and easy raising of the working surfaces 110 and 120. A locking

                                           6
lever 180 fixedly engages the frame 115 (and the working surfaces 110 and
120) at a plurality of orientations relative to the base 130.
The working surface 110 is provided with an upwardly extending acoustic panel
140 that is positioned in a substantially perpendicular orientation relative to the
plane of the working surface 110. The panel 140 comprises a rectangular
configuration. The panel 140 is formed from a sound attenuating material that
is covered or enclosed by a fabric. The panel 140 is fastened along a peripheral
portion of the first work surface 110 by way of mounting brackets 150. Each of
the brackets 150 comprises a fastening portion adapted for fastening the
bracket to the work surface 110 and a panel receiving portion adapted for
receiving the panel 140.
The provision of the panel 140 along the work surface 110 allows the panel 140
to be raised and lowered in conjunction with the work surface 110. As a result,
during use, when the user raises the work surface 110, the panel 140 is raised
simultaneously thereby providing the user privacy/security at the time of viewing
documents on a computer screen positioned on the work surface 110. The
provision of the panel 140 in the aforementioned configuration also absorbs
sound and therefore addresses noise concerns when the user of the desktop
assembly 100 is speaking on the phone whilst in a standing position. The
provision of the panel 140 mounted along the working surface 110 whilst the
working surface 110 is in a raised configuration also prevents the user from
being distracted whilst operating the desktop assembly 100 in a standing
position.
Turning to Figures 5 to 7, a second embodiment of the desktop assembly 200
is illustrated. Like reference numerals denote like features that have been
previously described. The desktop assembly 200 includes a panel assembly
240 that is fastened along a peripheral portion of the work surface 110. The
panel assembly comprises a central panel 246 and flanked by laterally located
panels 242 and 244 on either lateral sides of the central panel 246. Each of the
laterally located panels 242 and 244 are hinged relative to the central panel
246.

                                        7
The provision of the panel assembly 240 along the work surface 110 allows the
panels 242, 244 and 246 to be raised and lowered in conjunction with the work
surface 110. As a result, during use, when the user raises the work surface 110,
the panel assembly 240 is raised simultaneously thereby providing the user
privacy/security at the time of viewing documents on a computer screen
positioned on the work surface 110. The provision of the panel assembly 240
in the aforementioned configuration also absorbs sound and therefore
addresses noise concerns when the user of the desktop assembly 100 is
speaking on the phone whilst in a standing position. The provision of the panel
assembly 240 mounted along the working surface 110 whilst the working
surface 110 is in a raised configuration also prevents the user from being
distracted whilst operating the desktop assembly 100 in a standing position.
Each of the work surfaces 110 and 120 may be of any size and shape and be
made from any appropriate strong and rigid material, such as wood, metal,
glass, particle board, Medium Density Fiberboard (MDF),            High Density
Fiberboard (HDF), reinforced plastic, or reinforced composites and laminates,
or combinations thereof, as is well known by those skilled in the art. Since the
work surfaces 110 and 120 are configured to be raised and lowered at regular
intervals, as described below, it is preferably made from a lightweight, rigid
material to provide a durable work surface. As mentioned above, the work
surfaces may take on any shape, but as shown and described in this
application, the upper work surface 110 is C-shaped and the lower work surface
120 is rectangular in shape.
Whilst the preferred embodiment refers to the use of acoustic panels, the
present invention is in no way limited to such acoustic panels. For example,
exemplary       embodiments       are    disclosed     that    include     visual
and/or acoustic privacy features for the desktop assembly or the desk
described     herein.   In   at   least   some    configurations,    the   visual
and/or acoustic privacy features of the panels may be configured to provide the
user with at least some visual and/or acoustic privacy and isolation from others
in an open plan office environment.

                                          8
The terms "desktop assembly" refer to any structure that may be placed upon
a desk or a table, the structure being adapted to receive and support electronic
devices such as a computer and/or a computer screen, keyboard, mouse and
any other office equipment.
In compliance with the statute, the invention has been described in language
more or less specific to structural or methodical features. The term "comprises"
and its variations, such as "comprising" and "comprised of" is used throughout
in an inclusive sense and not to the exclusion of any additional features. It is to
be understood that the invention is not limited to specific features shown or
described since the means herein described comprises preferred forms of
putting the invention into effect. The invention is, therefore, claimed in any of its
forms or modifications within the proper scope of the appended claims
appropriately interpreted by those skilled in the art.
Throughout the specification and claims (if present), unless the context requires
otherwise, the term "substantially" or "about" will be understood to not be limited
to the value for the range qualified by the terms.
Any embodiment of the invention is meant to be illustrative only and is not
meant to be limiting to the invention. Therefore, it should be appreciated that
various other changes and modifications can be made to any embodiment
described without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention.

                                            9
The claims defining the invention are as follows:
    1. A desktop assembly adapted for being positioned on a desk, the
       assembly comprising:
                at least a first work surface adapted for being movable between a
        raised configuration and lowered configuration;
                one or more panels extending upwardly relative to the work
       surface; and
                a fastening arrangement for fastening said one or more panels
        relative to the work surface.
2.     A desktop assembly in accordance with claim 1 wherein the one or more
panels are acoustic panels.
3.     A desktop assembly in accordance with claim 2 wherein the one or more
of the acoustical panels comprises a sound attenuating material preferably
covered by a fabric.
4.     A desktop assembly in accordance with any one of the preceding claims
wherein the one or more of the panels are of a generally rectangular
configuration.
5.     A desktop assembly in accordance with any one of the preceding claims
wherein the one or more panels are mounted or fastened along a peripheral
portion of the first work surface.
6.     A desktop assembly in accordance with any one of the preceding claims
further comprising a panel assembly wherein the panel assembly comprises a
central panel flanked by laterally located panels, said laterally located panels
being hinged relative to the central panel.

                                          10
7.      A desktop assembly in accordance with any one of the preceding claims
wherein the one or more panels are adapted for being removably fastened to
one or more mounting brackets arranged along the first work surface.
8.      A desktop assembly in accordance with claim 7 wherein each of the
brackets comprises: a fastening portion adapted for fastening the bracket to the
first work surface; and a panel receiving portion adapted for receiving the one
or more panels therein.
9.      A desktop assembly in accordance with any one of the preceding claims
further comprising a second work surface positioned below and in a spaced
relationship relative to the first work surface.
10.     A desktop assembly in accordance with claim 9 wherein the first work
surface and the underlying second work surface are movable between a raised
configuration and lowered configuration preferably without changing the
spacing in between the first and second work surfaces.
11.     A desktop assembly in accordance with any one of the claims wherein
the at least one work surface is mounted to a frame, said frame being movable
between the raised configuration and lowered configuration.
12.     A desktop assembly in accordance with any one of the preceding claims
wherein the desktop assembly further comprises a base wherein the at least
first work surface is movable between a raised configuration and lowered
configuration relative to the base. Preferably, the first and second work surfaces
are movable between the raised configuration and lowered configuration
relative to the base.
13.     A desktop assembly in accordance with any one of the preceding claims
further comprising a connecting arm for inter-connecting the base relative to the
at least one work surface.

                                            11
14.     A desktop assembly in accordance with claim 13 wherein the connecting
arm is pivotally connected relative to one or both of the base and the at least
one work surface.
15.     A desktop assembly in accordance with claim 14 wherein the connecting
arm is pivotally connected to the frame.
16.     A desktop assembly in accordance with claim any one of the preceding
claims further comprising a biasing mechanism for maintaining the first work
surface in a raised configuration.
17.     A desktop assembly in accordance with claim 16 when dependent upon
any one of claims 9 or 10 wherein the biasing mechanism is adapted for
maintaining the first and second work surfaces in a raised configuration relative
to the base.
18.     A desktop assembly in accordance with claim 10 wherein the one and/or
the second work surfaces are adapted to be positioned and maintained in a
plurality of positions in between the raised configuration and the lowered
configuration.
19.     A desktop assembly in accordance with claim 18 wherein the frame is
adapted to be positioned and maintained in a plurality of positions in between
the raised configuration and the lowered configuration.
20. A desk comprising:
                at least a first work surface adapted for being movable between a
        raised configuration and lowered configuration;
                one or more panels extending upwardly relative to the work
        surface; and
                a fastening arrangement for fastening said one or more panels
        relative to the work surface.

<removed-date>   140
                                  100
<removed-apn>
                     150
                                  110
               150
                                        120
              170
                                 130
                      FIGURE 1

<removed-date>
                                 140
<removed-apn>           150                          150       110
                    115
                                       170A                 120
              100
                           170         170B
                                                      130
                                                  D
                                       FIGURE 2

<removed-date>
              140
                                            100
<removed-apn>
                     115              110
                                        120
               170
                                  130
                                             D
                           FIGURE 3

           <removed-apn>         <removed-date>
FIGURE 4
                        100

<removed-date>
                                 240         242
                    246
                                              200
<removed-apn>
                                150
                                              110
                          150
              244
                                                    120
                    170
                                             130
                                  FIGURE 5

<removed-date>
                    240
<removed-apn>
                                 200
                                 110
                    FIGURE 6
              240
                                200
                               110
                    FIGURE 7

