                                  ABSTRACT
The invention relates to a method of forming a head portion of a tactile ground
surface indicator comprising: pressing a plurality of formations into a sheet of
metal, each formation being representative of a shape of the head portion to be
formed; cutting each formation from the sheet of metal to form individual head
pieces; and finishing each individual head piece to form the head portion of the
ground surface indicator.

46-A (
        METHOD OF FORMING A HEAD OF A TACTILE GROUND
                               SURFACE INDICATOR
   FIELD OF INVENTION
   The present invention relates generally to tactile ground surface indicators and in
 5 particular, to a method of forming a head of a TGSI from a sheet of metal.
   BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
   The use of tactile ground surface indicators (TGSIs) is a well-known means of
   improving the safe use of walking surfaces, such as footpaths, platforms and stairs,
   especially for blind and vision impaired individuals.
10 TGSIs are available in a variety of different forms and structures. A TGSI
   generally includes a head portion which is located to project above the walking
   surface and a securing means for fixing the head portion to the walking surface.
   Some TGSIs represent individual studs with a flattened head portion configured to
   be positioned above the ground surface and a stem portion extending from an
1s underside of the head portion so as to be received in a hole formed in the ground
   surface. The TGSI may be secured in the hole by way of an adhesive of by way
   of a plug fitted over the stem portion which engages with the walls of the hole to
   retain the TGSI in position. Other TGSIs may take the form of a plates or tile.
   Such plates or tiles have an upper surface with raised portions formed thereon
20 which provide guidance to a walker travelling over the plate or tile, with the lower
   surface configured to be secured to the ground surface by an adhesive or a
   mechanical fastening device.
   Individual stud TGSIs have traditionally been formed from a piece of metal that is
   machined to form a one-piece head portion and stem. Whilst such TGSIs have
25 proven effective in providing a strong and robust TGSI, the costs associated with
   the manufacture of such a component are high, as is the wastage of material. For
   this purpose, a variety of different methods have been proposed to reduce the
   manufacturing costs of such components and to simplify the process. This has
   involved pressing the head portion from a sheet of metal and welding or otherwise
30 attaching a stem portion to an underside thereof, as well as using a combination of
   a metal head portion and plastic stem portion to reduce the amount of metal used
   in such devices.
   Australian Patent No. 2013200768 filed by CTA Australia Pty Ltd disclosed a
   method of manufacturing a TGSI that involved a step of plastically deforming a

   pre-cut piece of sheet material into a plate shaped head portion which as then able
   to be machined into a final head piece through use of a lathe and similar machining
   systems. Whilst such a method of manufacturing enables TGSIs to be formed from
   a sheet of metal, there is a need to initially cut the sheet of metal prior to the plastic
 5 deformation step which requires handling of multiple formed head pieces as well
   as the need to cut the pre-cut pieces larger than the formed piece which can result
   in material wastage.
   Thus, there is a need to provide a method of manufacturing a head portion of a
   TGSI from a sheet of metal material that minimises wastage and handling issues
10 and which maximises throughput.
   The above references to and descriptions of prior proposals or products are not
   intended to be, and are not to be construed as, statements or admissions of common
   general knowledge in the art. In particular, the above prior art discussion does not
   relate to what is commonly or well known by the person skilled in the art, but
15 assists in the understanding of the inventive step of the present invention of which
   the identification of pertinent prior art proposals is but one part.
   STATEMENT OF INVENTION
   The invention according to one or more aspects is as defined in the independent
   claims. Some optional and/or preferred features of the invention are defined in the
20 dependent claims.
   Accordingly, in one aspect of the invention there is provided a method of forming
   a head portion of a tactile ground surface indicator comprising:
                  pressing a plurality of formations into a sheet of metal, each
           formation being representative of a shape of the head portion to be formed;
25                 cutting each formation from the sheet of metal to form individual
           head pieces; and
                   finishing each individual head piece to form the head portion of the
           ground surface indicator.
30 The step of pressing the plurality of formations into the sheet of metal may
   comprise deforming the sheet of metal to form a plurality of formations in the
   sheet. The step of pressing the plurality of formations into the sheet may be
   performed a formation at a time.
35 The step of cutting each formation from the sheet comprises placing the sheet into
   a cutter machine and cutting each formation such that it is removed from the sheet.

   The step of finishing each individual head piece to form the head portion may
   comprise machining the head piece in a lathe.
 5 BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
   The invention may be better understood from the following non-limiting
   description of preferred embodiments, in which:
           Fig. 1 is a perspective view of a sheet of metal suitable for use with an
           embodiment of the method of the present invention;
10         Fig. 2 is a side view of a press machine for forming multiple deformations
           in the sheet of metal in a first step of forming the TGSI in accordance with
           an embodiment of the present invention;
           Fig. 3 is a perspective view of the sheet of Fig. 1 following processing by
           the press machine of Fig. 2;
15         Fig. 4 is a side view of a cutter machine for removing the pieces from the
           deformed sheet of Fig. 3 in accordance with an embodiment of the present
           invention;
           Fig. 5 is an enlarged view of the cutter machine of Fig. 4 removing a piece
           from the deformed sheet of Fig. 3 in accordance with an embodiment of the
20        present invention; and
           Fig. 6 is a side view of a finished head portion of a TGSI in accordance with
           an embodiment of the present invention.
   DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
   Preferred features of the present invention will now be described with particular
25 reference to the accompanying drawings. However, it is to be understood that the
   features illustrated in and described with reference to the drawings are not to be
   construed as limiting on the scope of the invention.
   The method of manufacturing the TGSI of the present invention will be described
   below in relation to one preferred embodiment of forming a head portion for a
30 TGSI. It will be appreciated that other embodiments of forming the head portion
   of the TGSI may be used and that the head portion may be used as a TGSI without
   the need for a securing stem or other features. Similarly, the formed head portions

   may be mounted to a surface of a plate or tile which can be secured to the ground
   surface to function as a TGSI.
   Referring to Fig. 1, a metal sheet 10 is depicted for forming the TGSIs therefrom.
   The metal sheet is preferably made from steel having a thickness of between 5 - 6
 5 mm, although other thicknesses are also envisaged based on the requirements of
   the TGSI to be formed. The surface area of the sheet 10 is sufficient to form
   multiple TGSI head portions therefrom in a manner as will be described in more
   detail below.
   The first step in the formation of the head portions is to position the sheet 10 within
10 a press machine 15, as depicted in Fig. 2. The press machine 15 generally
   comprises an upper portion 14 and a lower portion 16 with the sheet 10 being
   positioned between the upper portion 14 and the lower portion 16 for working. The
   ends of the upper portion 14 and lower portion 16 function to capture and hold the
   sheet 10 in position when they are brought together in the manner as depicted in
15 Fig. 2.
   In this position the each of the movable die members 17 are caused to move in the
   direction of the arrows such that the shaped crown portion 18 of the dies 17 acts
   against the sheet 10 and causes the sheet 10 to deform into the adjacent cavity 19
   provided in the upper portion 14 of the press machine 15. The resultant deformed
20 region of the sheet 10 will essentially mirror the shape of the crown portion 18 of
   the dies 17. Each of the dies 17 may be controlled to move with respect to the
   press machine 15 under a pneumatic or hydraulic drive system. The press machine
   15 may be configured such that the number of dies 17 activated to deform the sheet
   10 is sufficient to cover the sheet in one press operation, or the sheet 10 may be
25 moved between press operations such that multiple press operations of the press
   machine 15 are required to form the deformations in the sheet 10.
   Fig. 3 depicts a sheet 10 having multiple deformations formed therein in
   accordance with the press machine 15 of Fig. 2. In this embodiment, there are 25
   deformations 20 formed on the area of the sheet 10. These deformations 20 may
30 be formed by a single press operation of a press machine 15 or by multiple rows
   of press operations, depending on the configuration of the press machine 15. As
   is shown, the deformations 20 project upwards in the orientation of the sheet 10
   depicted in Fig. 3.
   In order to form the individual pieces, 30, the plate 10 is positioned on a cutter
35 machine 30 in the manner as depicted in Fig. 4. The cutter machine 40 comprises
   an upper portion 41 and a lower portion 42. The lower portion 42 comprises a

   support surface having a plurality of circular holes 43 formed therein and the plate
   10 is positioned such that the depressions 20 formed in the sheet 10 are at least
   partially received within the circular holes 43. In this regard, the circular holes 43
   formed in the surface of the lower portion 42 of the cutter machine have a slightly
 5 larger diameter than the diameter of the depressions 20 such that the sheet 10 can
   be positioned between the upper portion 41 and the lower portion 42. As the upper
   41 and lower 42 portions of the cutter machine come together, the sheet 10 is
   captured therebetween, as shown in Fig. 4. In this position, each of the individual
   cutter elements 45 can then be brought down in the direction of the arrows, into
10 contact with the sheet 10. As is more clearly seen in Fig. 5, each of the cutter
   elements 45 have a sharp peripheral edge 46 that acts to cut through the sheet 10
   upon contact therewith. As the sheet 10 is cut by the cutter element 45 the resultant
   pieces 30 are able to fall through the circular holes 43 for collection below the
   cutter machine 40.
15 The resultant pieces 30 will be substantially disc shaped and can then be finished
   by way of a variety of machining processes to form the final head portion 50, as
   depicted in Fig. 6. The machining processes may comprises a cutting process
   using a lathe 52 or simular cutting machine to form the profile of the head portion
   50. The lathe 52 may also cut concentric ring patterns and/or other features in the
20 upper surface 51 of the head portion 50 to enhance gripping characteristics of the
   head portion 50. Other machining processes, such as polishing may also be
   employed to finish the head portion as will be appreciated by those skilled in the
   art.
   It will be appreciated that the head portion 50 as depicted in Fig. 6, may be directly
25 applied to a ground surface to function as a TGSI. Alternatively, a stem portion
   may be attached to an underside thereof by welding or other means, for securing
   the head portion 50 within a hole formed in the ground surface, in a conventional
   manner.
   It will also be appreciated by those skilled in the art that the method of forming the
30 head portion of the TGSI in accordance with the present invention enables multiple
   head portions to be formed from sheets of metal in a simple and effective manner.
   Whilst the press machine and the cutter machine described above were capable of
   forming multiple deformations and cuts at one time, the press machine and cutter
   machine could equally be single process machines which form the deformations
35 in the sheet individually and cut the deformations from the sheet individually.
   Throughout the specification and claims the word "comprise" and its derivatives

   are intended to have an inclusive rather than exclusive meaning unless the contrary
   is expressly stated or the context requires otherwise. That is, the word "comprise"
   and its derivatives will be taken to indicate the inclusion of not only the listed
   components, steps or features that it directly references, but also other components,
 5 steps or features not specifically listed, unless the contrary is expressly stated or
   the context requires otherwise.
   It will be appreciated by those skilled in the art that many modifications and
   variations may be made to the methods of the invention described herein without
   departing from the spirit and scope of the invention.
10 The invention can be described in terms of provisional claims that can assist the
   skilled reader in understanding the various aspects and preferments of the
   invention. However, these provisional claims are not to be construed as defining
   statements of the invention. It will be appreciated that other forms, aspects and
   preferred features of the invention and its embodiments described herein may
1s ultimately be included in the claims defining the invention in the specifications of
   complete, international or national applications (or their subsequent corresponding
   patent grants) that may claim priority from the provisional application
   accompanying this specification. In this context, the following non-limiting claims
   assist to better describe the invention.

   Claims:
   1.    A method of forming a head portion of a tactile ground surface indicator
         comprising:
                pressing a plurality of formations into a sheet of metal, each
 5       formation being representative of a shape of the head portion to be formed;
                cutting each fonnation from the sheet of metal to form individual
         head pieces; and
                finishing each individual head piece to form the head portion of the
         ground surface indicator.
10
   2.    A method according to claim 1, wherein the step of pressing the plurality
         of formations into the sheet of metal comprises deforming the sheet of metal
         to form a plurality of formations in the sheet.
15 3.    A method according to claim 2, wherein the step of pressing the plurality
         of formations into the sheet is performed a formation at a time.
   4.    A method according to claim 1, wherein the step of cutting each formation
         from the sheet comprises placing the sheet into a cutter machine and cutting
20       each formation such that it is removed from the sheet.
   5.    A method according to claim 1, wherein the step of finishing each
         individual head piece to form the head portion comprises machining the
         head piece in a lathe.
25

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
