                                               10
                  FRAMELESS GLASS FENCING COMPONENT
                                          ABSTRACT
In one aspect there is disclosed a frameless glass fencing component (10) for a frameless glass
fencing installation.  The frameless glass fencing component (10) being produced from an
engineering plastic.

             10
FIGURE 1
         110
         U   li
              F4
FIGURE 2

                                                  1
                    FRAMELESS GLASS FENCING COMPONENT
FIELD
[0001]    The invention relates to a frameless glass fencing component, in particular but not
exclusively, a frameless glass fencing component for use in installing a frameless glass fence for
a swimming pool, balcony, decking or patio.
BACKGROUND
[0002]    Swimming pool barriers are designed such that young children are unable to climb over
them and most countries have strict laws governing what constitutes an acceptable pool barrier.
In Australia, for example, all swimming pool barrier fencing must comply with the Australian
Standard for Swimming Pool Fencing (AS 1926). Some of the stipulations in that standard require
that pool fencing be at least 1,200mm high and that gates be built in such a way that they swing
away from the pool and have a child safety lock.
[0003]    It has become fashionable to provide swimming pool barriers and balcony balustrades in
the form of frameless glass fences. Not only is glass durable to the moist environment of a
swimming pool, it also provides an aesthetic appealing appearance which is in vogue in
contemporary architectural design. A typical frameless glass fence for a pool includes a plurality
of individual tempered glass panels which are supported by spaced apart mini-posts, referred to
as spigots. Typically, two spigots are evenly spaced across the bottom edge of the glass panel and
will clamp onto the panel and support it. Frameless glass fence spigots must not only be strong
to support a glass panel, they must preferably also be corrosion resistant and have favourable
aesthetic features. For this reason conventional spigots are produced from anodized aluminium
or polished stainless steel.
[0004]    Frameless glass fencing for balconies, commonly referred to as glass balustrades,
typically comprise tempered glass balustrade panels supported by, for example, posts, spigots,
standoff fixings, glass clamps or floor glazing channels. Australian Standard AS 1170 requires
that frameless glass fences be designed to prevent a fall from a balcony. The standard further
specifies that (i) the height of the glass fence must be at least 1000mm when measured from the
finished balcony floor level to the top of the balustrade, and (ii) must have a continuous
interlinking handrail. Such handrail is required so as to inhibit a fall temporarily in the event of a
glass panel of the glass balustrade breaking.

                                                    2
[0005]    Drawbacks associated with current components employed in supporting glass panels in
frameless glass fencing installations include that when they are not maintained or looked after for
prolonged periods of time they tend to stain or corrode.
OBJECT
[0006]    It is an object of the present invention to provide an alternative frameless glass fencing
component for use in frameless glass fencing installations which addresses or at least ameliorates
the above drawbacks.
SUMMARY
[0007]    According to a first aspect of the present invention there is disclosed herein a frameless
glass fencing component for a frameless glass fencing installation, the frameless glass fencing
component being produced from an engineering plastic.
[0008]    In a second aspect there is disclosed herein a frameless glass fencing installation
including at least one glass panel and a frameless glass fencing component attached to the glass
panel, the frameless glass fencing component being produced from an engineering plastic.
[0009]    In a third aspect there is provided a method of installing a frameless glass fence, the
method including the step of providing a frameless glass fencing component produced from an
engineering plastic.
[0010]    According to a fourth aspect of the present invention there is disclosed herein a frameless
glass fencing spigot for a frameless glass fencing installation, the frameless glass fencing spigot
being produced from an engineering plastic.
[0011]    In a fifth aspect there is disclosed herein a frameless glass fencing spigot for a frameless
glass fencing installation, the frameless glass fencing spigot including (i) a post portion defining
a slot operatively adapted to hold a portion of a glass panel of the frameless glass fencing
installation, and (ii) a flange portion or a threaded portion operatively adapted to secure the post
portion in an upright orientation, wherein the frameless glass fencing spigot is produced from a
polyamide having a glass fibre reinforcing filler.
[0012]    Preferably the engineering plastic is covered with a coating.
[0013]    Preferably the engineering plastic includes a base material.
[0014]    Preferably the engineering plastic includes a base material and a reinforcing filler.

                                                  3
[0015]   Preferably the reinforcing filler includes glass fibre.
[0016]   Preferably the reinforcing filler includes carbon fibre.
[0017]   Preferably the engineering plastic is a polyarylamide.
[0018]   Preferably   the polyarylamide      includes   glass    fibre reinforcement wherein  the
concentration of the glass fibre reinforcement is between 50% to 60% by volume.
[0019]   Preferably the engineering plastic is an epoxy vinyl ester resin.
[0020]   Preferably the epoxy vinyl ester resin includes glass fibre reinforcement wherein the
concentration of the glass fibre reinforcement is between 50% to 70% by volume.
[0021]   Preferably the base material includes a polyamide.
[0022]   Preferably the polyamide includes Nylon®.
[0023]   Preferably the polyamide includes Zytel@.
[0024]   Preferably the base material includes polyphenylene sulphide (PPS).
[0025]   Preferably the base material includes styrene.
[0026]   Preferably the frameless glass fencing component is a frameless glass fencing spigot.
[0027]   Preferably the frameless glass fencing component is a frameless glass fencing latch.
[0028]   Preferably the frameless glass fencing component is a frameless glass fencing standoff.
[0029]   Preferably the frameless glass fencing component is a frameless glass fencing support
clamp.
[0030]   Preferably the frameless glass fencing component is a frameless glass fencing hinge.
[0031]   Preferably the frameless glass fencing component is a frameless glass fencing rail
connector.
[0032]   Preferably the frameless glass fencing component is a frameless glass fencing clamp.
[0033]   Preferably the frameless glass fencing component is a channel fixing.
[0034]   Preferably the frameless glass fencing component is a standoff face mounted fixing.

                                                  4
[0035]   Preferably the frameless glass fencing component is a top rail for a glass balustrade.
[0036]   Preferably the frameless glass fencing component is a frameless glass fencing floor
glazing channel.
[0037]   In another aspect there is disclosed a frameless glass fencing hinge for a frameless glass
fencing installation, the frameless glass fencing hinge at least in part produced from a
polyarylamide.
[0038]   Preferably the polyarylamide includes glass fibre reinforcement.
[0039]   Preferably the polyarylamide includes a 50-60% by volume glass fibre reinforcement.
[0040]   In a further aspect there is disclosed a frameless glass fencing installation including at
least one glass panel and a frameless glass fencing hinge attached to the glass panel, the frameless
glass fencing hinge produced from a polyarylamide having a 50-60% by volume glass fibre
reinforcement.
[0041]   In yet a further aspect there is disclosed a method of installing a frameless glass fence,
the method including the step of providing a frameless glass fencing hinge produced from a
polyarylamide having a 50-60% by volume glass fibre reinforcement.
BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
[0042]   Preferred embodiments of the present invention will be described hereinafter, by way of
examples only, with reference to the accompany drawings, wherein:
[0043]   Figure 1 is a schematic side view of a first embodiment frameless glass fencing
component;
[0044]   Figure 2 is a schematic top view of the frameless glass fencing component of Figure 1;
[0045]   Figure 3 is a schematic side view of a second embodiment frameless glass fencing
component; and
[0046]   Figure 4 is a schematic top view of the frameless glass fencing component of Figure 3.
DESCRIPTION OF PREFERRED EMBODIMENTS
[0047]   Conventional frameless glass fencing components are produced from stainless steel or
anodised aluminium. Drawbacks of employing such materials include relative high weight and

                                                  5
costs. Further drawbacks associated with stainless steel products include that they tend to stain
and corrode over a short or prolonged period of time. Preferred embodiments of the present
invention address those problems by doing away with stainless steel / aluminium and providing
frameless glass fencing components produced from an engineering plastic. Engineering plastics
are plastic materials that are used in applications generally requiring higher performance in the
areas of mechanical properties, heat resistance, chemical resistance, impact and fire retardancy.
Also, as plastic generally does not conduct electricity, this feature will provide enhanced safety
in a moist environment, such as a swimming pool. In particular the preferred engineering plastic
will meet the requirements of AS3000:2007 for earth bonding where frameless glass fencing
spigots are within 1.25m of a pool of water.
[0048]     To provide an aesthetically pleasing appearance the engineering plastic may include an
outer coating having a stainless steel appearance. Such coating may be available in a range of
colours.    Typically, coatings can be applied after surface activation of the engineering plastic
product by either plasma, chemical-based materials or spray coatings. Final coatings can then be
applied by electroplating, plasma surface coating, powder-coating, PVD coating or spray coating.
[0049]     A typical embodiment engineering plastic includes a base material having a filler to
provide added strength / reinforcing. In an embodiment frameless glass fencing component the
filler includes glass fibre. In another embodiment frameless glass fencing component the filler
includes carbon fibre.
[0050]     In an embodiment frameless glass fencing component the base material includes a
polyamide. Typically examples of polyamide which could be employed include those sold under
the trade marks Nylon® and Zytel@.
[0051]     In an alternative embodiment the base material of the engineering plastic includes
polyphenylene sulfide (PPS). In yet a further alternative the base material of the engineering
plastic includes styrene.
[0052]     Figures 1 and 2 show a first embodiment frameless glass fencing component, here a
frameless glass fencing spigot generally indicated with the reference numeral 10. The spigot 10
includes a post portion 12 and a flange portion 14. The post portion 12 and flange portion 14 is
of unitary construction and is produced from an engineering plastic.       In this embodiment the
engineering plastic is polyarylamide with a 50-60% by volume glass fibre reinforcement
concentration.    This engineering plastic is a light weight, non-corroding and non-conductive

                                                 6
alternative to stainless steel and aluminium. In this embodiment the engineering plastic has an
outer coating to provide the appearance of a stainless steel or coloured finish.
[0053]    The flange portion 14 includes a plurality of fastener openings 16 for receiving non
illustrated fasteners, for example bolts, to secure the post portion 12 in an upright orientation
adjacent a pool to be fenced in. The post portion 12 defines a slot 18 for receiving an end portion
of a non-illustrated tempered glass panel when constructing a non-illustrated frameless glass
fence. The slot 18 includes a polymer packer 20 to protect the glass panel. Typically, the glass
panel is secured within the slot 18 with non-illustrated grub screws passing through transverse
holes 22 in the post portion 12. In effect a frameless glass fence is constructed in a conventional
manner, but with the stainless steel / aluminium spigots replaced with spigots produced from the
engineering plastic.
[0054]    Figures 3 and 4 show a second embodiment frameless glass fencing component, here
also a frameless glass fencing spigot, generally indicated with the reference numeral 30. The
spigot 30 includes a post portion 12 similar to that of the spigot 10. The flange portion 14 of the
spigot 10 is replaced with a threaded portion 32 for location in a core drilled hole. As is the case
with the spigot 10, the spigot 30 is also produced from an engineering plastic. However, in this
embodiment the engineering plastic is provided in the form of an epoxy vinyl ester resin with a
50-70% by volume glass fibre reinforcement concentration. This material is resistant to water
and other chemicals and has a high strength and other favourable mechanical properties.
[0055]    In a non-illustrated embodiment there is provided a frameless glass fencing latch
produced from an engineering plastic. Typically, the engineering plastic is (i) polyarylamide with
a 50-60% by volume glass fibre reinforcement concentration, or (ii) an epoxy vinyl ester resin
with a 50-70% by volume glass fibre reinforcement concentration.
[0056]    In a non-illustrated embodiment there is provided a frameless glass fencing standoff
produced from an engineering plastic. Typically, the engineering plastic is (i) polyarylamide with
a 50-60% by volume glass fibre reinforcement concentration, or (ii) an epoxy vinyl ester resin
with a 50-70% by volume glass fibre reinforcement concentration.
[0057]    In a non-illustrated embodiment there is provided a frameless glass fencing support
clamp produced from an engineering plastic.            Typically, the engineering plastic is (i)
polyarylamide with a 50-60% by volume glass fibre reinforcement concentration, or (ii) an epoxy
vinyl ester resin with a 50-70% by volume glass fibre reinforcement concentration.

                                                   7
[0058]   In a non-illustrated embodiment there is provided a frameless glass fencing hinge
produced from an engineering plastic. Typically, the engineering plastic is (i) polyarylamide with
a 50-60% by volume glass fibre reinforcement concentration, or (ii) an epoxy vinyl ester resin
with a 50-70% by volume glass fibre reinforcement concentration.
[0059]   In a non-illustrated embodiment there is provided a frameless glass fencing rail connector
produced from an engineering plastic. Typically, the engineering plastic is (i) polyarylamide with
a 50-60% by volume glass fibre reinforcement concentration, or (ii) an epoxy vinyl ester resin
with a 50-70% by volume glass fibre reinforcement concentration.
[0060]   In a non-illustrated embodiment there is provided a frameless glass fencing clamp
produced from an engineering plastic. Typically, the engineering plastic is (i) polyarylamide with
a 50-60% by volume glass fibre reinforcement concentration, or (ii) an epoxy vinyl ester resin
with a 50-70% by volume glass fibre reinforcement concentration.
[0061]   In a non-illustrated embodiment there is provided a channel fixing produced from an
engineering plastic. Typically, the channel fixing is a frameless glass fencing channel fixing
produced from (i) polyarylamide with a 50-60% by volume glass fibre reinforcement
concentration, or (ii) an epoxy vinyl ester resin with a 50-70% by volume glass fibre reinforcement
concentration.
[0062]   In a non-illustrated embodiment there is provided a standoff face mounted fixing
produced from an engineering plastic. Typically, the standoff face mounted fixing is a frameless
glass fencing standoff face mounted fixing produced from (i) polyarylamide with a 50-60% by
volume glass fibre reinforcement concentration, or (ii) an epoxy vinyl ester resin with a 50-70%
by volume glass fibre reinforcement concentration.
[0063]   It will be appreciated that the invention is not limited to glass barriers for pools, but could
be employed in various frameless glass fencing installations such as glass balustrades on
apartment balconies or glass balustrades in residential dwellings.
[0064]   In a further non-illustrated embodiment there is provided a glass balustrade top rail, the
glass balustrade top rail being produced from an engineering plastic. The engineering plastic
typically is (i) a polyarylamide with a 50-60% by volume glass fibre reinforcement, or (ii) an
epoxy vinyl ester resin with a 50-70% by volume glass fibre reinforcement.

                                                   8
[0065]   In a non-illustrated embodiment there is provided a method of installing a frameless glass
fence. The method includes the step of providing a frameless glass fencing component produced
from an engineering plastic. Typically, the engineering plastic is (i) polyarylamide with a 50
60% by volume glass fibre reinforcement concentration, or (ii) an epoxy vinyl ester resin with a
50-70% by volume glass fibre reinforcement concentration.
[0066]   In a non-illustrated embodiment there is provided a frameless glass fence post produced
from an engineering plastic. Specifically, the post is a glass balustrade post produced from (i)
polyarylamide with a 50-60% by volume glass fibre reinforcement concentration, or (ii) an epoxy
vinyl ester resin with a 50-70% by volume glass fibre reinforcement concentration.
[0067]   In a non-illustrated embodiment there is provided a frameless glass fencing floor glazing
channel produced from an engineering plastic. Specifically, the floor glazing channel is produced
from (i) polyarylamide with a 50-60% by volume glass fibre reinforcement concentration, or (ii)
an epoxy vinyl ester resin with a 50-70% by volume glass fibre reinforcement concentration.
[0068]   Although the invention is described above in relation to preferred embodiments, it will
be appreciated by those skilled in the art that it is not limited to those embodiments, but may be
embodied in many other forms.

                                                  9
CLAIMS
1.        A frameless glass fencing hinge for a frameless glass fencing installation, the frameless
glass fencing hinge at least in part produced from a polyarylamide.
2.        A frameless glass fencing hinge according to claim 1, wherein the polyarylamide
includes glass fibre reinforcement.
3.        A frameless glass fencing hinge according to claim 2, wherein the polyarylamide
includes a 50-60% by volume glass fibre reinforcement.
4.        A frameless glass fencing installation including at least one glass panel and a frameless
glass fencing hinge attached to the glass panel, the frameless glass fencing hinge produced from
a polyarylamide having a 50-60% by volume glass fibre reinforcement.
5.        A method of installing a frameless glass fence, the method including the step of providing
a frameless glass fencing hinge produced from a polyarylamide having a 50-60% by volume glass
fibre reinforcement.
                                  Beyond Architectural Pty Ltd
                                Patent Attorneys for the Applicant
                                           Meyer West IP

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
