                                             Abstract
An automated method and system for auditing compliance with food safety regulations, whereby
the system uses camera, CCTV and/or drone technology to livestream food handling processes in
order to detect any non-compliance with relevant food handling regulations; and generates reports
that can be emailed to the client or made accessible online.

      Editorial Note
       <removed-apn>
There are three pages of description only

                          AUSTRALIA
                      Patents Act 1990
  An innovative, specialised online method of food safety auditing
(adequacy audit & re-audit) and report delivery using livestreaming
         camera, and/ or CCTV and/ or Drone technology

    Patent Description -The patent is described in the following statements
               An innovative, specialised online method of food safety auditing
             (adequacy audit & re-audit) and report delivery using livestreaming
                         camera, and/ or CCTV and/ or Drone technology
The food safety area of food manufacturing is becoming more stringent with consumers demanding
natural and safe foods to consume.
The standard auditing method for food safety relies on a paper based auditing system with some IT
interface such as a tablet/ computer with software for recording audit findings and generating
reports. Auditing can be completed for local council food laws based on the Food Act 1984, or for
internationally recognised compliance standards such as ISO22000, Hazard and Critical Control Point
Analysis (HACCP), BRC Global Food Standard for food safety, SQF2000, IFS etc.
Moreover, consumers are demanding faster, more cost effective methods of evaluation and auditing
and to have real time data available for dynamic evaluation of their company's operations. The use
of blockchain technology is one example of this, providing real time data to a client.
Previous art does not include any IP Australia Patents, yet includes USPTO Patent numbers;
9,881,366 & 9,159,126 [System and method for analyzing and processing food product], 8,505,488,
8,256,381, 7,810,451, 7,705,735, 7,681,527 [Method and system for tracking and managing animals
and/or food products]. This previous art explored involves the analysis and also tracking of food and
also managing livestock assets, but not auditing of food safety per se.
At present the usually conduct of an auditor is to conduct an adequacy audit, then on site audit for
compliance, then follow up audits (re-audit) to close out any minor or major non-conformances.
Our proposed automated system uses an online form and also camera/ CCTV video surveillance of
the site to detect non-conformances and automatically audit and generate a report based on
existing adequacy and compliance audits prior to the actual site visit.
The prospective client logs into an online portal and is guided through the checklist for the adequacy
audit, and uses a CCTV camera, Go Pro cameras and/ or drone for remote monitoring of food
premises. The cameras/ drone are pre-sent to the client and remotely operated by the auditor. They
are pre-sent to the site via express courier to examine the specific clauses of the audit. The data is

captured and the software automatically determines whether the client meets or does not meet the
criteria of the audit i.e. compliant or non-compliant via online survey results. The auditor also
watches and views the recording as well to take note of conformances and non-conformances. Thus
at the site visit the food manufacturer has already been delivered with automated real time results
of the adequacy audit, see visual photographic evidence of the non-conformance thus saving time
and money on multiple site visits. The actual compliance audit is recorded visually and the software
is able to analyse the field view and identify any non-conformance. Then an audit report is
generated with non-conformances.
         Also the final re-audit is also conducted using the Live streaming camera, drone technology
and/ or CCTV technology to close out any minor or major non-conformances seen in the actual audit
via an online portal again. The report is then generated and emailed to the client.
          Non-Conformance Reports can be closed out using video link with the client and the auditor
saving time and location, and or drone device. The proposed auditing system will greatly save time
and money in the initial preparation stages (save up to 80%) and allow for an client-auditor online
and in person interactive interface using weblink, drone technology and CCTV camera footage. The
audit can also be operated using a blockchain technology (optional but not necessary) which will
allow for access to all supplier and customer information for auditing and audit delivery purposes in
real time.

   Editorial Note
     <removed-apn>
There are three pages of claims only

                          AUSTRALIA
                      Patents Act 1990
  An innovative, specialised online method of food safety auditing
(adequacy audit & re-audit) and report delivery using livestreaming
         camera, and/ or CCTV and/ or Drone technology

                                         Patent Claim(s)
 An innovative, specialised online method of food safety auditing (adequacy
audit & re-audit) and report delivery using livestreaming camera, and/ or CCTV
                                   and/ or Drone technology
  1. The standard auditing method for food safety relies on a paper based auditing system.
      Auditing can be completed for local council food laws based on the Food Act 1984, or for
      internationally recognised compliance standards such as ISO22000, Hazard and Critical
      Control Point Analysis (HACCP), BRC Global Food Standard for food safety, SQF2000, IFS etc.
  2. At present the usually conduct of an auditor is to conduct an adequacy audit, then on site
      audit for compliance, then follow up audits (re-audit) to close out any minor or major non
      conformances.
  3.  Our automated system uses an online form for client information/ intake, and then the use
      of livestreaming camera/ CCTV video surveillance &/ or drone technology on site to detect
      non-conformances and automatically audit and generate a report based on existing
      adequacy and compliance audits prior to the actual site visit.
  4.  The prospective client logs into an online portal and is guided through the checklist for the
      adequacy audit, and uses a camera on site to examine the specific clauses of the audit.
  5.  The data is captured and the software automatically determines whether the client meets or
      does not meet the criteria of the audit i.e. compliant or non-compliant.
  6.  The use of a drone technology to hover above the production process and observe
      compliance/ non-compliance can also be employed during compliance audits in which the
      auditor is required to be present.
  7.  Thus at the site visit the food manufacturer has already been delivered with automated real
      time results of the adequacy audit, see visual photographic evidence of the non
      conformance thus saving time and money on multiple site visits.
  8.  Also the final re-audit is also conducted using the camera/ CCTV video surveillance &/ or
      drone technology on site to close out any minor or major non-conformances seen in the
      actual audit via an online portal again.

9. The report is then generated and emailed to the client/ and or accessible from the online
   portal.

