METHOD OF FORMING A DOWNHOLE APPARATUS
ABSTRACT
A method of forming an apparatus for use downhole, the method comprising the steps of:
providing a body (12) having a longitudinal axis (L); forming an expanding portion (15) on the
body from multiple layers of a substantially or partially cured material around the longitudinal
axis of the body, the substantially or partially cured material selected to expand on exposure to at
least one predetermined fluid.

                                             1
               METHOD OF FORMING A DOWNHOLE APPARATUS
The present invention relates to a method for forming an apparatus for use
downhole or in pipelines, in particular in the field of oil and gas exploration and
production, and an apparatus formed by the method.
In the field of oil and gas exploration and production, various tools are used to
provide a fluid seal between two components in a wellbore. Isolation tools have
been designed for sealing an annulus between two downhole components to
prevent undesirable flow of wellbore fluids in the annulus. For example, a packer
may be formed on the outer surface of a completion string which is run into an
outer casing or an uncased hole. The packer is run with the string to a downhole
location, and is inflated or expanded into contact with the inner surface of the
outer casing or openhole to create a seal in the annulus. To provide an effective
seal, fluid must be prevented from passing through the space or micro-annulus
between the packer and the completion, as well as between the packer and the
outer casing or openhole.
Isolation tools are not exclusively run on completion strings. For example, in
some applications they form a seal between a mandrel which forms part of a
specialised tool and an outer surface. In other applications they may be run on
coiled tubing, wireline and slickline tools.
Conventional packers are actuated by mechanical or hydraulic systems. More
recently, packers have been developed which include a mantle of swellable
elastomeric material formed around a tubular body. The swellable elastomer is
selected to expand on exposure to at least one predetermined fluid, which may
be a hydrocarbon fluid or an aqueous fluid. The packer may be run to a
downhole location in its unexpanded state, where it is exposed to a wellbore fluid
and caused to expand. The design, dimensions, and swelling characteristics are
selected such that the swellable mantle expands to create a fluid seal in the
annulus, thereby isolating one wellbore section from another. Swellable packers
have several advantages over conventional packers, including passive actuation,
simplicity of construction, and robustness in long term isolation applications.
Examples of swellable packers are described in GB 2411918.

                                             2
Figure 1 of the drawings shows a swellable packer according to the prior art,
generally depicted at 10, formed on a tubular body 12 having a longitudinal axis
L. The packer 10 comprises an expanding mantle 14 of cylindrical form located
around the body 12. The expanding mantle 14 is formed from a material
selected to expand on exposure to at least one predetermined fluid. Such
materials are known in the art, for example from GB 2411918.
As illustrated in Figures 2A and 2B, the dimensions of the packer 10 and the
characteristics of the swellable material of the expanding portion 14 are selected
such that the expanding portion forms a seal in use, which substantially prevents
the flow of fluids past the body 12. Figure 2A is a cross section through the
packer 10 located in a wellbore 20 in a formation 22. On exposure to a wellbore
fluid in the annulus 24, in this case a hydrocarbon fluid, the expanding portion 14
expands and its outer diameter increases until it contacts the surface 26 of the
wellbore to create a seal in the annulus 24. The seal prevents flow of fluid in the
wellbore annulus between a volume above the packer 10 and a volume below
the packer 10. Although shown here in use in an uncased hole, the packer 10
could of course be used in a cased hole, in which case the mantle would form a
seal against the interior surface of the outer casing.
Typically a packer will be constructed for a specific application and incorporated
into a casing string or other tool string by means of threaded couplings.
Swellable packers are typically constructed from multiple layers of uncured
elastomeric material, such as ethylene propylene diene M-class (EPDM) rubber.
Multiple layers are overlaid on a mandrel or tubular in an uncured form to build
up a mantle of the required dimensions. The mantle is subsequently cured, e.g.
by heat curing or air curing. The outer surface of the swellable mantle is then
machined using a lathe to create a smooth cylindrical surface. This method
produces a fully cured, unitary swellable mantle capable of sealing large
differential pressures. However, the process is generally labour-intensive and
time consuming, and the uncured material can be difficult to handle. Moreover,
the resulting expanding portion, although robust and capable of withstanding high
pressures, may be ill-suited to some downhole applications.

                                              3
There is generally a need to provide sealing mechanisms and isolation tools and
systems which may be manufactured and assembled more efficiently than in the
case of the prior art, and which are flexible in their application to a variety of
wellbore scenarios.
It is amongst the aims and objects of the invention to provide a method of
forming a downhole apparatus which overcomes or mitigates the drawbacks and
disadvantages of prior art methods. It is a further aim of the invention to provide
an improved downhole apparatus.
According to a first aspect of the invention there is provided a method of forming
an apparatus for use downhole, the method comprising the steps of:
     (a) providing a body having a longitudinal axis;
     (b) forming an expanding portion on the body from multiple turns of a
         substantially cured material around the longitudinal axis of the body, the
         material selected to expand on exposure to at least one predetermined
         fluid.
Preferably, the material is an elasomeric material.
By forming an expanding portion from a substantially cured material, the
invention differs from the prior art, in which uncured materials are used to form
the expanding portion.
The method may comprise the step of bonding the substantially cured material
on the body, and/or may comprise the step of mechanically attaching the
expanding portion to the body.
The expanding portion may be formed from a continuous length of the
substantially cured material.
The method may comprise the steps of forming a base layer on the on body, and
forming the expanding portion on the base layer.

                                              4
The method may comprise the further step of providing an outer sheath on the
expanding portion.
The method may comprise the step of treating the material prior to forming the
expanding portion. The material may be treated by applying a coating or layer.
Alternatively, the material may be treated by perforating the material.
The method may include the step of deploying the material from a storage reel.
The method may include the additional step of further curing the material
subsequent to forming the expanding portion.
According to a second aspect of the invention there is an apparatus for use
downhole, the apparatus comprising: a body having a longitudinal axis; an
expanding portion formed on the body from multiple turns of a substantially cured
material around the longitudinal axis of the body, the material selected to expand
on exposure to at least one predetermined fluid.
The apparatus may have an expanded condition in which an annular seal is
formed between the body and a surface external to the body. The surface may
be the internal surface of a casing or an uncased borehole. The downhole
apparatus may therefore form an annular seal in the wellbore annulus, which
may substantially prevent fluid flow past the body.
The downhole apparatus may be a wellbore packer and may form a part of an
isolation tool or an isolation system for sealing one region of the annulus above
the apparatus from another region of the annulus below the apparatus.
The terms "upper", "lower", "above", "below", "up" and "down" are used herein to
indicate relative positions in the wellbore. The invention also has applications in
wells that are deviated or horizontal, and when these terms are applied to such
wells they may indicate "left", "right" or other relative positions in the context of
the orientation of the well.

                                               5
The body may be a substantially cylindrical body, and may be a tubular or a
mandrel. The substantially cured material may extend circumferentially around
the body. The substantially cured material may be a sheet material, and may be
flexible.
The material may be substantially cured such that its mechanical properties
and/or handling characteristics are similar to those of a fully cured material.    The
material is preferably an elastomer, which is preferably in its T80 state or above,
where T1 00 is a fully cured elastomer. The material may be in its T90 state or
above. The expanding material may be formed in a continuous length of several
tens of metres.
According to one embodiment, the material is an elastomer cured to a T50 state
or above.
The substantially cured material may comprise a material selected to expand on
exposure to a hydrocarbon fluid, which may be an EPDM rubber. Alternatively, or
in addition, the substantially cured material may comprise a material selected to
expand on exposure to an aqueous fluid, which may be a super-absorbent
polymer.
The substantially cured material may be formed by an extrusion process, which
may be a co-extrusion of two or more materials. The two materials may both be
selected to expand on exposure to at least one predetermined fluid, but may be
selected to differ in one or more of the following characteristics: fluid penetration,
fluid absorption, swelling coefficient, swelling rate, elongation coefficient,
hardness, resilience, elasticity, and density. At least one material may comprise
a foam. The material may be foamed through the addition of blowing agents. In
some applications this will aid fluid absorption leading to faster swell rates and
higher maximum swell volumes. Alternatively, or in addition, the substantially
cured material may be formed from an extrusion around a substrate.
The substantially cured material may comprise a substantially rectangular cross
sectional profile. Alternatively, or in addition, the substantially cured material
may comprise an interlocking profile, which may be configured for interlocking

                                             6
multiple layers of the material on the body. The interlocking profile may resist
axial separation of adjacent layers, and/or may resist relative slipping of adjacent
turns. A bonding agent may be used to secure a first side of the substantially
cured material to the shape of the second, opposing side of the substantially
cured material. Where an interlocking profile is provided, the material may be
further locked in position through the use of an adhesive or other bonding agent.
The apparatus may further comprise means for securing the substantially cured
material to the body, which may comprise a bonding agent. Alternatively, or in
addition, the apparatus may comprise a mechanical attachment means for
securing the substantially cured material to the body, which is preferably an end
ring. The mechanical attachment means may be clamped onto the body, and
may comprise a plurality of hinged clamping members. Alternatively, mechanical
attachment means is configured to be slipped onto the body.
In one embodiment, the mechanical attachment means is configured to be
disposed on a coupling of a tubular, and may be referred to as a cross-coupling
mechanical attachment means.
The apparatus may be configured as a cable encapsulation assembly, and may
comprise a support element disposed between the body and the substantially
cured material. The support element may be provided with a profile configured to
receive a cable, conduit or other line. The support element may comprise a
curved outer profile, and the assembly may define an elliptic outer profile.
Alternatively the support element may comprise a substantially circular profile
such that the assembly defines a circular outer profile.
In one embodiment, the substantially cured material is subjected to processing
steps due to its improved handling and storage characteristics when compared to
uncured or semi-cured materials. The substantially cured material may comprise
a coating. Alternatively, or in addition, the substantially cured material may
comprise perforations. Preferably, the perforations are formed to provide a
pathway for an activating fluid.

                                             7
According to a third aspect of the invention there is provided a method of forming
a seal in a wellbore annulus using the apparatus of the second aspect of the
invention.
According to a fourth aspect of the invention there is provided a method of
forming an apparatus for use downhole, the method comprising the steps of:
     (a) providing a body having a longitudinal axis;
     (b) forming an expanding portion on the body from multiple turns of a partially
         cured material around the longitudinal axis of the body, the material
         selected to expand on exposure to at least one predetermined fluid.
The method may include the additional step of further curing the material
subsequent to forming the expanding portion.
According to a fifth aspect of the invention there is provided an apparatus for use
downhole, the apparatus comprising: a body having a longitudinal axis; an
expanding portion formed on the body from multiple turns of a partially cured
material around the longitudinal axis of the body, the material selected to expand
on exposure to at least one predetermined fluid.
By forming an expanding portion from a partially cured material, the invention
differs from the prior art, in which uncured materials are used to form the
expanding portion.
In preferred embodiments of the fourth and/or fifth aspects of the invention, the
material may be partially cured such that it is in a cured state in the range of T30
to T50.
Embodiments of the fourth and fifth aspects of the invention may comprise
preferred and optional features of the first and second aspects of the invention
and its embodiments. Combinations of features other than those explicitly
stated herein form a part of the invention.
There will now be described, by way of example only, various embodiments of
the invention with reference to the drawings, of which:

                                              8
        Figure 1 is a side view of a prior art wellbore packer;
        Figures 2A and 2B are schematic cross sectional views of a prior art
        wellbore packer in use in unexpanded and expanded conditions
        respectively;
        Figure 3 is a side view of a packer in accordance with an embodiment of
        the invention;
        Figure 4 is a perspective view of an expanding material in accordance
        with an embodiment of the invention;
        Figure 5A is a cross sectional view of the packer of Figure 3 in an
        unexpanded condition;
        Figure 5B is a cross sectional view of the packer of Figure 3 in an
        expanded condition;
        Figure 6 is a cross sectional view of a packer in accordance with an
        alternative embodiment of the invention;
        Figure 7 is a cross sectional view of a packer in accordance with a further
        alternative embodiment of the invention;
        Figure 8 is a perspective view of an expanding material in accordance
        with an alternative embodiment of the invention; and
        Figure 9 is a detail of a cross sectional view of a packer according to a
        further alternative embodiment of the invention.
Referring to Figure 3 of the drawings, there is shown schematically an aspect of
the invention embodied as a wellbore packer, generally depicted at 100, formed
on a tubular body 12 having a longitudinal axis L. The packer 100 comprises an
expanding portion 15 of cylindrical form located around the body 12 and a pair of
end rings 16, 18 located respectively at opposing ends of the expanding portion
15. The expanding portion 15 is formed from a material selected to expand on
exposure to at least one predetermined fluid. In this embodiment, the swellable
material is EPDM, selected to expand on exposure to a hydrocarbon fluid. The
functions of the end rings 16, 18 include providing stand-off and protection to the
packer 100 and the tubular 12, axially retaining the expanding portion 15, and
mitigating extrusion of the expanding portion 15 in use. The operation of the
packer 100 can be understood from Figures 2A and 2B and the accompanying
text.

                                            9
Figure 4 of the drawings shows an expanding material 30 used to form packer
100. The expanding material 30 consists of a substantially rectangular sheet
which is used to form the expanding portion 15, and is shown here partially
unrolled from a storage reel 42. In this example, the expanding material 30 is
extruded EPDM and is substantially fully cured, exhibiting similar mechanical
properties and handling characteristics to a fully cured elastomer. The curing
state of an elastomer can be conveniently indicated using a scale, based on
torque measurements of viscosity with time. The measurements may be taken,
for example, using an oscillating rheometer.
The maximum value of torque measured during a viscosity test, torquemax,
occurs when the elastomer is fully cured, and torquemin is the lowest recorded
value of viscosity during the test. The curing time taken for the elastomer to
reach torquemax is T1 00, and represents the time required to fully cure (i.e. 100%
cure) the elastomer. Intermediate curing states can be indicated by curing times
T1, T2, T50, T80, T90 etc, where Tx is the curing time when the torque value is:
                     (torquemax - torquemin)* x/1 00 + torquemin
In other words, T90 is the time at a point when the measured torque is equal to
the minimum torque plus 90% of the difference between the maximum torque
and the minimum torque. An elastomer that is cured for a time equal to T90 is
said to be in a T90 cured state. (In an alternative notation, P80, P90, P100 etc.
may be used to represent the T80, T90 and T1 00 curing states).
An elastomer in its T90 state or above may be referred to as substantially fully
cured. The expanding material will typically be formed in a continuous length of
several tens of metres.
Figure 5A shows the packer 100 in cross section in an unexpanded state. The
packer 100 is formed from the expanding material 30, by forming multiple wraps
34a, 34b on the tubular 12. The first end 36 of the expanding material is located
on the outer surface of the tubular 12, with the edge oriented substantially in the
longitudinal direction of the tubular 12. The lower surface 38 of the expanding
material 30 is secured to the tubular 12 by a bonding agent.    In this embodiment,

                                            10
the bonding agent used is a cyanoacrylate-based adhesive, but other bonding
agents are suitable, including polyurethane-based adhesives, acrylic-based
adhesives, epoxy-based adhesives or silicone-based adhesives or sealants.
The expanding material 30 is further deployed from the storage reel 42 and is
wrapped around the tubular body 12 and bonded to its outer surface, as shown in
Figure 5B, and is applied such that the multiple layers are overlaid with one
another. Tension is applied to the expanding material 30 during winding.
Tension allows a seal to be created between the expanding material and the
body even when the expanding material is in its unexpanded condition. To
facilitate the application of the expanding material 30 to the body and maintaining
tension, the expanding material may be temporarily secured to the body at its
first end by a clamp (not shown). The expanding material 30 in this example is
formed to a width W corresponding to the desired length of the packer 100, which
is selected according to the application and pressure conditions it is required to
withstand. The expanding material 30 is cut to define second end 38, which is
bonded to the layer of the expanding material upon which it lies. In another
embodiment the entire surface between multiple layers is bonded. The outer
surface 40 of the expanding material 30 adjacent the end 38 is shaped to reduce
or remove the shoulder which would otherwise be defined by the edge 38.
First and second rings 16, 18 are subsequently located over the first and second
ends of the expanding portion and secured to the body 12 by means of threaded
bolts (not shown), with the completed tool shown in Figure 3. The end rings have
an internal profile to accommodate the raised (with respect to the tubular body
12) profile of the expanding portion 15. In this embodiment, the end rings 16
and 18 are formed in two hinged parts (not shown), which are placed around the
expanding portion 15 and the tubular 12 from a position adjacent to the
apparatus, and fixed together using locking bolts (not shown). In alternative
embodiments, the end rings are unitary structures slipped onto the tubular 12
from one end. In a further embodiment, the end rings may clamp over a fixed
upset profile on the body 12, such as a tubing or casing coupling. Such an
embodiment may be particularly advantageous where an expanding portion is
required over the entire length of a tubular between couplings, and may provide

                                             11
an improved anchoring force for the end ring and the expanding material. In a
further alternative embodiment, end rings may not be required.
The dimensions of the packer 100 and the characteristics of the swellable
material of the expanding material 30 are selected such that the expanding
portion forms a seal in use, which substantially prevents the flow of fluids past
the body 12. The packer operates in the manner described with reference to
Figures 2A and 2B. The edge 36 defines a shoulder which creates a space 44
between the layer 34b and the tubular 12 in its unexpanded condition shown in
Figure 5A. Figure 5B shows the packer 100 in an expanded condition in an
uncased hole in a formation 46. The expanding portion has been exposed to
wellbore fluid and has expanded into contact with the wall of the uncased hole to
create a seal in the annulus. The edge 36 and the layer 34a expand into the
space 44 such that the seal is complete.
The expanding portion 15 thus resembles a swellable mantle as used in
conventional swelling packers, but offers several advantages and benefits when
compared with conventional packer designs. For example, the expanding
material 30 is economical to manufacture, compact to store, and easy to handle
when compared with the materials used in conventional swellable packers.
The process of forming the packer offers several advantages. Firstly, the
process does not require specialised equipment requiring large amounts of
space or capital expenditure. The process can be carried out from a central
portion of the tubular body, by attaching a first end of the expanding material and
wrapping it around the tubular, reducing the difficulties associated with slipping
tool elements on at an end of the tubular and sliding them to the required
location. This facilitates application of the expanding material to significantly
longer tubulars, and opens up the possibility of constructed packer on strings of
tubing on the rig floor immediately prior to or during assembly.
By using a substantially cured expanding material, ease of storage and handling
of the material is improved compared with prior art methods in which a semi
cured material is wrapped on a body. The method also avoids the requirement
for curing step subsequent to the application of the expanding material on the

                                            12
body. It should be noted however that the expanding material 30 may be further
cured, for example from a P90 state to a P100 state, after application to the
tubular.
The construction process allows for a high degree of flexibility in tool design. For
example, a packer of any desired outer diameter can be created from the same
set of components, simply by adjusting the number of layers over which the
expanding material is wrapped on the tubular body. Packers and seals can be
created on bodies and tubulars of a range of diameters. The principles of the
invention also inherently allow for engineering tolerances in the dimensions of
bodies on which the seal is created.
The resulting packer has increased surface area with respect to an equivalent
packer with an annular mantle, by virtue of the increased penetration of the fluids
into the expanding portion via the small spaces between multiple layers. This
allows for faster expansion to the sealing condition. The expanding material also
lends itself well to post-processing, for example perforating, coating or
performing analysis on a sample.
Figure 6 shows in cross-section a packer 110 in accordance with an alternative
embodiment of the invention, similar to the packer 100 with like parts indicated by
like reference numerals. The packer 110 differs from the packer 100 in that the
outer surface 48 of the layer 34a of expanding material 30 adjacent the end 36 is
shaped to reduce or remove the shoulder which would otherwise be defined by
the edge 36.
Figure 7 shows in cross section a packer 120 in accordance with an alternative
embodiment of the invention, similar to the packer 100 with like parts indicated by
like reference numerals. The packer 120 differs from the packer 100 in that it
comprises a support element 50, which could be made from swellable elastomer,
plastic or metal, comprises a part-circular inner profile and a curved outer
surface. The support element abuts the end 36 of the expanding material 30,
and provides a substantially smooth path for the material 30 from the surface of
the tubular 12 to the shoulder defined by the edge 36 and the outer surface of the
layer 34a. This avoids the creation of the space 44 of the packer 100.      In an

                                            13
alternative embodiment, the support element comprises a profile or opening
configured to receive a cable or conduit, which allows a cable or conduit to pass
through the apparatus.
Figure 8 shows in cross section an expanding portion 130 in accordance with an
alternative embodiment of the invention. Expanding material 130 is similar to the
expanding material 30 of Figure 4, but differs in that it is co-extruded from two
different materials to create a sheet having different material components. The
material 130 has outer layers 52, 54 of a first material and an inner layer 56 of a
second material. Suitable manufacturing techniques would be known to one
skilled in the art of extrusion and co extrusion of polymers and elastomers.
The outer layers 52, 54 are of an EPDM rubber selected to expand on exposure
to a hydrocarbon fluid, and having specified hardness, fluid penetration, and
swelling characteristics suitable for downhole applications. The inner layer 56 is
an EPDM rubber which has a greater degree of cross-linking between molecules,
compared with the material of the outer layers, and correspondingly has greater
hardness, lower fluid penetration, and lower swelling characteristics than the
outer layer. The inner layer 56 also has a greater mechanical strength, and
functions to increase the strength of the material as a whole when compared with
material 30. This allows more tension to be applied and retained in the
expanding material during the construction process, and reduces any tendency
of the expanding portion to swage.
The outer layers of the expanding material 130 are provided with apertures or
perforations 58. This increases the surface area of the expanding portion
formed, and provides for greater exposure of the expanding member to wellbore
fluids.
The substantially cured material may conveniently be subjected to processing
steps due to its improved handling and storage characteristics when compared to
uncured or semi-cured materials. For example, the perforations 58 may be
formed by feeding the material 130 through a perforating drum or laser
perforating equipment. The perforated material may be conveniently stored on a
storage reel. In alternative embodiments, the material 130 or 30 may be treated

                                             14
with a coating, for example of a coating material impervious to at least one
selected wellbore fluid. In another embodiment, the material is treated with an
adhesive or bonding agent, which may be one part of a two-part adhesive. It will
be appreciated that material 30 may be similarly treated and/or perforated.
In another embodiment, the density of the expanding material is changed over its
cross-section to create an increased porosity-permeability structure which leads
to more rapid swell rates and higher swell volumes. This may be achieved by
foaming the expanding material through the addition of blowing agents. Foaming
can be effected over a part of the cross section of the expanding material, to
allow a greater porosity-permeability structure to be setup inside the expanding
material. Co-extrusions of a foamed inner layer with an overlying solid
elastomer, or vice versa, can allow hybrid expanding materials to be created
having, for example with a high water swelling inner layer and an oil swelling
outer mantle. In such an embodiment, it may be particularly advantageous to
perforate the outer layer to provide a fluid path for water molecules to access the
water swellable inner layer. The size of the perforations may be selected to
restrict the passage of hydrocarbon molecules.
Figure 9 shows a detail of a packer 140 in accordance with a further embodiment
of the invention. In this embodiment, the packer is formed by wrapping multiple
layers of an expanding material 230 on a tubular 12. A first layer 60, having a
cylindrical inner surface 62 sized to fit over the tubular 12, is provided on the
tubular body. In this embodiment the layer 60 is formed from a sheet of EPDM
rubber wrapped around and bonded to the tubular 12 such that its opposing
edges abut, but in other embodiments the layer 60 may be a plastic, metal or
composite layer, and may be a cylindrical body slipped onto the tubular 12. The
outer surface 64 of the layer 232 is profiled to create a series of annular ridges
and grooves extending circumferentially around the layer 232.
The expanding portion of the packer 140 is formed from second and third layers
66a, 66b of expanding material 230 around the layer 60. The expanding material
230 is provided with profiled upper and lower surfaces 68, 70 which correspond
to the profile of the outer surface 64 of the layer 60. The ridges created by the
lower surface 70 of the layer 66a are received in the grooves on the surface 64 of

                                              15
layer 60. The ridges created by the lower surface 70 of the layer 66b are
received in the grooves on the surface 68 of layer 66a. The walls of the ridges
and grooves are chamfered to facilitate self-location of the layers during the
wrapping process.
The outermost layer 72 is in this example formed from the expanding material
230, but has the ridges of its outer surface 74 machined off to create a
substantially cylindrical outer surface. In another embodiment, the outermost
layer 72 is formed from a cylindrical sheath which is slipped onto the tubular and
stretched over the expanding portion of the packer to aid in retention of the
constituent layers. The sheath may be perforated to provide fluid access to the
expanding portion.
The interlocking profiles of the layers which make up the packer function to resist
axial separation of the in use, and also increase the surface area of contact
between the layers.
In alternative embodiments (not illustrated), the expanding material is extruded
with a substrate, which may be a plastic material, a fibrous material or a
composite material, and which may be formed using an appropriate
manufacturing technique, and may be extruded, moulded, cast or woven. The
substrate provides structural strength to the material, allows more tension to be
imparted during application to a tubular body, binds to the swellable material,
resists expansion of the expanding material in a longitudinal direction, and resists
swaging of the expanding material on the tubular body.
The apparatus may be configured to encapsulate a line or conduit, which extends
through the packer between two layers of the expanding material. Thus although
the packer creates a seal in the annulus, there is continuous path from the region
above the packer to a region below the packer, via the conduit provided in the
expanding portion. The path may be a hydraulic line for the supply of hydraulic
fluids. In other embodiments, this conduit can be used for the deployment of
fluids, cables, fibre optics, hydraulic lines, or other control or data lines across the
seal. One specific application of the invention is to artificial lift systems using
electric submersible pumps (ESPs). In ESP systems it will typically be necessary

                                             16
to deploy a power cable from surface to the ESP, through a packer which creates
an annular seal. A support element may be provided to accommodate and
protect the conduit or line.
The foregoing description relates primarily to the construction of wellbore packers
on tubulars. It will be appreciated by one skilled in the art that the invention is
equally applicable to packers formed on other apparatus, for example mandrels
or packing tools which are run on a wireline. In addition, the present invention
has application to which extends beyond conventional packers. The invention
may be particularly valuable when applied to couplings and joints on tubulars and
mandrels. The invention can also be applied to coiled tubing, for use in coiled
tubing drilling or intervention operations. Furthermore, the body need not be
cylindrical, and need not have a smooth surface. In some embodiments, the
body may be provided with upstanding formations or inward recesses with which
an expanding material cooperates on the body.
The present invention relates to sealing apparatus for use downhole, an
expanding material, a method of forming a downhole apparatus, and methods of
use. The expanding material of the invention may be conveniently used in
isolation tools and systems, in cased and uncased holes. The invention provides
sealing mechanisms and isolation tools and systems which may be
manufactured and assembled more efficiently than in the case of the prior art,
and which are flexible in their application to a variety of wellbore scenarios.
The present invention recognises that a seal in a wellbore annulus can be formed
from a multilayer structure formed from a substantially cured material, without a
requirement of curing the layers on the body. The seal can be maintained even
when the expanding portion and substantially cured material is exposed to
wellbore pressure.
By creating a sealing arrangement from multiple layers of an expanding material,
it may be easier to assemble the apparatus when compared with conventional
slip-on apparatus. For example, the apparatus could be formed on a central 2
metre portion of a 12 metre casing section. The expanding material is

                                             17
economical to manufacture, compact to store, and easy to handle when
compared with the materials used in conventional swellable packers.
The process of forming the packer offers several advantages. Firstly, the
process does not require specialised equipment requiring large amounts of
space or capital expenditure. The process can be carried out from a central
portion of the tubular body, by attaching a first end of the expanding material and
coiling it around the tubular, reducing the difficulties associated with slipping tool
elements on at an end of the tubular and sliding them to the required location.
This facilitates application of the expanding material to significantly longer
tubulars, and opens up the possibility of constructed packer on strings of tubing
on the rig floor immediately prior to or during assembly. The construction
process allows for a high degree of flexibility in tool design. For example, a
packer of any desired outer diameter can be created from the same set of
components, simply by adjusting the number of layers of the expanding material
that are wrapped on the tubular body. Packers and seals can be created on
bodies and tubulars of a range of diameters. The principles of the invention also
inherently allow for engineering tolerances in the dimensions of bodies on which
the seal is created.
The resulting packers may have increased surface area with respect to an
equivalent packer with an annular mantle by virtue of fluid flow paths being
created between the multiple layers, allowing for faster expansion to the sealing
condition. The expanding material also lends itself well to post-processing, for
example perforating, coating or performing analysis on a sample.
The use of a substrate or a material with different mechanical characteristics in
the expanding material allows more tension to be applied and retained in the
expanding material during the construction process, and reduces any tendency
of the expanding material to swage. It also binds to the swellable material, and
resists expansion of the expanding material in a longitudinal direction.
The invention can be used to create a seal in the annulus around a continuous
path from region to above the seal to a region below the seal, via a conduit
encapsulated by the expanding material. For example, the path is a hydraulic

                                              18
line for the supply of hydraulic fluids. In other embodiments, this conduit can be
used for the deployment of fluids, cables, fibre optics, hydraulic lines, or other
control or data lines across the seal. One specific application of the invention is
to artificial lift systems using electric submersible pumps (ESPs).
It will be appreciated by one skilled in the art that the invention is applicable to
packers formed tubulars, mandrels, or packing tools which are run on a wireline.
In addition, the present invention has application to which extends beyond
conventional packers. The invention may be particularly valuable when applied
to couplings and joints on tubulars and mandrels. The invention can also be
applied to coiled tubing, for use in coiled tubing drilling or intervention operations.
Variations to the above described embodiments and are within the scope of the
invention, and combinations other than those explicitly claimed form part of the
invention. Unless the context requires otherwise, the physical dimensions,
shapes, internal profiles, end rings, and principles of construction described
herein are interchangeable and may be combined within the scope of the
invention. For example, any of the described internal profiles of expanding
material may be used with the described external profiles. The principles of
construction described above may apply to any of the described profiles, for
example, the described bonding method or the heat curing method may be used
with any of the expanding materials described. Additionally, although the
invention is particularly suited to downhole use it may also be used in topside
and subsea applications such as in pipeline systems. It may also be used in river
crossing applications.
In this specification, the terms "comprise", "comprises", "comprising" or similar
terms are intended to mean a non-exclusive inclusion, such that a system,
method or apparatus that comprises a list of elements does not include those
elements solely, but may well include other elements not listed.
The reference to any prior art in this specification is not, and should not be taken
as, an acknowledgement or any form of suggestion that the prior art forms part of
the common general knowledge.

                                                   19
CLAIMS
1.    A method of forming an apparatus for use downhole, the method comprising the steps of:
      providing a body having a longitudinal axis;
       forming an expanding portion on the body from multiple layers of a substantially or
partially cured material around the longitudinal axis of the body, the substantially or partially
cured material selected to expand on exposure to at least one predetermined fluid.
2.     The method as claimed in claim 1, wherein the expanding portion is formed from a
continuous length of the substantially or partially cured material.
3.     The method as claimed in any one preceding claim, comprising the step of treating the
substantially or partially cured material prior to forming the expanding portion.
4.     The method as claimed in any one preceding claim, comprising the step of applying a
coating to the substantially cured material.
5.     The method as claimed in any one preceding claim, comprising the step of perforating the
material.
6.     The method as claimed in any one preceding claim, wherein the material is a substantially
cured material and is an elastomer in its T50 state or above, where T100 is the fully cured state
of the elastomer.
7.     The method as claimed in claim 6, wherein the material is a substantially cured material
and is an elastomer in its T80 state or above, where T100 is the fully cured state of the elastomer.
8.     The method as claimed in claim 7, wherein the material is a substantially cured material
and is an elastomer in its T90 state or above, where T100 is the fully cured state of the elastomer.
9.     The method as claimed in any one of claims I to 5, wherein the material is a partially cured
material, and is an elastomer in a cured state in the range of T30 to T50, where T100 is the fully
cured state of the elastomer.

                                                   20
10.    The method as claimed in any one preceding claim, comprising the step of further curing
the material after forming the expanding portion on the body.
11.    The method as claimed in any one preceding claim, comprising the step of deploying the
substantially or partially cured material from a storage reel.
12.   An apparatus comprising:
       a body having a longitudinal axis;
       an expanding portion formed around the longitudinal axis of the body from multiple layers
of a substantially or partially cured material, the substantially or partially cured material selected
to expand on exposure to at least one predetermined fluid.
13.    The apparatus as claimed in claim 12, wherein the substantially or partially cured material
is formed by an extrusion process.
14.    The apparatus as claimed in claim 13, wherein the substantially or partially cured material
is formed by a co-extrusion of two or more materials.
15.    The apparatus as claimed in any of one claims 12 to 14, wherein the substantially or
partially cured material comprises an interlocking profile, configured for interlocking multiple
layers of the material on the body.
16.    The apparatus as claimed in any one of claims 12 to 15, further comprising a mechanical
attachment for securing the substantially cured material to the body.
17.    The apparatus as claimed in any one of claims 12 to 16, wherein the substantially cured
material comprises a coating.
18.    The apparatus as claimed in any one of claims 12 to 17, wherein the substantially cured
material comprises perforations.
19.    The apparatus as claimed in any one of claims 12 to 18, further comprising a support
element disposed between the body and the substantially cured material, wherein the support
element defines a passage for a conduit or cable through the apparatus.

                                            21
20. A wellbore packer comprising the apparatus of any one of claims 12 to 19.
                               Weatherford U.K. Limited
                 Patent Attorneys for the Applicant/Nominated Person
                               SPRUSON & FERGUSON

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
