Abstract
The present invention is a system for providing a user with threat or incident related
information, including a device that utilises a global positioning system to automatically
determine the location of the user of the device in real time. The device includes means to
access at least one database containing data records of fauna or flora that is capable of posing
a hazard to human life and limb or general wellbeing. The data records stored in the database
are flagged with the fauna or flora's endemical information, so that the device is able to extract
and display to the user, the location appropriate record(s) from the database, based on the
user's current location, as determined by the device, so that the user can use the information
retrieved to identify potentially hazardous wildlife or plants in their current vicinity. The at
least one database is remotely located, relative to the device, and said at least one database
includes first aid informational records that are most appropriate for each species, and the
device is capable of retrieving that information, at the discretion of the user, and displaying it
to the user.    The at least one database also includes contact details of emergency first
responder(s) that are best situated to respond to a medical emergency at the current location
of the user.

                                                   1
                   A Threat Mitigation and Emergency Response System
Field of the Invention
[0001]    This invention relates to applications for mobile smart devices, such as smartphones,
and in particular, to applications that provide regionalised safety and alert information to the
device user regarding fauna and flora related threats.
Background of the Invention
[0002]    Many people enjoy travel and an associated outdoor lifestyle. As they move about
their environment, they are exposed to inherent dangers that exist in every region on earth.
Some of these dangers may be related to the particular fauna and/or flora in that region. There
is a wide variety of venomous, stinging or aggressive fauna in many parts of the world, as well
as regional flora, that may pose a threat to life or limb, or may reduce the enjoyment of the
travel. In addition to these threats, there are regional threats related to geographical features,
for example, sheer cliffs, fast moving rivers or streams, or ocean beaches that are associated
with treacherous undercurrents.
[0003]    It is incumbent on at least one responsible member in any party of outdoor
adventurers to acquaint themselves with these potential threats, and to ensure that the outdoor
adventurers are kept as safe as possible while enjoying their travel. The difficulty associated
with this is gaining access to reliable information that is up to date, relevant and accurate.
Secondly, not every party of adventurers is as responsible as they should be, and may not
adequately prepare for their adventure. Thirdly, it is common for individuals, or parties of
adventurers to make a spur of the moment decision to adventure out into an unknown region,
thereby exposing them to risk.
[0004]    In addition to the abovementioned problems, if an unfortunate adventurer does get
injured, it is often difficult for the affected person, or one of their companions, to provide
emergency first responders and other medical service providers with an accurate description
of the fauna or flora that has injured them. Also, if the person needs emergency evacuation, it
may not be easy to provide the first responders with an accurate position of the affected person.

                                                   2
Finally, it may be difficult for the affected person, or their companion(s) to know what the
most appropriate first aid treatment should be, in relation to the particular incident.
[0005]    People are often encouraged to lodge a trip plan with local authorities, such as park
rangers. The trip plan identifies all the people in the party entering the remote area, and
identifies their planned route, time of departure, and their expected time of return. If the party
fails to return at the designated time, then the local authorities can initiate a suitable search
and rescue plan.       Unfortunately, people often fail to lodge a proper trip plan with the
appropriate authorities.     This can cause life threatening delays with the authorities in
determining that an emergency is occurring, and determining where the party are located
within the remote area.
[0006]    It is therefore an object of the present invention to provide mobile smart device app
and associated service that at least mitigates some of the aforementioned problems.
Summary of the Invention
[0007]    Accordingly, the present invention is a system for providing a user with threat related
information, including a device that utilises a global positioning system to automatically
determine the location of the user of the device in real time. The device includes means to
access at least one database containing data records of fauna or flora that is capable of posing
a hazard to human life and limb or general wellbeing. The data records stored in the database
are flagged with the fauna or flora's endemical information, so that the device is able to extract
and display to the user the location appropriate record(s) from the database, based on the user's
current location, as determined by the device, so that the user can use the information retrieved
to identify potentially hazardous wildlife or plants in their current vicinity.
[0008]    Preferably, the database is remotely located, relative to the device.
[0009]    Preferably, the at least one database includes first aid informational records that are
most appropriate for each species, and the device is capable of retrieving that information, at
the discretion of the user, and displaying it to the user.

                                                  3
[0010] Preferably, the at least one database also includes contact details of emergency first
responder(s) that are best situated to respond to a medical emergency at the current location
of the user.
[0011] Preferably, the device includes a computer software program that is installable on the
device, and the user is able to activate the program at their discretion, and it is the computer
software program that works in conjunction with the device to query the at least one database
and retrieve the location relevant data record(s), and display the retrieved record(s) to the user
via a display screen included on the device.
[0012] Preferably, the computer software program is capable of utilising the device and
setting up a telephone or tele-video conference with a remote emergency first responder.
[0013] Preferably, the computer software program includes means that enable a user to take
a photograph or video recording of any wound or malaise inflicted upon the user, or their
associate, and send that photograph or video recording to a remote emergency first responder
to assist in providing the most appropriate emergency care for that particular incident.
[0014] Preferably, the computer software program includes means to take a photograph or
video recording of a particular animal or plant encountered by a user, or their associate, and
send that photograph or video recording to the remote emergency first responder.
[0015] Preferably, the computer software program includes means that encodes the
photograph or video recording with the time of the encounter, and its location, as determined
by the device.
[0016] Preferably, the computer software program includes means that enable a user to
optionally upload the photograph or video recording to the at least one database.
[0017] Preferably, the at least one database includes ancillary systems that are capable of
extracting the information contained in either the photograph or video recording, and using
that information to identify the particular species of fauna or flora encountered, and adding

                                                    4
the species, time and location details of the encounter information to the at least one database,
and sending the identity information back to the user.
[0018]   Preferably, the computer software program is capable of being launched at the
discretion of the user, and then running continuously in the background of the device's
operating system and continuously receiving geographical location data from the device, and
providing location specific alerts to the user, where appropriate through audible or audible and
visual means.
[0019]   Preferably, the device is capable of remotely communicating with at least one
biomedical monitoring device worn by a user, or an associate of the user, and information
obtained from the biomedical monitoring device, such as heart rate, for example, is also sent
to the remote emergency responder.
[0020]   In another form, the present invention is a method of determining location specific
potential threats to life and limb, or general wellbeing, to a person, or a group of people, from
endemic fauna or flora at the location, including the steps of:
          a)    using an electronic communication device, such as a cellular mobile phone or
tablet PC, satellite phone, or the like, that is capable of determining the position of the person,
or group of people, in real time, and
         b)     running a pre-installed computer software program on the communication
device, and
          c)    at the device user's discretion, using the computer software program to retrieve
endemic fauna or flora information for that location from at least one database containing
records of dangerous fauna and flora, and
          d)    displaying the endemic fauna and flora information in a user-friendly way on
the device's visual display.
[0021]   In another preferred form, the method includes the additional steps of:
          e)    selecting the record for the particular species of fauna or flora that the user is
interested in, and
          f)    retrieving the appropriate first aid information from the at least one database
and displaying the first aid information to the user on the device's visual display.

                                                   5
[0022]    In yet another form, the method includes the additional steps of:
          g)     offering to the user, via the computer software program, the option to engage
directly with a remote emergency first responder, and
          h)     if option is actioned by the user, commencing either a telephone or tele-video
conference with the remote emergency first responder so that the appropriate emergency
response can be co-ordinated.
Description of Examples of the Invention and the Preferred Embodiment
[0023]    In a preferred form, the present invention is a system for providing a user with threat
related information that is relevant to a particular geographical region that the person is
currently in. The system includes a software application that is installable and able to be run
on a wide variety of mobile smart devices, such as smartphones.          These types of devices
typically include a global positioning system to automatically determine the location of the
user of the device in real time.
[0024]    The mobile device includes means to access at least one database containing data
records of fauna or flora associated with the particular region that the user is currently in, that
is capable of posing a hazard to life and limb or general wellbeing of both humans, and their
pets, such as dogs. The data records stored in the database are flagged with the fauna or flora's
endemical information, so that the device is able to extract and display to the user the location
appropriate record(s) from the database, based on the user's current location, as determined
by the device, so that the user can use the information retrieved to identify potentially
hazardous wildlife or plants in their current vicinity.
[0025]    The database may be stored locally within the memory of the smart device, or the
database may be wholly remotely located, or may be a combination of both.              When the
database is wholly stored, or partially stored within the device, it may receive periodic data
updates as required, to keep the locally stored portions of the database up to date and relevant.
[0026]    In addition to the database including region specific potentially hazardous identity
information relating to the region's fauna and flora, the database may also include first aid

                                                   6
informational records that are most appropriate for each species, and the device is capable of
retrieving that information, at the discretion of the user, and displaying it to the user.
[0027] Additional features of the database may include contact details of emergency first
responder(s) that are best situated to respond to a medical emergency at the current location
of the user. The smart device may double as an emergency location beacon, when the software
application is placed in emergency mode, to assist emergency first responders to locate the
affected party.
[0028] In one preferred embodiment, the computer software program is capable of utilising
the device's hardware features and using them to setup a telephone or tele-video conference
with a remote emergency first responder.
[0029] In another preferred embodiment, the computer software program is capable of being
used by the user to take a photograph or video recording of any wound or malaise inflicted
upon the user, or an associate of the user, or a companion animal, and send that photograph or
video recording to a remote emergency first responder to assist in providing the most
appropriate emergency care for that particular incident.
[0030] Also, the computer software program may include means to take a photograph or
video recording of a particular animal or plant encountered by a user, and that has inflicted a
particular wound or malaise upon the user, their associate or a companion animal, and send
that photograph or video recording to the remote emergency first responder, so that the
particular species of fauna or flora can be identified so that the most appropriate first aid can
be commenced.
[0031] It is preferred that the computer software program includes means that encodes the
photograph or video recording with the time of the encounter, and its geographical location,
as determined by the device.
[0032] It is also preferred that the computer software program includes means that enable a
user to optionally upload the photograph or video of the fauna or flora recording to a remote
database.    Preferably the remote database includes means to mechanically extract the

                                                    7
information contained in either the photograph or video recording, and using that information
to identify the particular species of fauna or flora encountered. If a record for particular species
of fauna or flora at that location is not included in the relevant database, then the system may
automatically add that new information, and update the database accordingly. The species
identity information may also be sent back to the user for their information.
[0033]    In a preferred embodiment, the computer software program is capable of being
launched at the discretion of the user, and then running continuously in the background of the
device's operating system and continuously receiving geographical location data from the
device, and providing location specific alerts to the user, where appropriate through audible,
vibratory or visual means.
[0034]    In another preferred form of the invention, the device is capable of remotely
interfacing with at least one biomedical monitoring device worn by a user, or an associate of
the user, and the information obtained from the biomedical monitoring device, such as heart
rate, or blood pressure, for example, is also sent to the remote emergency responder.
[0035]    In another form, the present invention is a method of determining location specific
potential threats to life and limb, or general wellbeing, to a person, or a group of people, from
endemic fauna or flora at the location. The method includes the steps of:
          a)     using an electronic communication device, such as a cellular mobile phone or
tablet PC, satellite phone, or the like, that is capable of determining the position of the person,
or group of people, in real time, and
          b)     running a pre-installed computer software program on the communication
device, and
          c)     at the device user's discretion, using the computer software program to retrieve
endemic fauna or flora information for that location from at least one database containing
records of dangerous fauna and flora, and
          d)     displaying the endemic fauna and flora information in a user-friendly way on
the device's visual display.
[0036]    In another preferred form, the method includes the additional steps of:

                                                   8
          e)     selecting the record for the particular species of fauna or flora that the user is
interested in, and
          f)     retrieving the appropriate first aid information from the at least one database
and displaying the first aid information to the user on the device's visual display.
[0037] In yet another form, the method includes the additional steps of:
          g)     offering to the user, via the computer software program, the option to engage
directly with a remote emergency first responder, and
         h)      if option is actioned by the user, commencing either a telephone or tele-video
conference with the remote emergency first responder so that the appropriate emergency
response can be co-ordinated.
[0038] In yet another form, the method includes the additional steps of:
          i)     placing the electronic communication device into an emergency location
beacon mode that assists any emergency first responders in locating the affected individual or
party.
[0039] While the above description includes the preferred embodiments of the invention, it
is to be understood that many variations, alterations, modifications and/or additions may be
introduced into the constructions and arrangements of parts previously described without
departing from the essential features or the spirit or ambit of the invention.
[0040]    It will be also understood that where the word "comprise", and variations such as
"comprises" and "comprising", are used in this specification, unless the context requires
otherwise such use is intended to imply the inclusion of a stated feature or features but is not
to be taken as excluding the presence of other feature or features.
[0041]    The reference to any prior art in this specification is not, and should not be taken as,
an acknowledgment or any form of suggestion that such prior art forms part of the common
general knowledge.

                                                   9
Claims
1.       A system for providing a user with threat or incident related information, including a
device that utilises a global positioning system to automatically determine the location of the
user of the device in real time, wherein the device includes means to access at least one
database containing data records of fauna or flora that is capable of posing a hazard to human
life and limb or general wellbeing, and wherein the data records stored in the database are
flagged with the fauna or flora's endemical information, so that the device is able to extract
and display to the user the location appropriate record(s) from the database, based on the user's
current location, as determined by the device, so that the user can use the information retrieved
to identify potentially hazardous wildlife or plants in their current vicinity, and wherein the at
least one database is remotely located, relative to the device, and said at least one database
includes first aid informational records that are most appropriate for each species, and the
device is capable of retrieving that information, at the discretion of the user, and displaying it
to the user, and wherein the at least one database also includes contact details of emergency
first responder(s) that are best situated to respond to a medical emergency at the current
location of the user.
2.       The system as defined in claim 1 wherein the device includes a computer software
program that is installable on the device, and the user is able to activate the program at their
discretion, and it is the computer software program that works in conjunction with the device
to query the at least one database and retrieve the location relevant data record(s), and display
the retrieved record(s) to the user via a display screen included on the device, and wherein the
computer software program is capable of utilising the features of the device to setup a
telephone or tele-video conference with a remote emergency first responder.
3.       The system as defined in claim 2 wherein the computer software program includes
means that enable a user to take a photograph or video recording of any wound or malaise
inflicted upon the user, or their associate, and send that photograph or video recording to a
remote emergency first responder to assist in providing the most appropriate emergency care
for that particular incident, and may also include means to take a photograph or video
recording of a particular animal or plant encountered by a user, or their associate, and send
that photograph or video recording to the remote emergency first responder, and optionally

                                                     10
the computer software program includes means that encodes the photograph or video
recording with the time of the encounter, and its location, as determined by the device, and
may also include means that enable a user to optionally upload the photograph or video
recording to the at least one database, and optionally, the at least one database includes
ancillary systems that are capable of extracting the information contained in either the
photograph or video recording, and using that information to identify the particular species of
fauna or flora encountered, and adding the species, time and location details of the encounter
information to the at least one database, and sending the identity information back to the user,
in addition to any first aid related information specific to the identified species of fauna or
flora.
4.      The system as defined in any previous claim wherein the computer software program
is capable of being launched at the discretion of the user, and then running continuously in the
background of the device's operating system and continuously receiving geographical location
data from the device, and providing location specific alerts to the user, where appropriate,
through audible or audible and visual means, and optionally communicating with at least one
biomedical monitoring device worn by a user, or an associate of the user, and information
obtained from the biomedical monitoring device, such as heart rate, for example, is also sent
to the remote emergency responder.
5.      In another form, the present invention is a method of determining location specific
potential threats to life and limb, or general wellbeing, to a person, or a group of people, from
endemic fauna or flora at the location, including the steps of:
          a)    using an electronic communication device, such as a cellular mobile phone or
tablet PC, satellite phone, or the like, that is capable of determining the position of the person,
or group of people, in real time, and
          b)    running a pre-installed computer software program on the communication
device, and
          c)    at the device user's discretion, using the computer software program to retrieve
endemic fauna or flora information for that location from at least one database containing
records of dangerous fauna and flora, and
          d)    displaying the endemic fauna and flora information in a user-friendly way on
the device's visual display, and

                                                   11
          e)    selecting the record for the particular species of fauna or flora that the user is
interested in, and
          f)    retrieving the appropriate first aid information from the at least one database
and displaying the first aid information to the user on the device's visual display, and
          g)    offering to the user, via the computer software program, the option to engage
directly with a remote emergency first responder, and
         h)     if option is actioned by the user, commencing either a telephone or tele-video
conference with the remote emergency first responder so that the appropriate emergency
response can be co-ordinated.

