                                    ABSTRACT
       A protein transduction method for efficiently delivery of exogenous proteins into
mammalian cells is invented, which has the capability of targeting different cellular
compartments and protection from degradation of the delivered proteins from cellular
proteases. A composition for treat proteins has cation reagents, lipids and enhancers
in a carrier. The method can be used in a number of ways including: production of
large quantities of properly folded, post-translationally modified proteins using
mammalian cell machinery, a in-cell fluorescence spectroscopy and imaging using
small molecule fluorophores and a in-cell NMR spectroscopy using living mammalian
cells. The method permits cell biology at atomic resolution that is physiologically and
pathological relevant and permits protein therapy to treat human diseases.          The
method can also be used to deliver exogenous protein inside mammalian cells,
wherein the exogenous proteins follow a similar secretion pathway as that of the
endogenous protein.

      WO 2009/155026                                                       PCT/US2009/045408
               METHOD AND COMPOSITION FOR A PROTEIN TRANSDUCTION
                            TECHNOLOGY AND ITS APPLICATIONS
          BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
 5
    1.    Technical Field
          The present invention relates to protein transduction and uses thereof. More
   specifically, the present invention relates to protein transduction reagents that enable
10 proteins to be delivered into mammalian cells and how to uses of the protein transduction
   technology, including in vivo protein folding, trafficking, secretion pathways of transduced
   exogenous proteins, production of large quantities of native folded, post-translationally
   modified proteins, in-cell structural biology and protein therapy.
15 2.     Description of the Related Art
          Proteins are necklaces of amino acids, long chain molecules. Proteins are the most
   important molecules inside every living cell, tissue, organ within the human body. Proteins
   are involved in virtually all aspects of life.    Proteins control thinking, they regulate all
20 physiological reactions, they metabolize carbohydrates and fats that bodies use, they
   defend bodies against bacteria and viruses, and they work as enzymes, hormones,
   antibodies, cytokines and signaling molecules that transmit information into cells. As
   enzymes, they are the driving force behind all of the biochemical reactions. As structural
   elements, they are the main constituent of bones, muscles, hair, skin and blood vessels.
25 As antibodies, they recognize invading elements and allow the immune system to
   eliminate the unwanted invaders. While scientists have sequenced the human genome,
   how proteins work largely remains a mystery. This is because in order for proteins to
   function (e.g. as enzymes or antibodies), the protein must take on a particular shape, also
   known as a "fold". If the protein does not fold correctly, disease and dysfunction occur.
30 Some examples of which include, but are not limited to, Alzheimer's disease, Huntington's
   disease, cystic fibrosis, BSE (Mad Cow disease), an inherited form of emphysema, and
   even many cancers. When proteins misfold, they can clump together ("aggregate"). These
   clumps can often gather in the brain, where they are believed to cause the symptoms of
   Mad Cow or Alzheimer's disease.
35        When proteins fold inside a cell, they are frequently subjected to various amounts
   of spatial confinement. In many cases, proteins are folded in the endoplasmic reticulum

      WO 2009/155026                                                         PCT/US2009/045408
   ("ER'), which is a membrane-containing cellular compartment that contains many proteins
   at specific concentrations. Proteins can be encapsulated inside helper molecules, called
   chaperones and folding enzymes. These chaperones are involved with helping proteins
   fold inside cells. Therefore, protein folding inside the cell is quite different from its folding
 5 in the test tube. However, current studies of protein folding are mainly in the test tube.
   Although significant advance has been achieved, these results of protein folding in the test
   tube have to be verified in living cells and such a technique of study protein folding in the
   living cell is lacking.
           The study of protein structure has received a major boost recently with the
10 increasing amount of structures being deposited on the Protein Data Bank (PDB) on a
   daily basis, but these structures are typically not determined in vivo, but in artificial crystals
   and solutions. Over the past five decades, X-ray crystallography and the resulting atomic
   models of proteins and nucleic acids have contributed greatly to an understanding of
   structural, molecular, and chemical aspects of biological phenomena. Currently, X-ray
15 crystallography is a mature high-resolution structural biology tool that can be used to
   quickly determine protein structures. However, X-ray crystallography requires high quality
   single crystal of proteins in order to do x-ray diffraction and this is not always achievable.
   In contrast, another high-resolution structural biology tool, nuclear magnetic resonance
   (NMR), has been developed since 1980s. This technique only requires protein in solution
20 at 50     iM to 1 mM concentrations. This technique also provides protein dynamics
   information via NMR relaxation measurements. Although NMR is a less mature high
   resolution structural tool, it provides an alternative high-resolution structural biology
   technique, allowing for determination of protein structures at atomic resolution.
           When these      methods    cannot be used, computer-based             protein modeling
25 techniques have been used with some success. These modeling techniques use the
   known three-dimensional structure of a homologous protein to approximate the structure
   of another protein. This is not an accurate method because the actual structure is not
   known, but is approximated.
           Fluorescence spectroscopy is another structural technique, which can be used to
30 obtain structural information. The well-developed Forster resonance energy transfer
   (FRET) technique can be used to measure the distance between fluorescence donor and
   acceptor, and can thus provide important information about protein folding and structure.
   However, FRET can only provide one distance from one pair of fluorescence donor and
   acceptor each time. To determine a protein structure, hundreds to thousands of distances
35 within a protein are necessary to determine protein structure at atomic resolution. This

      WO 2009/155026                                                              PCT/US2009/045408
   requires enormous        amount      of work, including mutagenesis, protein production,
   fluorescence labeling and FRET measurement of every pair of fluorescence donor and
   acceptor. The FRET measurement can also be obtained in the living cells since the
   introduction of Green/Red Fluorescence Protein (GFP/RFP) technique. The in vivo FRET
 5 measurement is widely used to study protein-protein and domain-domain interactions,
   however, the distance measurement between GFP and RFP seems to be meaningless,
   since both GFP and RFP are proteins of 25-28 kDa. Thus, the current in vivo FRET
   measurement cannot be used to obtain accurate information about protein structure and
   folding. Therefore, fluorescence spectroscopy is not considered to be a viable high
10 resolution structural biology tool.
           Fluorescence imaging is a technique that is routinely used to study protein location
   and trafficking in living cells. Currently, this technique extensively utilizes GFP technique,
   which fuses GFP in either the N- or the C-terminal end of a protein. Using a confocal
   microscope, the GFP-labeled protein can be visualized for their locations and trafficking
15 inside the cells. However, it is unknown whether the GFP fusion changes the location of
   the protein of interest inside the cells. Thus, extensive control experiments have to be
   carried out. Even with these control experiments, sometimes the situation inside the cells
   is complex and no definite conclusion can be made using fluorescence imaging.
           Currently, there is no available means for detecting high-resolution protein structure
20 in living cells. However, it is critical for scientists to verify if the in vitro determined protein
   structures are the same as the structures of these proteins in living cells. An in-cell
   structural biology is necessary to push the current cell biology to atomic resolution and no
   such technology is currently available. In addition, this in-cell structural biology will allow us
   to combine cell biology techniques with high-resolution structural biology techniques, thus
25 to accurately correlate protein structural information with cellular functions.
           Using bacteria to produce recombinant proteins opens the door of modern
   molecular biology. Indeed, bacterial expression enables us to utilize the recombinant DNA
   technique to produce large quantities of recombinant proteins. When bacterial cells are
   used to overexpress exogenous proteins, the recombinant protein is often sequestered in
30 bacterial cell inclusion bodies. For the recombinant proteins to be useful, they must be
   purified from the inclusion bodies. During the purification process, the recombinant
   proteins are denatured and must then be re-natured. Denatured protein is commonly
   refolded in vitro by diluting the denaturant away. Protein unfolding normally induces a
   hydrophobic collapse that may cause protein aggregation. In vitro protein refolding results
35 in the protein shielding its hydrophobic patches in the core of the molecule. Unfortunately,

      WO 2009/155026                                                          PCT/US2009/045408
   during the in vitro refolding process, proteins do not always form the native bioactive
   conformation. Two competing processes occur: refolding and aggregation. It is suggested
   that the driver for protein aggregation is hydrophobic amino acids exposed at the surface.
   Aggregation is undesirable and reduces the yield of functional, native protein.
 5         Bacterial cells cannot be used to produce many proteins due to misfolding of these
   proteins in the bacterial cells. In addition, bacterial cells do not contain complex machinery
   for   protein    post-translational   modification.     However,     protein   post-translational
   modifications are critical for the biological functions of many proteins. Thus, the bacterial
   expressed recombinant proteins are not the same as the native proteins and are not
10 functional. For production of native proteins, mammalian cells must be used. Unlike
   bacterial expression, the yield of mammalian cell protein expression is much lower and
   costly. A new technology of production of large quantities of properly folded, post
   translationally modified proteins is definitely necessary for modern biology and medical
   sciences. .
15        The impermeable nature of the cell membrane to peptide, protein, DNA and RNA
   limits the therapeutic potential of these "information-rich" biological molecules and
   prevents the uptake of the in vitro labeled macromolecules by cells for structural biology
   studies in the living cell at atomic resolution. However, a new, non-invasive protein
   transduction technology is emerging, following the discovery of the cell penetrating peptide
20 (CPP) that is successfully used to efficiently transport heterogeneous bioactive cargo into
   the cell in an unconventional way. The protein transduction technology in vivo to deliver
   bioactive cargo into various tissues of living animals has been reported. This novel
   technology opens up many new possibilities for intracellular delivery of therapeutic
   macromolecules for treatment of human diseases or for intracellular transduction of
25 labeled macromolecules for structural biology studies in living cells, thus potentially
   pushing cell biology to atomic resolution.
           Despite these notable successes, the use of protein transduction technology has
   yet to become commonplace in cell biology and in therapeutic applications. Several major
   challenges lay in front of this new technology that prevent it to be widely used in many
30 fields of biomedical sciences. The first challenge is the fate or secretion pathway of
   delivered exogenous proteins using protein transduction technology. It is still unknown
   how the exogenous proteins traffic inside cells after being delivered into cells. The famous
   Blobel's "Signal Theory" guides the fate of endogenous protein to traffic inside the cells,
   and thus dictates the subcellular locations of endogenous proteins. Questions have arisen
35 regarding whether the exogenous proteins follow the same secretion pathway as that of
                                                    4

     WO 2009/155026                                                         PCT/US2009/045408
   the endogenous proteins. These questions have to be addressed for physiological and
   pathological relevance of protein transduction technology. The second major challenge is
   lack of delivery specificity of the current protein transduction agents, specifically, in terms
   of targeting to specific cell types and specific cell compartments. Indeed, the current
 5 protein transduction reagents are not "smart" enough to specifically deliver exogenous
   proteins into a targeting tissue type or cellular compartment.
           Most human diseases are related to the malfunctioning of particular proteins, either
   systemically or locally. Therapeutic proteins, including native and engineered proteins, can
   be used as highly effective medical treatments (protein therapy) for a wide array of
10 diseases in which the protein is either lacking or deficient (growth hormone and insulin), or
   the therapeutic protein is used to inhibit a biological process (antibodies that block blood
   supply to tumors). In contrast to gene therapy, protein therapy uses well-defined, precisely
   structured proteins, with previously defined optimal doses of the individual protein for
   disease states, and with well-known biological effects. However, an obstacle currently
15 hinders protein therapy as a treatment of human diseases. This obstacle is the mode of
   delivery: oral, intravenous, intra-arterial, or intramuscular routes of administration are not
   always as effective as desired. In most cases, the therapeutic protein is metabolized or
   cleared before it even reaches the target tissue. To make protein therapy possible, an
   efficient delivery system of protein is required to ensure that therapeutic protein is stable
20 and able to deliver to the target tissues for treatment of the diseases.
                                  SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
           The present invention is a method for protein transduction into mammalian cells
   and the applications of this protein transduction method. The method can be used for the
25 production of large quantity of native folded, post-translationally modified proteins using
   mammalian cell folding/post-translational modification machinery. The method can also be
   used for studies of protein folding, structure, interactions and trafficking in living
   mammalian cell, using in-cell fluorescence spectroscopy and imaging and in-cell NMR
   spectroscopy.
30         The present invention can also be used to develop the physiologically and
   pathologically relevant, atomic resolution cell biology and protein therapy to treat human
   diseases.
           The QQ series protein transduction reagent of the present invention can efficiently
   deliver proteins into mammalian cell, making this method possible.
35         A composition of QQ reagents for treating proteins having cation reagents, lipids,
                                                    5

      WO 2009/155026                                                      PCT/US2009/045408
   and enhancers in a carrier is provided. Accordingly, the amount of modification of target
   protein with QQ reagents can be adjusted by altering the compositions to obtain the best
   protein transduction efficiency. The composition enable proteins to be delivered into
   mammalian cells and properly fold and post-translationally modified.
 5        The method of the present invention can also include a labeling step, either NMR or
   fluorescence labeling, that includes labeling the protein prior to QQ reagent modification.
   The labeling enables better viewing of the protein within cells using high-resolution
   biophysical methods.
          The method can be used in a number of ways including: production of large
10 quantities of properly folded, post-translationally modified proteins using mammalian cell
   machinery, a in-cell fluorescence spectroscopy and imaging using small molecule
   fluorophores and a in-cell NMR spectroscopy using living mammalian cells. The method
   permits cell biology at atomic resolution that is physiologically and pathological relevant
   and protein therapy to treat human diseases.
15        The method can also be used to deliver exogenous protein inside mammalian cells,
   wherein the exogenous proteins follow a similar secretion pathway as that of the
   endogenous protein.
          These and other objects, advantages and features of the invention will be more
   fully understood and appreciated by reference to the description of the current
20 embodiment and the drawings.
                            BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
           Figure 1 is a flow chart depicting the method of the present invention, showing a
   simple step of utilization of the QQ reagents.
25         Figure 2 is photographs of western blots using anti-his-tag and anti LBD-apoER2
   antibodies, qualitatively showing the efficiency of protein transduction into mammalian
   cells using the present invention.
           Figure 3 is a photograph of a SDS-PAGE, quantitatively showing that the present
   invention can be used to deliver 50-200 tm apoE(1 -183) into Hela cells.
30         Figure 4 shows photographs of fluorescence imaging of Hela cells that were treated
   with fluorescence labeled, QQ-reagent modified LBD-apoER2 and MESD proteins,
   showing that the delivered proteins were able to target the ER and the Golgi.
           Figure 5 shows photograph of SDS-PAGEs, suggesting that the QQ reagent
   modified mouse apoAl was protected from degradation by proteases, both protease
35 cocktail and cellular proteases.

     WO 2009/155026                                                     PCT/US2009/045408
           Figures 6A and 6B are photographs of far western blot of LBD-apoER2 using anti
    RAP (Figure 6A) and anti-apoE (Figure 6B) antibodies, showing that the transduced LBD
   apoER2 was properly folded and functional for binding to both RAP and apoE.
           Figures 7A, 7B and 7C are photographs of western blots of the exogenous MESD
 5 proteins that were delivered into Hela cells (Figure 7A) and the endogenous MESD from
   eight different mammalian cell lines (Figure 7B), showing the same three band pattern. In
   contrast, MESD(12-155), which lacks the "REDL" ER retention signal, only shows one
   single band that is the same as the bacterial expressed MESD(1 2-155) (Figure 7C).
           Figures 8A and 8B are photographs of western blots of the MESD in the Hela cells
10 that was treated with two different de-glycosylation enzymes: PNGase (Figure 8A) and
   NAase (Figure 8B), confirming that the upper bands were glycosylated forms of MESD.
           Figures 9A shows the flow chart of purification of LBD-apoER2. Figure 9B are
   photographs of far-western blots of purified LBD-apoER2 from Hela cells using a His-Bind
   resin column, showing that purified LBD-apoER2 binds to ApoE and RAP.
15
                           DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION
           The present invention provides the QQ series of protein transduction reagents (QQ
   reagents) that can be used to deliver protein into any mammalian cells. In contrast to the
   currently available protein transduction reagents, such as protein transduction domain
20 ("PTB") or cell penetrating peptide ("CPP"), the QQ reagents have an ability to deliver high
   concentrations of proteins into mammalian cells (up to 50-200 riM). Utilization of QQ
   reagents is very simple, only requiring incubation of the protein of interest with the QQ
   reagent, passing the protein solution through a quick-spin column to separate QQ reagent
   modified protein from free QQ reagents and another incubation with cells. QQ reagents
25 are safe to the cells since the majority of the compositions of the QQ reagents are food
   additives that have been proved by FDA. More importantly, QQ reagents have two special
   features that other currently available protein transduction reagents do not have: QQ
   reagents can target different cell compartment and QQ reagents can protect protein of
   interest from degradation by proteases.
30         In contrast to the other protein transduction reagents currently available, such as
   PTB or CPP, QQ reagents have the following features that are unique and novel and
   distinctly different from the other protein transduction reagents:
   (1) A non-invasive protein transduction method that is applicable to any mammalian cells.
35 (2) A high protein transduction efficiency method (50-200 pM protein delivery into the
                                                    -7

      WO 2009/155026                                                        PCT/US2009/045408
          cells).
   (3) A method that has the capability of targeting specific cell compartments or cell
          organelles.
   (4) The QQ series reagents can either non-covalently or covalentLy associate with protein
 5       (a unique feature) and dissociate from the protein inside of cells. Thus, the protein
         under investigation is not functionally altered.
   (5) The QQ series reagents are food additives that has been approved by FDA, having no
         or little cellular toxicity.
   (6) The QQ series reagent protects proteins from protease degradation inside the cells.
10 (7) The application of QQ reagent is very simple and only requires a step of incubation
         with cells. No any other step, such as molecular cloning like CPP/PTB, is necessary.
   (8) The QQ series reagent enables multiple proteins to be delivered into cells
         simultaneously or consecutively.
15          The reagents of the present invention can be used in numerous applications, such
   as to: (1) utilize cell folding machinery to properly fold bacterial expressed protein; (2)
   utilize cell post-translational modification machinery to properly post-translationally modify
   bacterially expressed proteins; (3) investigate the secretion pathways of the exogenous
   proteins that are delivered into the cell by the QQ reagents; (4) investigate the degradation
20 of the exogenous proteins that are delivered into the cell by the QQ reagents; (5) study
   protein-protein interaction in living cells; and (6) study protein function at a cellular level.
   The reagent can also be used for the following: (1) Protein Therapy using the QQ reagent
   to target cellular compartment; and (2) physiologically and pathologically relevant, atomic
   resolution cell biology.
25          The present invention demonstrates that the exogenous bacterial expressed
   protein, after being delivered into mammalian cells, follows the same secretion pathway as
   the endogenous proteins. This discovery provides a foundation for future applications of
   protein transduction technology, including protein therapy and atomic resolution cell
   biology.
30          The present invention also provides a method that enables production of large
   quantity of native folded, post-translationally modified proteins using mammalian cell
   folding and post-translational modification machinery. The method uses bacteria to
   produce recombinant protein that is then modified with the QQ reagent and delivered into
   mammalian cells. The mammalian cell machinery will fold and post-translationally modify
35 the transduced protein to produce native functional proteins that can be purified from the
                                                     2

      WO 2009/155026                                                        PCT/US2009/045408
   cells with affinity column which can bind to the tag (His-tag or other tags) introduced into
   recombinant proteins. The efficiency of recovery of recombinant protein from mammalian
   cell was about 30-60%.
           The term "proteins" as used herein is intended to include any of a group of complex
 5 organic macromolecules that contain carbon, hydrogen, oxygen, nitrogen, and usually
   sulfur and are composed of one or more chains of amino acids. Proteins are fundamental
   components of all living cells and include many substances, such as enzymes, hormones,
   and antibodies that are necessary for the proper functioning of an organism. Examples of
   proteins tested include, but are not limited to: plasma protein (human apolipoprotein Al,
10 human apolipoprotein E and mouse apolipoprotein Al), ER residence protein (mouse
   MESD(1-195) and Receptor Associate Protein (RAP)), receptor protein (the ligand-binding
   domain of human apoE receptor 2 (LBD-apoER2) and the YWTD                      p-propeller/EGF
   domains of LRP6, membrane protein mouse PMP22). These proteins have different
   hydrophobic and hydrophilic characters.
15         A "modified protein" is a protein that has been treated with the QQ reagent of the
   present invention. The QQ reagent enables the protein to function normally while the
   protein is delivered into cells.
           The term "folding" as used herein is the process whereby a protein molecule
   assumes its intricate three-dimensional structure. The process of folding in vivo often
20 begins co-translationally, so that the N-terminus of the protein begins to fold while the C
   terminal portion of the protein is still being synthesized by the ribosome.
           The term "post-translational modification" as used herein is the process whereby,
   after translation, a protein molecule get modified covalently at certain amino acids in
   several different ways, such as glycosylation, phosphorylation and ubiqutilization. Post
25 translational modifications ususally occur in the ER and the Golgi of the mammalian cells.
           The term "cell machinery" as used herein is intended to mean the machinery within
   a cell that is used by that cell for protein folding and for post-translational modification of
   the proteins produced by that cell.
           The method of the present invention includes the steps of expressing a protein
30 using bacteria, labeling the protein with probes, modification of the protein with the QQ
   reagents, incubation of the modified protein with mammalian cells and protein folding and
   post-translational modification of the protein within cells. First, the protein is expressed in
   bacteria. Optionally, the bacterial expressed protein can be labeled with NMR and
   fluorescence probes. The bacterial expressed protein is then modified using the QQ
35 reagents of the present invention. The protein can then be delivered into mammalian cells
                                                    C,

      WO 2009/155026                                                        PCT/US2009/045408
   by incubation of the QQ reagent modified protein with mammalian cells for several hours.
   The normal cell machinery can then properly fold and post-translationally modify the
   transduced protein for production of the native fold, post-translationally modified,
   functional proteins which can be purified using an affinity column.
 5         The method enables analysis of the protein folding process in any cells, including
   both bacterial and mammalian cells. The method also enables studies of both protein
   structure and dynamics in the living cell, since this method allows one to label the protein
   in vitro and then transduce the labeled protein into mammalian cells for high-resolution
   biophysical studies, including in-cell NMR and in-cell fluorescence. Finally, the method of
10 the present invention enables a combination of atomic resolution structural biology
   techniques with cell biology techniques (KO/TG and NMR/fluorescence). The method can
   thus be used to study structural biology at atomic resolution levels.          In other words,
   structural biology can be studied at a physiologically and pathologically relevant level. By
   enabling such a study the method allows for utilization of cell biology techniques, such as
15 knockout, transgenic and knockdown techniques, along with high-resolution structural
   biology.
           The method of the present invention can be used to test drugs to determine how
   they affect protein folding. A "screen" can be used to determine if the drug being used has
   potential problems with regard to creating improper protein folding. As a screen, the
20 method enables problems to be uncovered early in the developmental stages, to provide
   better analysis with regard to potential side effects of a medication.
           The ability of this system to deliver multiple proteins simultaneously or
   consecutively can be applied to test protein-protein interactions and metabolic pathway
   interferences.
25         In-cell NMR and in-cell fluorescence techniques can also be developed to study
   protein structure/folding/trafficking/interactions within living cells. The high transduction
   efficiency at 50-200M concentrations inside cells makes in-cell NMR possible. In
   addition, the ability of QQ reagents to target different cell compartments, where the
   reaction occurs, ensures the physiological/pathological relevance of both in-cell NMR and
30 in-ce//fluorescence studies. As stated above, once the protein has been labeled, modified,
   and transferred into mammalian cells, the protein can be monitored to identify relevant
   mechanisms, changes, trafficking and interactions.         This is beneficial on a number of
   levels. First, it provides input as to the specific mechanisms involved with protein and
   specifically protein folding. Second, it provides information with regard to the interactions
35 surrounding proteins and protein folding, since there are so many diseases that are
                                                    i n

      WO 2009/155026                                                        PCT/US2009/045408
   related to improper folding. It is critical to determine all cellular components that are
   involved with the folding process. Third, it provides the ability to visualize the actual 3D
   structure of the protein, once folded, inside cells.
          The method of the present invention can also be used to deliver therapeutic
 5 proteins into tissues/cells for treatment of the diseased tissue/cells using protein therapy.
   The special ability of targeting different cell compartments by QQ reagents enables protein
   therapy to become a functional treatment option. Since the method enables proteins to be
   modified, transferred into a cell and targeted at a specific cell compartment, the protein
   can be used to alter the cell functions. For example, a modified protein can be transferred
10 into a cell in need of treatment and since the method of the present invention utilizes the
   existing cellular folding machinery, the cell will fold the protein and thus the protein will be
   incorporated into the cell. As listed above, many diseases are known to be directly related
   to improper protein folding. For example, more than 50% of natural occurring mutants of
   LDL receptor are so-called class 2 mutants that remain in the ER and Golgi due to either
15 misfolding    or   partially  folded.    These     mutants   are   associated   with   Familiar
   Hypercholesterolemia (FH) - an autosomal dominant disorder affecting about 1 in 500
   individuals worldwide. Patients with homozygotes develop severe atherosclerosis at a very
   early age. Knockdown of the LDLR mutation expression with supplement having wild-type
   LDLR using QQ protein transduction technology may rescue these patients. Therefore,
20 bypassing the existing disease-causing mutant proteins and adding a correct protein,
   diseases can be treated in a safe and effective manner.
           Protein therapy is similar to gene therapy but instead of inserting genes into the
   cells genome, proteins can be delivered into cells for treatment.       In a manner similar to
   gene therapy, protein therapy enables targeted treatment of cells with specific proteins.
25 For example, there are numerous diseases that impact either protein production or the
   manner of protein folding. By inserting properly folded proteins into cells or tissues, the
   cells or tissues can be treated so that they are no longer in a disease state.          Protein
   therapy has previously been impossible because proteases in blood and within the cells
   digest the delivered proteins. In order for protein therapy to be practical, the delivered
30 protein has to be protected inside the cell from protesomes. The QQ reagent of the
   present invention protects the protein from degradation and thus enables the protein to be
   inserted into a cell as part of a protein therapy.
          The reagent of the present invention is a reagent that enables a protein to be
   transferred into a mammalian cell. The reagent includes cation reagents, a lipid, and an
35 enhancer. One example of an appropriate cation reagent is polyethylenimine (M.W.: 600
                                                    ~11

     WO 2009/155026                                                       PCT/US2009/045408
   Da, 2,000 Da and 25,000 Da). The lipid can be any lipid known to those of skill in the art
   to have the same general properties as those listed herein.         Examples of such lipids
   include, but are not limited to, DOTAP, DOPE, POPC, and DMPE. The enhancers can be
   any enhancer that significantly enhances cell loading of cationized proteins. Examples of
 5 such enhancers in cell cultures include, but are not limited to MG132, protease inhibitor,
   CaCl2, DMSO, growth factors and Na2HCO. Other enhancers can also be used, including,
   but not limited to, cell membrane surfactants. The reagent can also include stabilizers and
   other inert carriers that do not affect the function of the reagent. As shown in Table 1 in
   the Examples, the concentrations and specific compounds utilized can vary.
10        The invention is further described in detail by reference to the following
   experimental examples. These examples are provided for the purpose of illustration only,
   and are not intended to be limiting unless otherwise specified. Thus, the invention should
   in no way be construed as being limited to the following examples, but rather, should be
   construed to encompass any and all variations which become evident as a result of the
15 teaching provided herein.
                                               EXAMPLES
   METHODS:
   General methods in molecular biology:
20        Standard molecular biology techniques known in the art and not specifically
   described are generally followed as in Sambrook et al., Molecular Cloning: A Laboratory
   Manual, Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory Press, New York (1989), and in Ausubel et al.,
   Current Protocols in Molecular Biology, John Wiley and Sons, Baltimore, Maryland (1989)
   and in Perbal, A Practical Guide to Molecular Cloning, John Wiley & Sons, New York
25 (1988), and in Watson et al., Recombinant DNA, Scientific American Books, New York
   and in Birren et al (eds) Genome Analysis: A Laboratory Manual Series, Vols. 1-4 Cold
   Spring Harbor Laboratory Press, New York (1998) and methodology as set forth in United
   States patents      4,666,828; 4,683,202; 4,801,531; 5,192,659 and          5,272,057 and
   incorporated herein by reference. Polymerase chain reaction (PCR) was carried out
30 generally as in PCR Protocols: A Guide To Methods And Applications, Academic Press,
   San Diego, CA (1990).      In-situ (In-cell) PCR in combination with Flow Cytometry can be
   used for detection of cells containing specific DNA and mRNA sequences (Testoni et al,
   1996, Blood 87:3822.)
          Some of the standard methods are described or referenced, e.g., in Maniatis, et al.
35 (1982) Molecular Cloning, A Laboratory Manual, Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory, Cold

      WO 2009/155026                                                        PCT/US2009/045408
   Spring Harbor Press; Sambrook, et al. (1989) Molecular Cloning: A Laboratory Manual,
   (2d ed.), vols 1-3, CSH Press, NY; Ausubel, et al., Biology, Greene Publishing Associates,
   Brooklyn, N.Y.; or Ausubel, et al. (1987 and Supplements) Current Protocols in Molecular
   Biology, Greene/Wiley, New York; Innis, et al. (eds.)(1 990) PCR Protocols: A Guide to
 5 Methods and Applications Academic Press, N.Y. Methods for protein purification include
   such     methods     as   ammonium      sulfate    precipitation,  column    chromatography,
   electrophoresis, centrifugation, crystallization, and others. See, e.g., Ausubel, et al. (1987
   and periodic supplements); Deutscher (1990) "Guide to Protein Purification" in Methods in
   Enzymology, vol. 182, and other volumes in this series; and manufacturer's literature on
10 use of protein purification products, e.g., Pharmacia, Piscataway, N.J., or Bio-Rad,
   Richmond, Calif. Combination with recombinant techniques allow fusion to appropriate
   segments, e.g., to a FLAG sequence or an equivalent which can be fused via a protease
   removable sequence. See, e.g., Hochuli (1989) Chemische Industrie 12:69-70; Hochuli
   (1990) "Purification of Recombinant Proteins with Metal Chelate Absorbent" in Setlow
15 (ed.) Genetic Engineering, Principle and Methods 12:87-98, Plenum Press, N.Y.; and
   Crowe, et al. (1992) QlAexpress: The High Level Expression & Protein Purification System
   QUIAGEN, Inc., Chatsworth, Calif.
           FACS analyses are described in Melamed, et al. (1990) Flow Cytometry and
   Sorting Wiley-Liss, Inc., New York, N.Y.; Shapiro (1988) Practical Flow Cytometry Liss,
20 New York, N.Y.; and Robinson, et al. (1993) Handbook of Flow Cytometry Methods Wiley
   Liss, New York, N.Y.
   General Methods in Microbiology
           Standard microbiology techniques known in the art and not specifically described
   were generally followed as in Gerhardt et al. (Eds), Methods for General and Molecular
25 Biology, American Society for Microbiology, Washington D.C. (1994), and in Woodford et
   al. (Eds), Molecular Bacteriology: Protocols and Clinical Applications, Humana Press,
   Totowa, N.J. (1998) and in Demain et al. (Eds), Manual of Industrial Microbiology and
   Biotechnology, American Society for Microbiology, Washington D.C. (1986), and in Brock
   et al., Biology of Microorganisms, 5.sup.th Edition, Prentice Hall, New Jersey (1988).
30 General methods in immunology:
           Standard methods in immunology known in the art and not specifically described
   are generally followed as in Stites et al.(eds), Basic and Clinical Immunology (8th Edition),
   Appleton & Lange, Norwalk, CT (1994) and Mishell and Shiigi (eds), Selected Methods in
   Cellular Immunology, W.H. Freeman and Co., New York (1980).

     WO 2009/155026                                                       PCT/US2009/045408
   Example 1:
   Experimental Methods
   Reagents:
            Polyethylenimine (PEI) 600, 1200, 2,000 (2K), 8,000 (8K), 12,000 (12K), 25,000
 5 (25K), and 60,000 (60K) are purchased from Sigma-Aldrich. Lipids: DOTAP, DOPE,
   POPC and DMPE are purchased from Avanti polar lipids, Inc.
            Enhancer: MG132 protease inhibitor cocktail are purchased from Sigma-Aldrich.
   DMSO, CaCl2, growth factor and Na2HCO are also purchased from Sigma-Aldrich. The
   addition of these enhancers significantly enhanced cell loading of cationized proteins.
10         Other enhancers can be used, including cell membrane surfactants. These
   materials can be purchased from Fisher.
            Protease inhibitor Cocktail is purchased from Sigma (Cat# P1 860).
   Antibodies:
           Goat anti-apoE poly-Ab and mouse anti apoE mono-Ab are purchased from
15 Chemicon international. Anti LRP8 mono-Ab is purchased from Abnova Corporation. Goat
   anti 6X His-tag poly-Ab is purchased from Innovative Research. Anti RAP 7F1 is
   purchased from Innovative Research.
           Anti goat IgG peroxidase conjugated is purchased from Sigma. Anti Rabbit and anti
   Mouse IgG peroxidase conjugated are purchased from Bio-Rad.
20 Cell Lines:
   Hela cell line, GM 001300 cell line, BHK-570 cell line, CHO cell line, Raw cell line, MCF7
   cell line, and HEK-293T cell line.
   Recipes for QQ Series Reaqents:
   Stock Solutions:
25         Stock solutions of the following reagents are prepared as follows:
   Cation reagents: stock solution
       600         1.2K      2K            8K         12K       25K      60K
       50mg/ml 20mg/ml 50mg/ml             20mg/ml    20mg/ml 50mg/ml 50mg/ml
   was dissolved in water and pH adjusted to 3.7-4.5 using HCI
30 Lipids:
       DOTAP         DOPE             POPC               DMPE
       1 mg/ml       1 mg/ml          1 mg/ml           1 mg/ml
                                                   14

      WO 2009/155026                                                                        PCT/US2009/045408
   Enhancers:
                    MG132             CaCl2             Na2 HCO          DMSO
                    1 mM              1M                1M               0. 1M
     QQ Re-#gt        2K         OK     12K      25K    60K"  DOTAP    DOPE    POPC   DMPE    DMSO  MG132    Ca
     001          200         --      -        -       --        p      0 p       --          50 pI 5 p     10 pIl
     Q02          200 AI      --              50 pIl   5p     50 PI 1 5 PI    --     -0          pE 5 pl    10 pI
                                                                                              50
     003           100 pI      100 pI --      100 pI   --     50 pI   50 p   --      --          p  5 pi    10 pl
     004           100      pI50 pl   50 p L 0 pI      -I             50 pIl --      --          p[ 5 plI   10 pI
                   10 0                                               50
     005                 pl    100 pI         100p     --     50 pl       yl   -     -           pI 5 pi    10 pI
                                   I
     Q06           100 pl         P   50    1 50 pI    --      0p     50      -      -        5pI   5 p     10 pl
     007           10    p     100 pl 50 pl   50 pO           50 p    B      --      --       50 pI 5 pl    10 pI
     008           100 pl     M0 pl   50 pI   50 p l                  --         A   50 pI    50 pl 5 pl    10 p'
                                                                                     2
     009                p'        p   50 p    50 P            25 pl          25 pl     5 pi   60 pt 5 I     10 p'
     0010          100 p'     75 p l 50 p     50 p            2       25 pI  25 pi   25 pi    50 p' 5p    l 10 p'
 5
   Table 1: Recipes
   a Total volume is 5 ml, based on 2-8 mg/ml protein concentration.
   b2K  produces the least cellular toxicity whereas 60K produces the most cellular toxicity
10
             For different experiments one can choose different combinations of QQ reagents,
   e.g. to observe protein trafficking and location, QQ1 can be used which have the least cell
   toxicity. QQ1 can be used to incubate protein for few days without causing significant cell
   death. For protein folding and post-translational modification, it requires maximum loading
15 in a short period of time, QQ8-QQ10 may be used, which have a higher cell toxicity.
   However, cells survive with proper functions in a short period of incubation time, such as
   4-8 hours.
             However, protein modified with 60K seems to give the best transfer efficiency.
   Protein modified with 2K alone only give intermediate transfer efficiency.
20 Protein Modifications with QQ reagents.
           Proteins of interest are first dissolved into sodium phosphate buffer (pH7.0, NaCl
   50mM) at concentrations of 0.5-10 mg/ml, depends on protein solubility. Protein solubility
   was found to influence cationization efficiency. To completely dissolve proteins, an
   overnight stir of the protein solution at room temperature is performed (with or without DTT
25 at 3mM for overnight, depending on if the protein of interest has Cysteine residues).
           A lipid DOTAP/DOPE (1:1) emulsion was prepared using a method as the following:
   1 mg of DOTAP/DOPE (0.5mg:0.5mg                   = 1:1) mixture was dissolved in chloroform and dried
   under N2 gas. The dried lipid film was then dissolved in PBS buffer, pH7.0 and the lipid
                                                             15

      WO 2009/155026                                                         PCT/US2009/045408
   solution was sonicated for 3 X 30 seconds using a power of 7-8 on a sonicator from Fisher
   Scientific (Sonic Dismembrator, Model 100) with micro probe. The lipid solution was
   further incubated at 37 OC for 2 hours until the suspension becomes semi-clear. The
   prepared emulsion was store at 4 0C, which is stable for one month.
 5         QQ series reagents (not included lipid emulsion, Ca and DMSO) were mixed in a
   tube, according to the recipe described above. The QQ reagent is then titrated into the
   protein solution very slowly, drop by drop, while stirring and then add the lipid emulsion.
   Once the addition of the QQ reagents is completed, the protein solution is left at room
   temperature for 4 hours before use. During this period, a gently stir is necessary to mix the
10 QQ reagent with protein solution and also to allow the protein modification reaction to
   complete. If precipitation is observed, the protein solution can be centrifuged at 14,000
   rpm for 15 minutes to remove the precipitate. If the precipitate occurs, a BCA protein
   assay will be carried out using the supernatant to check the amount of protein remaining in
   solution. To ensure the efficiency of protein transfer into the cells, the concentration of
15 modified protein has to be high enough at > 0.5 mg/ml.
           If the majority protein is precipitated, another QQ reagent can be used for protein
   modification. The QQ series reagents cover a wide range of cationization reagents along
   with different lipids and enhancers, thus the precipitation problem should be easily solved.
   The above procedure can be repeated to prepare higher concentrations of modified
20 protein solution for protein transfer into the mammalian cells.
           The modified proteins are passed through a desalt column to separate the modified
   protein from remaining free QQ reagents. The purified protein fractions can be
   concentrated using a spin column and are stable and can be stored at 4         0C or -20 0C for
   between a few weeks to a few months.
25         Different QQ reagents can also be used for the best efficiency of protein transfer as
   well as the least cell toxicity.     In addition, different proteins require modification with
   different QQ reagent for best efficiency of protein transfer into cells. The following gives
   several examples:
           For in vivo folding experiments of LBD-apoER2, QQ1 was used for the best
30 efficiency of protein transfer into the cells with minimum cellular toxicity.
           For in vivo glycosylation experiments of MESD, QQ1 was used for the best
   efficiency of protein transfer into the cells with minimum cellular toxicity.
           For in-cell NMR experiment of apoE, QQ10 was used for the best efficiency of
   protein transfer into the cells with a minimum cellular toxicity.
35 Protein Loading into Mammalian Cells.
                                                    16

     WO 2009/155026                                                          PCT/US2009/045408
           The fresh modified protein is mixed with cell culture medium (DMEM) with 2% FBS
   or without, MG132 (3 ng/ml), protease inhibitor cocktail (2 pg/ml), DMSO 30-50ul/ml and
   growth factor (1ng/ml). The newly prepared cell culture medium containing modified
   proteins is kept in a shake rotator for 10 minutes at room temperature to make sure that
 5 the protein is completely dissolved. (For fluorescent imaging experiment, if any
   precipitation observed at this point, the protein can be centrifuged at 13,000 for 5 minutes
   to remove the precipitation). The mammalian cells are then added into this culture
   medium. Before adding the cells into this medium, the cells are seeded for 2-3 days about
   70-80% confluent for monolayer cells for fluorescent imaging or 3-5 day old Hela
10 suspending cells. The FBS concentration used in the experiments do not affect the protein
   delivery.
           For protein folding and glycosylation in living cells, both Hela cells and lymphocytes
   GM001 300 cells were used. Before loading modified proteins, the pre-conditioned cells
   are washed with DMEM medium. The cells are then centrifuged at 1,000 rpm at 25 0C for
15 20 minutes. The spin-packed cells are resuspended in DMEM cell culture medium and
   used to load the modified proteins. For loading 4-6 mg bacterial expressed protein, 2.0 ml
   spin-packed cells were used. The cells are suspended into 2 ml of the DMEM cell culture
   medium containing modified proteins (2 mg/ml) and then incubated at 37 0C for 2-5 hours.
           For in-cell NMR experiments, Hela and lymphocytes GM001300 cells were used.
20 These cells are pre-treated using a medium that contains 10% D2 0 overnight. No cell
   morphology changes were observed after 10% D2 0 treatment, suggesting that cells can
   tolerate 10% D2 0 without any obvious cell toxicity. For loading 8 mg bacterial expressed
   protein, 1-2 ml spin-packed cells were used. The cells are suspended into 2-3 ml of the
   DMEM cell culture medium containing modified proteins (4.0-8.0 mg/ml) and 10% D2 0,
25 and then incubated at 37    0C for 2.5 hours.
           Once cell loading of the modified protein is started, the cells are closely monitored
   using a microscope. Minor cell morphology changes were observed after loading the
   protein. However, these cell morphology changes are reversible. Upon removing the
   loading medium and resuspended cell into DMEM culture medium without modified protein
30 for 5-10 minutes, cells are able to return to their original morphology.             This minor
   morphological change of cells after loading with QQ reagent modified proteins depends on
   the amount of free QQ reagents in the cell culture medium. Initially, a much larger amount
   of cell morphology changes were detected in free QQ reagents that were not purified from
   the modified protein. This is because that a large ratio of QQ reagent over protein was
35 used and, after protein modification, a large amount free QQ reagent remained in the cell
                                                   17

      WO 2009/155026                                                           PCT/US2009/045408
   culture medium and caused cell morphological changes. Once a purification step was
   added to remove free QQ reagents, only a minor cell morphology change was observed.
   However, the purification step is generally only necessary when cellular toxicity becomes
   an issue.
 5         For both in-cell protein folding and glycosylation experiments, a time course study
   was performed and it was found that the modified proteins were nearly completely
   transferred into the cells in 3 hours. This is demonstrated by a western blot, showing that
   no protein remains in the medium after a 2 hour loading (Figure 2). For in-cell NMR
   experiments, the modified protein was loaded for 2-3 hours.
10         After loading the modified protein, the cells are washed with PBS buffer (pH7.4) for
   3 times, 15 ml each time. This is a very important step for all experiments. The cells were
   carefully spun down at 500 rpm for 20 minutes at 25           0C, and add 15 ml PBS buffer to
   wash for 5 minutes with a gentle re-suspension. The cells were again spin down and
   another 15 ml PBS was added to wash for 5 minutes. The third wash is a wash using a
15 low pH PBS buffer (pH5) to remove any cell surface bound proteins. This wash is only for
   1 minute, keeping the cells on ice, and quickly removes the low pH PBS buffer by spin
   down the cells. The cells were then resuspended into DMEM cell culture medium (pH7.4),
   which is ready for further experiments.
   Protein Folding in the Living Cells:
20         The Ligand-Binding Pomain of apoE receptor 2 (LBD-apoER2) is a 294-residue
   protein that contains 42 cysteine residues, forming 21 intra-molecular disulfide bonds. A
   proper folding of this protein is extremely difficult since it can form both intra- and
   intermolecular disulfide bonds. Bacterial expression of this protein can't produce a
   properly folded LBD-apoER2. In the mammalian cells, apoER2 is properly folded in the
25 ER, with the help of folding enzymes and chaperones.                In particular, there are two
   specialized chaperone proteins, RAP and MESD, specifically promoting the correct fold of
   the LDLR superfamily (1-2). RAP (Receptor Associated Protein) is a 323-residue ER
   resident protein that specifically promotes the LBD fold, and escorts the mature, properly
   folded protein trafficking from the ER to the Golgi (3-4). In contrast, MESD (Mesoderm
30 development) is a 195-residue ER-resident protein that contains an ER retention signal in
   its C-terminal domain (5-6). The biological function of MESD is to promote a proper folding
   of the YWTD/EGF domain of the LDLR superfamily (5-7).
           LBD-apoER2 was used as a model protein for this experiment, simply because it is
   very difficult to correctly refold in vitro due to its rich in cysteines. The present invention
35 utilizes the folding machinery of the mammalian cells to help LBD-apoER2 proper folding.
                                                    18

      WO 2009/155026                                                      PCT/US2009/045408
    Based on this, the present invention provides transferring bacterial expressed LBD
   apoER2, which is not folded properly and non-functional in terms of ligand-binding, into
   the mammalian cells. After being transferred into the cells, the misfolded LBD-apoER2
   has an ability of entering cell apparatus, such as ER, and therefore can be properly folded
 5 in the ER, similar to the endogenous apoER2. This is supported by several previous
   publications, indicating that the transferred exogenous proteins are able to reach inside of
   nucleus of the mammalian cells (7-8). The folding machinery in the ER of the mammalian
   cells makes the bacterial expressed protein fold properly.
           LBD-apoER2 is expressed in bacteria as a His-tag fusion protein. Bacterial
10 expression was optimized and is able to produce 300 mg LBD-apoER2 from one-liter cell
   culture. Using SDS-PAGE, it was shown that the bacterial expressed LBD-apoER2 is mis
   folded and form different oligomers due to inter-molecular disulfide bond formation. Using
   a ligand blot (far western), it was demonstrated that the bacterial expressed LBD-apoER2
   is incapable of binding to its ligand, such as RAP and apoE.
15         QQ series reagents were used to modify LBD-apoER2. In this case, QQ1 is used to
   modified LBD-apoER2, following the protocol describe above. After modification, LBD
   apoER2 (1.0 mg/ml) is incubated with Hela cells at 37    0C for 2 hours to allow cells to load
   the modified LBD-apoER2. The cells were gently spun down and a western blot of the
   medium was run using an anti-his-tag antibody to check the loading efficiency. In most
20 cases, the cells loaded most of the modified LBD-apoER2, and western blot of the
   medium either show no band or a very weak band of LBD-apoER2. The cell pellet is
   resuspended into DMEM cell culture medium and incubated for a period that allows the
   mis-folded LBD-apoER2 to fold into its native conformation in living cells.
          The incubation is stopped by spin-down of the cells, which are then washed. The
25 cell pellet is lysed using a sonication method with addition of protease inhibitor. The
   sonication uses a power of 7-8 on a sonicator from Fisher Scientific (Sonic Dismembrator,
   Model 100) with a micro probe. Each sonication lasts 1 minute on ice and is repeated
   three times. There is a 3 minutes interval between sonications to prevent over heating.
   The supernatant fractions are combined. The pellet is dissolved into a buffer that contains
30 1% SDS. Both supernatant and pellet fractions are used for ligand blots (far western blots)
   or pull-down experiments using RAP and apoE as the ligand, to probe the folding and
   function of LBD-apoER2
          Two assays are used to probe the proper folding and functions of the in cell
   refolded LBD-apoER2. One is a ligand-blotting assay and the other is a pull-down assay.
35 The details of these two assays are described in the following:
                                                  19

      WO 2009/155026                                                         PCT/US2009/045408
   Ligand Blot:
           Cell lysate (supernatant or pellet fraction) is loaded onto either a non-reducing
   SDS- PAGE (For RAP) or a native gel (apoE/DMPC). The gel is run in a cold room. The
   protein is then transferred onto a nitrocellulose membrane at 380 mA for 2 hours. After
 5 transfer, the membrane was incubated at room temperature with either RAP (40 pg/ml in
   2% dry milk PBS) for 2 hours or incubated with apoE/POPC complex (50 pg/ml in 2% dry
   milk PBS) for 2 hours. The membrane is then washed three times with 20 ml/each PBS
   for 5 minutes each time, to remove unbound RAP or apoE/POPC.                 The membrane is
   incubated with anti-RAP mAb or anti-apoE poly Ab for 1 hour in 2% dry milk PBS, followed
10 by incubation with HPR-conjugated secondary Ab for 1 hour. Finally, the membrane is
   detected using ECL (Pierce).       Using this assay, a band is observed at the molecular
   weight of LBD-apoER2 (34 kDa) for the complex of ligand/LBD-apoER2.
   Pull-down:
           Cell lysate (supernatant or pellet fraction) is in the binding buffer (2 mM imidazole)
15 for the His-tag beads and loaded onto the beads. Since the LBD-apoER2 contains a his
   tag, this protein binds to the his-tag beads, whereas all other proteins in the cells do not
   bind to the beads and can be washed out with binding buffer. After loading, the beads (
   0.2 ml) is washed with 5 X 5 ml washing buffer, containing 10 mM imidazole, to remove
   the unbound proteins from the His-tag beads. The purified beads are then incubated for 1
20 hour with either RAP or apoE/POPC particles that are prepared previously using the
   cholate dialysis method. This step allows the refolded LBD-apoER2 to bind to either RAP
   or apoE/POPC. The beads are then washed with 5 X 5 ml PBS buffer, pH7.4, to remove
   the unbound ligand. The ligand/LBD-apoER2 complex is eluted out using an elution buffer
   containing 0.2 M immidizole. An aliquot of the eluted ligand/LBD-apoER2 was mixed with
25 2% SDS loading buffer (for SDS-PAGE only) and loaded on a SDS-PAGE or native gel,
   and is subjected to western blots using the anti-ligand antibodies. Using this assay, a band
   should be observed at the ligand molecular weight (SDS-PAGE) or ligand and LBD
   apoER2 complex (Native Gel), if LBD-apoER2 is functional and binds to the ligands. For
   example, in RAP/LBD-apoER2 pull-down experiment should show a band at 73 kDa.
30
           For both ligand blotting and pull-down experiments, several controls are included:
   1.      Hela cell lysate only (without loading the modified protein, to test endogenous
         protein).
   2.      Bacterial expressed LBD-apoER2 that is not properly folded (serve as a negative
35       control).
                                                   20

      WO 2009/155026                                                     PCT/US2009/045408
   3.      ApoE/POPC particles (Serve as a control).
   4.    Cell lysate from unload protein cells as column wash control.
   In a pull-down experiment, all of the control groups were negative.
 5 Protein Post-translational Modifications in Living Cells:
           Another question is whether the transferred exogenous proteins undergo post
   translational modifications inside of the cells. These exogenous proteins may undergo
   post-translational modifications inside the cells if they are able to get into the ER and
   Golgi. Our data indicated that the transferred exogenous protein, LBD-apoER2, is able to
10 get into the ER for its proper folding.
           Protein glycosylation is the important step in studying protein post-translational
   modifications.    First, it must be confirmed whether the transferred exogenous proteins
   undergo glycosylation. Once this is proven, testing on phosphorylation and ubiquitination
   of the transferred exogenous proteins can occur.
15         MESD, a known glyco-protein, have been transferred into the cells. The cells were
   lysised and the proteins were probed using western blots. Higher molecular weight bands
   were observed for MESD than the band of bacterial expressed MESD as controls.           In
   addition, the molecular weight of MESD band increases along with the length of incubation
   of the cells after protein transformation.       For example, a one-hour incubation after
20 transformation resulted in a two bands at molecular weight of 25 and 35 kDa (MESD is a
   25 kDa protein).      A five hour incubation generated an additional band at -45 kDa for
   MESD.      The experiment was repeated several times and the same phenomena were
   always observed.       The increase in molecular weight of MESD is due to glycosylation,
   since deglycosylation enzymes converted the two higher molecular weight bands (35 and
25 45 kDa) into one single band at 25 kDa that is the same as the bacterial expressed
   MESD.
   Experimental details:
           0.5 mg of modified MESD is incubated with Hela or GM001300 cells at 37 C for 1
   5 hours. The cell culture medium (5 ml) contains 5% FBS, 1 ng/ml of MG132 and 2 pg/ml
30 protease inhibitor cocktail. After incubation, cells were washed with 3 X 15 ml PBS. Each
   wash includes adding 15 ml PBS into the cell pellets and re-suspension, following by spin
   down the cells at 500 rpm for 20 minutes at 25 C. The cells are lysed using sonication
   and spun down at 6000 rpm for 5 minutes. The pellet is dissolved using a SDS loading
   buffer (2% SDS) and heat at 80       0C for 15 minutes with DTT. Both the supernatant and
35 pellet fractions are probed with a western blot using a polyclonal antibody against MESD.
                                                  21

      WO 2009/155026                                                        PCT/US2009/045408
   At 1 hour cell loading, the western blots of both supernatant and pellet fractions show
   mainly a band at a molecular weight of 25 kDa, which is identical to the band of bacterial
   expressed MESD, with a minor band at 35 kDa.             However, at 5 hour cell loading, an
   additional band at 45 kDa was observed.
 5         Enzymatic de-glycosylation reaction of the products was carried out using
   neuraminidase and PNGase. Time courses of both enzymatic reactions finally converts
   both the 35 and 45 kDa bands to the 25 kDa band which is identical to the band of the
   bacterial expressed MESD.        Thus, this result confirms that MESD is glycosylated inside
   the cells.    MESD contains an ER retention signal in its C-terminal domain.         Once this
10 protein gets inside the ER, it may stay inside the ER, therefore, is subjected to post
   translational modification, including glycosylation.
   Exogenous MESD follows the same secretion Pathway as endogenous MESD inside
   hela cells
           Since MESD is glycosylated inside Hela cells, it suggests that the transduced
15 MESD travels to the ER and Golgi, the two cell compartments where post-translational
   modifications occur.      To confirm this, an experiment was performed to identify the
   intracellular location of MESD after transduction. First, MESD was labeled with green
   Arraylt and then purified from free green-Arraylt using a desalt column.          Fluorescence
   labeled MESD was then modified with QQ1.           The modified, fluorescence labeled MESD
20 was incubated with Hela cells for 3 hours and then the cells were taken for fluorescence
   imaging using a ApoTom (Zeiss) Ax1 Oplan 2 Imaging system.
           The fluorescence imaging clearly showed that the MESD was primarily located in
   the peri-nuclei areas that are either the ER or the Golgi. This data confirmed that the
   exogenous MESD traveled to the ER and the Golgi where the folding and post
25 translational modification occurred. It seemed that the QQ reagent could target MESD into
   the ER and the Golgi. In addition, the data further suggested that the exogenous MESD
   staved in the ER and the Golgi. To further identify what caused MESD to travel to and
   stay in the ER and the Golgi, a MESD construct, MESD(12-155), was prepared that
   removed the ER retention signal. The data indicated that no glycosylation was observed
30 in this case (Figure 5). Therefore, the data indicated that it was the REDL ER retention
   signal of MESD that directed the exogenous MESD to travel to and stay in the ER and the
   Golgi after transduction inside the cells. Thus, the exogenous MESD follows the same
   secretion pathway as the endogenous MESD.
           It is a very important conclusion, since this conclusion indicates that the exogenous
35 proteins follow the Blobel's "Signal Theory", suggesting that the signal sequences of
                                                   22

      WO 2009/155026                                                       PCT/US2009/045408
   proteins direct the fate of all proteins, regardless their endogenous or exogenous origins,
   once they are inside the cell. This conclusion further indicates that the exogenous proteins
   follow the same secretion pathway as that of endogenous proteins, providing the
   physiological and pathological relevance of the applications of protein transduction
 5 technology.
   Experimental details:
          2 mg MESD in 200 tl PBS buffer, pH 7.4 (10 mg/ml), was dissolved overnight. The
   solution was spun for 10 minutes at 12,000 rpm at room temperature. 70 tl protein
   solution was taken and 0.5 tl of green-Arraylt was added at room temperature.             An
10 incubation was carried out for 6 hrs to overnight in cold room and then purified using a
   desalt spin-column at 10,000 rpm for 2 minutes to remove free dye.             The purified,
   fluorescence labeled protein was modified by QQ1, as described, using 10 tl of QQ1
   stock solution, and incubated overnight without further purification.
          Hela cells were seeded three days before the experiment. Hela cells were
15 incubated with QQ1 modified, fluorescence labeled MESD in DMEM culture medium for 1
   3 hours in 37 C.      The cells were very healthy after the incubation, displaying normal
   morphology. The cells were washed with PBS seven times to remove any MESD in the
   medium. Hela cells were then used for fluorescence imaging using an ApoTom (Zeiss)
   Ax1Oplan 2 Imaging system. The fluorescence imaging experiments were carried out at
20 486 nm with dipping lens in the PBS with anti-fading reagents and protease inhibitor to
   observe live cells. Photos were taken under light and fluorescent overlayers to view the
   cell body and fluorescence labeled MESD.
   High-level production of the properly folded, functional protein using in-cell folding
   technoloav
25        Using an in-cell folding technology, it was demonstrated that mammalian cell
   folding machinery could be used to properly fold LBD-apoER2, which was impossible to
   fold in bacteria (Section VII). The next goal was to purify this properly folded, function
   LBD-apoER2 for structural and functional studies.          This technology can be used to
   produce large quantities of properly folded, functional LBD-apoER2. Since the bacterial
30 expression system produces 300 mg/liter purified LBD-apoER2, the technology can
   produce hundred mg quantity of the properly folded, functional LBD-apoER2. This is a
   major advance in production of functional proteins, which is extremely important for
   pharmaceutical industry, since the technology can produce hundred milligrams of
   therapeutic protein for disease treatment purpose.
                                                  23

      WO 2009/155026                                                          PCT/US2009/045408
           Since a his-tag was introduced in the N-terminal domain of LBD-apoER2, protein
   purification of in-cell folded LBD-apoER2 was carried out used a his-tag binding resin
   column. The results indicated that from 1.5 mg bacterial expressed LBD-apoER2, 0.5
   0.75 mg properly folded, functional LBD-apoER2 can be obtained. This purification was
 5 repeated several times and obtained a similar yield. It was also demonstrated that the
   purified protein is properly folded and biologically functional and is able to bind to both
    RAP and apoE/POPC particles.
   Experimental details:
           The first part (Protein loading and in-cell folding) is essentially the same as above.
10 The only difference is the incubation time after protein loading into the cells. The cells
   were loaded with modified LBD-apoER2 for 3 hours.                After loading, the cells were
   incubated in the DMEM cell culture medium, containing 5% FBS, MG132 (3 ng/ml),
   protease inhibitor cocktail (2 pg/ml), for 2-5 hour before spin-down, to ensure that most
   transferred LBD-apoER2 is correctly folded.
15         After incubation, cells were washed using PBS three times, 15 ml each time. After
   wash, the cells were spun-down gently at 2000 rpm for 5 minutes. The cell pellet (0.5 ml)
   was resuspended in 2 ml cell lysis buffer, which is a PBS buffer, containing 2% Triton-X, 2
   pM PMSF, 2 pg/ml protease inhibitor and 2 ng/ml MG132, pH 7.4. The cell suspension
   was incubated on ice for 30 minutes and sonicated for 30 seconds at a sonication power
20 at 4 using a sonicator from Fisher Scientific (Sonic Dismembrator, Model 100) with micro
   probe. Cell lysate was spun down. The cell pellet was dissolved again using cell lysis
   buffer and sonicated again for 30 seconds. The supernatant fractions were combined and
   loaded on a small his-tag binding column (0.3-0.5 ml). The column was washed using 50
   ml PBS buffer first and then washed again with 25 ml PBS buffer containing 2 mM
25 imidazole. A 20 pl of his-tag beads were taken out and dissolved into 20 p1 of SDS
   loading buffer. This sample was loaded onto a SDS-PAGE to check the protein purity. If
   the protein is not pure, more washing buffer would be used. This purification was carried
   on in the cold room. All buffers, including loading buffer and washing buffer, contain 2 pM
   PMSF and 1 ng/ml MG132. Protein was eluted with 1 ml elution buffer that contains 300
30 mM imidazole, 50 mM phosphate buffer, containing 50 mM NaCl, 2 pM PMSF and 1 ng/ml
   MG132.
           The eluted protein was dialyzed overnight against 150 ml PBS buffer at 4 OC using
   a small dialysis cassette (Maximum volume: 3 ml). The PBS buffer was changed twice
   during dialysis to ensure the removal of imidazole. After dialysis, the properly folded LBD
35 apoER2 was taken out of the dialysis cassette, add MG1 32 at 1 ng/ml and store at -80        0C
                                                  24

      WO 2009/155026                                                          PCT/US2009/045408
   freezer. For long-term storage, the protein sample was freeze-dried into powder.
           The purified LBD-apoER2 was probed for its folding and function. Two functional
   assays: Ligand blot and pull down experiments were performed to probe the function of
   LBD-apoER2.       In addition, both RAP and apoE/POPC were used as the ligand for LBD
 5 apoER2.     Both assays demonstrated that the purified LBD-apoER2 is functional and
   capable to bind to both RAP and apoE/POPC, whereas the bacterial expressed LBD
   apoER2 was not functional.
           In addition to LBD-apoER2, the present invention enables one to prepare properly
   folded YWTD/EGF domain of apoER2. For this purpose, the first YWTD/EGF domain and
10 the first two YWTD/EGF domains of LRP6 were bacterially expressed.                    LRP6 is an
   important cancer suppressor that contains four YWTD/EGF domains before the three LBD
   repeats and transmembrane and cytoplasmic domains. This receptor is coupled with the
   wnt signaling, serving as a co-receptor for wnt, which is critical to many human diseases,
   including cancer and Alzheimer's disease. LRP6 and apoER2 have a complete different
15 modular structure arrangement for the LBD and YWTD/EGF domains. In addition,
   production of the following functional proteins are currently carried out: LCAT, CETP,
   PLTP and several membrane proteins, such as ABC-G1, ABC-G4, and SR-Bl. These
   proteins are important proteins that are involved in reverse cholesterol transport pathway
   and responsible for enhancement of the HDL (Good cholesterol) level in plasma. In
20 addition, mouse PMP22 has also been expressed using E. coli. PMP22 is a membrane
   protein that contains putative four transmembrane domains.                The preliminary data
   indicates that bacterial expression of these proteins produces an incorrect folding, thus
   are not functional.
   In-cell Nuclear Magnetic Resonances (NMR) technique
25         Current     high-resolution   structural    biology    techniques,      including   X-ray
   crystallography and NMR, allow for structural determination of protein, DNA and RNA at
   an atomic resolution.       However, these techniques only determine the structures of
   macromolecules in the test tube. There is no high-resolution structural biology techniques
   permits to solve structures of these macromolecules in the living cells.
30         Several studies, using NMR, investigate protein structures in the living cells,
   primarily focusing on bacterial cells and oocytes (1-4). For NMR studies, a protein has to
   be isotropically labeled with stable isotopes, such as    1N  and  1C.    For large proteins (MW
   > 25 kDa), protein has to be triple-labeled with 2H,       1N   and  13C.   For bacterial cells, a
   protein can be high-level expressed in minimum medium (HN4CI, nitrogen source,
35 glucose: carbon source) and isotope labeling can be readily performed with a low cost
                                                    25

      WO 2009/155026                                                          PCT/US2009/045408
   (using  15
              NH4 CI as nitrogen source, 13C-glucose as carbon source and D20). However, this
   isotope labeling strategy for bacterial expression not only labels the protein of interest, but
   also labels all the other bacterial proteins. Since the protein of interest is high-level
   expressed at > 10-100 folds higher than bacterial proteins, the NMR signals are mainly
 5 come from the protein of interest. Nevertheless, bacterial proteins will give rise to a high
   background signals in the NMR spectra. In contrast, oocytes are large cells and can be
   used to micro-inject a large amount of isotope labeled protein into the cells. Thus NMR
   data of the oocytes can be collected. These studies utilized techniques that can only
   apply to bacterial cells and oocytes. Currently, there is no technique that permits to study
10 protein structure at atomic resolution in the mammalian cells.
           Using the present technique, isotropically labeled proteins can be produced using
   bacteria. The isotropically labeled proteins are modified using QQ reagents and then
   incubated with the living mammalian cells. The modified, isotropically labeled proteins can
   be transferred into these mammalian cells, which allow collection of 1D/2D/3D-NMR data
15 for structural determination purpose.      In order to collect 2D/3D NMR data for structural
   determination of a protein in the living cells, several major problems have to be solved:
   1.      Higher protein concentrations in living cells. NMR technique is not a sensitive
         technique that requires a high sample concentration for detection for 2D/3D NMR
         experiments. With a cold probe of 600 MHz NMR instrument, a sample of 50-200 pM
20       is required for a 1-2 hour experiment for a regular 2D HSQC experiment. In contrast,
         for a 3D NMR experiment, a sample of 300-500 pM is required for a 2-3 day
         experiment.
   2.      Cell survival for at least for 3 days as a cell slurry state in the NMR tube. Since a
         3D-NMR experiment requires 2-3 days data collection time, the cells have to be
25       survival for at least 3-days as a slurry state in the NMR tube.
   3.    Cells have to be trained in a cell culture medium with 5-10% D2 0- Since NMR
        experiment requires 5-10% D2 0 to lock the magnetic field, the cells have to be able to
        survive in a culture medium that contains 5-10% D2 0.
   4.    Subcellular protein locations. To ensure physiological and pathological relevance of
30      in-cell NMR, the transduced protein has to be targeted to the correct cell
        compartments where the biochemical reaction occurs for this protein.
   Experimental details:
           Proteins were modified based on the method described above with QQ9 or QQ10.
   For each in-cell NMR experiment, 4-10 mg of protein was modified freshly each time. If
35 there is any precipitate after protein modification, the modified protein solution was spun
                                                    26

      WO 2009/155026                                                        PCT/US2009/045408
   down and supernatant was used for further experiments.             The QQ reagent modified
   protein was purified from free QQ reagents using a desalt spin column. The purified
   protein was concentrated to have a high concentration that ensure > 1-2 mg/ml after
   mixing with the cell loading medium that contains: 0.5 % FBS, 10% D20, MG132 1 pM and
 5 protease inhibitor 2 pM.
           The cells (Hela or GM001300) were pre-incubated with 10% D20 in the DMEM cell
   culture medium with 10% FBS for 24 hours.           The cells were then mixed with the cell
   loading medium. After mixing with the loading medium, the cells were closely monitored
   every ten minutes using a microscope. Several different QQ reagents were tested and it
10 was found that different QQ reagents produced different cell toxicity. The general strategy
   is to choose a QQ reagent that gives a good cell loading efficiency of the modified protein
   while produces the least cell toxicity. This is because the cell preferably survives for more
   than three days in the NMR tube for NMR data collection. QQ6-QQ1 0 reagents generally
   serve for this purpose.
15         Protein was loaded into cells for about 2-3 hours at 37    0C, on a rotator depending
   on cell morphology changes. If there was no or a minimum cell morphology change, cells
   could be loaded for a longer time, such as 2-4 hours, so that more protein could get into
   the cells. In contrast, if there was a significant cellular morphology change or cells started
   to lysis, the loading was stopped. Cells were scraped from flasks and cell number in the
20 suspension was adjusted into 1 X 109 /ml. Total volume of cell suspension used in NMR
   experiment was 0.5-1.0 ml (packed volume). A time course of protein uptake was tested
   for each individual protein, to identify the best loading time with minimum cell toxicity and
   maximum protein loading. After incubation, cells were centrifuge gently at 500 rpm for 20
   minutes and washed with 4 X 5 ml of DMEM.              Each wash followed by gentle spin to
25 remove the wash medium. After washing, the cells were resuspended into 1 ml of NMR
   sample buffer.
           NMR sample buffer contains (1 ml): PBS 0.65 ml, DMEM 0.2 ml, 0.1 ml D2 0, 0.05
   ml of 4% BSA, MG132 3 pl, protease inhibitor 2 pl, antibiotics mixture 10 pl and cell
   culture vitamin 100 X solution 10 pl. This step is critical for good NMR experiments, which
30 should be very careful to make cell slurry as homogenous as possible to avoid any
   macroscopic clumps of cells. Any macroscopic clumps have to be removed before the
   NMR experiments. The cells were carefully transferred into a 5 mm NMR tube and let the
   cells settled for 10-30 minutes.
           After NMR experiments, the cells were taken out from the NMR tube and the tube
35 was washed with 2 X 3 ml NMR sample buffer. The cells were then used for several
                                                   27

      WO 2009/155026                                                        PCT/US2009/045408
   assays to test cell viability after NMR experiments.       The results indicated the following
   results:
            Cell viability was evaluated by MTT assay and trypan blue stain assay. For human
   apolipoprotein A-1 loaded into Hela cells, MTT assay showed 70% cell viability for NMR
 5 sample after 24 hour NMR experiment at 30         0C, as compared with the control that is the
   cells in the culture dish. The trypan blue stain assay indicated that > 90% of cells were
   alive.   For human apolipoprotein E loaded into Hela cells, the trypan blue stain assay
   indicated that > 75% of cells were alive after 3-day NMR experiments at 30 C.
           All NMR experiments were collected using a Varian 600 MHz NMR spectrometer
10 with a cold probe. Primarily, 'H-15 N HSQC experiments of several different proteins were
   collected, including human apolipoprotein Al (243-residues), human apolipoprotein E
   (299-residues) and mouse MESD (195-residues). These proteins are large proteins and
   triple-labeled protein samples were used.
           Throughout this application, author and year, and patents, by number, reference
15 various publications, including United States patents. Full citations for the publications are
   listed below.     The disclosures of these publications and patents in their entireties are
   hereby incorporated by reference into this application in order to more fully describe the
   state of the art to which this invention pertains.
           The invention has been described in an illustrative manner, and it is to be
20 understood that the terminology that has been used is intended to be in the nature of
   words of description rather than of limitation.
           Obviously, many modifications and variations of the present invention are possible
   in light of the above teachings. It is, therefore, to be understood that within the scope of
   the described invention, the invention may be practiced otherwise than as specifically
25 described.
                                                   28

      WO 2009/155026                                                      PCT/US2009/045408
                                                CLAIMS
   What is claimed is:
   1.    A method of protein transduction into mammalian cells, the method comprising the
 5        steps of:
                  modifying a protein with a reagent that enables the protein to be efficiently
                  delivered into mammalian cells; and
                  delivering the protein into mammalian cells.
10 2.    The method according to claim 1, further including the step of expressing the
          protein in bacteria prior to said modifying step.
   3.    The method according to claim 2, further including the step of in vivo labeling the
          proteins with the NMR-active isotopes during bacterial expression.
15
   4.    The method according to claim 1, further including the step of in vitro labeling the
          protein with small molecule fluorescence probes prior to modifying the protein.
   5.    The method according to claim 3, further including monitoring protein activity.
20
   6.    A composition for treating proteins, said composition comprising:
                  cation reagents;
                  lipids; and
                  enhancers in a carrier.
25
   7.    The     composition according        to claim   6, wherein   said cation  reagent    is
          polyethylenimine.
   8.    The composition according to claim 6, wherein said lipid is selected from the group
30       consisting essentially of DOTAP, DOPE, POPC, and DMPE.
   9.    The composition according to claim 6, wherein said enhancer is an enhancer that
          significantly enhances cell loading of cationized proteins.
                                                   29

     WO 2009/155026                                                         PCT/US2009/045408
   10.  The composition according to claim 9, wherein said enhancer selected from the
        group consisting essentially of DMSO, MG132, CaCl2 and growth factor.
   11.  The composition according to claim 6, further including at least one selected from
 5      the group consisting essentially of cell membrane surfactants, stabilizers, and other
         inert carriers.
   12.  The use of a composition according to claim 6 for enabling in-cell NMR
         spectroscopy using living mammalian cells.
10
   13.  The use of a composition according to claim 6 for enabling in-cell fluorescence
         spectroscopy and imaging using small fluorophores and living mammalian cells.
   14.  A method of specifically delivery of exogenous protein into a target sub-cellular
15      compartment.
   15.  A method of treating a protein to enable proper in cell folding by exposing the
         protein to the composition of claim 6 for enabling utilization of cell folding machinery
         of the mammalian cells.
20
   16.  A method of treating a protein to enable proper in cell post-translational
         modification by exposing the protein to the composition of claim 6 for enabling the
         utilization of cell post-translational modification machinery within mammalian cells.
25 17.  A method of analyzing secretion pathways of exogenous proteins after being
        transduced into mammalian cells using fluorescence imaging by:
                  exposing the protein to the composition of claim 6.
                  delivering the protein into mammalian cells; and
                  analyzing the secretion pathway of the protein using the method of claim 13.
30
   18.  The use of a composition according to claim 6 for producing large quantities of
         properly folded protein.
   19.  The use of the composition according to claim 6 for producing large quantities of
35       properly post-translationally modified proteins.
                                                  30

     WO 2009/155026                                                    PCT/US2009/045408
   20.  The use of the method according to claim 1 for studying cellular structural biology.
   21.  The use of the composition according to claim 6 for creating proteins for use in
 5       protein therapy.
   22.  The use according to claim 20, wherein said therapy includes delivering biologically
         active materials into target cellular compartment.
10 23.  The use according to claim 21, wherein said therapy includes delivering biologically
         active material selected from the group consisting essentially of proteins, siRNA
         and genes.
                                                  31

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
