RESIDUAL-BASED MONITORING OF HUMAN HEALTH
ABSTRACT
         Improved human health monitoring is provided in the context of sensor measurements of
typical vital signs and other biological parameters, by a system and method using an empirical
model of the parameters and disposed to estimate values of the parameters in response to
actual measurements. Residuals resulting from the difference between the estimates and actual
measurements are analyzed for robust indications of incipient health issues. Residual analysis
is both more robust and more sensitive than conventional univariate range checking on vital
signs.

                                                   1
RESIDUAL-BASED MONITORING OF HUMAN HEALTH
CROSS REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS
[0001] The present application is a divisional application of Australian Patent Application No.
<removed-apn>, filed on February 10, 2016. Australian Patent Application No. <removed-apn> is a
divisional application of Australian Patent Application No. 2013206607, filed on June 28, 2013,
which is in turn a divisional application of Australian Patent Application No. 2006325153, filed
on November 29, 2006. Australian Patent Application No. 2006325153 was a national phase
entry of International Patent Application No. PCT/US2006/045656. International Patent
Application No. PCT/US2006/045656 claimed the benefit of priority of U.S. Provisional
Application No. 60/740,423, filed November 29, 2005. The contents of Australian Patent
Application No. 2013206607 and Australian Patent Application No. <removed-apn> are hereby
incorporated by reference herein in their entirety.
BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
1. Field of the Invention
[0002] The present invention relates generally to the field of human health monitoring, and
more particularly to the use of multivariate models for analysis of measurements of biological
parameters to provide residual-based assessment of human health indicators.
2. Brief Description of the Related Art
[0003] Detection and diagnosis of disease conditions in humans are critically important to
maintaining health of individuals and aiding the recuperation of patients. While early and
aggressive detection are highly desirable, this must be balanced with the health care delivery
costs of false alerts and misdiagnoses. Accurate and actionable detection of unfolding health
issues, whether in a time-critical setting such as an intensive care unit (ICU) or in longer-term
health monitoring such as home monitoring or chronically ill people or performance monitoring
of athletes for example, is a problem that has been the focus of much medical attention. Current
demographic trends indicate that as people live longer, they have an increasing number of
chronic health issues to deal with. In addition, some diseases that previously had high mortality
are becoming manageable long-term chronic conditions.

[0004]       According to conventional medical practice, human health monitoring in a
critical care environment is typically practiced by means of a variety of real-time
sensor measurements such as electrocardiogram (ECG), pulse oximetry, respiration
and blood pressure, as well as laboratory tests of the blood, urine, and other bodily
fluids. Longer term monitoring may include these variables, as well as weight
measurement, medication dosing measurements and other qualitative assessments
of condition. These measurements are typically compared in a univariate manner to
prescribed normal ranges known for the (healthy) population generally, and
indications of disease or developing conditions of poor health are diagnosed from
these measurements vis-A-vis the standard ranges. Combined with qualitative
observation by medically trained personnel, this forms the baseline practice in
medicine in the monitoring of patients and healthy individuals for purposes of
detecting ill health conditions and disease, and is a staff-intensive approach to the
delivery of healthcare.
[0005]       It has long been a goal of medical care to provide automated reliable
monitoring of patients using sensors and computer technology. More recently, with
the improved availability of digital instrumentation, and research into computer
systems that embody the expertise of medical personnel, systems have been made
available that provide for rules-based monitoring of patients based on vital signs and
laboratory test results. Such systems are used in hospital settings to provide an
auxiliary support system for monitoring patients in, e.g., an ICU. An expert rules
execution engine can be programmed to combine threshold detection triggers across
 a variety of signals to diagnose or rule out a condition that requires human medical
staff intervention.
 [0006]      These systems have met with limited success. The expert rules are
 difficult to design in a way that can be effectively generalized across the human
population, and across the variety of states the patients present with. What may be
 accurate for a young trauma patient in recovery may be subject to false alerts and
 detection inaccuracies when applied to an elderly cardiology patient.
                                             -2-

[00071       In another approach of the prior art, artificial intelligence techniques
arguably more akin to the data fusion capabilities of the human expert, such as
neural networks, have been applied to data from human patient monitoring in an
attempt to provide better automated monitoring and diagnostics. A neural network
is trained from a set of examples to learn certain associations and patterns. For
example, a set of patient data associated with a disease state and another set of
patient data associated with a healthy state are used to train the neural network to
                                                                                              a
recognize the disease state and diagnose it. Typically, it has been known to input
set of patient data to a trained neural network and obtain a classification as output,
either as a determination of health versus illness, or as a diagnosis of a particular
 condition. An alternative approach also known in the art is to input a set of patient
 data to a neural network and obtain a scalar rating value as output, e.g., degree of
 illness or progression of disease. However, the manner in which the neural network
                                                                       data is obscured to an
 output was generated based on the input data and the training
                                                                                        it is
 observer because of the nonlinear nature of neural computing. Furthermore,
                                                                                  well
 difficult to design such a "black box" approach in a way that generalizes
                                                               have met with wide
 beyond the training data. As a result, these approaches
  variation in success, which ultimately undermines their reliability.
                                                                       the dynamic nature
  100081      A major problem for all these prior art approaches is
                                                                          a complex internal
  of biological systems. Humans represent a biological system with
  control and feedback system responsive to conditions and demands on the body for
  regulating critical aspects of health such as blood pressure, blood chemistry,
                                                               made to monitor health are
  oxygenation and the like. The measurements typically
                                                             age, weight, nutrition and
  subject to wide variation depending on activity state,
                                                                               levels to
  disease state. As a consequence, it is difficult to assign proper trigger
  thresholds for monitored variables and so these tend to be set on a demographic
                                                                          problems. For
  basis at levels that can only indicate critical and immediate health
   example, pulse rate monitoring may be set such that only extremely high or
   extremely low (or zero) pulse rates trigger an alarm. Even in more advanced prior
                                                                            rules, it remains
   art solutions combining variables and thresholds into multivariate
                                               -3-

extremely difficult to design rules that provide actionable lead time notice of a
genuine developing problem while maintaining a low false alert rate. Similarly,
neural networks for classification have been confounded with regard to generalizing
because of the variation in the raw data. Needless to say, conventional
statistical/demographic approaches in medicine cannot tolerate dynamic variation
in the data, and either the data is acquired at extremely exacting conditions (e.g., the
proper standardized conditions for a blood pressure test), or the variation is simply
ignored, with concomitant loss in accuracy.
 [0009]     In the context of providing computer automated assistance in medical
health monitoring, there is a significant need for improved approaches to processing
and analyzing sensor and labs data from monitored humans, to provide accurate,
actionable and early detection and diagnosis of incipient health problems. More
particularly, what is needed is a system for leveraging existing sensor measurements
to provide better computer automated vigilance of human health problems and to
 accurately prioritize which patients require the attention of human medical
 expertise. Improved automated monitoring would provide tremendous benefit in
 leveraging limited expert medical staff and improving overall healthcare delivery
 quality and efficiency.
                            SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
  [0010]     The present invention provides a novel method and apparatus for
                                                                              care unit
 computer automated monitoring of human health, such as in an intensive
 or in long-term health monitoring. Accordingly, sensor data representing
 measurements of human vital signs and other biological parameters or bodily
  chemistry are monitored in the present invention to provide early warning of
                                                                            into what
  incipient health problems, to provide insight to the medical practitioner
                                                                   prioritization for the
  parameters are deviating from normal behavior, and to provide
                                                                                 and
  attention of the medical practitioner. Advantageously, the invention detects
  aids in diagnosis of health problems with greater sensitivity and low false alert rate,
                                            -4-

and increases the patient monitoring load that a given level of medical staff can
handle. The invention also greatly facilitates long term and remote human health
monitoring by providing earlier and more accurate automated problem detection
and diagnosis.
[0011]      In contrast to conventional methods, which apply thresholds or rules to
single parameters (e.g., range of healthy blood pressure), in the present invention,
multiple biological parameters are measured and analyzed using a model of normal
multivariate variation. More particularly, a series of observations of multiple
biological parameters is input to an empirical model of normal behavior for those
parameters, which outputs an estimate of what the parameters should be. The
estimates are compared to the actual measured values to provide differences, or
residuals, for each parameter. Instead of applying thresholds, rules or statistics to
raw measured values as is done conventionally, health problems are revealed by
analyzing the residuals provided by the model. Thresholds, rules, and statistics can
be applied to the residuals to determine whether an incipient disease condition or
health problem exists, allowing earlier detection and treatment. By performing
analysis on the residual data instead of the raw data, the present invention
importantly accommodates normal biological variation in the measured parameters,
thus providing more sensitive detection of genuine deviations, at a lower false alert
rate.
 10012]      The empirical model of the present invention is generated using data
 representative of normal variation of biological parameters in healthy humans.
 More particularly, kernel-based techniques can be used to provide models of normal
 dynamic behavior based on multivariate examples from healthy humans. The model
                                                                              of actual
 generates estimates of values for biological parameters responsive to input
 measurements of those biological parameters, representative of the normal state
 closest to the state of the actual measurements. Comparison of the actual
 measurements to the estimates yields residuals that ideally should be around zero.
                                            -5-

If the residuals become larger than usual, either in variance or bias (drift), this is
indicative of an incipient problem with the parameter corresponding to that residual.
[0013]      Further according to the invention, patterns and trends of residual
deviations can be associated with particular known developing health problems for
purposes of diagnostics. Thresholds can be applied to residuals to trigger alerts.
Rules can be used to combine residual deviation information into an integrated
picture of what underlying disease mechanism is at work, or to rule out certain
suspected conditions. Statistics can be applied to time series of residuals to identify
trends.
[0014]      According to an embodiment of the invention, a health monitoring center
receives biological parameter data from instruments on patients being monitored for
health status. The center may be located in a ward of a hospital, or it may be located
offsite and networked to a number if disparately located hospitals or clinics. The set
of parameter measurements from each patient is input to one or more empirical
models that have been trained to learn normal variation for those biological
parameters. Each model generates estimates that are compared to the actual
measurements to generate residuals for each given patient. The residuals are
available for inspection to medical personnel staffing the center; however automated
tests and analyses are carried out in the computer system on the residuals to map the
residuals to alerts and diagnoses, which are presented to medical staff. Medical staff
utilizes the results of the analyses and alerts to prioritize their manual investigations
 of patient condition, and to order treatment of any disease conditions identified by
the alerts and diagnoses. Medical staff can confirm or dismiss alerts, or cause the
 empirical models to adapt to and incorporate certain designated actual
 measurements into the model.
 [0015]     In another embodiment, a person to be monitored in their home living
 environment is provided with instruments for making either sporadic or real-time
 measurements of biological parameters, and for transmitting such data to a remote
 computing center. Data are first used to generate a personalized model of the person
                                            -6-

(a generic model is also contemplated in the alternative), and after a certain time, the
model is used to analyze subsequently sent data. Monitored data results in residuals
and corresponding alerts and diagnostics. Monitored data and analysis results are
made available over a website to the person's doctor, who can review it and contact
the person for more information, to ask the person to come for an examination, or to
modify treatment regimens.
[00161     In another embodiment, a person engaged generically in a "mission"
whose health status is relevant to the mission is instrumented with sensors for
measuring biological parameters, and is outfitted with a computing device for
analyzing such data according to the invention. Further, the person has a
communication device coupled to the computing device for transmitting health
status indications resulting from the model-based and residual-based analysis, to a
remote location. Mission management uses the health status information for mission
decisions.
 [0017]    A variety of biological parameters are amenable to modeling and analysis
according to the invention. Typical biological parameters such as ECG, respiration
parameters, blood oxygenation and pulse oximetry data, blood pressure, and the
like, can be used. Additionally, features derived from these measurements, e.g.,
heart rate variation, can also provide inputs to the modeling in the present invention.
                         BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
 100181    The novel features believed characteristic of the invention are set forth in
the appended claims. The invention itself, however, as well as the preferred mode of
use, further objectives and advantages thereof, is best understood by reference to the
 following detailed description of the embodiments in conjunction with the
 accompanying drawings, wherein:
 [0019]     FIG. 1 shows a general arrangement according to one embodiment for
 carrying out the present invention;
                                           -7-

[0020]      FIG. 2 shows a flowchart for localization of the model according to one
embodiment of the invention; and
[0021]      FIG. 3 shows a chart having a signal, its estimate and a residual signal, as
generated according to the present invention.
                      DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE PREFERRED
                                    EMBODIMENTS
[0022]      The present invention generally provides for the automated monitoring of
human health status and detection of conditions indicative of deteriorating health or
of illness, by means of model-based analysis of multiple biological parameters.
Accordingly, a model is provided that models normal dynamic variation and
interrelationships between the parameters, and generates estimates of those
parameters responsive to receiving a set of actual measurements. By way of
example, a model may comprise the heart rate, heart rate variability, respiration rate,
oximetry, blood pressure, temperature and the like. Measurements of those
parameters are input to a model, which generates estimates for those same
parameters, representing what those parameters should be, given the integrated
picture of the actual measurements. The estimates are differenced with each actual
measurement to provide residuals for each parameter. Under normal circumstances,
the residuals should be around zero (even if the raw data are dynamically varying
over time); if a health problem is developing, the residuals for one or more impacted
parameters are likely to become biased or have increasing variance. Computer logic
rules - from simple thresholds to complex expert rules - can be applied to the
residuals to determine persistence/confidence regarding a deviation indicative of a
health problem. Alerts can be generated there from and provided to medical
personnel responsible for monitoring the person from whom the data was measured.
Alerts can comprise simple notifications of a deviation, or can comprise a diagnosis
 of a condition requiring intervention. Logic rules can also be used to generate an

assessment of disease progression, i.e., a continuous severity rating for a disease
condition in a monitored person.
[0023]      Advantageously, these alerts, diagnoses and assessments based on the
residual-based approach of the present invention are more accurate, more sensitive
and more reliable than the application of thresholds, rules and other techniques of
the prior art to raw data. By providing a model that is capable of making estimates
over a range of normal variation of a biological system such as a human, it is
possible to remove normal variation and identify a deviation (residuals) at a level
considerably smaller than the overall range of normal variation for each
instrumented or derived-feature parameter, which would otherwise be lost in the
large-scale normal variation.
 [0024]     The model or models used for monitoring human health according to the
invention are models of known conditions, and more particularly models of normal
conditions of a human (although it may be desirable to model a known condition
which is not fully healthy, but known to be stable given the condition of the patient,
 e.g., post-operative stable). A model for use in the invention is disposed to output
 an estimate of certain biological parameters based on an input of certain biological
 parameters. In one embodiment, the estimated parameters correspond to the input
                                                                             the model
 parameters and the model is "autoassociative". In another embodiment,
 makes estimates for one or more parameters that are not provided as input to the
 model, in which case the model is "inferential". The parameters estimated from an
 inferential model are still compared to actual measurements made of those
                                                                              the model.
 parameters; only the actual measurements aren't included in the input to
                                                                                     the
  [0025]     A suitable model for the present invention is an empirical model, since
 exact relationships between parameters are often too poorly understood in the
 human biological system to be the basis for a first-principles model. Further, a
  suitable empirical model can be a kernel-based model, wherein a mathematical
                                                                                      on
 kernel is used to generate estimates of the biological parameters in question based
  the input observation and exemplar observations stored in memory. The exemplar
                                            -9-

observations form a library for kernel-based methods, which embodies the normal
combinations of values that are seen in a healthy or stable state person; the kernel
operation itself relates these exemplar observations to the input observation and
produces an estimate of what would be normal, given the input values. In this way,
empirical data (i.e., the exemplar observations) is used to generate an accurate
estimation model for parameters for which the interrelationships are not explicitly
known.
[00261      The invention can be embodied in a computer program executed on one or
more computers. In one embodiment, a standalone computer runs a program
dedicated to monitoring one person, e.g., on a home computer, and is disposed to
receive sensor data from instrumentation either attached on and/or implanted in the
person via a communication protocol (e.g., Bluetooth, WLAN), or from measurement
station(s) which the person utilizes periodically; and is further disposed to process
the data with the model-based, residual-based approach of the present invention and
present the data to the person locally and/or upload it to a remote reporting station,
e.g., email to or web page available for a doctor, or the like. In another embodiment,
hospital ICU equipment is connected to a data station in the ward, which forwards
 that data for multiple patients to a processing center with one or more computers
 running programs to analyze the data according to the invention; whereupon the
 resulting processed data, alerts and diagnoses, etc., are relayed to display screens at
 the hospital and/or at remote monitoring centers for observation by medical staff.
 In yet another embodiment, a person with sensor instrumentation attached to or
 implanted in the body, also carries a small computing platform, such as a personal
                                                                                  the
 digital assistance (PDA), which receives the data and processes if locally with
 model-based, residual-based approach of the invention to produce results that can
 be reported locally and/or transmitted to a remote location for viewing by medical
 staff.
  [0027]     Turning to FIG. 1, a block diagram shows in overview an embodiment of
                                                                                     or
 the present invention for monitoring persons with biological parameters sensors
                                            -10-

 "feature" data streams derived from sensor data. A source of biological signals, 105,
 provides readings of multiple biological parameters to a model module 114, and
 optionally a feature extraction module 110. The feature extraction module 110 may
 provide, for example, heart rate data based on a data feed of an ECG signal from
 input source 105. Other features are described herein below that may be computed
 by the feature extraction module 110.
 [0028]      The model 114 generates estimates of certain biological parameters that
 are desirably monitored. In an autoassociative embodiment, the estimates generated
 correspond to the inputs from input source 105 (and/or the features generated there
from by feature extraction module 110). In an inferential embodiment, the model
 114 may generate one or more values that correspond to biological parameters not
present in the input, but related to the input in some way previously learned by the
model. Subsequently, the estimates from model 114 are made available to a
comparison module 120 that generates residuals from the difference of the estimates
to the actual values measured, which are provided from input source 105.
 100291     The resulting residuals are provided to an analysis module 127 which
performs any of a variety of tests on the residuals to determine health-pertinent
diagnoses, alerts, severities and the like. This analysis module may execute a rules
engine for assessing rules logic using one-or more residual values. The rules can be
of any of a variety of commonly used rules, from simple univariate threshold
measures, to multivariate and/or time series logic. Furthermore, the output of some
rules may be the input to other rules, as for example when a simple threshold rule
feeds into a windowed alert counting rule (e.g., x threshold alerts in y observations).
Furthermore, statistical techniques may be used on the residual data to derive other
measures and signals, which themselves can be input to the rules. Applicable
statistical analyses can be selected from a wide variety of techniques known in the
art, including but not limited to moving window statistics (means, medians,
standard deviations, maximum, minimum, skewness, kurtosis, etc.), statistical
hypothesis tests, trending and statistical process control (CUSUM, S-chart, etc.).
                                           -11-

[0030]     The residual analysis module 127 provides as output the results of the
application of logic rules and statistical tests, which include alerts, diagnostic
conclusions and severity ratings. These are provided to an output module 130,
which may include means for displaying these results (e.g., computer screens, PDA
screens, print outs, or web server), means for storing the results (e.g., a database with
                                                                                         a
query capability, flat file, XML file), and a means for communicating the results to
remote location or to other computer programs (e.g., software interface, XMIL
datagram, email data packet, asynchronous message, synchronous message, FTP file,
service, piped command and the like).
10031]      An alert management module 135 may also be provided that allows
medical staff to annotate and augment the results from the residual analysis module
127, to prioritize results, dismiss or put on hold certain alerts or diagnoses, and
otherwise register with the system the responses taken to the results. In addition,
there may be data from input source 105 which was analyzed by the model 114,
residual generator 120 and residual analysis module 127 as anomalous which
                                                                                   model
 medical staff may deem normal, and which needs to be incorporated into the
                                                                                    of the
 114. Alert management module 135 therefore may also provide identification
 data segment to an optional adaptation module 140 that is tasked with incorporating
 that data into the learning of model 114. In addition, adaptation module 140 may
 optionally perform its own automated tests on the data and/or residual analysis
 results to update the model 114.
                                                                      normal or baseline
 100321     As previously mentioned, a multivariate model of the
                                                               model created from
 dynamics according to the invention may be an empirical
                                                                                     is an
 reference data. A preferred form of the model for use in the present invention
                                                                                The
 autoassociative or inferential form of the general kernel-based estimator.
  autoassociative form is generally:
                                 L
                          Xest                     ))                        (1iK(x.,
                                i=1
                                              -12-

where the autoassociative estimate vector Xest of biological parameters is generated
from the linear combination of Ci and results from a kernel function K, which
compares the input vector Xnew of biological parameter measurements (or features),
to L learned patterns or exemplars of such measurements, Xi. To provide a
multivariate estimate vector Xest, the Ci are vectors, and can be determined
according to a number of different methods that gives rise to variations on kernel
based estimators, and may be functions in part of the input Xnew and/or the
exemplars Xi. The learned patterns come from the class of "data behavior" on which
the model is trained, e.g., normal or healthy humans, or post-operative stable
condition. As will be described in further detail herein below, the exemplars may be
particularly chosen to represent normal conditions for a specific human type based
 on age, gender, weight, condition, etc., or a combination thereof, such that for
purposes of monitoring, say, an elderly female patient, the model may be a model of
normal biological parameters for an elderly female based on the exemplars obtained
 from that population, by way of example.
 [0033]          The inferential form of the general kernel-based estimator is:
                                  L
                          ye =       iK(x.,Wxi)                           (2)
 where a vector Y of biological parameter values is estimated from the kernel-based
 comparison of the input vector of other biological parameters Xnew to the L learned
 exemplars of those parameters, Xi. Each learned exemplar Xi is associated with
 another exemplar vector Yi of the parameters to be estimated, which are combined in.
  a weighted fashion according to the kernel K and vectors Ci (which are functions at
  least in part of the Yi) to predict output Y.
  100341     What is common to the kernel-based estimators is the kernel function, and
  the generation of a result from a linear combination of exemplars, based on the
  kernel results and the vectors Ci that embodies the exemplars. Kernel function K is a
                                                                                its
  generalized inner product, but preferably has the further characteristic that
  absolute value is maximum when Xnew and Xi are identical.
                                              -13-

[0035]      According to one embodiment of the invention, a kernel-based estimator
that can be used to provide the model is Kernel Regression, exemplified by the
Nadaraya-Watson kernel regression form:
                     L
                          yO"'K(x.,x)
                        YOi~(       x')
                    i=1
            Yest        L                   (Inferential form)              (3)
                       > K(x.,  P    )fr
                  L
                      Xi K(xnw ,Xi)
          Xest ="   L      (             (Autoassociative form)             (4)
                      YK (x,   Xi)
.In the inferential form, a multivariate estimate of inferred biological parameters Yest
                                                                        vector of
 is generated from the results of the kernel K operator on the input
                                                                  Xi, linearly combined
 parameter measurements Xnew and the L learned exemplars
 according to respective learned vectors Yi, which are each associated with each Xi,
                                                                                  learned
 and normalized by the sum of kernel results. The Yi represent the L sets of
 measurements for the parameters in Y, which were associated with (i.e., measured
 contemporaneously with) the learned measurements of parameters in X. By way of
                                                                    readings, while Y
  example, X may comprise a plurality of arterial blood pressure
  may represent a corresponding plurality of peripheral blood pressure readings.
  10036]    In the autoassociative form of the kernel regression, a multivariate
  estimate of biological parameters Xest is generated by a normalized linear
  combination of the learned measurements of those parameters Xi, multiplied by the
                                                                               observations
  kernel operation results for the input vector Xnew vis-a-vis the learned
  Xi.
                                                                         be seen that the
  [0037]     In kernel regression for purposes of the invention, it can
                                                                                normalized
  Ci from equations 1 and 2 above are composed of the learned exemplars
                                              -14-

by the sum of the kernel comparison values. The estimate vectors, Yest or Xest,
comprise a set of estimated parameters that are, according to the invention,
differenced with actual measured values (Xnew, or Ynew, which is not input to the
model in the inferential case) to provide residuals.
[0038]     In another embodiment, a similarity-based model (SBM) can be used as
the model according to the present invention. Whereas the Nadaraya-Watson
kernel regression provides estimates that are smoothed estimates given a set of
(possibly noisy) learned exemplars, SBM provides interpolated estimates that fit the
learned exemplars when they also happen to be the input as well, i.e., if the input
vector is identical to one of the learned exemplars. This can be advantageous in
detecting deviations in biological parameters, since noise in these signals will be
overfit to a certain extent (if noise was similarly present on the exemplars from
which the model was made), thus removing the noise somewhat from the residuals
as compared to the kernel regression approach. SBM can be understood as a form of
kernel-based estimator by rewriting the kernel function K as the operator 0, and
 equating the set of learned exemplars Xi as a matrix D with the elements of Xi
 forming the rows, and the Xi observations forming its columns. Then:
                      K(x,      x,,.) = (D     x    )                    (5)
 where D has been transposed, which results in a column vector of kernel values, one
 for each observation Xi in D. Similarly, the comparison of all exemplars with each
 other can be represented as:
                        K i1 (x, xj) =(DT @D)                             (6)
 Then, the autoassociative form of SBM generates an estimate vector according to:
                    xe = D -(DT 0D)~' -(D T ®x&)                          (7)
                                             -15-

where X(est) is the estimate vector, X(in) is the input observation (shown above as
Xnew), and D is a learned vector matrix comprising the set (or subset) of the learned
exemplary observations of the biological parameters. The similarity operation or
kernel is signified by the symbol @, and has the general property of rendering a
similarity score for the comparison of any two vectors from each of the operands.
Thus the first term (Dt 0 D) would yield a square matrix of values of size equal to
the number of observations in D as shown in equation 6. The term (Dt 0 xin) would
yield a vector of similarity values, one for each vector in D as shown in equation 5.
This similarity operator is discussed in greater detail below.
 [0039]        The estimate can further be improved by making it independent of the
origin of the data, according to the following equation, where the estimate is
normalized by dividing by the sum of the "weights" created from the similarity
 operator:
                           D.(D       D)-' .(DT @x)
                       =
                     Xes     (D T     D)' .(D @x,))(8
 In the inferential form of similarity-based modeling, the inferred parameters vector
 Yest is estimated from the learned observations and the input according to:
                  y1 =M  D,   -(D ,, 0 Di,   - (DT @g X,,)       .(9)
 wherein the matrix of learned exemplars D can be understood as:
                D=       I  Y2    Y3            ][         ]             (10)
                                                                          1D
                       x1   X2    X3   '    XL
  Normalizing as before using the sum of the weights:
                 Ye      D      (D     D        (D @                     (11)
                               D @'D            6
                                             -16-

[0040]     Yet another kernel-based modeling technique similar to the above that can
be used according to the invention is the technique of radial basis functions. Based
on neurological structures, radial basis functions make use of receptive fields, in a
special form of a neural network, where each basis function forms a receptive field in
the n-dimensional space of the input vectors, and is represented by a hidden layer
node in a neural network. The receptive field has the form of the kernels described
above, where the "center" of the receptive field is the exemplar that particular
hidden unit represents. There are as many hidden unit receptive fields as there are
exemplars. The multivariate input observation enters the input layer, which is fully
connected with the hidden layer. Thus each hidden unit receives the full
multivariate input observation, and produces a result that is maximum when the
input matches the "center" of the receptive field, and diminishes as they become
increasingly different (akin to SBM described above). The output of the hidden layer
of receptive field nodes is combined according to weights ci (as above in equation 1).
[0041]     All of the above methods for modeling according to the present invention
utilize the aforementioned kernel-based approach and utilize a library of exemplars.
The exemplars (also called reference observations or reference vectors) represent
"normal" behavior of the modeled system as seen by means of the modeled
biological parameters. Optionally, the available reference data can be down-selected
to provide a characteristic subset to serve as the library of exemplars, in which case a
number of techniques for "training" the kernel-based model can be employed.
According to a preferred training method, at least those observations are included in
the library that have a highest or lowest value for a given biological parameter across
all available reference observations. This can be supplemented with a random
selection of additional observations, or a selection chosen to faithfully represent the
scatter or clustering of the data. Alternatively, the reference data may be clustered,
and representative "centroids" of the clusters formed as new, artificially generated
                                           -17-

exemplars, which then form the library. A wide variety of techniques are known in
the art for selecting the observations to comprise the library of exemplars.
[00421      As mentioned above, the kernel can be chosen from a variety of possible
kernels, and preferably is selected such that it returns a value (or similarity score) for
the comparison of two identical vectors that has a maximum absolute value of all
values returned by that kernel. While several examples are provided herein, they
are not meant to limit the scope of the invention. Following are examples of
kernels/similarity operators that may be used according to the invention for the
 comparison on any two vectors Xa and Xb.
                                              Il -    11'
                                                      2
                          Kh (Xa,X b)=e                                    (12)
                     Kh (X. Xb)         + IIX. hXbI                        (13)
                                                X-XbI
                        Kh (Xa,2IXb)   1           hI~ 1
                                                   -X                      (14)
 In equations 12-14, the vector difference, or "norm", of the two vectors is used;
                                                                            The parameter
  generally this is the 2-norm, but could also be the 1-norm or p-norm.
  h is generally a constant that is often called the "bandwidth" of the kernel, and
  affects the size of the "field" over which each exemplar returns a significant result.
  The power X may also be used, but can be set equal to one. It is possible to employ a
  different h and %for each exemplar Xi. Preferably, when using kernels employing
                                                                                    to a
  the vector difference or norm, the measured data should first be normalized
                                                             to or subtracting from all
  range of 0 to 1 (or other selected range), e.g., by adding
                                                                          set, and then
  sensor values the value of the minimum reading of that sensor data
                                                                               can be
  dividing all results by the range for that sensor. Alternatively, the data
                                                  -18-

normalized by converting it to zero-centered mean data with a standard deviation
set to one (or some other constant). Furthermore, a kernel/similarity operator
according to the invention can also be defined in terms of the elements of the
observations, that is, a similarity is determined in each dimension of the vectors, and
those individual elemental similarities are combined in some fashion to provide an
overall vector similarity. Typically, this may be as simple as averaging the elemental
similarities for the kernel comparison of any two vectors x and y:
                                  l L
                       K(x,y)=- IK(x.,ym)                               (15)
                                  L  ,n=1
Then, elemental similarity operators that may be used according to the invention
include, without limitation:
                        K,(x, y,,)=e         ^                          (16)
                   Kh,(x,Ym)y.         +f    h                          (17)
                     Kh(niy)=lh              h                          (8
                               YJ
                          K.(x,,          IXnIj
                                             _YI
                            Ky                h
The bandwidth h may be selected in the case of elemental kernels such as those
shown above, to be some kind of measure of the expected range of the mth
parameter of the observation vectors. This could be determined, for example, by
finding the difference between the maximum value and minimum value of a
parameter across all exemplars. Alternatively, it can be set using domain knowledge
irrespective of the data present in the exemplars or reference vectors, e.g., by setting
the expected range of a heart rate parameter to be 40 to 180 beats per second on the
                                            -19-

basis of reasonable physiological expectation, and thus h equals "140" for the nth
parameter in the model which is the heart rate. Furthermore, it should be noted with
respect to both the vector and elemental kernels that use a difference function, if the
difference divided by the bandwidth is greater than 1, it can be set equal to one,
resulting in a kernel value of zero for equations 13, 14, 17 and 18, for example. Also,
it can readily be seen that the kernel or similarity operator can be modified by the
addition or multiplication of different constants, in place of one, h, X,and so on.
Trigonometric functions may also be used, for example:
               Kh (xm. Yi)= 1+sS~lIX            m- Y",1)-                   (19)
Most preferably, the similarity operation or kernel generally provides a similarity
score for the comparison of two identically-dimensioned vectors, which similarity
score:
        1. Lies in a scalar range, the range being bounded at each end;
        2. Has a value of one of the bounded ends, if the two vectors are identical;
        3. Changes monotonically over the scalar range; and
        4. Has an absolute value that increases as the two vectors approach being identical.
[00431     In an important alternative embodiment of the invention, both the
inferential and autoassociative forms of the empirical kernel-based model can be
generated "on-the-fly" based on qualities of the input observation, and drawing
from a large set of learned observations, i.e., a reference set. This process is called
localization. Accordingly, it is a preferred form of the invention that the above
described calculations for the inferential and autoassociative forms of kernel-based
modeling can be carried out using a set of learned observations xi or D that are
selected from a larger set of reference observations, based on the input observation.
Kernel-based models are exceptionally well suited for this kind of localization
                                              -20-

because they are trained in one pass and can be updated rapidly. Advantageously,
by drawing on a large set of candidate exemplars, but selecting a subset with each
new input observation for purposes of generating the estimate, the speed of the
modeling calculation can be reduced and the robustness of the model improved,
while still well characterizing the dynamics of the system being modeled.
[00441      A variety of criteria can be used to constitute the localized D matrix
membership, including the application of the similarity operator itself. In general,
however, the process can be understood with reference to FIG. 2. The input
observation 205, comprising the set of biological parameters or derived features that
are to be estimated by the model as part of the monitoring process, are provided to a
localization module 209, which accesses a large store of exemplar observations in the
form of a reference library 212, in order to select a subset of those exemplar
observations to constitute the model. Localization module 209 selects exemplars
from library 212 that are relevant to the input observation 205, which can be a much
smaller set than the size of the library. By way of example, the reference library 212
might comprise 100,000 exemplar observations that characterize the normal
dynamics of the biological system represented by the parameters being modeled, but
the localization module 209 might select only a few dozen observations to build a
localized model in response to receiving the input observation 205. The selected
exemplar observations are then provided to the localized model 224, and these
observations then comprise the set of learned exemplars Xi for purposes of the
kernel-based estimator (also shown as D in connection with SBM above). The
estimate observation 230 is then generated accordingly as described above. As the
next input observation 205 is presented to the monitoring system of the invention,
the process is repeated, with selection of a new and possibly different subset of
 exemplars from library 212, based on the new input observation.
 [0045]     According to one embodiment of the invention, the input observation 205
 can be compared to the reference library 212 of learned observations, on the basis of
 a clustering technique. Accordingly, the exemplar observations in library 212 are
                                            -21-

clustered using any of a number of techniques known in the art for clustering
vectors, and the localization module 209 identifies which cluster the input
observation 205 is closest to, and selects the member exemplars of that cluster to be
the localized observations provided to the localized model 224. Suitable clustering
methods include k-means and fuzzy c-means clustering, or a self-organizing map
neural network.
[0046]     According to another embodiment of the invention, a kernel can be used
to compare the input observation 205 to each exemplar in the library 212 to yield a
similarity value that provides a ranking of the reference observations vis-A-vis the
input observation. Then, ascertain top fraction of them can be included in the
localized D matrix. As a further refinement of this localization aspect, observations
in the ranked list of all reference observations are included in localized D to the
extent one of their component elements provides a value that "brackets" the
corresponding value in the input vector, even if other observations in library 212
have higher similarity to the input. This search down the ranked list is performed
until either all values in the input vector are bracketed on both the low and high side
by a value in one of the reference observations included in localized D, or until a
 user-selectable maximum limit of vectors to include in D is reached, or until there
 are no further reference observations that have sufficiently high similarity to the
 input to surpass a similarity threshold for inclusion.
 [00471     Other modifications in determining the membership of localized D are
 within the scope of the invention. By way of example, in both the clustering
 selection method and the similarity selection method described above, the set of
 elements, i.e., parameters used to comprise the vectors that are clustered or
                                                                               to
 compared with the kernel for similarity, may not be identical to those used
 generate the model and the estimate, but may instead be a subset, or be a partially
 overlapping set of parameters. For instance, in monitoring a patient according to the
 invention with a set of a half-dozen or more biological parameters and features such
                                            -22-

 as heart rate, respiration volume, blood pressure(s), temperatures and the like,
 localization could be performed utilizing only heart rate and respiration parameters.
 [0048]     Turning to FIG. 3, the approach of the present invention can be better
 understood in view of an arbitrary charted raw signal 305, which may represent any
biological parameter being modeled, and its estimate 310, and the corresponding
residual 315 plotted in the bottom half of the chart. The signal 305 is one of multiple
parameters being modeled (either autoassociatively or inferentially), though the
other signals are not shown in the figure. It may be seen that the raw signal exhibits
variation and has a range 320, which is typical of biological systems where a
biological parameter may vary due to environment, activity, metabolism, diurnal
timing, etc. In conventional approaches, limits 324 are provided for detecting when
signal 305 goes outside an acceptable range deemed normal or healthy.
Consequently, problems may remain undetected until a later time, when the signal
305 goes outside the limits 324. However, by providing a model-generated estimate
310 of the parameter 305, and differencing them to produce residual 315, alternative
residual limits 336 can be used to detect when the signal 305 is deviating from what
is expected, even as signal 305 varies throughout its normal range 320.
Consequently, detection of abnormal values can be achieved at a significantly earlier
time 340, even when the signal 305 is still well within its normal range 320.
 [00491     Advantageously, by analyzing the residuals provided by the invention,
better diagnostics and alerting is possible compared to application of the same
analysis to raw data. A wide variety of statistical, logical and mathematical
techniques can be used to analyze the residuals for each biological parameter
monitored according to the invention, which are now discussed for purposes of
illustration.
[00501      A first technique that may be used is to apply a threshold to the residual
for a parameter. Whereas in conventional medicine, a threshold is typically applied
to raw data, a residual threshold is capable of a much tighter limit without resulting
in a higher false alert rate, because normal variation has been removed by
                                           -23-

differencing the estimate and the actual data. A residual threshold can be an upper
limit, a lower limit, or both, and an alert is registered when the residual exceeds the
threshold. The threshold can be determined from domain expertise, or can be set as
a function of the noise distribution for the residual data for a particular parameter.
For example, a particular measurement device may provide exceptionally noisy raw
data, such that the residual has a correspondingly higher noise level. This noise
level can be observed for a sufficient number of observations to characterize the
distribution of the residual signal, whereupon the threshold is set as a function of
this revealed distribution (such as 5x the standard deviation), thereby
accommodating the noise level of the measurement device. Each biological
parameter on each patient monitored may have its own set threshold level.
 [0051]    A threshold is just a simple form of a rule in a rules system or expert
system. Such a system can extend the flexibility and power of the analysis of
residuals according to the invention. For example, a simple threshold may be
extended to a rule for triggering a deviation detection alarm when the residual has
exceeded the threshold a sufficient number of times in a moving window of
 observations (an x alerts in y observations rule). An alarm or notification can also be
 configured for a combination of conditions on residuals across more than one
.parameter. For example, a notification of the possibility of health condition may be
 generated by the monitoring system of the invention when one residual signal
 exceeds its upper limit and another residual signal exceeds its lower limit.
 Multivariate rules may also utilize a time series of observations of residuals. Rules
 themselves may be chained together to trigger other rules, or to veto the results of
 other rules. A wide variety of expert rules systems are known in the art for dealing
 with raw data, and these rules structures can be readily adapted for the present
 invention by translating them into rules for residuals. For example, whereas a prior
 raw data rule structure may have indicated a possible health threat when a certain
 parameter is more than two standard deviations above the "average" value for the
 population (a conventional distribution approach), the new rule may provide the
 same notification when the residual is more than two standard deviations (or some
                                              -24-

other threshold) away from zero for that residual signal (where the standard
deviation may be determined from the signal derived from that patient, or may be
derived from experiments where people have been monitored with that parameter
and that model in preparing the model for clinical use). Series of residual values for
a parameter form a signal, which signal can be treated with various statistical
techniques for trending and hypothesis testing, as mentioned above. Statistical
hypothesis tests such as Wald's sequential probability ratio test may be used.
[0052]     A variety of pattern recognition techniques can further be used to
associate a pattern of residuals to an alert, a diagnostic conclusion, or a severity
rating for a patient's condition. One such technique is to provide a set of residuals
for a plurality of monitored parameters to a neural network that has been trained to
associate the inputs with diagnostic conditions.
[0053]     Turning to the selection of biological parameters that may be modeled for
the monitoring purposes of the present invention, the advantages in detection
sensitivity and accuracy of the invention are due, among other things, to the
multivariate approach taken to the biological parameters, in contrast to conventional
medical practices where parameters are tested in isolation. Accordingly, using the
kernel-based estimators of the present invention, the observations of biological
parameters are multivariate in that each observation generally comprises a data
value (whether a direct sensor reading or some derived feature of sensor data) for
each of multiple parameters, attributed to an approximately contemporaneous
instant or period. For example, the observations can comprise snapshots of several
parameter data values at instants of time. Importantly, the kernel-based methods of
the present invention do not require that the snapshots are acquired periodically, but
rather they can be acquired at irregular intervals.
 [0054]    The data values for the biological parameters can therefore be direct
sensor measurements, e.g., temperature at a time t, or can be derived features such
as instantaneous or window-averaged heart rate as attributed to time t. Because the
 observations need not be regularly sampled, it is possible to align various regularly
                                            -25-

sampled signals (ECG, respiration, oximetry, pressures, temperatures, etc.) to
identified semi-regular or irregular triggers. In one embodiment, an observation is
formed keyed to the QRS peak of the ECG signal, and all other sampled signals are
measured as of that time, or over the RR interval (one QRS peak to the next). It is
known that heartbeats are somewhat irregular naturally, and thus data values for
parameters can be generated as a function of the QRS peak (or any other identifiable
point) of the ECG signal. In another embodiment, observations are formed at
regular intervals, such as once per minute, and may contain raw values at the
minute, statistics on the signal over the minute, or cumulative or averaged moving
window values attributed to each minute measurement. Thus, model-able biological
parameters might be selected from (a) raw instantaneous signal values; (b) statistical
values from the signal, within a window defined by some other signal event (like
QRS peak); (c) cumulative/ averaged statistical value from the signal, over a set of
such windows; (d) rate of change of one of the above, from last window to current
window; and (e) cumulative/ averaged measures from a signal over a regular time
window (e.g., once per minute).
 10055]    For purposes of illustration, features that may be derived for use in a
kernel-based model for monitoring human health, using a keying event like the QRS
peak of the ECG signal, include:
        InstantaneousHeartRate - Time from last QRS peak, or time to next QRS
peak.
        Blood Pressure"Systolic" - Highest blood pressure reading from a
continuous blood pressure measurement device (catheterized or non-invasive) in the
window from the current QRS peak to the next (or to the last) QRS peak in the ECG.
        Blood Pressure"Diastolic"- Lowest blood pressure reading from a
 continuous blood pressure measurement device (catheterized or non-invasive) in the
window from the current QRS peak to the next (or to the last) QRS peak in the ECG.
        "Systolic" BP Lag - Time between QRS peak and next "systolic" (i.e., highest)
 peak in blood pressure signal from continuous BP measurement sensor.
                                           -26-

        "Diastolic"BP Lag - Time between QRS peak and next "diastolic" (i.e.,
lowest) trough in blood pressure signal from continuous BP measurement device.
        Oxygen SaturationPeak (Ebb) - Highest (lowest) measurement of oxygen
saturation (SpO2) between present QRS peak and next QRS peak.
        Temperature - Average, maximum, minimum or median value of a
temperature sensor, over a window from one QRS peak to the next.
[0056]     If the respiration cycle is used as the keying event for data collection, the
following parameters are further illustrative of parameters that may be used:
       InstantaneousRespirationRate - Time from one complete breath to the next.
       Heartbeat count - Number of heartbeats within one complete breath.
        Oxygenation lag - Time lag between some point in the breathing cycle, e.g.,
end of inhalation, and the peak of the blood oxygenation signal from, e.g., an
oximeter.
[00571     Of course, other statistical measures of the above can be substituted, such
as determining the median value, mean value, hi-lo difference (range), etc., of the
above parameters or their biological source signal.
[00581     Further to illustrate, features that may be derived over a set of windows
defined by an event like the QRS peak include:
       Windowed RespirationRate - Respiration rate as measured over the last in
windows defined by QRS peak-to-peak (a.k.a. RR intervals). The value is attributed
to the observation keyed to the current QRS peak event. Respiration rate can be
instantaneous (period of current respiration) or averaged. If the respiration rate is
longer than the span of all  7n windows, an estimate of the complete respiration rate
for that respiratory cycle can be generated by extrapolation from the partial cycle.
       Windowed RespirationDepth - Maximum volume of breathing as measured
over the last m windows defined by QRS peak-to-peak. The value is attributed to the
observation keyed to the current QRS peak event.
                                            -27-

        Heart Rate Variability(SDNN type) - Variance or standard deviation in
instantaneous heart rate over last m windows defined by QRS peak-to-peak. Each
one of the m windows has an instantaneous heart rate, and the variance or standard
deviation is calculated over all m values.
        HeartRate Variability (RMSSD type) - Square root of the sum of squared
successive differences in instantaneous heart rate (or heart beat period), over last m
windows.
[00591     Other parameters that may be used by way of example can be derived
from other devices connected to the patient, such as ventilators. Typical ventilation
parameters can be used in a kernel-based model for patient monitoring according to
the invention. These include:
     . Tidal volume (orMinute Volume) - Measure of volume of air exhaled or
inhaled (instantaneously or averaged/cumulative over a window, e.g., a minute).
        C02 - Measurements of the volume, partial pressure or concentration of
exhaled carbon dioxide.
        Peak InspiratoryPressure- Maximum pressure applied during the
inspiratory cycle by the ventilator.
        Positive End Expiratory Pressure- Baseline positive pressure at the end of
expiration. This parameter may be particularly useful as a localizing variable.
        F102 - Fraction oxygen in inspired air, typically a percentage. This variable
may also be particularly useful as a localizing variable.
        PIF,PEF- Peak inspiratory/expiratory flow of air.
        Airway Resistance - Measures of resistance of the lungs to positive pressure
ventilation.
 100601    In a home telehealth monitoring setting, the subject may be instrumented
with a growing variety of sensors, or may be asked to make periodic measurements
that can be used in the modeling of the present invention, including:
        Weight - Scale-measured body weight of the subject/patient.
                                           -28-

        Blood Glucose Level - Instruments that sample drops of blood and measure
glucose levels of the blood; or instruments that make determinations of glucose
levels in the blood from optical measurements.
        Activity - Accelerometers may be used to measure the amount of movement
of the patient; potentially these can be instrumented to provide movement in certain
directions (e.g., up-down versus laterally).
        Ambient temperature differential- Measures of the difference in temperature
between the ambient air and the skin or periphery.
        Sweat - Measures of the degree to which the subject is sweating.
[0061]     The above list of parameters is meant only to be illustrative of the types of
variables that can be obtained from a human subject, and which can be used in the
kernel-based modeling approach of the present invention. This list is not meant to
be limiting.Biological parameters used in the present invention for forming
observations can include temperatures, pressures, activity ranges (e.g., breathing
volume), rates (respiration, heart), conductivity, electrical activity (e.g., EEGs),
chemical measurements, flow rates and any other known or later developed metrics
of the human biological system. Preferably, the parameters combined into a model
for purposes of monitoring are (a) deemed to be related in some way (whether
known or suspected) either as cause-and-effect or joint-effects; (b) generally
responsive to changes in the body or the body's feedback control loops within
approximately equal orders of magnitude time periods; and (c) useful for pointing to
root cause if a deviation is found in one or more of them. Preferably, a model
according to the invention for monitoring human health includes one or more of a
heart rate, a blood oxygenation value, a respiration metric, a blood pressure metric,
and a temperature metric. In preferred embodiments of the invention, a model for
use in monitoring human health comprises 3 or more parameters, and more
preferably 5 or more parameters (raw signals or features derived from signals).
Advantageously, the kernel-based modeling approach of the invention is effective
with a large number of variables as well, more than 20-30 related parameters.
                                           -29-

[00621      Due to the disruptive nature of some activity on certain kinds of biological
                                                                           another aspect
signals, such as how coughing or talking affect the respiration signal,
of the invention is to provide for filtering the input observations. Generally, in the
context of a patient recuperating in an ICU, or the like, observations are preferably
monitored only when the patient is in a state where the data is well behaved, more
                                                                   to talking, coughing,
specifically when the patient is sleeping or resting, as opposed
or being moved. A data-filtering module can be provided that automatically
                                                                        leaving only that
recognizes the sleeping or resting states, and filters out other data,
                                                                                     can be
data from the sleeping/resting state for monitoring. A number of techniques
                                                                          patient in
used to automatically determine whether the data is coming from a
                                                                         the input
 sleeping/resting state. One method that may be used is to process
                                                              an inferential model to
 observation, or a sequence of input observations, through
                                                                       inferential kernel
 determine its classification. Such a model can be, for example, an
                                                                       output variable is
 based model according to the present invention, wherein a single
                                                      zero and one) each of which
 provided, which ranges between two values (e.g.,
                                                                   model can be trained
 corresponds to "not in class" and "in class" respectively. The
 from examples of normal sleep/rest. Similarly, a wide variety of clustering
                                                                the input data is
 techniques are known in the art for determining what class
                                                                   example, K-means
 characteristic of, and outputting that classification. By way of
  clustering is a well-known technique that can accept as input a set of observations,
                                                                               thereafter,
  and cluster the observations into a user-determined number of clusters;
                                                                      or class.
  new observations can be associated with the appropriate cluster
  Observations associated with the sleep/rest cluster would then be monitored,
                                                            be filtered out. Finally, it is
  whereas observations that did not fit this cluster would
                                                                to determine whether it is
  known to use expert rules to process the input observation
                                                                  determining the heart
  in the sleeping/resting state or not. Such rules may include
  rate and respiration rate, and after determining that these are within certain ranges,
                                                             changed or skipped an
  and also determining that the rate of respiration has not
  anticipated breath, then the state is sleeping/resting.
                                              -30-

 [00631     Another method for handling disruptive events in the data is to filter them
in a number of ways. Typical disruptive events can include an abnormal heartbeat
(skipped or extra), or coughing/talking which interrupts the normal profile of a
breath. While these are interesting patterns in the data and may be of interest
medically, for purposes of modeling and relating these parameters to each other, it is
useful to filter them out. Hence, a heart rate can be smoothed by identifying skipped
or extra beats and eliminating that data point. One way to do this is to calculate the
instantaneous heart rate over R-R intervals, and to apply a filter to the resulting rate
signal, such as a median filter with a window of 3-5 data points. As a consequence,
the anomalous instant heart rate that may jump high with an extra beat, or drop low
upon a skipped beat, is replaced with a median value in a window, which is likely
not to be the anomalous value. One way to eliminate nonconforming breathing
cycles is to identify a normal breath on either side of the nonconforming region, and
excise the data completely. A nonconforming breath cycle can be identified as one
that insufficiently matches a prototype breath pattern (e.g., starting in a trough,
increasing to a peak, and dropping back to a trough). A number of pattern matching
techniques are known in the art for matching a prototype pattern to instant windows
on a signal, which techniques can be used for this purpose.
[00641      More than one model may be used to monitor the health of a person, and
parameters may be shared across models. Accordingly, one embodiment of the
invention forms an inferential model for each vital sign or other parameter from the
set of all other available parameters; hence the total number of models used is equal
to the number of monitored parameters. Furthermore, monitoring of a person can
be performed with different models using data sampled at different rates. For
example, one model may use data with observations formed by some trigger such as
the RR interval, while another model may use observations formed once per minute.
As another example, a first model may include such biological parameters as are
necessary to monitor cardiovascular function, and a second model may include such
biological parameters as are necessary to monitor immunological responses. As yet
another example, multiple models of the same parameters may be used, but trained
                                           -31-

on different activity states or classes. Then, as the input observation is classified
according to the type of activity it represents (sleep/rest as above, or exercise, or
walking, etc.), a model according to the invention that has learned that class of
activity is used to monitor that observation or window of observations.
[0065]      A particular embodiment of the invention comprises an autoassociative
model with observations at intervals of between 10 seconds and 1 minute, and
comprising the parameters of average heart rate, average respiration rate, average
systolic blood pressure, average diastolic blood pressure, average respiration
depth/volume, and average blood oxygenation percentage (oximetry). The heart
rate and respiration parameters may be raw signals, or may be smoothed, meaning
removal of abnormal (extra or missed) beats or abnormal breathing (coughs, etc.).
Also, in place of the average of the above values over the interval, some other
statistic, such as the median, maximum or minimum can be used.
[00661      The present invention also provides for monitoring of human health using
chemical, immunological, microbiological, histological, hematological and similar
test results, and more particularly blood constituent measurements, urine
constituent measurements and the like (commonly referred to as "lab results" or
"labs"). Such measurements can be used to great advantage in the present invention
because (a) the measurements typically are multivariate, (b) the multivariate results
represent fluid makeup at more or less a single time, and (c) though labs are ordered
typically on an irregular basis, the present invention can nonetheless use data
sampled in such a non-periodic fashion. A further advantage of the invention over
conventional use of labs data is the greater ability to discriminate changes.
Conventionally, each measurement of a constituent in blood, for example, is
examined in isolation, and compared to a "normal" range for the healthy population.
In contrast, according to the present invention, normal dynamics of each constituent
vis-a-vis one another are modeled and taken into account, so that even small
deviations in the value of a constituent can be detected, though the deviation might
still be well within the "normal" range under the conventional approach.
                                           -32-

[0067]      The biological parameters modeled with laboratory results data can
include any of a number of typically measured values, including blood sugar
(glucose); blood gases such as oxygen, carbon dioxide and bicarbonate; measures of
acidity such as pH; measures of breakdown products such as creatinine or blood
urea nitrogen (BUN); measures of electrolytes such as sodium, potassium, and
chloride; and measures of enzymes and proteins such as creatinine kinase, albumin,
C reactive protein, bilirubin; and measures of minerals such as calcium, iron,
magnesium, zinc and the like. The learned exemplars of the model can comprise
exemplary blood sample test results for a number of healthy individuals in the
population, and more particularly those who have similar demographic traits as the
person being monitored, since many of these parameters change with gender, age,
weight and the like. Consequently, to monitor the labs of a patient who is a young
male of normal body weight, a model of normal blood constituent dynamics for a
young male of normal body weight may comprise real test results from many such
individuals, gathered at various times during the diurnal cycle, sufficient to cover
the dynamics of how these parameters vary with respect to one another throughout
normal activity and health. When the patient's results are input to the model, the
estimate of the parameters based on a variety of learned normal exemplars, is
compared to the patient's actual results to generate residuals, and deviations in the
residuals may be present that are smaller than the ranges for those parameters in the
normal population, but which nonetheless are significant indicators of a health
condition (whether incipient and trending worse, or merely a static disease state). If
the patient is subject to a series of blood, urine or other fluid tests, these residual
results can themselves comprise time series for subsequent analysis according to the
invention.
[0068]      In the context of monitoring a patient in a hospital ward, a nursing home
or a clinic, the present invention can be practiced as follows. A patient is
instrumented with sensors attached to bedside devices for monitoring vital signs
and other biological parameters of the patient. This data is provided from the
bedside devices, typically over a computer network, to a computer running software
                                             -33-

                                                                         stores or has
for processing the data according to the invention. The computer
access to stored exemplar data comprising one or more models for use in generating
estimates responsive to receiving an observation of sensor data from the patient.
                                                                                         tests
Data may also be provided to the computer regarding the results of laboratory
for the patient, which typically are provided from a hospital information system
                                                                            be monitored
where the results have been entered. For example, the patient may
                                                                          frequency on the
with one model for a set of bedside vital signs, at a data sampling
                                                                        labs results for the
 order of once per minute; and a second model is used to process
                                                        irregular intervals. From each
 patient, which may be received by the computer at
                                                                                  for the data
 such model as may be used to monitor the data of the patient, estimates
                                                                of the estimates to the
 are generated, and residuals generated upon comparison
 actual values. The computer may be further disposed to apply a variety of post
                                                                               to detect
 modeling analytic steps on the residuals, described elsewhere herein,
                                                                                  Measured
 deviations and recognize patterns of deviation for diagnostic purposes.
                                                                               on a display
 data, estimates, and residuals may be made available to medical staff
                                                         remotely. Also made available
 system, or over a website, accessible locally and/or
 in such a display are any detected deviations, recognized patterns, and resulting
                                                                      may provide, either via
  automatically generated suggested diagnoses. The computer
                                                                                             a
  its interfaces or via web browser or client server programs to other workstations,
  user interface for annotating the medical record of the patient regarding the
                                                                           marked as "under
  residuals, deviations, patterns and diagnoses. Diagnoses may be
                                                                  by medical personnel.
  investigation", "incorrect", "confirmed", or other statuses
                                                                                           the
  The user may also mark certain observations of data that have been flagged by
                                                            non-deviating data. In
   computer as a deviation or the like, as in fact normal,
                                                                  the actual data to modify
   response, an adaptation module of the computer may use
                                                                     any further such data
   the model which flagged the data as anomalous, whereafter
   would not be detected as anomalous by the model.
                                                              adding a new observation or
    100691    The process of adapting a model comprises
                                                                 the original kernel-based
   set of observations, to a set of reference data from which
                                                          all reference data is used as the
    model was "trained". In the simplest embodiment,
                                               -34-

model exemplars, and therefore adapting a model means adding the new
observation(s) to the exemplar set of the model. If a training method has been used
to downsample the reference observations to a subset stored as "representative" of
system dynamics, then the new observations are added to the original reference
dataset, and the downsampling technique is applied to derive a new representative
                                                                       observations. It
exemplar set, which should then include representation of the new
is also possible to merely add the new observations to a downsampled set of
                                                                                in that
exemplars, without rerunning the downsampling technique. Furthermore,
 case, it may be useful to remove some exemplars from the model so that they are
 effectively replaced by the new observations, and the model size is kept at a
 manageable size. The criteria for which old exemplars to remove can include
 clustering and similarity determinations which compare the new observations to the
 old and replace those most like the new observations.
 [0070]     In the context of home or field monitoring of a person's health status, a
 wearable or carryable computing device equivalent to the likes of a PDA or cell
                                                                           either over
 phone, records data from a plurality of sensors attached to the person,
 direct wire connections or over extreme local wireless communication such as
 bluetooth. The data is retained in the computing device for downloading to a base
                                                                                    as a
 station. If the computing device is also a wireless communication device such
 cell phone, it may upload the data over the communications network to a remote
                                                                             the data to a
  computer for analysis. Otherwise, the computing device can download
 base station over bluetooth when in range, or via a wired cradle for linking the
  device to a computer. The uploaded or downloaded data is then periodically
                                                                         approach of the
  processed as it is made available, using the model-based monitoring
  present invention. If data is uploaded to a remote computer, that remote computer
                                                                required to process the
  (or a computer networked with it) has access to the models
  data. If the data is downloaded to a local personal computer, e.g., a home computer,
  the model data can reside there for local analysis, or that computer can be configured
                                                                   connection, where the
  to upload the data to a remote computer, e.g., over an internet
                                                                   Results of the
  remote computer has the models required to process the data.
                                             -35-

processing, such as estimates, residuals, detected deviations/alerts, health/severity
indicators and automated diagnoses, can be made available from the remote
computers in the form of a website, or can be transmitted to an intended recipient.
In any event, the model(s) used to process the data can be generic models comprised
of exemplar observations from other humans, or can be a personalized model
comprised of prior observations of the person being monitored.
[00711      It will be appreciated by those skilled in the art, that modifications to the
foregoing preferred embodiments may be made in various aspects. Other variations
clearly would also work, and are within the scope and spirit of the invention. The
present invention is set forth with particularity in the appended claims. It is deemed
that the spirit and scope of that invention encompasses such modifications and
alterations to the preferred embodiment as would be apparent to one of ordinary
skill in the art and familiar with the teachings of the present application.
                                             -36-

 CLAIMS:
         1. A method for monitoring the health status of a human, comprising the
 steps of:
         obtaining an observation of multiple vital signs from the human;
         providing a kernel-based model characteristic of the behavior of at least some
 of said multiple vital signs under known health conditions;
         generating an estimate with said kernel-based model of at least one of said
 multiple vital signs, based on said observation;
         comparing said estimate to the corresponding measured value of the at least
 one of said multiple vital signs in said observation; and
        making a determination of the health status of the human from said
 comparison.
        2. A method according to claim 1, wherein said kernel-based model comprises
a set of exemplary observations of said multiple vital signs, and generates said
estimate as a linear combination of at least some of the exemplary observations.
        3. A method according to claim 2, wherein said observation of multiple vital
signs is used to localize said kernel-based model so that a subset of said exemplary
observations is used to generate said estimate.
        4. A method according to claim 1, wherein said comparison yields a residual
value which is compared to a threshold in order to make said determination of the
health status of the human.
        5. A method according to claim 4, wherein the determination of the health
status of the human is made based on a sequence of comparisons of said residual
value to said threshold for successive said observations of multiple vital signs.
                                           -37-

        6. A method according to claim 5, wherein the sequence of comparisons is
 analyzed by counting how many times the residual exceeded the threshold.
        7. A method according to claim 2, wherein said kernel-based model is a
 similarity-based model.
        8. A method according to claim 2, wherein said kernel- based model is a
kernel regression estimator.
        9. A method according to claim 2, wherein said kernel-based model is a radial
basis function network.
        10. A method according to claim 2, wherein the at least one of said multiple
vital signs for which said estimate is generated is not provided as an input to said
kernel-based model, but is present in said exemplary observations.
        11. A computer software system for monitoring the health status of a human,
comprising:
        a data feed for providing observations of multiple vital signs from the human
being monitored;
        a kernel-based modeling software module characteristic of the behavior of at
least some of said multiple vital signs under known health conditions, for receiving a
said observation from said data feed, and generating an estimate of at least one of
said multiple vital signs, based on said received observation; and
        a residual analysis software module disposed to compare said estimate to the
corresponding measured value of the at least one of said multiple vital signs in said
received observation to generate a residual, and make a determination of the health
status of the human therefrom.
                                           -38-

         12. A system according to claim 11, wherein said kernel-based modeling
 software module comprises a set of exemplary observations of said multiple vital
 signs, and generates said estimate as a linear combination of at least some of the
 exemplary observations.
         13. A system according to claim 12, wherein said observation of multiple vital
 signs is used for localization by said kernel-based modeling software module so that
 a subset of said exemplary observations is used to generate said estimate.
        14. A system according to claim 1, wherein said residual analysis software
 module compares said residual to a threshold in order to make said determination of
the health status of the human.
        15. A system according to claim 12, wherein said kernel-based modeling
software module implements a similarity-based model.
        16. A system according to claim 12, wherein said kernel-based modeling
software module implements a kernel regression estimator.
        17. A system according to claim 12, wherein said kernel-based modeling
software module implements a radial basis function network.
                                      PhysIQ Inc.
                  Patent Attorneys for the Applicant/Nominated Person
                                 SPRUSON & FERGUSON
                                           -39-

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
