    :\tId\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\TLD\16316056 _docx-I7 01 2018
                                                                   - 36
                                                                ABSTRACT
   A method includes receiving a stored-value card transaction request from an access point.
   The stored-value card transaction request is associated with a package identification
 5 number, and the package identification number is associated with a plurality of stored
   value cards. The method further includes generating a plurality of children transaction
   requests based on the stored-value card transaction request. The method further includes
   sending at least one of the plurality of children transaction requests to a first card party.
   The method further includes sending at least another of the plurality of children transaction
10 requests to a second card party. The second card party may be the same or different from
   the first card party.

    :\tId\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\TLD\16316056 _docx-17 01 2018
                                  EFFICIENT STORED-VALUE CARD TRANSACTIONS
   Cross-Reference to Related Applications
 5 The disclosure of the complete specification of Australian Patent Application No.
   2011268026, as originally filed and as amended AND Australian Patent Application No.
   <removed-apn>, as originally filed and as amended is incorporated herein by reference.
   Background of the Invention
10
   The market for stored-value cards, e.g. gift cards, continues to grow to unprecedented
   levels. As such, the current stresses on stored-value card systems have not been
   encountered, and more efficient transactions are necessary.
15 Summary of the Invention
   Methods, networks, and storage mediums for efficient stored-value card transactions are
   disclosed. A method includes receiving stored-value card transactions and processing the
   stored-value card transactions. The method further includes using a linearly scalable grid
20 computing network for settlement of the stored-value card transactions.
   A machine-readable storage medium includes executable instructions that, when executed,
   cause one or more card parties to receive stored-value card transactions and process the
   stored-value card transactions. The one or more card parties are further caused to use a
25 linearly scalable grid computing network for settlement of the stored-value            card
   transactions.
   A network includes an acquiring transaction service, an internal card processing service
   coupled to the acquiring transaction service, and a settlement service coupled to the
30 internal card processing service. The acquiring transaction service receives stored-value
   card transactions, and the internal card processing service processes the stored-value card

    :\tId\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\TLD\16316056 _docx-I7 01 2018
                                                                -2
   transactions. The settlement service uses a linearly scalable grid computing network for
   settlement of the stored-value card transactions.
   A method includes receiving a stored-value card transaction request from an access point.
 5 The stored-value card transaction request comprises a card identification number or at least
   an indicia of a card identification number. The method further includes generating a
   plurality of children transaction requests based on the stored-value card transaction
   request. The method further includes sending at least one of the plurality of children
   transaction requests to a first card party. The method further includes sending at least
10 another of the plurality of children transaction requests to a second card party. The second
   card party may be the same or different from the first card party. The stored-value card
   may be associated with the first and/or second card party.
   A machine-readable storage medium includes executable instructions that, when executed,
15 cause one or more card parties to receive a stored-value card transaction request from an
   access point. The stored-value card transaction request comprises a card identification
   number or at least an indicia of a card identification number. A plurality of children
   transaction requests are generated based on the stored- value card transaction request. At
   least one of a plurality of children transaction requests is sent to a first card party. At least
20 one of a plurality of children transaction requests is sent to a second card party. The second
   card party may be different from the first card party. The stored- value card may be
   associated with the first and/or second card party.
   A network includes an acquiring transaction service coupled to an internal card processing
25 service. The acquiring transaction service receives a stored- value card transaction request,
   which is associated with a card identification number or at least an indicia of a card
   identification number. The internal card processing service determines card party
   associated with the card identification number or the indicia of the card identification
   number. The acquiring transaction service generates a plurality of children transaction
30 requests based on the stored-value card transaction request. The acquiring transaction
   service sends at least one of the plurality of children transaction requests to a first card

    :\tId\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\TLD\16316056 1docx-I7 01 2018
                                                                -3
   party. The acquiring transaction service sends at least another of the plurality of children
   transaction requests to a second card party. The second card party may be the same or
   different from the first card party.
 5 The stored-value card transaction request may be associated with a package identification
   number, and the package identification number is associated with a plurality of stored
   value cards. The method further includes generating a plurality of children transaction
   requests based on the stored-value card transaction request. The method further includes
   sending at least one of the plurality of children transaction requests to a first card party.
10 The first card party is associated with at least one of the plurality of stored-value cards.
   The method further includes sending at least another of the plurality of children transaction
   requests to a second card party. The second card party is different from the first card party,
   and the second card party is associated with at least one of the plurality of stored-value
   cards.
15
   A machine-readable storage medium includes executable instructions that, when executed,
   cause one or more card parties to receive a stored-value card transaction request from an
   access point. The stored-value card transaction request is associated with a package
   identification number, and the package identification number is associated with a plurality
20 of stored-value cards. A plurality of children transaction requests are generated based on
   the stored-value card transaction request. At least one of a plurality of children transaction
   requests is sent to a first card party. At least one of a plurality of children transaction
   requests is sent to a second card party. The second card party may be different from the
   first card party. The stored-value card may be associated with the first and/or second card
25 party.
   A network includes an acquiring transaction service coupled to an internal card processing
   service. The acquiring transaction service receives a stored-value card transaction request,
   which is associated with a package identification number. The package identification
30 number is associated with a plurality of stored-value cards, and the internal card processing
   service determines card parties associated with the package identification number. The

    :\tId\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\TLD\16316056 _docx-I7 01 2018
                                                                -4
   acquiring transaction service generates a plurality of children transaction requests based on
   the stored-value card transaction request. The acquiring transaction service sends at least
   one of the plurality of children transaction requests to a first card party, and the first card
   party is associated with at least one of the plurality of stored-value cards. The acquiring
 5 transaction service sends at least another of the plurality of children transaction requests to
   a second card party. The second card party is different from the first card party, and the
   second card party is associated with at least one of the plurality of stored-value cards.
   A method includes receiving a stored-value card activation request associated with a
10 stored-value card. The method further includes determining that the stored-value card is
   already active. The method further includes generating a replenish request based on the
   stored-value card activation request and sending a confirmation of successful execution of
   the stored-value card activation request upon successful execution of the replenish request.
15 A network includes an acquiring transaction service coupled to an internal card processing
   service. The acquiring transaction service receives a stored-value card activation request
   associated with a stored-value card. The acquiring transaction service generates a replenish
   request, based on the stored-value card activation request, and sends the replenish request
   to the internal card processing service. The internal card processing service determines that
20 the stored-value card is already active. The acquiring transaction service sends a
   confirmation of successful execution of the stored-value card activation request upon
   successful execution of the replenish request.
   A method includes receiving a stored-value card activation request associated with a
25 stored-value card. The method further includes attempting to execute a replenish request
   based on the stored-value card activation request, and attempting to execute the stored
   value card activation request based on failure to execute the replenish request. The method
   further includes sending a confirmation of successful execution of the stored-value card
   activation request upon successful execution of the stored-value card activation request.
30
   A network includes an acquiring transaction service coupled to an internal card processing

    :\tId\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\TLD\16316056 _docx-17 01 2018
                                                                -5
   service. The acquiring transaction service receives a stored-value card activation request
   associated with a stored-value card and sends a replenish request, based on the stored
   value card activation request, to the internal card processing service. The internal card
   processing service sends a declination to the acquiring transaction service in response to
 5 the replenish request. The acquiring transaction service sends an activation request,
   associated with the stored-value card, to the internal card processing service in response to
   the declination. The internal card processing service sends a confirmation of successful
   execution of the activation request to the acquiring transaction service upon successful
   execution of the activation request.
10
   A machine-readable storage medium includes executable instructions that, when executed,
   cause one or more processors to receive a stored-value card activation request associated
   with a stored-value card. The one or more processors are further caused to attempt to
   execute a replenish request based on the stored-value card activation request and attempt to
15 execute the stored-value card activation request based on failure to execute the replenish
   request. The one or more processors are further caused to send a confirmation of successful
   execution of the stored-value card activation request upon successful execution of the
   stored-value card activation request.
20 Brief Description of the Drawings
   Figure 1 illustrates a physical view of a stored-value card network in accordance with at
   least some illustrated embodiments;
   Figures 2 and 3 illustrate a logical view of a stored-value card network in accordance with
25 at least some illustrated embodiments;
   Figure 4 illustrates a particular machine suitable for implementing several embodiments of
   the disclosure;
   Figures 5-8 illustrate methods of stored-value card processing in accordance with at least
   some illustrated embodiments.
30
   Detailed Description of Preferred Embodiments of the Invention

    :\tId\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\TLD\16316056 _docx-17 01 2018
                                                                -6
   As used herein, stored-value card refers to a card that may be used to transact business
   with a party willing to accept the card, for example as tender for a purchase. Examples of
   such cards include credit cards, debit cards, gift cards, telephone cards, loyalty cards,
 5 membership cards, ticket cards, entertainment cards, sports cards, prepaid cards, and the
   like. Stored-value cards may have various affiliated or non-affiliated card issuers. In at
   least one embodiment, the cards are wallet-sized and made of plastic. In various
   embodiments, the stored-value card may be a type of card such as a gift card or prepaid
   card that requires activation at a point of sale. For example, a stored-value card may be
10 purchased and activated at a point of sale by a consumer and subsequently used by the
   consumer or another to transact business.
   Consumer use of transaction cards typically involves a card vendor, a redeeming merchant,
   a transaction facilitator, a transaction processor, a card processor, and a card issuer
15 (generally, "card party"). In various embodiments, the card vendor, redeeming merchant,
   the transaction facilitator, the transaction processor, the card processor, and the card issuer
   may be the same, different, related entities, or combinations thereof. The point of sale
   where transaction cards are purchased and activated may be referred to as the card vendor
   or simply vendor. An entity that will accept a transaction card for business transactions, for
20 example as tender for a purchase, may be referred to as a redeeming merchant. An entity
   that provides a means for other card parties to communicate concerning a transaction card
   transaction may be referred to as a transaction facilitator. An entity that provides card
   parties information, validation and/or authorization for card transactions may be referred to
   as a transaction processor. An entity that provides the financial backing via the transaction
25 card may be referred to as the card issuer or simply issuer. An entity that manages card
   transactions for a card issuer may be referred to as a card processor.
   In at least one embodiment, the issuer is identified on the stored-value card and associates
   a unique issuer account code with each stored-value card. Card issuers include direct
30 issuers of cards such as store-branded cards, and in some embodiments the card vendor
   may also be the card issuer and/or the redeeming merchant. Card issuers also include

    :\tId\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\TLD\16316056 _docx-17 01 2018
                                                                -7
   banks, financial institutions, and transaction processors such as VISA, MasterCard,
   American Express, etc., and cards issued by such institutions may be readily accepted by a
   number of redeeming merchants to conduct transactions such as purchases. In some
   instances, the redeeming merchant may be identified on the stored-value card (for
 5 example, a retailer branded card such as Store X), and such cards may be sold at the same
   or different card vendor (e.g., card vendor is Store X or a different or unrelated Store Z). In
   such instances, the Store X branded stored-value card may be issued by Store X, by Store
   Z, or by a third party such as bank or financial institution.
10 Figure 1 illustrates a physical view of various components of a stored-value card
   transaction. In at least one embodiment, a customer 102 activates or replenishes a stored
   value card at an access point 202. An access point 202, or point of sale component 311, is
   an interface through which the customer communicates with a multicard transaction
   system. The access point 202 can be operated and/or owned by the customer 102 or by the
15 vendor (e.g. through a store clerk and/or pay station). Some examples of access points 202
   are a merchant terminal 106, a customer-owned computer 108, an interactive voice
   response ("IV ") system 110, a customer-owned mobile device 112, a phone network, a
   merchant-owned computer, etc. Because a customer interacts with the access point 202, the
   access point is sometimes called the front end. The front end is coupled to the back end by
20 a network 114. In at least one embodiment, the network 114 is the Internet. Some other
   examples of networks 114 are a phone network, a wireless network, an intra-net network, a
   packet-switching network, etc. As illustrated, the back end comprises three servers or
   switches 206, 210, 212, each for a particular service, but services may be distributed or
   collected among the back-end hardware. The acquiring transaction service 206 may
25 function as a facilitator and is utilized to direct transaction requests and responses to the
   appropriate processors, services, and requesting entities. In at least one embodiment, the
   acquiring transaction service 206 is a switch. When a message is received at the acquiring
   transaction service 206, the acquiring transaction service 206 validates the formatting of
   the message. In other words, the acquiring transaction service 206 will check the data
30 fields in the message to confirm that the field is populated with data and that the data is in
   the correct format (e.g., length, alphanumeric format). If the message is improperly

    :\tId\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\TLD\16316056 _docx-17 01 2018
                                                                -8
   formatted, the acquiring transaction service 206 will reject the transaction request. The
   transactions requests used as examples in this disclosure are predominantly activation
   requests and replenishment requests, but all other transaction requests, e.g. inquiry
   requests, deactivation requests, etc., are within the scope of this disclosure.
 5
   The acquiring transaction service 206 performs various validation checks on the
   transaction request. The acquiring transaction service 206 verifies card-related transaction
   information based on an analysis of several criteria, such as: 1) determining that the UPC
   code for the product is present in the a data grid 208 for the multicard transaction system;
10 2) determining that the value amount of the requested transaction corresponds to the
   customer's payment for the subject request, e.g., whether the UPC information identifies
   the card as a $25.00 card in the data grid 208 and that the corresponding transaction
   request includes a $25.00 payment by the customer; 3) determining that the UPC
   information identifies the card as being a type of card available for processing by the
15 requesting merchant in the data grid 208; and 4) determining that the Bank Identification
   Number ("BIN") of the card (i.e., the first six digits of the card's identification number),
   which identifies the card issuer, corresponds to the UPC information identifying the card
   issuer in the data grid 208.
20 The acquiring transaction service 206 may also reject transactions based on other criteria
   such as transaction velocity (number/amount per unit time). For example, if a card
   processor is concerned that multiple void transactions are indicative of fraudulent activity,
   the card processor could ask that the acquiring transaction service 206 monitor the number
   of void transactions requested and reject transactions from terminals that exceed a pre
25 selected amount of void transactions per unit time. Lastly, the acquiring transaction service
   206 is configured to reject transaction requests in the event that the information received
   by the acquiring transaction service 206 is unintelligible.
   If the message is properly formatted and is validated as described above, the acquiring
30 transaction service 206 forwards the transaction information to the appropriate card
   processor, e.g., issuer, facilitator, merchant, and/or vendor. The card processor decides

    :\tId\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\TLD\16316056 _docx-17 01 2018
                                                                -9
   whether to reject the transaction request and/or perform the transaction request. The
   acquiring transaction service 206 will receive the transaction response from said processor
   (e.g., approval, denial, etc.) and direct the response to the source from whom the acquiring
   transaction service 206 acquired the message.
 5
   The internal card processing service 212 is used to support activities as a stored-value card
   issuer, facilitator, and/or vendor. In at least one embodiment, the internal card processing
   service 212 is a server. The internal card processing service 212 processes card-related
   transactions based on an analysis of several criteria, including: 1) determining that no
10 transaction was requested (e.g., balance inquiry) for the particular card prior to activation
   and that a preset amount of time (e.g., 30 minutes) has expired between activation and first
   attempt to redeem, either of which may be an indicator of fraudulent activity; 2)
   determining that the particular card has not already been activated; 3) determining that the
   card's identification number is present in the data grid 208; 4) determining that the
15 particular card's expiration date matches the card's information contained in the data grid
   208; 5) determining that the requested activation amount, e.g., $25.00, corresponds to the
   amount allowed for the requested card type (e.g., UPC information such as $25.00 Store X
   card) pursuant to the card-type's product specifications maintained in the data grid 208; 6)
   determining that the spending limit of the particular card has not been exceeded; and 7)
20 determining that the particular card's security code transmitted in the transaction request
   corresponds to the security code assigned to the card as maintained in the data grid 208.
   If one or more of the above-recited determinations is not affirmatively verified, the internal
   card processing service 212 will reject the requested transaction. If the internal card
25 processing service 212 confirms that all of the above criteria are affirmatively met, the
   internal card processing service 212 will process the requested transaction and provide a
   transaction response (e.g., approval, denial, etc.) to the acquiring transaction service 206
   for communication to access points 202 and vendors or card issuers via their own
   authorization systems 204.
30
   The settlement service 210 reconciles transactions with card issuers and vendors. The

    :\tId\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\TLD\16316056 _docx-17 01 2018
                                                                - 10
   settlement service 210 records transactions and outputs the transactions in files formatted
   for card issuer authorization systems 204. The settlement service 210 can use different
   protocols for different card issuers including different settlement frequencies, multiple
   cutoff times, settlement across products or by individual products, multi-party settlements,
 5 multi-currency settlements, complex fee and commission structures, and the reporting
   associated with each of the above.
   Figures 2 and 3 illustrate a logical view of a stored-value card network. In Figure 2,
   multiple card issuers are represented by the card issuers' authorization systems 204, which
10 are coupled to the multicard transaction system 350. The multicard transaction system 350
   comprises an acquiring transaction service 206, a data grid 208, a settlement service 210,
   an internal card processing service 212, and may further comprise a product master catalog
   service 214, and an inventory management service 216. Figure 2 illustrates just one
   example of out of many of how these services may be coupled.
15
   In at least one embodiment, the multicard transaction system 350 comprises an acquiring
   transaction service 206, an internal card processing service 212 coupled to the acquiring
   transaction service 206, and a settlement service 210 coupled to the internal card
   processing service 212. As shown, the various services are coupled through a data grid
20 208. The data grid 208 is a linearly scalable grid computing network. The main attributes
   of the data grid 208 are memory and processing power. The acquiring transaction service
   206 receives stored-value card transactions, and the internal card processing service 212
   processes the stored-value card transactions. The settlement service 210 uses the data grid
   208 for settlement of the stored-value card transactions. In at least one embodiment, the
25 settlement service 210 settles the transaction on a real time or near real-time basis.
   Specifically, there is no intentional delay between processing the stored-value card
   transactions and settlement of the stored-value card transactions, i.e., the transactions are
   not "batch processed." Batch processing refers to introducing an intention delay between
   processing and settlement. As such, batch processing settles multiple transactions at once,
30 perhaps when network traffic is not as dedicated to processing, but increases the risk of
   service level agreement ("SLA") violations and settlement errors.

    :\tId\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\TLD\16316056 _docx-17 01 2018
                                                                - 11
   As opposed to batch processing, real time or near real-time processing allows transactions
   to be "trickle fed" to the settlement service 210, which leverages the data grid 208 to store
   and/or process transaction information. Furthermore, each entity associated with stored
 5 value cards can adapt to changing conditions much faster using real time or near real-time
   settlement by responding to and adjusting various metrics. As such, large-scale failure is
   highly unlikely, and small failures only affect a minimal number of transactions before
   they are addressed.
10 In at least one embodiment, the acquiring transaction service 206 receives a stored-value
   card transaction request. For example, the request results from an access point 202 scan of
   a stored-value card's universal product code ("UPC") and/or a swipe of the stored-value
   card's magnetic strip (such scenarios contemplate activation of the stored-value card by
   either a one-step or a two-step activation process as fully described in U.S. Patent No.
15 7,607,574, which is incorporated by reference in its entirety). As such, the request is
   associated with a card identification number. For example, a bank identification number
   ("BIN") is transmitted with the request, and the acquiring transaction service 206 transmits
   the BIN to the internal card processing service 212. The internal card processing service
   212 determines card issuer associated with the package identification number. For
20 example, the internal card processing service 212 queries a database that returns that the
   BIN is associated with card issuer X, and the internal card processing service 212 transmits
   this information to the acquiring transaction service 206. The acquiring transaction service
   206 tailors each activation request to the particular format of the card issuer, and sends the
   activation request to the card issuer's authorization system 204. Confirmation of a
25 successful execution of the activation request is returned in at least one embodiment.
   In at least another embodiment, the acquiring transaction service 206 receives a stored
   value card transaction request. For example, the request results from an access point 202
   scan of a multicard package's universal product code ("UPC") and/or a swipe of the
30 multicard package's magnetic strip. For example, a bank identification number ("BIN") is
   transmitted with the request, and the acquiring transaction service 206 transmits the BIN to

    :\tId\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\TLD\16316056 _docx-I7 01 2018
                                                                        -12
   the internal card processing service 212. The internal card processing service 212
   determines card issuers associated with the package identification number. For example,
   the internal card processing service 212 queries a database that returns that the BIN is
   associated with a package of 5 gift cards, each backed by a different card issuer, and the
 5 internal card processing service 212 transmits this information to the acquiring transaction
   service 206. The acquiring transaction service 206 generates a plurality of children
   transaction requests based on the stored-value card transaction request, and sends at least
   one of the plurality of children transaction requests to a first card issuer, which is
   associated with at least one of the plurality of stored-value cards. The acquiring transaction
10 service 206 sends at least another of the plurality of children transaction requests to a
   second card issuer 204, which is associated with at least one of the plurality of stored-value
   cards but is different from the first card issuer. For example, the acquiring transaction
   service 206 generates 5 children transaction requests, one for each card issuer, and each
   request is an activation request for a card issuer's particular card in the package. The
15 acquiring transaction service 206 tailors each activation request to the particular format of
   the card issuer, and sends the activation requests to the each card issuers' authorization
   systems 204. Confirmation of successful executions of the activation requests are returned
   in at least one embodiment. As such, each of the 5 cards in the multicard package is
   activated via only one scan of the package's UPC and/or magnetic strip despite the
20 different card issuer for each card.
   The            following              will        describe   stored-value card uses and functionalities in a
   telecommunications support context, however, it should be understood that this is simply a
   matter of convenience and efficiency and that any genre of commercial applications of
25 stored-value card usage is contemplated under this disclosure.
   In at least one embodiment, the acquiring transaction service 206 receives a stored-value
   card activation request associated with a stored-value card. For example, a customer 102
   wishes to replenish her already active phone card with minutes, and selects a replenishing
30 option on an access point 202 graphical user interface ("GUI") at a vendor kiosk. However,
   it would be too expensive to retrofit every access point 202 to send replenish requests

    :\tId\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\TLD\16316056 _docx-I7 01 2018
                                                                - 13
   rather than activation requests. As such, the back-end must distinguish between activation
   requests intended for activation and activation requests intended for replenishment. In at
   least one embodiment, the acquiring transaction service 206 generates a replenish request,
   based on the stored-value card activation request, and sends the replenish request to the
 5 internal card processing service 212. For example, an account identifier, such as a BIN, is
   associated with the request. The internal card processing service 212 determines that the
   stored-value card is already active. If the card is already active, the activation request can
   be assumed to be intended for replenishment. If the card is not already active, the
   activation can be assumed to be intended for activation. At this point, either the acquiring
10 transaction service 206 or the internal card processing service 212 can generate a second
   replenish request formatted for the card issuer 204, or the multicard transaction system 350
   can handle the replenish request internally. If the acquiring transaction service 206
   generates the request, the internal card processing service 212 sends a phone number
   associated with the stored-value card to the acquiring transaction service 206 to associate
15 with the request. In either case, the acquiring transaction service 206 sends a confirmation
   of successful execution of the stored-value card activation request upon successful
   execution of the replenish request. Because the access point 202 is not equipped for
   handling replenish requests, the access point 202 will also not be equipped for handling
   confirmation messages of successful                          execution of replenish requests. As such,
20 confirmation of activation is sent instead.
   In an alternative embodiment, the acquiring transaction service 206 determines that the
   internal card processing service issued the stored-value card. For example, Telecom
   Company Z contracts with a stored-value card processing company to issue the type of
25 phone card used by the customer 102. As such, the internal card processing service 212,
   rather than Company Z's back-end 204, will store customer account information.
   Accordingly, the acquiring transaction service 206 sends a redemption request to the
   internal card processing service 212. In either case, the acquiring transaction service 206
   sends a confirmation of successful execution of the stored-value card activation request
30 upon successful execution of the replenish request.

    :\tId\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\TLD\16316056 _docx-I7 01 2018
                                                                        - 14
   In at least one embodiment, the acquiring transaction service 206 receives a stored-value
   card activation request associated with a stored-value card. For example, a customer 102
   wishes to activate a phone card by entering a BIN onto a website using her computer 108.
   The acquiring transaction service 206 identifies the stored-value card as issued from the
 5 internal card processing service 212. The acquiring transaction service 206 sends a
   replenish request based on the stored-value card activation request, to the internal card
   processing service 212, similar to the process described above. However, the internal card
   processing service 212 sends a declination to the acquiring transaction service 206 in
   response to the replenish request because the stored-value card is not active. As such, the
10 acquiring transaction service 206 sends an activation request, associated with the stored
   value card, to the internal card processing service 212 in response. The internal card
   processing service 212 sends a confirmation of successful execution of the activation
   request to the acquiring transaction service 206 upon successful execution of the activation
   request. In at least one embodiment, the acquiring transaction service 206 forwards the
15 confirmation to the access point 202 and vendor associated with the stored-value card.
   In an embodiment wherein a telecom customer desires to redeem a stored-value card
   associated with variable reload/recharge/top-up functionality, the customer may interact
   with the multicard transaction system 350 via an interactive voice response ("IVR") system
20  110 and/or another type of access point (e.g., web portal, kiosk). The stored-value card will
   have an associated value, amount, and or denomination. For ease of discussion, the
   redemption scenario will be presented in the IVR system 110 context with the
   understanding that other access points 202 could be substituted for the IVR system 110 to
   achieve the same desired results.
25
   To           effectuate              redemption              of the stored-value card associated with variable
   reload/recharge/top-up functionality, the customer initiates communication with the
   multicard transaction system 350. For example, the customer calls a phone number
   associated with the IVR system 110 (said phone number is representative of multicard
30 transaction system 350 communication information which is associated with the stored
   value card and which the customer receives in conjunction with possession of the stored-

    :\tId\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\TLD\16316056 _docx-I7 01 2018
                                                                - 15
   value card). Upon initiating communication with the IVR system 110, the IVR system 110
   prompts the customer to enter the identifying information of the customer's device (e.g.,
   phone number, mobile identification number, etc.) intended for registration and association
   with the stored-value card. Upon receipt of the identifying information, the IVR system
 5  110 validates the information (e.g., correct form, correct length, correct format for said
   information) and prompts the customer to enter a personal identification number ("PIN")
   that is associated with the stored-value card (the PIN may be printed on the stored-value
   card, printed the stored-value card's packaging, and/or printed on a receipt concerning the
   stored value card). The PIN may be any combination of alpha numeric characters, and/or
10 symbols, for example, the PIN may comprise twelve numerals. Upon receipt of the PIN,
   the IVR system 110 transmits a redemption request to the internal card processing service
   212. The internal card processing service 212 validates the PIN and ensures that the stored
   value card is activated but has yet to be associated with a customer's device. The internal
   card processing service 212 generates a reload/recharge/top-up request and transmits said
15 request to the acquiring transaction service 206. The reload/recharge/top-up request
   comprises the customer's device identifying information and the stored-value card's
   associated value, amount, and/or denomination. The acquiring transaction service 206
   transmits the request to a telecom carrier associated with the stored-value card. The carrier
   applies the stored-value card's value, amount, and/or denomination to the customer's
20 device and transmits a representative response to the acquiring transaction service 206.
   Upon receiving the representative response from the carrier, the acquiring transaction
   service 206 transmits the representative response to the internal card processing service
   212. If the request is approved, the internal card processing service 212 associates the
   customer's device identifying information with a customer account and/or the stored-value
25 card's identification number. The customer account (or the stored-value card's associated
   value) is then set to zero balance. If the request is declined, the IVR system 110 notifies the
   customer with an error message received from the carrier and/or notifies the customer that
   the request will be processed in twenty-four hours. If approved, the IVR system 110
   provides the customer with the carrier's name; device identifying information; amount,
30 value, and/or denomination of the stored-value card; and the customer account and/or the
   stored-value card's identification number. The IVR system 110 provides the customer with

    :\tId\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\TLD\16316056 _docx-I7 01 2018
                                                                      - 16
   a notification that the customer's device has been successfully recharged. If any issues arise
   during this redemption/recharge process, the customer is provided with information
   allowing the customer to contact the multicard transaction system's representatives for
   assistance.
 5
   In an embodiment wherein a telecom customer desires to reload/recharge/top-up a telecom
   device, the acquiring transaction service 206 receives a request to activate a stored-value
   card associated with variable reload/recharge/top-up functionality. The request may be
   initiated from a point of sale terminal or other access point and includes and amount for
10 said reload/recharge/top-up. The acquiring transaction service 206 identifies the card
   processor as internal card processing service 212. The acquiring transaction service 206
   transmits the reload/recharge/top-up request to the internal card processing service 212.
   In a first embodiment of the reload/recharge/top-up scenario, the internal card processing
15 service 212 approves the request if the stored-value card is activated and associated with a
   phone number. The internal card processing service 212 determines the telecom account
   associated with the phone number and adds the requested reload/recharge/top-up amount to
   the account. The internal card processing service 212 sends a response to the request (e.g.,
   indicating that the reload/recharge/top-up                            amount has been added to the associated
20 account), which comprises the phone number, to the acquiring transaction service 206. The
   acquiring transaction service 206 transmits a reload/recharge/top-up transaction request to
   the phone number's associated telecom                                 carrier. Upon receiving approval of the
   reload/recharge/top-up                            transaction request from the telecom carrier,  the acquiring
   transaction service 206 transmits a redemption transaction to the internal card processing
25 service 212. The internal card processing service 212 sets the account balance to zero and
   transmits               an approval response to the acquiring transaction service 206. If the
   reload/recharge/top-up transaction request is not approved by the telecom carrier, the
   acquiring transaction service 206 transmits a reversal request to the internal card
   processing service 212 which removes the requested reload/recharge/top-up amount from
30 the account associated with the phone number. The acquiring transaction service 206
   transmits a reload/recharge/top-up transaction request response to the originating access

    :\tId\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\TLD\16316056 _docx-17 01 2018
                                                                         - 17
   point.
   In another embodiment of the reload/recharge/top-up scenario, the internal card processing
   service 212 approves the request if the stored-value card is activated and associated with a
 5 phone number. The internal card processing service 212 transmits a reload/recharge/top-up
   transaction request to the acquiring transaction service 206. The acquiring transaction
   service 206 transmits the reload/recharge/top-up transaction request to the phone number's
   associated telecom                            carrier.       The acquiring transaction service 206 transmits the
   reload/recharge/top-up transaction request response to the internal card processing service
10 212. If the reload/recharge/top-up transaction request is approved by the telecom carrier,
   the internal card processing service 212 transmits an approval message to the acquiring
   transaction service 206. If the reload/recharge/top-up transaction request is not approved
   by the telecom carrier, the internal card processing service 212 transmits a rejection
   message to the acquiring transaction service 206. The acquiring transaction service 206
15 transmits the reload/recharge/top-up transaction request to the originating access point.
   In at least one embodiment, a linearly scalable grid computing network is used for
   settlement of stored-value card transactions. The linearly scalable grid computing network
   comprises a plurality of different architectural components. These components comprise: a
20 data grid with various spaces therein; a database; a set of application programming
   interfaces ("APIs") allowing for data grid access; real-time processes; a data manager; and
   container wherein reside certain real-time processes, the data manager, the set of APIs
   allowing for data grid access, and the data grid. Ultimately, the linearly scalable grid
   computing network allows for more efficient and higher volumes of transaction processes
25 (e.g., 200 transactions per second, four million transactions per every six hours).
   Real time (or near real time) processes are responsible connecting to various data sources,
   acquiring transactions from the data sources, data validation, fee calculations and inserting
   information into a settlement database. Certain of these real time processes comprise
30 processes for connecting the linearly scalable grid computing network to differing data
   sources (e.g., different transaction processing switches and/or platforms). Other of these

    :\tId\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\TLD\16316056 1docx-17 01 2018
                                                                - 18
   real time processes comprise processes for inserting transaction data into temporary data
   tables allowing for faster data access. Other of these real time processes comprise
   processes (e.g., based on bit map value) for continuously querying certain data tables (e.g.,
   temporary data tables), applying business logic and updating data tables with results along
 5 with updated bitmap. Other of these real time processes comprise processes for inserting
   transaction information into one table while removing the transactions from another table
   (e.g., inserting transaction information into a permanent table and removing the transaction
   from a temporary table).
10 The linearly scalable grid computing network allows for all transactional data to be stored
   in a memory grid for faster data retrieval and update. The grid is partitioned with
   redundancy and fail over support. Support is added to all real time processes to enable the
   real time processes to be deployed as services by which multiple instances of the same real
   time process can be deployed and managed. These multiple instances of the real time
15 processes may read data in data spaces, perform business logic, and update data in the data
   spaces.
   Specifically, three data spaces are contemplated. These three data spaces comprise
   Transaction Data Space, Master Data Space, and Summary Data Space. Transaction Data
20 Space is the data space for transaction data. Master Data Space is the data space for master
   data, which is reference data and will be updated periodically by certain of the multiple
   instances of the real time processes. Summary Data Space is the data space for summary
   data that may be used by batch processes.
25 Figure 3 illustrates a multicard transaction system 350 coupled to various other
   components. Figure 3 includes: (a) at least one point of sale component 311; (b) a
   multicard transaction system 350; (c) a database 380 of package identifiers and individual
   stored- value card identifiers; (d) at least one individual card issuer's authorization system
   360; and (e) any other component included in the system by the multicard transaction
30 system administrator 351. The system is adapted to respond to various stored-value card
   request transactions, with each of the stored-value cards and/or multicard packages bearing

    :\tId\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\TLD\16316056 _docx-I7 01 2018
                                                                - 19
   unique identifiers. As can be seen in Figure 3, at the point of sale, the various identifiers
   are interpreted 302 by a point of sale interpretation component 301. The point of sale
   interpretation component 301 can comprise a human, a bar code scanner, magnetic strip
   reader, optical character recognition device, or other device configured to interpret the data
 5 encoded in the various identifiers.
   Contemporaneously with the interpretation of the identifier, a request for activation or
   deactivation 303 by a point of sale transaction component 304 is made. The point of sale
   transaction component 304 can comprise a human, an electronic input device, a register, a
10 computer processing unit ("CPU"), or other means of requesting the activation or
   deactivation of the package identifier interpreted by the point of sale interpretation
   component 301. For purposes of disclosure, the actions performed by the point of sale
   interpretation component 301 and the point of sale transaction component 304 may be
   performed by one component capable of performing both actions that would be performed
15 by the individual components.
   The point of sale interpretation component 301 and the point of sale transaction component
   304 communicate with the point of sale processing component 305. The point of sale
   processing component 305 can comprise a CPU or other type of processing device
20 accepted for use in the industry. The point of sale interpretation component 301
   communicates the identifier to the point of sale processing component 305. The point of
   sale transaction component 304 communicates the request for activation or deactivation of
   the identifier interpreted by the point of sale interpretation component 301 to the point of
   sale processing component 305. The point of sale processing component 305 correlates the
25 identifier interpreted by the point of sale interpretation component 301 with the request for
   activation or deactivation made by the point of sale transaction component 304 and
   communicates the request 306 for activation or deactivation of the identifier to the
   multicard transaction system 350. For purposes of disclosure, the actions performed by the
   point of sale interpretation component 301, the point of sale transaction component 304,
30 and the point of sale processing component 306 may all be performed by one component
   capable of performing all the actions that would be performed by the individual

    :\tId\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\TLD\16316056 1docx-17 01 2018
                                                                - 20
   components.
   The point of sale processing component 305 is connectable to the multicard transaction
   system 350 as via a suitable network, such as the public switched telephone network
 5 (PSTN) or an independent dedicated network. Each point of sale processing component
   305 has an associated identifier that may be transmitted to the multicard transaction system
   350 during the course of connecting the point of sale processing component 305 to the
   multicard transaction system 350.
10 As depicted in Figure 3, the multicard transaction system 350 is configured to: (a) form a
   secure connection with the card vendor system 311, the card issuers' authorization systems
   360, and any other entities authorized to access the multicard transaction system 350 by the
   multicard transaction system administrator 351; (b) access the database 380 to determine
   the stored-value cards to be activated or deactivated based on the identifier communicated
15 to it by the card vendor; (c) to communicate with card issuers' authorization systems 360 to
   request and receive activation or deactivation of specific stored-value cards based on the
   information contained in the database 380 correlating stored-value card identifiers to
   unique package identifiers; (d) generate and maintain transaction log 370 of all activities
   performed; (e) generate and maintain an error log 375 of all activities unsuccessfully
20 completed and reasons therefor; (f) communicate to the card vendor the activation or
   deactivation of the individual stored-value cards and any information concomitant with the
   activation or deactivation of individual stored-value cards, i.e. the communication of PINs
   associated with activated stored-value cards; and (g) communicate to the card vendor any
   reasons why requested transactions cannot not be completed.
25
   Oversight and maintenance of the stored-value card transaction system is performed by the
   multicard transaction system administrator 351. Although not required, in an alternative
   embodiment, the multicard transaction system administrator 351 may also function as the
   database administrator 381.
30
   The multicard transaction system 350 may comprise a singular processing unit, with

    :\tid\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\TLD\16316056 1docx-l7 012018
                                                                          - 21
   concomitant storage capability, capable of accessing the database 380, creating and
   maintaining                   a transaction log 370, creating and maintaining               an error log 375,
   communicating with the card vendor, communicating with the individual card issuers'
   authorization systems 360, processing individual stored-value card activation and or
 5 deactivation requests, and communicating with other systems 390 capable of and
   authorized to communicate with the multicard transaction system 350.
   In the alternative, the stored-value card transaction system may comprise a plurality of
   processing units, with concomitant storage capabilities, each capable of: the services
10 described above and in Figure 2,accessing the database 380; creating a transaction log 370;
   creating and maintaining                                    an error log 375; communicating with card vendors;
   communicating with the individual card issuers' authorization systems 360; processing
   individual stored-value card activation and or deactivation requests; and communicating
   with other systems 390 capable of and authorized to communicate with the multicard
15 transaction system 350.
   In another alternative embodiment, the multicard transaction system 350 may comprise a
   plurality of processing units, with concomitant storage capabilities, each individually
   designated for: the services described above and in Figure 2, accessing the database 380;
20 creating a transaction log 370; creating and maintaining an error log 375; communicating
   with card vendors; communicating with the individual card issuers' authorization systems
   360; processing individual stored-value card activation and or deactivation requests; and
   communicating with other systems 390 capable of and authorized to communicate with the
   multicard transaction system 350.
25
   In another alternative embodiment, the stored-value card transaction system may comprise
   a plurality of processing units, with concomitant storage capabilities: capable of the
   services described above and in Figure 2, accessing the database 380, creating a transaction
   log 370, creating and maintaining an error log 375, communicating with card vendors,
30 communicating with the individual card issuers' authorization systems 360, processing
   individual stored-value card activation and or deactivation requests, and communicating

    :\tId\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\TLD\16316056 _docx-17 01 2018
                                                                -22
   with other systems 390 capable of and authorized to communicate with the multicard
   transaction system 350; designated for accessing the database 380, designated for creating
   a transaction log 370, designated for creating and maintaining an error log 375, designated
   for communicating with card vendors, designated for communicating with the individual
 5 card issuers' authorization systems 360, designated for processing individual stored-value
   card activation and or deactivation requests, and designated for communicating with other
   systems 390 capable of and authorized to communicate with the multicard transaction
   system 350; or any combination thereof.
10 Upon receipt of an activation or deactivation request, if the received identifier is a package
   identifier, the multicard transaction system 350 accesses the database 380 of stored-value
   card identifier data correlated to unique package identifiers. The multicard transaction
   system 350 processes the information (and if necessary for a package identifier, processes
   the information along with information contained in the database 380) and communicates
15 309, 310 with the individual card issuer[V] authorization systems] 360 to effectuate
   activation or deactivation of the stored-value cards] of the request. The multicard
   transaction system's 350 communication with the individual card issuers' authorization
   systems 360 may occur simultaneously or independently. The multicard transaction system
   350 is connectable to the individual card issuers' authorization systems as via a suitable
20 network, such as the PSTN or an independent dedicated network. The multicard
   transaction system 350 is configured to receive communication from the card issuers'
   authorization systems 360 concerning the status of the activation or deactivation of
   individual stored-value cards.
25 The multicard transaction system 350 is also configured to generate and maintain a
   transaction log 370 of all activity involving the multicard activation computer 350. The
   transaction log may comprise a detailed summary of: (a) requested package activations; (b)
   requested package deactivations; (c) requested individual card activations; (d) requested
   individual card deactivations; (e) the monetary amount ascribed to package activations; (f)
30 the monetary amount ascribed to package deactivations; (g) the monetary amounts ascribed
   individual stored-value card activations; (h) the monetary amounts ascribed to individual

    :\tId\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\TLD\16316056 1docx-17 01 2018
                                                                - 23
   stored-value cards deactivations; (i) the identities of the individual card issuers of the
   stored-value cards secured by activated packages; (j) the identities of the individual card
   issuers of the stored-value cards secured by deactivated packages; (k) the time the
   packages were activated; (1) the time the packages were deactivated; (m) the time
 5 individual stored-value cards were activated; (n) the time individual stored-value cards
   were deactivated; (o) the transaction or communication performed with the card issuer to
   activate the individual stored-value cards; (p) the transaction or communication performed
   with the card issuer to deactivate the individual stored-value cards; (q) the PIN
   communicated to the card vendor in response to a request to activate a stored-value card
10 requiring the input of a PIN for use; (r) any other information the multicard transaction
   system administrator 351 directs the multicard transaction system 350 to maintain as a log
   entry; and (s) any combination thereof.
   The information contained in the transaction log 370 may be used to generate
15 reconciliation reports, settlement reports, payment reports, audit reports, or other forms of
   information aggregation for the benefit of, use by, or for provision to, the multicard
   transaction administrator 351, the database administrator 381, card vendors, card issuers,
   card issuer's authorization systems 360, redeeming merchants, or other interested parties.
20 The multicard transaction system 350 is configured to generate and maintain an error log
   of all transactions that were not completed and reasons therefor.
   The multicard transaction system 350 is also configured to communicate to the card vendor
   307 the status of a request for activation or deactivation of a package identifier and/or
25 individual stored-value cards and to communicate any necessary PIN information required
   by activated stored-value cards to the card vendor in order for the card purchaser to be
   apprised of that information for use of the purchased individual stored-value card. As
   previously discussed, is connectable to the individual card issuers' authorization systems as
   via a suitable network, such as the PSTN or an independent dedicated network.
30
   The multicard transaction system 350 is also configured to communicate with other entities

    :\tId\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\TLD\16316056 _docx-17 01 2018
                                                                - 24
   390 authorized to access the multicard transaction system and specifically authorized to
   access the multicard transaction system 350. These other entities may comprise third party
   payment management systems, third party audit systems, card issuer affiliated entities,
   card vendor affiliated entities, redeeming merchants or redeeming merchant affiliated
 5 entities, or any other entity provided access by the multicard transaction system
   administrator 351.
   In at least one embodiment, there may arise situations where an activation or deactivation
   request is received by the multicard transaction system 350, but the information in the
10 database 380 pertaining to the package identifier or the individual stored-value card
   identifiers received by multicard activation computer 350 precludes completion of the
   request. For example, a package assembly or individual stored-value card may have been
   previously activated, returned to the point of sale for a refund, but not deactivated prior to
   reshelving. In that case, when subsequent customer purchases that package assembly or
15 individual stored-value card, and an activation request is communicated to the multicard
   transaction system 350, the database 380 file accessed by the multicard transaction system
   350 will indicate that the package assembly, the individual stored-value cards secured by
   the package, or or the individual stored-value card are already activated. In this and other
   similar situations, the multicard transaction system will communicate a message to the card
20 vendor that the transaction cannot be completed.
   The multicard transaction system 350 above or specific services may be implemented on
   any particular machine with sufficient processing power, memory resources, and network
   throughput capability to handle the necessary workload placed upon it. The machine may
25 host one or more services or be part of a group of machines hosting one or more services
   collectively. Figure 4 illustrates a particular machine suitable for implementing one or
   more embodiments or services disclosed herein. The computer system 480 includes a
   processor 482 (which may be referred to as a central processor unit or CPU) that is in
   communication with memory devices including secondary storage 484, read only memory
30 (ROM) 486, random access memory (RAM) 488, input/output (I/O) 490 devices, and
   network connectivity devices 492. The processor may be implemented as one or more

    :\tId\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\TLD\16316056 1docx-17 01 2018
                                                                - 25
   CPU chips.
   The secondary storage 484 is, in at least one embodiment, comprised of one or more disk
   drives or tape drives and is used for non-volatile storage of data and as an over-flow data
 5 storage device if RAM 388 is not large enough to hold all working data. Secondary storage
   484 may be used to store programs which are loaded into RAM 388 when such programs
   are selected for execution. The ROM 486 is used to store instructions and perhaps data
   which are read during program execution. ROM 486 is a non-volatile memory device that,
   in at least one embodiment, has a small memory capacity relative to the larger memory
10 capacity of secondary storage. The RAM 488 is used to store volatile data and perhaps to
   store instructions. Access to both ROM 486 and RAM 488 is faster than to secondary
   storage 484 in at least one embodiment.
   I/O 490 devices may include printers, video monitors, liquid crystal displays (LCDs),
15 touch screen displays, keyboards, keypads, switches, dials, mice, track balls, voice
   recognizers, card readers, paper tape readers, or other well-known input devices. The
   network connectivity devices 492 may take the form of modems, modem banks, ethernet
   cards, universal serial bus (USB) interface cards, serial interfaces, token ring cards, fiber
   distributed data interface (FDDI) cards, wireless local area network (WLAN) cards, radio
20 transceiver cards such as code division multiple access (CDMA) and/or global system for
   mobile communications (GSM) radio transceiver cards, and other well-known network
   devices. These network connectivity 492 devices may enable the processor 482 to
   communicate with an Internet or one or more intranets. With such a network connection, it
   is contemplated that the processor 482 might receive information from the network, or
25 might output information to the network in the course of performing the above-described
   method steps. Such information, which is often represented as a sequence of instructions to
   be executed using processor 482, may be received from and outputted to the network, for
   example, in the form of a computer data signal embodied in a carrier wave
30 Such information, which may include data or instructions to be executed using processor
   482 for example, may be received from and outputted to the network, for example, in the

    :\tId\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\TLD\16316056 1docx-17 01 2018
                                                                - 26
   form of a computer data baseband signal or signal embodied in a carrier wave. The
   baseband signal or signal embodied in the carrier wave generated by the network
   connectivity 492 devices may propagate in or on the surface of electrical conductors, in
   coaxial cables, in waveguides, in optical media, for example optical fiber, or in the air or
 5 free space. The information contained in the baseband signal or signal embedded in the
   carrier wave may be ordered according to different sequences, as may be desirable for
   either processing or generating the information or transmitting or receiving the
   information. The baseband signal or signal embedded in the carrier wave, or other types of
   signals currently used or hereafter developed, referred to herein as the transmission
10 medium, may be generated according to several methods well known to one skilled in the
   art.
   The processor 482 executes instructions, codes, computer programs, scripts which it
   accesses from hard disk, floppy disk, optical disk (these various disk based systems may
15 all be considered secondary storage 484), ROM 486, RAM 488, or the network
   connectivity devices 492.
   Figures 5-8 illustrate various methods for efficient stored-value card transactions. Any step
   taken by any entity or service described above or in Figures 1-4 may be taken from or
20 included in the particular embodiments represented by Figures 5-8. Figure 5 illustrates a
   method 500 beginning at 502 and ending at 512. At 504, a stored-value card transaction
   request is received from an access point. Some examples of access points are merchant
   terminal, customer computer coupled to the Internet, interactive voice response server,
   customer mobile device coupled to Internet, or customer mobile device coupled to short
25 messaging service ("SMS"). The stored-value card transaction request may comprise an
   individual stored-value card identification number or indicia thereof or, alternatively, may
   comprise a package identification number, wherein the package identification number is
   associated with a plurality of stored-value cards. At 506, a plurality of children transaction
   requests are generated based on the stored-value card transaction request.
30
   In at least one embodiment, a transaction request comprising an individual card

    :\tId\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\TLD\16316056 1docx-I7 01 2018
                                                                - 27
   identification number or indicia thereof may result in number of children transaction
   requests. At 508, at least one of the plurality of children transaction requests is sent to a
   first card party. At 510, at least another of the plurality of children transaction requests is
   sent to a second card party.
 5
   In at least one embodiment, a number of children transaction requests in the plurality of
   children transaction requests is equal to a number of stored-value cards in the plurality of
   stored-value cards. At 508, at least one of the plurality of children transaction requests is
   sent to a first card party. The first card party is associated with at least one of the plurality
10 of stored-value cards. At 510, at least another of the plurality of children transaction
   requests is sent to a second card party. The second card party is different from the first card
   party, and the second card party is associated with at least one of the plurality of stored
   value cards.
15 Figure 6 illustrates a method 600 beginning at 602 and ending at 612. At 604, a stored
   value card activation request associated with a stored-value card is received. In at least one
   embodiment, the method 600 comprises determining that an internal card processing
   service issued the stored-value card. At 606, a determination is made that the stored-value
   card is already active. For example, if a phone number is associated with the stored-value
20 card, the card can be assumed to be active. Also, activation of the stored-value card may be
   attempted. Depending on any returned activation error code, the card may be assumed to
   be active. At 608, a replenish request is generated based on the stored-value card activation
   request. For example, if the activation request fails because the card is already active, the
   activation request may be assumed to have been generated with the intention of
25 replenishment. In at least one embodiment, the replenishment request is executed. At 610,
   a confirmation of successful execution of the stored-value card activation request is sent
   upon successful execution of the replenish request.
   Figure 7 illustrates a method 700 beginning at 702 and ending at 712. At 704, a stored
30 value card activation request associated with a stored-value card is received. At 706, an
   attempt is made to initiate or execute a replenish request based on the stored-value card

    :\tId\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\TLD\16316056 _docx-I7 01 2018
                                                                -28
   activation request. Failure to execute the replenish request is caused by the stored-value
   card being inactive in at least one embodiment. At 708, an attempt is made to initiate or
   execute the stored-value card activation request based on failure to execute the replenish
   request. In at least one embodiment, the activation request is executed. At 710, a
 5 confirmation of successful execution of the stored-value card activation request is sent
   upon successful execution of the stored-value card activation request.
   Figure 8 illustrates a method 800 beginning at 802 and ending at 812. At 804, stored-value
   card transactions are received. The stored-value card transactions are associated with
10 multiple card issuers. At 806, the stored-value card transactions are processed. If a volume
   of stored-value card transactions falls below a threshold, a node is added to the linearly
   scalable grid computing network. For example, another server or switch is made part of a
   group of servers or switches that are assigned transaction responsibilities or services. If the
   volume of stored-value card transactions exceeds a threshold, a node is removed from the
15 linearly scalable grid computing network. In other words, the server or switch is rezoned.
   For example, another server or switch is removed from a group of servers or switches that
   are assigned transaction responsibilities or services. In other words, the server or switch is
   rezoned.
20 At 808, a linearly scalable grid computing network is used for settlement of the stored
   value card transactions. In at least one embodiment, using the linearly scalable grid
   computing network comprises storing and/or processing transaction data associated with
   the stored-value card transactions on the linearly scalable grid computing network. In
   various embodiments, using the linearly scalable grid computing network also comprises
25 storing and/or processing summary data associated with the stored-value card transactions,
   and storing and/or processing master data associated with the stored-value card
   transactions on the linearly scalable grid computing network. By leveraging data grid,
   bottlenecks and errors resulting from slow access to a database is prevented. Rather, the
   data stored on the data grid is asynchronously stored to a database. As such, batch
30 processing can be avoided, but a reference database is still maintained. There is no
   intentional delay between processing the stored-value card transactions and settlement of

    :\tId\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\TLD\16316056 _docx-I7 01 2018
                                                                - 29
   the stored-value card transactions and the transactions are settled in real time or near real
   time.
   While several embodiments have been provided in the present disclosure, it should be
 5 understood that the disclosed systems and methods may be embodied in many other
   specific forms without departing from the spirit or scope of the present disclosure. The
   present examples are to be considered as illustrative and not restrictive, and the intention is
   not to be limited to the details given herein. For example, the various elements or
   components may be combined or integrated in another system or certain features may be
10 omitted, or not implemented.
   Also, techniques, systems, subsystems and methods described and illustrated in the various
   embodiments as discrete or separate may be combined or integrated with other systems,
   modules, techniques, or methods without departing from the scope of the present
15 disclosure. Other items shown or discussed as directly coupled or communicating with
   each other may be coupled through some interface or device, such that the items may no
   longer be considered directly coupled to each other but may still be indirectly coupled and
   in communication, whether electrically, mechanically, or otherwise with one another.
   Other examples of changes, substitutions, and alterations are ascertainable by one skilled
20 in the art and could be made without departing from the spirit and scope disclosed herein.
   It will be apparent to those skilled in the art that modifications may be made without
   departing from the spirit and scope of the disclosure. The embodiments described are
   representative only, and are not intended to be limiting. Many variations, combinations,
25 and modifications of the applications disclosed herein are possible and are within the scope
   of the disclosure. Accordingly, the scope of protection is not limited by the description set
   out above, but is defined by the claims which follow, that scope including all equivalents
   of the subject matter of the claims.

    :\tId\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\TLD\16316056 _docx-I7 01 2018
                                                                - 30
   Claims Defining the Invention
   1.               A method, comprising:
                    receiving a stored-value card activation request associated with a stored-value card;
 5                   determining that the stored-value card is already active;
                     generating a replenish request based on the stored-value card activation request;
                     sending a confirmation of successful execution of the stored-value card activation
   request upon successful execution of the replenish request.
10 2.                The method of claim 1, further comprising determining that an internal card
   processing service issued the stored- value card.
   3.               A network, comprising:
                     an acquiring transaction service;
15                   an internal card processing service coupled to the acquiring transaction service;
                     wherein the acquiring transaction service receives a stored-value card activation
   request associated with a stored-value card;
                     wherein the acquiring transaction service generates a replenish request, based on
   the stored- value card activation request, and sends the replenish request to the internal
20 card processing service;
                     wherein the internal card processing service determines that the stored-value card is
   already active;
                     wherein the acquiring transaction service sends a confirmation of successful
   execution of the stored-value card activation request upon successful execution of the
25 replenish request.
   4.                The network of claim 3, wherein the acquiring transaction service determines that
   the internal card processing service issued the stored-value card.
30 5.                The network of claim 3, wherein the internal card processing service sends a phone
   number associated with the stored-value card to the acquiring transaction service.

    :\tId\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\TLD\16316056 _docx-I7 01 2018
                                                                -31
   6.                The network of claim 3, wherein the acquiring transaction service generates a
   second replenish request formatted for card party associated with the stored-value card.
 5 7.                The network of claim 3, wherein the acquiring transaction service sends a
   redemption request to the internal card processing service.
   8.                The network of claim 3, wherein the internal card processing service generates a
   second replenish request formatted for card party associated with the stored-value card.
10
   9.               A method, comprising:
                    receiving a stored-value card activation request associated with a stored-value card;
                     attempting to execute a replenish request based on the stored-value card activation
   request; attempting to execute the stored-value card activation request based on failure to
15 execute the replenish request;
                     sending a confirmation of successful execution of the stored-value card activation
   request upon successful execution of the stored-value card activation request.
    10.              The method of claim 9, wherein the failure to execute the replenish request is
20 caused by the stored-value card being inactive.
    11.             A network, comprising:
                     an acquiring transaction service;
                     an internal card processing service coupled to the acquiring transaction service;
25                   wherein the acquiring transaction service receives a stored-value card activation
   request associated with a stored-value card and sends a replenish request, based on the
   stored-value card activation request, to the internal card processing service;
                     wherein the internal card processing service sends a declination to the acquiring
   transaction service in response to the replenish request;
30                   wherein the acquiring transaction service sends an activation request, associated
   with the stored-value card, to the internal card processing service in response to the

    :\tId\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\TLD\16316056 _docx-17 01 2018
                                                                - 32
   declination;
                    wherein the internal card processing service sends a confirmation of successful
   execution of the activation request to the acquiring transaction service upon successful
   execution of the activation request.
 5
   12.               The network of claim 11, wherein the acquiring transaction service identifies the
   stored-value card as issued from the internal card processing service.
   13.               The network of claim 11, wherein the acquiring transaction service forwards the
10 confirmation to a vendor associated with the stored- value card.
   14.              A machine-readable storage medium comprising executable instructions that, when
   executed, cause one or more processors to:
                     receive a stored-value card activation request associated with a stored-value card;
15                   attempt to execute a replenish request based on the stored-value card activation
   request; attempt to execute the stored-value card activation request based on failure to
   execute the replenish request;
                     send a confirmation of successful execution of the stored-value card activation
   request upon successful execution of the stored-value card activation request.
20
   15.               The storage medium of claim 14, wherein the failure to execute the replenish
   request is caused by the stored-value card being inactive.
   16.              A method, comprising:
25                   receiving a stored-value card activation request associated with a stored-value card;
                     determining that the stored-value card is already active;
                     generating a replenish request based on the stored-value card activation request;
                     sending a confirmation of successful execution of the stored-value card activation
   request upon successful execution of the replenish request.
30
   17.               The method of claim 16, further comprising determining that an internal card

    :\tId\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\TLD\16316056 _docx-I7 01 2018
                                                                - 33
   processing service issued the stored-value card.
   18.              A network, comprising:
                     an acquiring transaction service;
 5                   an internal card processing service coupled to the acquiring transaction service;
                     wherein the acquiring transaction service receives a stored-value card activation
   request associated with a stored-value card;
                     wherein the acquiring transaction service generates a replenish request, based on
   the stored- value card activation request, and sends the replenish request to the internal
10 card processing service;
                     wherein the internal card processing service determines that the stored-value card is
   already active;
                     wherein the acquiring transaction service sends a confirmation of successful
   execution of the stored-value card activation request upon successful execution of the
15 replenish request.
   19.               The network of claim 18, wherein the acquiring transaction service determines that
   the internal card processing service issued the stored-value card.
20 20.               The network of claim 18, wherein the internal card processing service sends a
   phone number associated with the stored-value card to the acquiring transaction service.
   21.               The network of claim 18, wherein the acquiring transaction service generates a
   second replenish request formatted for card issuer associated with the stored-value card.
25
   22.               The network of claim 18, wherein the acquiring transaction service sends a
   redemption request to the internal card processing service.
   23.               The network of claim 18, wherein the internal card processing service generates a
30 second replenish request formatted for card issuer associated with the stored-value card.

    :\tId\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\TLD\16316056 _docx-17 01 2018
                                                                - 34
   24.              A method, comprising:
                    receiving a stored-value card activation request associated with a stored-value card;
                     attempting to execute a replenish request based on the stored-value card activation
   request; attempting to execute the stored-value card activation request based on failure to
 5 execute the replenish request;
                     sending a confirmation of successful execution of the stored-value card activation
   request upon successful execution of the stored-value card activation request.
   25.               The method of claim 24, wherein the failure to execute the replenish request is
10 caused by the stored-value card being inactive.
   26.              A network, comprising:
                     an acquiring transaction service;
                     an internal card processing service coupled to the acquiring transaction service;
15                   wherein the acquiring transaction service receives a stored-value card activation
   request associated with a stored-value card and sends a replenish request, based on the
   stored-value card activation request, to the internal card processing service;
                     wherein the internal card processing service sends a declination to the acquiring
   transaction service in response to the replenish request;
20                   wherein the acquiring transaction service sends an activation request, associated
   with the stored-value card, to the internal card processing service in response to the
   declination; wherein the internal card processing service sends a confirmation of successful
   execution of the activation request to the acquiring transaction service upon successful
   execution of the activation request.
25
   27.               The network of claim 26, wherein the acquiring transaction service identifies the
   stored-value card as issued from the internal card processing service.
   28.               The network of claim 26, wherein the acquiring transaction service forwards the
30 confirmation to a vendor associated with the stored-value card.

    :\tId\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\TLD\16316056 _docx-I7 01 2018
                                                                - 35
   29.              A machine-readable storage medium comprising executable instructions that, when
   executed, cause one or more processors to:
                    receive a stored-value card activation request associated with a stored-value card;
                     attempt to execute a replenish request based on the stored-value card activation
 5 request; attempt to execute the stored-value card activation request based on failure to
   execute the replenish request;
                     send a confirmation of successful execution of the stored-value card activation
   request upon successful execution of the stored-value card activation request.
10 30.               The storage medium of claim 29, wherein the failure to execute the replenish
   request is caused by the stored-value card being inactive.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
