                                        34
ABSTRACT
The present invention provides a releasable fastener assembly (11)           for
securing an object (19) to a structure (13).    The structure comprising a first
surface (15) and a second surface (17) against which the object is secured.
The fastener assembly comprises a housing (43) adapted to be secured
relative to the structure, a nut (63) adapted to be received in the housing and
a bolt (73) adapted to pass through a hole (25) in the object and engage the
nut. When the nut is received in the housing and the bolt fastened relative to
the nut, the object is clampingly secured to the surface.

                     133
 ....
....
                615
                    GO2al
      Figure 20

                                         1
Releasable Fastener Assembly
TECHNICAL FIELD
[0001] The present invention generally relates to a releasable fastener
assembly.      In particular the invention relates to a releasable fastener
assembly for securing a first object to a second object, such as a structure
wherein only one side of one of the objects may be readily accessed.
BACKGROUND ART
[0002] Fasteners are a common and well-used means to secure one object to
another. Typically when doing so an operator is able to access both sides of
each object and can therefore easily tighten the fastener to ensure the two
objects are securely fastened.      However, there are many instances where
only one side of the object may easily be accessed. This is problematic when
securing an object to another object using fasteners.
[0003] In the mining industry there are numerous applications where only one
side of an object is readily accessible, particularly after the plant has been
installed.  One such application is in relation to securing wear liners to a
structure. Wear liners are used extensively throughout the mining industry to
protect those parts of structures which are exposed to wear. Due to their very
nature, the wear liners are sacrificial and require regular replacement when
they wear to a level where they no longer serve their purpose. It is therefore
important that the wear liners can be readily removed. Furthermore, due to
the harsh operating conditions, it is also important that the wear liners are
held firmly in place during their service cycle.
[0004] Wear liners are used to protect mills, transfer chutes, crushers and
other structures. Once these structures have been installed the rear side of
the structure is concealed or is often difficult to access.   In order to secure
any wear liners to these types of structures a number of solutions are
available.

                                           2
[0005] Systems for fastening wear liners with conventional nuts and bolts, or
as studded plate require access by personnel to both sides of the structure.
These systems therefore do not allow for quick and easy installation and
removal of wear liners, and often require the installation of scaffolding to
provide safe access.
[0006] Alternative attachment methods which enable the attachment and
removal of objects, particularly wear liners, from a single side of the structure
are limited and have a number of disadvantages.             One of these solutions
includes the use of a blind fastener or blind rivet.          These solutions are
compromised if the head of the fastener wears, as is typically the case in
wear liner applications. A worn often leads to failure of the retention system.
Furthermore they may also be very difficult to remove, rendering it difficult to
replace the object secured to the structure.
[0007] A further deficiency with several types of blind fasteners is that they
rely upon a complementary match of the surface profile of the structure with
the engaging surface profile of the wear liner as the fasteners have a fixed
'grip length' (i.e. it is important that the underside surface of the wear liner
closely mirrors that of the surface it is to protect).        Where irregularities
between the two surfaces occur the operator may be prevented from being
able to install the fasteners, or install the fasteners in a manner which secures
the object properly, or at all.
[0008] Some blind fasteners also require complex parts in their design or
specialised installation and removal tooling and are therefore not suited to
mining applications.
[0009] Other methods for securing and removing wear liners to structures
involve welding the liner to the structure, and subsequent thermal cutting to
remove them from the structure when they need to be replaced. This involves
dangerous and time intensive 'hot work' every time the liner is changed. It can
also be damaging to the structure and the new wear liner. In addition, the
need to weld limits the range of suitable material which can be selected for
use as a wear liner.

                                         3
[0010] Several methods which allow for single-sided attachment and removal
of a wear liner require the permanent fixing of an adapter or retainer to the
structure. The deficiency in many of these systems is that the adapters or
retainers are vulnerable to damage, as they sit upon the surface of the
structure which is exposed to wear. If these adapters or retainers are
damaged, hot work including thermal cutting and welding is needed to replace
it with a new one before another liner can be fitted.
[0011] The preceding discussion of the background art is intended to facilitate
an understanding of the present invention only. The discussion is not an
acknowledgement or admission that any of the material referred to is or was
part of the common general knowledge as at the priority date of the
application.
SUMMARY OF INVENTION
[0012] It is an object of this invention to provide to a releasable fastener
assembly     which    ameliorates,  mitigates  or   overcomes,   at   least  one
disadvantage of the prior art, or which will at least provide the public with a
practical choice.
[0013]The present invention provides a releasable fastener assembly for
securing    an object to a structure, the releasable fastener assembly
comprising:
             a housing adapted to be secured relative to the structure;
             a nut adapted to be received in the housing;
             a bolt adapted to pass through a hole in the object and engage
             the nut;
             whereupon the nut being received in the housing and the bolt
             fastened relative to the nut, the object is clampingly secured to
             the structure.
[0014] The present invention provides a releasable fastener assembly for
securing an object to a structure, wherein a rear surface of the structure is not

                                        4
readily accessible once the structure is complete, the releasable fastener
assembly comprising:
        a housing adapted to be secured to the structure;
        a nut adapted to be received in the housing;
        a bolt adapted to pass through the object and engage the nut
        whereupon the nut being received in the housing and the bolt
        fastened relative to the nut, the object is clampingly secured to the
        structure.
[0015]The present invention provides a releasable fastener assembly for
securing   an object to a structure, the releasable fastener assembly
comprising:
        a housing adapted to be secured relative to the structure;
        a nut adapted to be received in the housing;
        a bolt adapted to pass through a hole in the object and engage the
        nut;
        whereupon the nut being received in the housing and the bolt
        fastened relative to the nut, the object is clampingly secured to the
        structure.
[0016]The structure may comprise a first surface and a second surface
against which the object is secured, wherein the first surface is not readily
accessible.
[0017]The present invention provides a releasable fastener assembly for
securing an object to a structure, the structure comprising a first surface and a
second surface against which the object is secured, the releasable fastener
assembly comprising:
        a housing adapted to be secured relative to the structure;
        a fastener adapted to be received in the housing;

                                         5
         whereupon fastening of the fastener the object is clampingly secured
         to the structure
[0018] Preferably the fastener comprises a nut and a bolt.
[0019] Preferably the nut is adapted to be received in the housing.
[0020] Preferably the bolt is adapted to pass through a hole in the object and
engage the nut, whereupon the nut being received in the housing and the bolt
fastened relative to the nut, the object is clampingly secured to the structure.
[0021] In contrast to the prior art the present invention allows the object to be
easily installed, removed and replaced, particularly when only the second
surface of the structure is readily accessible. The bolt and/or the nut of the
fastener can also be easily removed and replaced without requiring extensive
modification of the structure.
[0022] The housing may be secured to the structure during manufacture or
after installation. The nut may then be placed within the housing prior to the
object (e.g. wear liner) being secured to the structure.
[0023] The fastener assembly is designed to be used with structures where
the first surface of the structure is not easily accessed once the structure is
complete. However, it is to be understood that this invention is not limited to
such a structure.    It is readily understood that the present invention can be
applied to all manner of structures, providing a convenient and quick means to
secure and subsequently remove the object from the structure.
[0024] In one aspect of the invention the housing is secured to the structure
during construction of the structure.
[0025] In another aspect of the invention the housing is secured to the
structure after construction of the structure. The housing may be formed as
part of the structure.
[0026] Preferably the housing is secured relative to an aperture in the
structure. The housing may be secured directly to the structure or it may be
secured to a separate plate or object which aligns with an aperture in the
structure.

                                         6
[0027] In one aspect of the invention the housing incorporates a fixed rear
wall.
[0028] In another aspect of the invention the housing incorporates a rear wall
which may be easily removed therefrom. In this regard the rear wall may be
provided by a thin metal section which can be detached from the housing with
minimal force or may be easily broached.           The rear wall may be readily
removed.
[0029] In yet another aspect of the invention the housing comprises a sleeve
having a plug retained therein.
[0030] Adjacent a first end, the sleeve may have a threaded section for
threadingly receiving the nut. Adjacent a second end, the sleeve may have a
first annular ring. The sleeve may provide a second annular ring between the
threaded section and the first annular ring, defining an annular surface
extending inwardly, perpendicular to the sleeve wall. This may provide an
internal shoulder.
[0031]The plug may have a first section of larger diameter than a second
section. The diameter of the first section may be larger than the internal
diameter of the first annular ring. The diameter of the second section may be
smaller than the internal diameter of the first annular ring. The diameter of the
second section may be slightly larger than the internal diameter of the first
annular ring such that the second section may be snugly received in the first
annular ring.     The plug may be made from a resilient and/or deformable
material. The plug may incorporate a blind bore for receiving the end portion
of the shank.      Preferably the blind bore is smaller in diameter than the
diameter of the shank such that there is an interference fit therebetween when
the shank is received in the blind bore.
[0032] When assembling the sleeve and plug the second section of the plug is
received through the first annular ring, the first annular ring preventing the first
section of the plug from passing through to therefore retain the plug within the
sleeve. When assembled, the outer surface of the first section of the plug
remains proud of the annular surface. As the nut is received in the threaded

                                         7
section, and tightened relative to the housing, the nut clamps that part of the
plug which is proud of the annular surface to provide a seal therebetween.
When installing the fastener, as the shank is received through the nut, the end
portion of the shank that extends through and out of the nut is received in the
blind bore. As the blind bore is smaller in diameter than the end portion of the
shank, an interference fit is formed between the two. This assists in retaining
the shank in place (i.e. minimises accidental unwinding of the shank from the
nut) as well as assists to seal the shank and nut to minimise corrosion and
buildup of dirt.
[0033] In yet another aspect of the invention the housing comprises a plug
having a blind bore in an outer surface, and an annulus extending upwardly
from the outer surface of the plug, wherein the nut is receivable in the
annulus. The blind bore may be adapted to receive the portion of the shank
that extends from the nut when the fastener is installed and fastened.
Preferably the blind bore is smaller in diameter than the diameter of the shank
such that here is an interference fit therebetween when the shank is received
in the blind bore.
[0034] The housing may be in the form of a sleeve secured to the plug. At
one end of the sleeve the sleeve ends may curve inwardly to secure the plug
to the sleeve.
[0035] In yet another aspect of the invention the housing is in the form of a
cap and provides a first cavity for receiving the nut, and a second cavity for
receiving the portion of the shank that extends from the nut when the fastener
is installed and fastened, such that when the releasable fastening assembly is
installed, the nut, and the portion of the shank housed in the housing are
relatively sealed from the environment. This inhibits the ingress of materials
in the housing which may lead to corrosion and make removal of the shank
from the nut, and the nut from the housing difficult. Preferably the second
cavity is smaller in diameter than the diameter of the shank such that here is
an interference fit therebetween when the shank is received in the second
cavity.

                                         8
[0036] Preferably a face of the housing is flush with or recessed below the
second surface of the structure when secured thereto.
[0037] Preferably the nut is threadingly received in the housing.
[0038] Preferably the housing incorporates a threaded section on an inner
surface thereof for threading engagement with a thread on the outer surface
of the nut.
[0039] Preferably a coating may be provided on the threaded section of the
housing and/or a coating on the threads of the nut. The coating may be in the
form of thread tape, a non-setting silicone, wax or binder. The coating may
also inhibit rust and debris (especially mining fines) from forming on the
threaded portions. The coating may also reduce any play/slack between the
housing and the nut.
[0040] Preferably the nut is flush with or recessed below the face of the
housing when received therein.
[0041] Preferably the nut is flush with or recessed below the second surface of
the structure when received in the housing when the housing is located in the
structure.
[0042] In one aspect of the invention the bolt comprises a head and a shank
extending from the head. The shank may have a threaded portion at an end
thereof.
[0043] In another aspect of the invention the bolt is in the form of a shank
having a locking element at an end thereof. An end of the shank remote from
the locking element may be adapted to be threadingly received in an internally
threaded aperture in a head of the bolt. In this arrangement rotation of the
head may wind the head on or off the shank.
[0044] In yet another aspect of the invention the bolt comprises a head, a
shank extending from the head and a locking element threadingly receivable
on the shank at an end distal from the head thereof.        In this arrangement
rotation of the head may wind the head and shank on or off the locking
element.

                                         9
[0045] The shank may have a diameter smaller than the diameter of a bottom
wall of the head.
[0046] Preferably the nut incorporates an aperture therein for receiving the
bolt.
[0047] In one aspect of the invention the aperture in the nut is threaded.
[0048] Preferably the threaded portion of the shank threadingly engages the
thread of the aperture to fasten the bolt relative to the nut.
[0049] In another aspect of the invention the aperture in the nut is in the form
of a slot.
[0050] Preferably the locking element is receivable relative to the aperture
when in a first position, and is releasably locked relative to the aperture when
in a second position.
[0051] Preferably the locking element comprises a clamping portion and a
locking member.      The clamping portion may comprise two arms extending
outwardly from the shank in an opposed relation.
[0052] Preferably the angular displacement of the locking element between
the first position and second position is less than 1800.
[0053] Preferably the angular displacement of the locking element between
the first position and second position is 900.
[0054] Preferably an outer surface of the bolt head is flush with the second
surface of the object when the object is clampingly secured to the structure.
[0055] The releasable fastener assembly may further comprise a rubber boot
which may be secured to the housing once installed relative to the structure.
This assists in sealing the housing and nut to minimise corrosion and the
ingress of contaminants/dirt.
[0056] Preferably the head is adapted to co-operate with a tool to fasten the
bolt relative to the nut.

                                         10
[0057] Preferably the head has at least two openings in spaced relation, each
opening is adapted to receive a corresponding projection of the tool,
whereupon rotation of the tool the projections received in the openings cause
the head to rotate to wind the shank into the nut to fasten the fastener,
securing the object to the structure.   In those embodiments which incorporate
a locking element, rotation of the tool causes the head to rotate and causes
the locking element to move from the first position to the second position,
when installing the fastener, and vice versa when removing the fastener.
When installing the fastener, further rotation of the head will result in the
object being clampingly secured between the surface and the head while the
locking element remains in the second position.
[0058] The openings may extend from the upper surface of the head and
terminate adjacent the bottom wall of the head. The openings may be parallel
relative to each other. This ensures the tool can be used to rotate the head
regardless of its wear profile.
[0059] The bolt may comprise a sensor.          The sensor measures the wear
experienced by the bolt and transmits this data so that an operator is able to
predict when the wear liner may need to be replaced.            The sensor may
transmit data via a wired infrastructure or through a wireless system.
[0060] Preferably the sensor extends through the bolt and terminates in close
proximity to the outer surface of the bolt head. In typical installations the outer
surface is exposed to wear.
[0061] Preferably the sensor is received in a cavity in the shank of the bolt, or
the shank and head of the bolt when they form a unitary member
[0062] Preferably the sensor has a transmitter secured to or relative to the end
of the shank for transmitting data collected by the sensor.
[0063] In one aspect of the invention the housing has a passage passing
therethrough for receiving the sensor. The housing is adapted to receive a
protective shroud for protecting the transmitter when the bolt is fastened
relative to the nut. The housing may have a sleeve extending rearwardly to
receive the shroud thereon.

                                        11
[0064] The present invention provides a structure adapted to have a plurality
of wear liners secured thereto using a plurality of fasteners as herein before
described.
[0065] In those embodiments in which the nut comprises a slotted aperture,
the locking element is receivable in the slotted aperture in the nut when the
locking element is in a first position, and is releasably locked with respect to
the structure when the locking element is in a second position.
[0066] Preferably the head is received in a hole in the object such that an
outer surface of the head is flush with the outer surface of the object when the
fastener is installed.
[0067]A sidewall of the head may provide a tapered portion. The tapered
portion may extend along the length of the sidewall of the head to define a
generally frusto-conical head. The head may have a first tapered sidewall
and a second tapered sidewall, defining a step in the sidewall of the head at
the junction of the first tapered sidewall and the second tapered sidewall. The
second tapered sidewall may be adjacent a bottom wall of the head and be of
a larger diameter than the first tapered sidewall at the junction. In those
embodiments in which the sidewall of the opening is also tapered, the
configuration of the head ensures the bottom section of the sidewall of the
head remains in contact with the sidewall of the hole as the head wears. It
also accommodates variations in the opening which may otherwise lead to
unsatisfactory positioning of the fastener within the hole when installed and
fastened. If upon installation the head of the fastener is only in contact with
the upper portion of the sidewall of the opening, then as the head and object
wears beyond the areas of initial contact, the fastener and object may become
loose and the attachment of the object to the structure will be compromised.
The configuration of the head enables the clamping forces to be distributed
through the sidewall of the hole of the object through the service life of the
object, leading to a more robust means of securing the object to the structure.
[0068] The shank may have a diameter smaller than the width of the bottom
wall of the head. The shank may have a diameter smaller than the diameter of
the bottom wall of the head.

                                          12
[0069] In one aspect of the invention the hole in the object is shaped to
complement the head, wherein a sidewall of the hole is the same or similarly
tapered as the tapered portion of the head.
[0070] In another aspect of the invention the angle of the sidewall of the hole
is slightly offset to the angle of the tapered portion of the head.
[0071] Preferably when the locking element is formed integral with the shank
there is resistive engagement between the head and the shank, whereby the
resistive engagement causes the shank to rotate with the head when the head
is rotated, the resistive engagement being overcome when the locking
element secured to the shank has passed to the second position and
sufficient force is applied thereto to overcome the resistive engagement.
Further rotation of the head then fastens the fastener.
[0072] The resistive engagement may be provided by a coating on the
external threads of the shank and/or a coating on the internal threads of the
head. The coating may be in the form of thread tape, a non-setting silicone,
wax or binder. The coating may also inhibit rust and debris (especially mining
fines) from forming on the threaded portions. The coating may also reduce
any play/slack between the head and the shank.
[0073] Preferably when the head is formed integral with the shank there is
resistive engagement between the shank and the locking element, whereby
the resistive engagement causes the locking element to rotate with the shank
when the shank is rotated, the resistive engagement being overcome when
the locking element has passed to a second position and sufficient force is
applied thereto to overcome the resistive engagement. Further rotation of the
head then fastens the fastener.
[0074] The resistive engagement may be provided by a coating on the
external threads of the shank and/or a coating on the internal threads of the
locking element. The coating may be in the form of thread tape, a non-setting
silicone, wax or binder.        The coating may also inhibit rust and debris
(especially mining fines) from forming on the threaded portions. The coating
may also reduce any play/slack between the locking element and the shank.

                                        13
[0075] It is to be noted that the use of this resistive engagement between the
shank and the locking element is counter-intuitive to the normal practice of
having a nut rotate relatively freely upon a bolt during the fastening stage. It
is also to be noted that the resistive engagement does prevent unlocking of
the fastener as would say a conventional "Nyloc" element on a nut as the
releasable faster could release without any relative rotation between the nut
and the shank: e.g. the whole fastener could rotate as a unit and cause the
clamping member/locking element to move to the first position (i.e. unlocked),
thus releasing the fastener.
[0076] In those embodiments where the locking element is threadingly
received upon the shank, the resistive engagement may be provided by a
nylon ring incorporated in the locking element.
[0077] In those embodiments where the locking element is threadingly
received upon the shank, the shank has a stop located at its end to prevent
the locking element from being wound completed off the shank.
[0078] Preferably the locking element comprises a clamping portion wherein
the clamping portion assists in clamping the object to the structure.
[0079] Preferably the locking element comprises a locking member to lock the
clamping portion in a manner which prevents rotation of the clamping portion
beyond the second position.
[0080] Preferably the locking element further comprises a mating surface
which aligns with and mates with a complementary mating surface of the
slotted aperture in the nut to releasably retain the locking element with respect
to the aperture when the locking element is in the second position.
[0081] Preferably the fastener comprises an identification means to identify
whether the locking element is in the first position or second position. The
identification means may be in the form of indicia on an end of the shank
adjacent the head.     This is particularly beneficial when the locking element
and shank are integrally formed.
[0082] Preferably the fastener comprises a retaining means to retain the
locking element in the second position.

                                        14
[0083] Preferably the retaining means assists to prevent, or at least minimise
accidental rotation of the locking element from the second position to the first
position. The retaining means may be in the form of a detent arrangement.
[0084] The detent arrangement may be in the form of a resilient projection
extending from a surface of the locking member, whereby the projection
engages the side of the aperture as the locking element passes between the
first position to the second position. The projection may provide resistance to
the rotation of the locking element, whereby when a prescribed force is
applied the initial resistance is overcome, causing the resilient projection to
deform or retract to allow the further rotation of the locking element to the
second position.
[0085] The resilient projection may be vulcanised or glued to the surface of the
locking member. The resilient projection may be silicon.
[0086] Preferably the initial resistance provided by the resilient projection is
less than the resistive engagement between the head and the unitary shank
and locking element. This allows an operator to rotate the head, resulting in
simultaneous rotation of the unitary shank and locking element, and causing
the locking element to move from the first position to the second position.
[0087] Preferably the initial resistance provided by the projection is less than
the resistive engagement between the shank and the locking element. This
allows an operator to rotate the unitary head and shank, resulting in
simultaneous rotation of the locking element, causing the locking element to
move from the first position to the second position.
[0088] The resilient projection may be on at least one of the curved surfaces.
[0089] The locking member may be adjacent the clamping portion.
[0090]A portion of the locking member may be confined to the slotted
aperture in the nut when the locking element is received in the aperture and
the object and structure are not securely clamped between the head and the
locking element.      Before the fastener has been fastened and the object
secured to the structure, the locking member is partially located within the
aperture.     In this position the object may still be retained relative to the

                                        15
structure but the object is capable of a degree of movement relative to the
structure. The fastener will need to be fastened in order to secure the object
to the structure.
[0091]The locking member may be completely confined to the slotted
aperture in the nut when the locking element is received in the aperture and
the object and structure are securely clamped between the head and the
locking element.     When the fastener has been fastened and the object is
secured to the structure such that object is held in position, the locking
member is located in the confines of the aperture and the clamping portion
bears against the surface of the structure adjacent the aperture.
[0092]The cross sectional profile of the locking member may have a first
dimension which is less than the smallest dimension of the aperture, and a
second dimension greater than the smallest dimension of the aperture such
that as the locking member is rotated the locking element may be rotated
between the first position and the second position. With this arrangement the
locking element may only be rotated from the first position to the second
position, and rotated in the reverse direction from the second position to the
first position.   The configuration of the locking member prevents rotation of
the locking element past the second position.
[0093] The cross sectional profile of the locking member is of a rectangular or
square configuration modified such that two diagonally opposed corners are
curved such that as the locking member is rotated the curved corners permit
the locking element to be rotated between the first position and the second
position. Preferably the distance between the two curved corners is equal to
or less than the smallest dimension of the slotted aperture in the nut.
Preferably the distance between the two non-curved corners is greater than
the smallest dimension of the aperture.
[0094] Preferably the    clamping portion     comprises two arms extending
outwardly relative to the locking member in an opposed relation. The extent
of the arms is less than the largest dimension of the slotted aperture in the nut
such that the clamping portion may be received therethrough.

                                         16
[0095] The hole in the object may have a diameter which is greater than the
extent of the two arms. The smallest diameter of the tapered sidewall of the
hole is greater than the extent of the two arms. .
[0096]The smallest diameter of the tapered sidewall of the hole may be
smaller than the smallest diameter of the head. With this configuration the
bottom wall of the head is spaced from the structure when the fastener is
installed and fastened. In another embodiment the smallest diameter of the
tapered sidewall of the hole is sized such that when the head is received
therein and the fastener is installed and fastened, the bottom wall of the head
is in direct engagement with the structure while the sidewall of the head is still
able to engage with the sidewall of the hole.
[0097] When the locking element is in the first position the clamping portion is
arranged such that it aligns with the slotted aperture, allowing the arms to
pass therethrough.     When the locking element is in the second position, the
clamping portion bears against the back of the nut as the fastener is
tightened.     In the ideal situation, the fastener is only removed from the
structure after the fastener is loosened and the locking element rotated back
to the first position.
[0098] Once the fastener is installed the openings in the head may be filled
with a removable material.      Each opening may have a plug inserted in the
bottom of the opening before a material is placed therein to seal the opening.
The filling of the opening ensures that each opening is not compromised
during the objects service life, allowing the tool to readily engage the
openings, rotate the head, and remove the fastener when required.
BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
[0099] Further features of the present invention are more fully described in the
following description of several non-limiting embodiments thereof.          This
description is included solely for the purposes of exemplifying the present
invention. It should not be understood as a restriction on the broad summary,
disclosure or description of the invention as set out above. The description
will be made with reference to the accompanying drawings in which:

                                    17
Figure 1 is a perspective front view of a housing of a releasable fastener
assembly according to a first embodiment of the invention;
Figure 2 is a perspective front view of a nut of the releasable fastener
assembly according to the first embodiment of the invention;
Figure 3 is a perspective side view of a bolt of the releasable fastener
assembly according to the first embodiment of the invention;
Figure 4 is a perspective view of the releasable fastener assembly
according to the first embodiment of the invention showing the nut
received in the housing;
Figure 5 is a perspective view of the releasable fastener assembly
according to the first embodiment of the invention showing the housing
secured to a structure (depicted as a section of a plate);
Figure 6 is similar to figure 5 with the nut received in the housing;
Figure 7 is similar to figure 6 with the bolt securing the wear liner
(depicted as a section of a plate) to the structure;
Figure 8 shows a first surface of the structure with housing of the second
embodiment and a further embodiment secured thereto;
Figure 9 is a perspective front view of a housing of a releasable fastener
assembly according to a second embodiment of the invention;
Figure 10 is a perspective front view of a nut of the releasable fastener
assembly according to the second embodiment of the invention;
Figure 11 is a perspective side view of a bolt of the releasable fastener
assembly according to the second embodiment of the invention;
Figure 12 is a perspective view showing the nut of figure 10 received in a
housing of a third embodiment of the invention;
Figure 13 is a perspective side view showing a nut received in a housing
of a fourth embodiment of the invention;

                                           18
       Figure 14 is a perspective side view showing a bolt partially received in
       the housing and nut shown in figure 13;
       Figure 15 is a perspective view of a tool for securing and releasing the
       nut of figure relative to the housing, as well as the bolt relative to the nut;
       Figure 16 is a perspective view of a further tool to assist in securing the
       housing to the structure;
       Figure 17 is an exploded view showing a housing of a fifth embodiment
       of the invention;
       Figure 18 is an assembled front view of the housing shown in figure 17;
       Figure 19 is a cross-sectional view of the releasable fastener assembly
       according to a sixth embodiment of the invention;
       Figure 20 is a schematic exploded view of figure 19; and
       Figure 21 is a perspective exploded view of figure 19
[00100]          In the drawings like structures are referred to by like numerals
throughout the several views. The drawings shown are not necessarily to
scale, with emphasis instead generally being placed upon illustrating the
principles of the present invention.
DESCRIPTION OF EMBODIMENTS
[00101]      The present invention provides a releasable fastener assembly for
securing a first object to a second object, or a structure. In the embodiments
discussed below, the releasable fastener assembly is specifically designed to
secure an object in the form of a wear liner 19 to a structure 13, such as a
transfer chute, whereby the releasable fastener assembly allows the wear
liner to be quickly installed on, and removed from the structure.
[00102]      While the present invention provides a very quick and easy
assembly to secure a wear liner 19 to a second surface 17 of any structure
13, it has particular application for those structures 13 having a first surface

                                         19
15 which is either concealed or which is not readily accessible during wear
liner replacement. The embodiments described herein enable wear liners to
be fitted and removed from a single side of the structure.
[00103]     The wear liner 19 comprises a first surface 21, which is secured
against the second surface 17 of the structure 13, and a second surface 23.
The second surface 23 of the wear liner is exposed to wear. The wear liner
comprises a plurality of holes 25 to assist in securing the wear liner to the
structure, as is described below.
[00104]     Referring to figures 1 to 7, the invention according to the first
embodiment is in the form of a fastener assembly 11 comprising a housing
43, a nut 63 and a bolt 73.
[00105]     For ease of illustration the structure and wear liner are represented
by a plate section, as can be noted in figures 5, 6 and 7.
[00106]     In this embodiment the housing 43 is cap-like in configuration and
comprises a void 44 defined by a rear wall 47 of the housing 43 and sidewalls
48.    The inner surface 45 of the sidewall 48 is configured to provide a
threaded profile for reasons described below.        The outer periphery of the
sidewall 48 is configured to provide an outer diameter region 49 which is
reduced when compared to the overall outer diameter of the housing 43. The
reduced outer diameter region 49 assists in fixing the housing to the structure,
as will be described below.
[00107]     The nut 63 has an outer surface 65 configured to provide a
threaded profile, such that the nut 63 can be threadingly received in the
housing 43, as shown in figure 4. The nut 63 incorporates an aperture 66. An
inner surface 67 of the aperture 66 is configured to provide a threaded profile
for reasons described below. The nut 63 also incorporates three openings 69
adapted to receive corresponding projections 403 of a tool 401, as shown in
figure 15, to secure and remove the nut 63 from the housing 43.
[00108]     The bolt 73 has a shank 75 extending from a tapered head 77.
The shank 75 is configured to provide a threaded profile, whereby the shank
75 can be threadingly received in the aperture 66 of the nut 63.

                                         20
[00109]      Several steps depicting the installation of the fastening assembly
11 of the first embodiment are shown in figures 5, 6 and 7.
[00110]     As shown in figure 5, the housing 43 is first secured in an aperture
27 in the structure 13 such that when in position a face 46 of the housing 43 is
located below the second surface 17 of the structure 13.
[00111]     As shown in figure 6, the nut 63 is then threadingly received in the
housing 43 such that the nut 63 is also located below the second surface 17
of the structure 13. Where installation of the nut is difficult, a tool 401 may be
used to position the nut 63 in the housing 43.
[00112]      Once the nut 63 is in position, the wear liner 19 may be placed on
the structure such that each hole 25 in the wear liner 19 aligns with
corresponding holes 27 in the structure. Using the tool 401, the bolt 73 may
then be threadingly received in the aperture 66 of the nut.         Using a torque
wrench or other device, the bolt 73 may be tightened to the required torque,
securing the wear liner 19 to the structure 13.
[00113]      When worn or damaged, the wear liner 19 may be removed from
the structure by removing the bolt 73, allowing the wear liner to be removed
and replaced. When replacing the wear liner 19 the bolt 73, the head of which
also experiences wear, can also be replaced. Also, if required, the nut 63 can
be replaced when the wear liner 19 has been removed from the structure 13.
[00114]      Each hole 25 located in the wear liner 19 is tapered in a
complementary fashion to the tapered head 77 of the bolt 73 such that when
the wear liner 19 is secured to the structure 13, the outer surface of the bolt
73 is substantially flush with the second surface 23 of the wear liner 19, as
shown in figure 7.
[00115]      Figure 8 illustrates a section of the first surface 15 of a structure
13. The section has six apertures 27, two of which are not supporting any
housing. Each of the middle pair of apertures 27 support a housing 243 which
has been retro-fitted to the structure 13 (i.e. fitted after construction of the
structure has already been completed). When this is the case the first surface
15 of the structure is often relatively inaccessible. Under these conditions a

                                        21
housing 243 as shown in figure 9 is fitted to the structure. As the rear/first
surface of the structure is not accessibly the housing 243 needs to be welded
to the structure from the side of its second surface.               To assist in
accommodating the weld the housing 243 has a sidewall which has a tapered
edge in a region adjacent its open end. In order to fit the housing 243, the
aperture in the structure 13 needs to be larger than the outer diameter of the
housing 243. The housing 243 is then positioned and fixed in place. Any
material which projects beyond the second surface of the structure can then
be removed.
[00116]     The remaining pair of apertures 27 also support a housing 143 that
has been fitted to the structure 13 after construction of the structure has been
completed.    The rear of the housing 143 is open rear and is configured to
receive a protective shroud for protecting one or more sensors, as will be
discussed below.
[00117]     A second embodiment of the fastener assembly 111 is illustrated in
figures 9 to 11.  In this embodiment the fastener assembly 111 comprises a
housing 243, a nut 163 and a bolt 173.
[00118]     The housing 243 is cap-like in configuration comprising a void 44
defined by a rear wall 47 of the housing 243 and sidewalls 248. The inner
surface 45 of the sidewall 248 is configured to provide a threaded profile for
reasons described below.        The outer periphery of the sidewall 248 is
configured to provide a tapered edge 249. The tapered edge 249 assists in
fixing the housing to the structure (e.g. weld).
[00119]     The nut 163 has an outer surface 165 configured to provide a
threaded profile, such that the nut 163 can be threadingly received in the
housing 143, as per the first embodiment.         The nut 163 incorporates a
aperture in the form of a slot 166. The slot 166 is defined by two flat inner
surfaces 169 in parallel relation, and two arced inner surfaces 171 extending
between the flat inner surfaces 169.
[00120]     The bolt 173 comprises a tapered head 177 which is threadingly
connected to a shank and a locking element 175 so as to be spaced apart

                                        22
from the locking element. The locking element 175 is adapted to be received
in and cooperate with the slot 166 of the nut 163 to retain the bolt 173 relative
to the nut 163.
[00121]      The locking element 175 has a clamping portion in the form of a
plurality of arms 181 extending outwardly from a central axis and at a distal
end 182 to the bolt 173. The extent of the arms 181 is less than the length of
the slot 166 such that the locking element 175 may be received therein. The
extent of the arms 181 is more than the width of the slot 166.       The locking
element 175 also comprises a locking member 183 located adjacent the arms
181. The cross sectional profile of the locking member 183 is of a rectangular
configuration modified wherein two diagonally opposed corners 185 are
curved.
[00122]      In operation the bolt 173 is moveable between a first position,
wherein the locking element 175 of the bolt 173 is receivable in the slot 166,
and a second position wherein the bolt is retained relative to the nut. When in
the second position, arms 181 abut a rear surface of the nut 163 adjacent the
flat inner surface 169, preventing the bolt from being removed from the nut
163.    In this position the fastening assembly secures the wear liner to the
structure.
[00123]      When the locking element 175 of the bolt 173 is receivable in the
slot 166 the tool 401 may be used to rotate the bolt between the first position
and the second position, which in this embodiment is 900.
[00124]      A further embodiment is illustrated in figure 12. This embodiment
combines the same housing as illustrated in figure 1, in combination with the
nut163 illustrated in figure 10.
[00125]      A fourth embodiment of the fastener assembly 211 is illustrated in
figures 13 and 14. In this embodiment the fastener assembly 211 comprises
a housing 143, a nut 163 and a bolt 273.
[00126]      The bolt 273 is similar in construction to the bolt of the second
embodiment.      However, in this embodiment the bolt is fitted with an internal
wear sensor.      The wear sensor extends along the length of the bolt from

                                        23
adjacent the end surface of the tapered head, and is connected to a
transmitter 151 secured to the end of the locking element 175.
[00127]     The housing 143 supports a shroud 149 which is received in and
through a sleeve 147 which extends rearwardly from the housing 143. The
shroud acts to protect the transmitter when the bolt 273 is received in the slot
166 of the nut 163.
[00128]     As noted above, figure 15 provides the tool 401 which assists in
securing and releasing the nut from the housing. The tool 401 has an end
405 which may connect with a tool, such as a pneumatic driver capable of
rotating the tool 401.    As previously noted, projections 403 of the tool 401
engage corresponding apertures 69 in the nut to release and secure the nut.
Projections 403 are also adapted to engage the apertures 79 in the bolt for
securing and releasing the bolt. The apertures 79 extend through the head of
the bolt such that the tool 401 can still engage and release the bolt after
substantial wear.
[00129]     When fitting a housing to a structure post-construction, the housing
may be held in place using the support tool 421 shown in figure 16.           The
support tool 421 comprises three outwardly extending arms 423 which may
engage the second surface 17 of the structure 13, and a plurality of magnets
425, to hold the housing relative to the tool 421.   The housing may then be
secured to the structure while the tool holds the housing in place,. This is
particularly beneficial when securing the housing from the inside of the side
wall.
[00130]     A fifth embodiment of the fastener assembly is illustrated in figures
17 and 18. In this embodiment the fastener assembly is different in that the
housing 543 comprises a sleeve 571 and a plug 573 retained therein.
[00131]     Adjacent a first end 575, the sleeve has a threaded section 577 for
threadingly receiving the nut (not shown). Adjacent a second end 579, the
sleeve 571 has a first annular ring 581.     The sleeve 571 provides a second
annular ring 583 between the threaded section 577 and the first annular ring

                                        24
581, defining an annular surface 585 extending inwardly, perpendicular to the
sleeve wall.
[00132]     The plug 573 has a first section 587 of larger diameter than a
second section 589. The diameter of the first section is larger than the internal
diameter of the first annular ring 581. The diameter of the second section 589
is sized so as to be snugly received in the first annular ring 581.
[00133]     The plug 573 is made from a resilient material and incorporates a
blind bore 591 for receiving the end portion of the shank when the fastener is
installed. The blind bore 591 is smaller in diameter than the diameter of the
shank such that there is an interference fit therebetween when the shank is
received in the blind bore.
[00134]     When the sleeve and plug are assembled, as shown in figure 18,
the second section 589 of the plug is received through the first annular ring
581, while the first annular ring prevents the first section 591 of the plug 573
from passing through to therefore retain the plug within the sleeve.
[00135]     When assembled, the outer surface 593 of the first section of the
plug remains proud of the annular surface 585. When the nut is received in
the threaded section, and tightened relative to the housing, the nut clamps
that part of the plug which is proud of the annular surface to form a seal.
[00136]     When installing the fastener, as the shank is received through the
nut, the end portion of the shank that extends through and out of the nut is
received in the blind bore 591. As the blind bore is smaller in diameter than
the end portion of the shank, an interference fit is formed between the two.
This assists in retaining the shank in place (i.e. minimises accidental
unwinding of the shank from the nut) as well as assists to seal the shank and
nut to minimise corrosion and buildup of dirt.
[00137]     A sixth embodiment of the fastener assembly 600 of the present
invention is illustrated in figures 19 to 21.       The fastener assembly 600
comprises a housing 643, a nut 663 and a bolt 673.

                                         25
[00138]     The housing 643 is cap like and is adapted to be welded relative to
the aperture 27 in the structure. The internal surface of the housing 643 is
threaded to threadingly receive the nut 663.
[00139]     The outer surface of the nut 663 incorporates several recesses for
receiving various components. The nut 663 has a first recess 611 at a first
end 601. The first recess 611 receives a bush 621 which assists to reduce
the likelihood of the bolt working loose during operation.
[00140]     The nut 663 also has a second recess 613 inwardly from the first
end 601. The second recess 613 receives a ring 623 which assists to reduce
the likelihood of the nut 663 working loose during operation.
[00141]     The nut 663 has a third recess 615 at a second end 603. The third
recess 615 receives a washer 625 which assists to insulate and protect the
nut 663 should the bolt need to be removed by gouging.
[00142]     The fastener assembly also comprises at least one O-ring 617
located adjacent the bottom surface of the bolt head. The O-ring assists in
preventing the ingress of dirt and moisture.
[00143]     Modifications and variations such as would be apparent to the
skilled addressee are considered to fall within the scope of the present
invention. The present invention is not to be limited in scope by any of the
specific embodiments described herein. These embodiments are intended for
the purpose of exemplification only.           Functionally equivalent products,
formulations and methods are clearly within the scope of the invention as
described herein.
[00144]     Reference to positional descriptions, such as lower and upper, are
to be taken in context of the embodiments depicted in the figures, and are not
to be taken as limiting the invention to the literal interpretation of the term but
rather as would be understood by the skilled addressee.
[00145]     Throughout     this  specification,  unless    the   context    requires
otherwise, the word "comprise" or variations such as "comprises" or
"comprising", will be understood to imply the inclusion of a stated integer or

                                   26
group of integers but not the exclusion of any other integer or group of
integers.

                                      27
CLAIMS
   1.     A releasable fastener assembly for securing an object to a
      structure, the releasable fastener assembly comprising:
            a housing adapted to be secured relative to the structure;
            a nut adapted to be received in the housing;
            a bolt adapted to pass through a hole in the object and engage
            the nut;
            whereupon the nut being received in the housing and the bolt
            fastened relative to the nut, the object is clampingly secured to
            the structure.
  2.       The releasable fastener assembly according to claim 1 wherein the
      housing is secured relative to an aperture in the structure.
  3.       The releasable fastener assembly according to claim 1 or 2
      wherein the housing incorporates a fixed rear wall.
  4.       The releasable fastener assembly according to claim 1 or 2
      wherein the housing incorporates a rear wall which can be readily
      removed.
  5.       The releasable fastener assembly according to claim 1 or 2
      wherein the housing comprises a sleeve having a plug retained therein.
  6.       The releasable fastener assembly according to claim 5 wherein the
      sleeve has a threaded section adjacent a first end of the sleeve,
      wherein the threaded section threadingly receives the nut.
  7.       The releasable fastener assembly according to claim 6 wherein the
      sleeve has a first annular ring adjacent a second end and a second
      annular ring between the threaded section and the first annular ring,
      defining an annular surface extending inwardly, perpendicular to the
      sleeve wall.

                                     28
8.        The releasable fastener assembly according to claim 5, 6 or 7
    wherein the plug has a first section of larger diameter than a second
    section.
9.        The releasable fastener assembly according to claim 8 wherein the
    diameter of the first section is larger than the internal diameter of the
    first annular ring.
10.       The releasable fastener assembly according to claim 8 or 9
    wherein the diameter of the second section is smaller than the internal
    diameter of the first annular ring, or is slightly larger than the internal
    diameter of the first annular ring such that the second section may be
    snugly received in the first annular ring.
11.       The releasable fastener assembly according to any one of claims 5
    to 10 wherein the plug is made from a resilient and/or deformable
    material.
12.       The releasable fastener assembly according to any one of claims 5
    to 11 wherein the plug incorporates a blind bore adapted to receive the
    end portion of a threaded shank.
13.       The releasable fastener assembly according to claim 12 wherein
    the blind bore is smaller in diameter than the diameter of the shank
    such that there is an interference fit therebetween when the shank is
    received in the blind bore.
14.       The releasable fastener assembly according to any one of claims 8
    to 13 whereby when the sleeve and plug are assembled the second
    section of the plug is received through the first annular ring, while the
    first annular ring prevents the first section of the plug from passing
    through to therefore retain the plug within the sleeve, wherein an outer
    surface of the first section of the plug remains proud of the annular
    surface.
15.       The releasable fastener assembly according to claim 1 or 2
    wherein the housing comprises a plug having a blind bore in an outer

                                    29
    surface, and an annulus extending upwardly from the outer surface of
    the plug, wherein the nut is receivable in the annulus.
16.     The releasable fastener assembly according to claim 15 wherein
    the blind bore is adapted to receive the portion of the shank that
    extends from the rear of the nut when the fastener is installed and
    fastened.
17.     The releasable fastener assembly according to claim 15 or 16
    wherein the blind bore is smaller in diameter than the diameter of the
    shank such that there is an interference fit therebetween when the
    shank is received in the blind bore.
18.     The releasable fastener assembly according to claim 15, 16 or 17
    wherein the housing is in the form of a sleeve secured to the plug.
19.     The releasable fastener assembly according to claim 17 or 18
    wherein an end of the sleeve curves inwardly to secure the plug to the
    sleeve.
20.     The releasable fastener assembly according to claim 1 or 2
    wherein the housing provides a first cavity for receiving the nut, and a
    second cavity for receiving the portion of the shank that extends from
    the nut when the fastener is installed and fastened, such that when the
    releasable fastening assembly is installed, the nut, and the portion of
    the shank housed in the housing are relatively sealed from the
    environment.
21.     The releasable fastener assembly according to claim 20 wherein
    the second cavity is smaller in diameter than the diameter of the shank
    such that there is an interference fit therebetween when the shank is
    received in the second cavity.
22.     The releasable fastener assembly according to any one of the
    preceding claims wherein a face of the housing is flush with or
    recessed below a second surface of the structure when secured
    thereto.

                                    30
23.     The releasable fastener assembly according to any one of the
    preceding claims wherein the nut is threadingly received in the
    housing.
24.     The releasable fastener assembly according to claim 21 wherein
    the housing incorporates a threaded section on an inner surface
    thereof for threading engagement with a thread on the outer surface of
    the nut.
25.     The releasable fastener assembly according to claim 24 wherein a
    coating is provided on the threaded section of the housing and/or a
    coating on the threads of the nut.
26.     The releasable fastener assembly according to claim 20, 21 or 22
    wherein the nut is flush with or recessed below the face of the housing
    when received therein.
27.     The releasable fastener assembly according to any one of the
    preceding claims wherein the nut is flush with or recessed below the
    second surface of the structure when received in the housing.
28.     The releasable fastener assembly according to any one of the
    preceding claims wherein the bolt comprises a head and a shank
    wherein the shank extends from the head.
29.     The releasable fastener assembly according to any one of claims 1
    to 27 wherein the bolt comprises a shank having a locking element at
    an end thereof.
30.     The releasable fastener assembly according to claim 29 wherein
    an end of the shank remote from the locking element is threadingly
    received in an internally threaded aperture in the head of the bolt.
31.     The releasable fastener assembly according to any one of claims 1
    to 27 wherein the bolt comprises a head, a shank extending from the
    head and a locking element threadingly receivable on the shank at an
    end distal from the head thereof.

                                      31
32.      The releasable fastener assembly according to any one of claims 6
    to 31 wherein the shank has a diameter smaller than the diameter of a
    bottom wall of the head.
33.      The releasable fastener assembly according to any one of claims 6
    to 32 wherein the nut incorporates an aperture therein for receiving the
    bolt.
34.      The releasable fastener assembly according to claim 33 wherein
    the aperture in the nut is threaded.
35.      The releasable fastener assembly according to claim 33 or 34
    wherein the shank incorporates a thread along its outer surface which
    threadingly engages the thread of the aperture to fasten the bolt
    relative to the nut.
36.      The releasable fastener assembly according to claim 33 wherein
    the aperture in the nut is in the form of a slot.
37.      The releasable fastener assembly according to claim 36 when
    dependent on claim 29 or 31 wherein the locking element is receivable
    relative to the slot when in a first position, and is releasably locked
    relative to the slot when in a second position.
38.      The releasable fastener assembly according to claim 37 wherein
    the locking element comprises a clamping portion and a locking
    member.
39.      The releasable fastener assembly according to claim 38 wherein
    the clamping portion comprises two arms extending outwardly from the
    shank in an opposed relation.
40.      The releasable fastener assembly according to any one of claims
    37 to 39 wherein the angular displacement of the locking element
    between the first position and second position is less than 1800.
41.      The releasable fastener assembly according to any one of claims
    37 to 39 wherein the angular displacement of the locking element
    between the first position and second position is 900.

                                     32
42.      The releasable fastener assembly according to any one claims 15
    to 41 wherein an outer surface of the bolt head is flush with the second
    surface of the object when the object is clampingly secured to the
    structure.
43.      The releasable fastener assembly according to any one of the
    preceding claims comprising a rubber boot which may be secured to
    the housing once installed relative to the structure.
44.      The releasable fastener assembly according to any one claims 15
    to 43 wherein the head is adapted to co-operate with a tool to fasten
    the bolt relative to the nut, the head has at least two openings in
    spaced relation, each opening is adapted to receive a corresponding
    projection of the tool, whereupon rotation of the tool the projections
    received in the openings cause the head to rotate to wind the shank
    into the nut to fasten the fastener, securing the object to the structure.
45.      The releasable fastener assembly according to any one claims 15
    to 43 wherein the head is adapted to co-operate with a tool to fasten
    the bolt relative to the nut, the head has at least two openings in
    spaced relation, each opening is adapted to receive a corresponding
    projection of the tool, whereupon rotation of the tool the projections
    received in the openings cause the head to rotate, causing the locking
    element to move from the first position to the second position, when
    installing the fastener, and vice versa when removing the fastener.
46.      The releasable fastener assembly according to claim 45 wherein
    the openings extend from the upper surface of the head and terminate
    adjacent the bottom wall of the head, the openings are parallel relative
    to each other.
47.      The releasable fastener assembly according to any one of the
    preceding claims comprising a sensor connected to the bolt.
48.      The releasable fastener assembly according to claim 47 wherein
    the sensor extends through the bolt and terminates in close proximity
    to the outer surface of the bolt head.

                                      33
49.      The releasable fastener assembly according to claim 47 or 48
    wherein the sensor is received in a cavity in the shank of the bolt, or
    the shank and head of the bolt.
50.      The releasable fastener assembly according to claim 47, 48 or 49
    wherein the housing has a passage passing therethrough for receiving
    the sensor, the housing is adapted to receive a protective shroud for
    protecting the transmitter when the fastener is fastened.
51.     A structure adapted to have a plurality of wear plates secured
    thereto using a plurality of fastener assemblies according to any one of
    the preceding claims.
52.     A releasable fastener assembly for securing an object to a
    structure, the structure comprising a first surface and a second surface
    against which the object is secured, wherein the first surface is not
    readily accessible once the structure is complete, the fastener
    assembly comprising:
        a housing adapted to be secured to the structure;
        a nut adapted to be received in the housing;
        a bolt adapted to pass through the object and engage the nut
        whereupon the nut being received in the housing and the bolt
        fastened relative to the nut, the object is clampingly secured to the
        surface.

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                     1/9

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                    2/9

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                    3/9

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                   4/9

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                    5/9

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                    6/9

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           7/9

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
