                                               ABSTRACT
         Disclosed herein are nucleotide analogs, methods of synthesizing nucleotide analogs and
methods of treating diseases and/or conditions such as a HCV infection with one or more nucleotide
analogs.

    SUBSTITUTED NUCLEOSIDES, NUCLEOTIDES AND ANALOGS THEREOF
        INCORPORATION BY REFERENCE TO ANY PRIORITY APPLICATIONS
         [0000] The present application is a divisional application of Australian Application No.
2013361193, which is incorporated in its entirety herein by reference.
          [0001] Any and all applications for which a foreign or domestic priority claim is
identified in the Application Data Sheet as filed with the present application, are hereby
incorporated by reference under 37 CFR 1.57.
                           REFERENCE TO SEQUENCE LISTING
         [0002] The present application is being filed along with a Sequence Listing in electronic
format. The Sequence Listing is provided as a file entitled SEQLISTING_067.TXT, created
December 19, 2013, which is 728 bytes in size. The information in the electronic format of the
Sequence Listing is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.
                                        BACKGROUND
Field
         [0003] The present application relates to the fields of chemistry, biochemistry and
medicine. More particularly, disclosed herein are nucleotide analogs, pharmaceutical
compositions that include one or more nucleotide analogs and methods of synthesizing the
same. Also disclosed herein are methods of treating diseases and/or conditions with a
nucleotide analog, alone or in combination therapy with one or more other agents.
Description
          [0004] Nucleoside analogs are a class of compounds that have been shown to exert
 antiviral and anticancer activity both in vitro and in vivo, and thus, have been the subject of
 widespread research for the treatment of viral infections. Nucleoside analogs are usually
 therapeutically inactive compounds that are converted by host or viral enzymes to their
 respective active anti-metabolites, which, in turn, may inhibit polymerases involved in viral or
 cell proliferation. The activation occurs by a variety of mechanisms, such as the addition of
 one or more phosphate groups and, or in combination with, other metabolic processes.
                                                -1-

                                         SUMMARY
      (0005] Some embodiments disclosed herein relate to a compound of Formula (I) or a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof
                                            -la-

         100061      Some embodiments disclosed herein relate to a method of ameliorating and/or
treating a hepatitis C viral (HCV) infection that can include administering to a subject identified
as suffering from the HCV infection a therapeutically effective amount of one or more
compounds of Formula (1), or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, or a pharmaceutical
composition that includes one or more compounds of Formula (1), or a pharmaceutically
acceptable salt thereof.     Other embodiments described herein relate to using one or more
compounds of Formula (I), or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, in the manufacture of a
medicament for ameliorating and/or treating a HCV infection.             Still other embodiments
described herein relate to one or more compounds of Formula (I), or a pharmaceutically
acceptable salt thereof, or a pharmaceutical composition that includes one or more compounds
of Formula (t), or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, that can be used for ameliorating
and/or treating a HCV infection.
         100071      Some embodiments disclosed herein relate to a method of ameliorating and/or
treating a HCV infection that can include contacting a cell infected with the hepatitis C virus
with an effective amount of one or more compounds described herein, or a pharmaceutically
acceptable salt of one or more compounds described herein, or a pharmaceutical composition
that includes one or more compounds described herein, or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt
thereof. Other embodiments described herein relate to using one or more compounds described
herein, or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt of one or more compounds described herein, in the
manufacture of a medicament for ameliorating and/or treating a HCV infection that can include
contacting a cell infected with the hepatitis C virus with an effective amount of said
compound(s).     Still other embodiments described herein relate to one or more compounds
described herein, or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt of one or more compounds described
herein, or a pharmaceutical composition that includes one or more compounds described herein,
or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, that can be used for ameliorating and/or treating a
HCV infection by contacting a cell infected with the hepatitis C virus with an effective amount
of said compound(s).
         [0008]      Some embodiments disclosed herein relate to a method of inhibiting
replication of a hepatitis C virus that can include contacting a cell infected with the hepatitis C
virus with an effective amount of one or more compounds described herein, or a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt of one or more compounds described herein, or a
pharmaceutical composition that includes one or more compounds described herein, or a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof. Other embodiments described herein relate to using
one or more compounds described herein, or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt of one or more
                                                 -2-

compounds described herein, in the manufacture of a medicament for inhibiting replication of a
hepatitis C virus that can include contacting a cell infected with the hepatitis C virus with an
effective amount of said compound(s). Still other embodiments described herein relate to one or
more compounds described herein, or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt of one or more
compounds described herein, or a pharmaceutical composition that includes one or more
compounds described herein, or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, that can be used for
inhibiting replication of a hepatitis C virus by contacting a cell infected with the hepatitis C
virus with an effective amount of said compound(s).
         [00091     Some embodiments disclosed herein relate to a method of ameliorating and/or
treating a HCV infection that can include administering to a subject identified as suffering from
the HCV infection a therapeutically effective amount of a compound described herein or a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof (for example, one or more compounds of Formula (I),
or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof), or a pharmaceutical composition that includes a
compound described herein, or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, in combination with
an agent selected from an interferon, ribavirin, a HCV protease inhibitor, a HCV polymerase
inhibitor, a NS5A inhibitor, an other antiviral compound, a compound of Formula (AA), a
compound of Formula (BB) and a compound of Formula (CC), or a pharmaceutically acceptable
salt of any of the foregoing.      Some embodiments disclosed herein relate to a method of
ameliorating and/or treating a HCV infection that can include contacting a cell infected with the
HCV infection with a therapeutically effective amount of a compound described herein or a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof (for example, one or more compounds of Formula (I),
or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof), or a pharmaceutical composition that includes a
compound described herein, in combination with an agent selected from an interferon, ribavirin,
a HCV protease inhibitor, a HCV polymerase inhibitor, a NS5A inhibitor, an other antiviral
compound, a compound of Formula (AA), a compound of Formula (BB) and a compound of
Formula (CC), or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt of any of the foregoing.                 Some
embodiments disclosed herein relate to a method of inhibiting replication of a hepatitis C virus
that can include administering to a subject identified as suffering from a HCV infection a
therapeutically effective amount of a compound described herein or a pharmaceutically
acceptable salt thereof (for example, a compound of Formula (1), or a pharmaceutically
acceptable salt thereof), or a pharmaceutical composition that includes a compound described
herein, or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, in combination with an agent selected from
an interferon, ribavirin, a HCV protease inhibitor, a HCV polymerase inhibitor, a NS5A
 inhibitor, an other antiviral compound, a compound of Formula (AA), a compound of Formula
                                                -3-

(BB) and a compound of Formula (CC), or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt of any of the
foregoing.     In some embodiments, the agent can be a compound, or a pharmaceutically
acceptable salt thereof, selected from Compound 1001-1016, 2001-2012, 3001-3014, 4001
4012, 5001-5012, 6001-6078, 7000-7027 and 8000-8016, or a pharmaceutical composition that
includes one or more of the aforementioned compounds, or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt of
the foregoing. In some embodiments, the method can include administering a second agent
selected from an interferon, ribavirin, a HCV protease inhibitor, a HCV polymerase inhibitor, a
NS5A inhibitor, an other antiviral compound, a compound of Formula (AA), a compound of
Formula (BB) and a compound of Formula (CC), or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt of any of
the foregoing.
                           BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
         [0010]     Figure 1 shows example HCV protease inhibitors,
         10011]     Figure 2 shows example nucleoside HCV polymerase inhibitors.
         [0012]     Figure 3 shows example non-nucleoside HCV polymerase inhibitors.
         [0013]     Figure 4 shows example NS5A inhibitors.
         100141     Figure 5 shows example other antivirals.
         10015]     Figure 6 shows       example compounds of Formula       (CC) and alpha
 thiotriphosphates thereof, wherein Formula (CC) and alpha-thiotriphosphates thereof are
 described herein.
         [0016]     Figure 7 shows example compounds of Formula (AA), wherein Formula
 (AA) is described herein.
         [00171     Figure 8 shows example compounds of Formula (BB) , wherein Formula
 (BB) is described herein.
         [0018]     Figure 9 shows example compounds of Formula (I) , wherein Formula (I) is
 described herein.
         10019]     Figure 10 shows the gels from the assessment of incorporation of several
 compounds with a guanine base by the human mitochondrial RNA polymerase.
          [0020]    Figure I I shows the results of the inhibition of mitochondrial protein
 synthesis assays.
                                                -4-

                                    DETAILED DESCRIPTION
Definitions
         10021]     Unless defined otherwise, all technical and scientific terms used herein have
the same meaning as is commonly understood by one of ordinary skill in the art. All patents,
applications, published applications and other publications referenced herein are incorporated by
reference in their entirety unless stated otherwise. In the event that there are a plurality of
definitions for a term herein, those in this section prevail unless stated otherwise.
         10022]      As used herein, any "R" group(s) such as, without limitation, R', R2, R3, R4^,
R,    R, R R, Rs,RAR9 R,         RC, R1, R,      R2 , R3 , R1, R", R,        R1,   Rig, R1, R,    R2 1 , R 2 ,
RAI, R2t RA3 and RA4 represent substituents that can be attached to the indicated atom. An R
group may be substituted or unsubstituted.        If two "R" groups are described as being "taken
together" the R groups and the atoms they are attached to can form a cycloalkyl, cycloalkenyl,
aryl, heteroaryl or heterocycle. For example, without limitation, if R" and R" of an NR" R" group
are indicated to be "taken together," it means that they are covalently bonded to one another to
form a ring:
                                              -N     t'Rb'
                                                          Rb
In addition, if two "R" groups are described as being "taken together" with the atom(s) to which
they are attached to form a ring as an alternative, the R groups are not limited to the variables or
substituents defined previously.
         10023]      Whenever a group is described as being "optionally substituted" that group
may be unsubstituted or substituted with one or more of the indicated substituents, Likewise,
when a group is described as being "unsubstituted or substituted" if substituted, the
substituent(s) may be selected from one or more the indicated substituents. If no substituents are
 indicated, it is meant that the indicated "optionally substituted" or "substituted" group may be
substituted with one or more group(s) individually and independently selected from                      alkyl,
 alkenyl,   alkynyl,   cycloalkyl,   cycloalkenyl,         aryl, heteroaryl,     heteroalicyclyl,   aralkyl,
 heteroaralkyl, (heteroalicyclyl)alkyl,    hydroxy, alkoxy, aryloxy, acyl, mercapto, alkylthio,
 arylthio,   cyano,     halogen,   thiocarbonyl,      0-carbamyl,       N-carbamyl,        0-thiocarbamyl,
 N-thiocarbamyl, C-amido, N-amido, S-sulfonamido, N-sulfonamido, C-carboxy, 0-carboxy,
 isocyanato, thiocyanato, isothiocyanato, nitro, silyl, sulfenyl, sulfinyl, sulfonyl, haloalkyl,
 haloalkoxy, trihalomethancsulfonyl, tribalomethanesulfonamido, an amino, a mono-substituted
 amino group and a di-substituted amino group.
                                                   -S-

        [00241      As used herein, "C. to Cb" in which "a" and "b" are integers refer to the
number of carbon atoms in an alkyl, alkenyl or alkynyl group, or the number of carbon atoms in
the ring of a cycloalkyl, cycloalkenyl, aryl, heteroaryl or heteroalicyclyl group. That is, the
alkyl, alkenyl, alkynyl, ring of the cycloalkyl, ring of the cycloalkenyl, ring of the aryl, ring of
the heteroaryl or ring of the heteroalicyclyl can contain from "a" to "b", inclusive, carbon atoms.
Thus, for example, a "C, to C4 alkyl" group refers to all alkyl groups having from I to 4
carbons,     that   is,  CH3-,     CH3CH 2-,     CH3CH 2CH 2 -,    (CH 3)2CH-,     CH 3 CH 2CH 2CH 2-,
CH 3CH2CH(CH3)- and (CH3)3C-           If no "a" and "b" are designated with regard to an alkyl,
alkenyl, alkynyl, cycloalkyl cycloalkenyl, aryl, heteroaryl or heteroalicyclyl group, the broadest
range described in these definitions is to be assumed.
        100251      As used herein, "alkyl" refers to a straight or branched hydrocarbon chain
that comprises a fully saturated (no double or triple bonds) hydrocarbon group. The alkyl group
may have I to 20 carbon atoms (whenever it appears herein, a numerical range such as "I to 20"
refers to each integer in the given range; e.g., "I to 20 carbon atoms" means that the alkyl group
may consist of I carbon atom, 2 carbon atoms, 3 carbon atoms, etc., up to and including 20
carbon atoms, although the present definition also covers the occurrence of the term "alkyl"
where no numerical range is designated). The alkyl group may also be a medium size alkyl
having I to 10 carbon atoms. The alkyl group could also be a lower alkyl having I to 6 carbon
atoms.    The alkyl group of the compounds may be designated as "C1 -C4 alkyl" or similar
designations. By way of example only, "C,-C      4 alkyl" indicates that there are one to four carbon
atoms in the alkyl chain, i.e., the alkyl chain is selected from methyl, ethyl, propyl, iso-propyl,
n-butyl, iso-butyl, sec-butyl and t-butyl. Typical alkyl groups include, but are in no way limited
to, methyl, ethyl, propyl, isopropyl, butyl, isobutyl, tertiary butyl, pentyl and hexyl. The alkyl
group may be substituted or unsubstituted.
         100261     As used herein, "alkenyl'" refers to an alkyl group that contains in the straight
or branched hydrocarbon chain one or more double bonds.                 An alkenyl group may be
unsubstituted or substituted.
         [0027]     As used herein, "alkynyl" refers to an alkyl group that contains in the straight
or branched hydrocarbon chain one or more triple bonds.                An alkynyl group may be
unsubstituted or substituted.
         [0028]     As used herein, "cycloalkyl" refers to a completely saturated (no double or
triple bonds) mono- or multi- cyclic hydrocarbon ring system. When composed of two or more
rings, the rings may be joined together in a fused fashion. Cycloalkyl groups can contain 3 to 10
atoms in the ring(s) or 3 to 8 atoms in the ring(s). A cycloalkyl group may be unsubstituted or
                                                  -6-

substituted.    Typical cycloalkyl groups include, but are in no way limited to, cyclopropyl,
cyclobutyl, cyclopentyl, cyclohexyl, cycloheptyl and cyclooctyl.
         [0029]      As used herein, "cycloalkenyl" refers to a mono- or multi- cyclic hydrocarbon
ring system that contains one or more double bonds in at least one ring; although, if there is
more than one, the double bonds cannot form a fully delocalized pi-electron system throughout
all the rings (otherwise the group would be "aryl," as defined herein). When composed of two
or more rings, the rings may be connected together in a fused fashion. A cycloalkenyl can
contain 3 to 10 atoms in the ring(s) or 3 to 8 atoms in the ring(s). A cycloalkenyl group may be
unsubstituted or substituted.
         10030]      As used herein, "aryl" refers to a carbocyclic (all carbon) monocyclic or
multicyclic aromatic ring system (including fised ring systems where two carbocyclic rings
share a chemical bond) that has a fully delocalized pi-clectron system throughout all the rings.
The number of carbon atoms in an aryl group can vary. For example, the aryl group can be a
C6-C14 aryl group, a C6 -CmO aryl group, or a C6 aryl group.     Examples of aryl groups include,
but are not limited to, benzene, naphthalene and azulene. An aryl group may be substituted or
unsubstituted.
         100311      As used herein, "heteroaryl" refers to a monocyclic, bicyclic and tricyclic
aromatic ring system (a ring system with fully delocalized pi-electron system) that contain(s)
one or more heteroatoms (for example, I to 5 heteroatoms), that is, an element other than
carbon, including but not limited to, nitrogen, oxygen and sulfur. The number of atoms in the
ring(s) of a heteroaryl group can vary. For example, the heteroaryl group can contain 4 to 14
atoms in the ring(s), 5 to 10 atoms in the ring(s) or 5 to 6 atoms in the ring(s). Furthermore, the
term "heteroaryl" includes fused ring systems where two rings, such as at least one aryl ring and
at least one heteroaryl ring, or at least two heteroaryl rings, share at least one chemical bond.
Examples of heteroaryl rings include, but are not limited to, furan, furazan, thiophene,
benzothiophene, phthalazine, pyrrole, oxazole, benzoxazole, 1,2,3-oxadiazole, 1,2,4-oxadiazole,
thiazole, 1,2,3-thiadiazole, I,2,4-thiadiazole, benzothiazole, imidazole, benzimidazole, indole,
indazole, pyrazole, benzopyrazole, isoxazole, benzoisoxazole, isothiazole, triazole,
benzotriazole,    thiadiazole, tetrazole, pyridine, pyridazine, pyrimidine, pyrazine, purine,
pteridine, quinoline, isoquinoline, quinazoline, quinoxaline, cinnoline and triazine. A heteroaryl
group may be substituted or unsubstituted.
         [00321      As used herein, "heterocyclyl" or "heteroalicyclyl" refers to three-, four-,
five-, six-, seven-, eight-, nine-, ten-, up to I8-membered monocyclic, bicyclic and tricyclic ring
system wherein carbon atoms together with from I to 5 heteroatoms constitute said ring system.
                                                   -7-

A heterocycle may optionally contain one or more unsaturated bonds situated in such a way,
however, that a fully delocalized pi-electron system does not occur throughout all the rings. The
heteroatom(s) is an element other than carbon including, but not limited to, oxygen, sulfur and
nitrogen. A heterocycle        may further contain      one    or more carbonyl       or thiocarbonyl
functionalities, so as to make the definition include oxo-systems and thio-systems such as
lactams, lactones, cyclic imides, cyclic thioimides and cyclic carbamates. When composed of
two or more rings, the rings may be joined together in a fused fashion. Additionally, any
nitrogens in a heteroalicyclic may be quaternized. Heterocyclyl or heteroalicyclic groups may
be unsubstituted or substituted. Examples of such "heterocyclyl" or "heteroalicyclyl" groups
include but are not limited to, 1,3-dioxin,         1,3-dioxane,    1,4-dioxane,   1,2-dioxolane,   1,3
dioxolane,    1,4-dioxolane,    1,3-oxathiane,   1,4-oxathiin,   1,3-oxathiolane,    1,3-dithiole,  1,3
dithiolane, 1,4-oxathiane, tetrahydro-1,4-thiazine, 2H-1,2-oxazine, maleimide, succinimide,
barbituric acid, thiobarbituric      acid, dioxopiperazine,     hydantoin, dihydrouracil, trioxane,
hexahydro-l,3,5-triazine, imidazoline, imidazolidine, isoxazoline, isoxazolidine, oxazoline,
oxazolidine, oxazolidinone, thiazoline, thiazolidine, morpholine, oxirane, piperidine M-Oxide,
piperidine,   piperazine,    pyrrolidine,  pyrrolidone,   pyrrolidione,    4-piperidone,     pyrazoline,
pyrazolidine,      2-oxopyrrolidine,       tetrahydropyran,       4H-pyran,       tetrahydrothiopyran,
thiamorpholine, thiamorpholine sulfoxide, thiamorpholine sulfone and their benzo-fused analogs
(e.g., benzimidazolidinone, tetrahydroquinoline and 3,4-methylenedioxyphenyl).
         100331     As used herein, "aralkyl" and "aryl(alkyl)" refer to an aryl group connected,
as a substituent, via a lower alkylene group, The lower alkylene and aryl group of an aralkyl
may be substituted or unsubstituted.        Examples include but are not limited to benzyl, 2
phenylalkyl, 3-phenylalkyl and naphthylalkyl.
         [0034]     As used herein, "heteroaralkyl" and "heteroaiyl(alkyl)" refer to a heteroaryl
group connected, as a substituent, via a lower alkylene group.              The lower alkylene and
heteroaryl group of heteroaralkyl may be substituted or unsubstituted. Examples include but are
not limited to 2-thienylalkyl, 3-thienylalkyl, firylalkyl, thienylalkyl, pyrrolylalkyl, pyridylalkyl,
isoxazolylalkyl, imidazolylalkyl and their benzo-fused analogs.
         100351     A "(heteroalicyclyl)alkyl" and "(heterocyclyl)alkyl" refer to a heterocyclic or
a heteroalicyclylic group connected, as a substituent, via a lower alkylene group. The lower
alkylene and heterocyclyl of a (hetcroalicyclyl)alkyl may be substituted or unsubstituted.
Examples include but are not limited tetrahydro-2H-pyran-4-yl)methyl, (piperidinAyl)ethyl,
(piperidin-4-yl)propyl, (tetrahydro-2H-thiopyran-4-yl)methyl and (1,3-thiazinan-4-yl)methyl.
                                                  -8-

        100361       "Lower alkylene groups" are straight-chained -CH 2- tethering groups,
forming bonds to connect molecular fragments via their terminal carbon atoms. Examples
include but are not limited to methylene (-CH 2 -), ethylene (-CH 2CH 2-), propylene (
CH 2CH 2 CH 2 -) and butylene (-CH 2 CH2CH 2 CH2-). A lower alkylene group can be substituted by
replacing one or more hydrogen of the lower alkylene group with a substituent(s) listed under
the definition of "substituted."
         [00371     As used herein, "alkoxy" refers to the formula -OR wherein R is an alkyl, an
alkenyl, an alkynyl, a cycloalkyl, a cycloalkenyl, aryl, heteroaryl, heteroalicyclyl, aralkyl,
(heteroaryl)alkyl or (heteroalicyclyl)alkyl is defined herein. A non-limiting list of alkoxys are
methoxy, ethoxy, nl-propoxy, 1-methylethoxy (isopropoxy), n-butoxy, iso-butoxy, sec-butoxy,
tert-butoxy, phenoxy and benzoxy. An alkoxy may be substituted or unsubstituted.
         [0038]     As used herein, "acyl" refers to a hydrogen, alkyl, alkenyl, alkynyl, or aryl
connected, as substituents, via a carbonyl group. Examples include formyl, acetyl, propanoyl,
benzoyl and acryl. An acyl may be substituted or unsubstituted.
         [00391     As used herein, "hydroxyalkyl" refers to an alkyl group in which one or more
of the hydrogen atoms are replaced by a hydroxy group. Exemplary hydroxyalkyl groups
include but are not limited to, 2-hydroxyethyl, 3-hydroxypropyl, 2-hydroxypropyl and 2,2
dihydroxyethyl. A hydroxyalkyl may be substituted or unsubstituted.
         [00401     As used herein, "haloalkyl" refers to an alkyl group in which one or more of
the hydrogen atoms are replaced by a halogen (e.g., mono-haloalkyl, di-haloalkyl and tri
haloalkyl).   Such groups include but are not limited to, chloromethyl,             fluoromethyl,
difluoromethyl, trifluoromethyl, 1-chloro-2-fluoromethyl and 2-fluoroisobutyl. A haloalkyl may
be substituted or unsubstituted.
         100411     As used herein, "haloalkoxy" refers to an -0-alkyl group in which one or
more of the hydrogen atoms are replaced by a halogen (e.g., mono-haloalkoxy, di- haloalkoxy
and tri- haloalkoxy). Such groups include but are not limited to, chloromethoxy, fluoromethoxy,
difluoromethoxy,     trifluoromethoxy,    1-chloro-2-fluoromethoxy    and  2-fluoroisobutoxy.    A
haloalkoxy may be substituted or unsubstituted.
         100421     As used herein, "arylthio" refers to RS-, in which R is an aryl, such as, but
not limited to, phenyl. An arylthio may be substituted or unsubstituted.
         10043]     A "sulfenyl" group refers to an "-SR" group in which R can be hydrogen,
alkyl, alkenyl, alkynyl, cycloalkyl, cycloalkenyl, aryl, heteroaryl, heteroalicyclyl,      aralkyl,
(hetcroaryl)alkyl or (heteroalicyclyl)alkyl. A sulfenyl may be substituted or unsubstituted.
                                                 -9-

        [0044]      A "sulfinyl" group refers to an "-S(=O)-R" group in which R can be the same
as defined with respect to sulfenyl. A sulfinyl may be substituted or unsubstituted.
        100451      A "sulfonyl" group refers to an "SO 2R" group in which R can be the same as
defined with respect to sulfenyl. A sulfonyl may be substituted or unsubstituted.
        [0046]       An "O-carboxy" group refers to a "RC(=O)O-" group in which R can be
hydrogen, alkyl, alkenyl, alkynyl, cycloalkyl, cycloalkenyl, aryl, heteroaryl, heteroalicyclyl,
aralkyl, (heteroaryl)alkyl or (heteroalicyclyl)alkyl, as defined herein. An 0-carboxy may be
substituted or unsubstituted.
        10047]       The terms "ester" and "C-carboxy" refer to a "-C(=O)OR" group in which R
can be the same as defined with respect to 0-carboxy.            An ester and C-carboxy may be
substituted or unsubstituted.
         j0048]      A "thiocarbonyl" group refers to a "-C(=S)R" group in which R can be the
same as defined with respect to 0-carboxy. A thiocarbonyl may be substituted or unsubstituted.
         10049]      A "trihalomethanesulfonyl" group refers to an "X3CSO 2 -" group wherein
each X is a halogen.
         10050]      A "tribalomethanesulfonamido" group refers to an "X3CS(0) 2N(RA)-" group
wherein each X is a halogen, and RA is hydrogen, alkyl, alkenyl, alkynyl, cycloalkyl,
cycloalkenyl,       aryl,    heteroaryl,    heteroalicyclyl,    aralkyl,     (heteroaiyl)alkyl or
(heteroalicyclyl)alkyl.
         100511      The term "amino" as used herein refers to a -NH   2 group.
         [0052]      As used herein, the term "hydroxy" refers to a -OH group.
         [00531      A "cyano" group refers to a "-CN" group.
         [00541      The term "azido" as used herein refers to a -N 3 group.
         [0055]      An "isocyanato" group refers to a "-NCO" group.
         10056]      A "thiocyanato" group refers to a "-CNS" group.
         [00571      An "isothiocyanato" group refers to an " -NCS" group.
         [0058]      A "mercapto" group refers to an "-SH" group.
         100591      A "carbonyl" group refers to a C=O group.
          100601     An "S-sulfonamido" group refers to a "-SO2N(RARI)" group in which RA and
 Ru can be independently hydrogen, alkyl, alkenyl, alkynyl, cycloalkyl, cycloalkenyl, aryl,
 heteroaryl,    heteroalicyclyl,  aralkyl,   (heteroaryl)alkyl   or   (heteroalicyclyl)alkyl.  An
 S-sulfonamido may be substituted or unsubstituted.
          [00611     An "N-sulfonamido" group refers to a "RSO2N(RA)-" group in which R and
 RA  can be independently hydrogen, alkyl, alkenyl, alkynyl, cycloalkyl, cycloalkenyl, aryl,
                                                  -10-

heteroaryl,    heteroalicyclyl,  aralkyl,   (heteroaryl)alkyl   or    (heteroalicyclyl)alkyl.    An
N-sulfonamido may be substituted or unsubstituted.
         100621      An "O-carbamyl" group refers to a "-OC(=O)N(RARB)" group in which RA
and R can be independently hydrogen, alkyl, alkenyl, alkynyl, cycloalkyl, cycloalkenyl, aryl,
heteroaryl, heteroalicyclyl, aralkyl, (heteroaryl)alkyl or (heteroalicyclyl)alkyl. An 0-carbamyl
may be substituted or unsubstituted.
         [0063]      An "N-carbamyl" group refers to an "ROC(=O)N(RA)-" group in which R
and RA can be independently hydrogen, alkyl, alkenyl, alkynyl, cycloalkyl, cycloalkenyl, aryl,
heteroaryl, heteroalicyclyl, aralkyl, (heteroaryl)alkyl or (heteroalicyclyl)alkyl. An N-carbamyl
may be substituted or unsubstituted.
         100641      An "O-thiocarbamyl" group refers to a "-OC(=S)-N(RARB)" group in which
RA and Rn can be independently hydrogen, alkyl, alkenyl, alkynyl, cycloalkyl, cycloalkenyl,
aryl, heteroaryl, heteroalicyclyl, aralkyl, (heteroaryl)alkyl or (heteroalicyclyl)alkyl.         An
0-thiocarbamyl may be substituted or unsubstituted.
         100651      An "N-thiocarbamyl" group refers to an "ROC(=S)N(RA)-" group in which R
and RA can be independently hydrogen, alkyl, alkenyl, alkynyl, cycloalkyl, cycloalkenyl, aryl,
heteroaryl,     heteroalicyclyl,  aralkyl,   (heteroaryl)alkyl   or   (heteroalicyclyl)alkyl.    An
N-thiocarbamyl may be substituted or unsubstituted.
         10066]      A "C-amido" group refers to a "-C(=O)N(RARn)" group in which RA and R
can be independently hydrogen, alkyl, alkenyl, alkynyl, cycloalkyl, cycloalkenyl, aryl,
heteroaryl, heteroalicyclyl, aralkyl, (heteroaryl)alkyl or (heteroalicyclyl)alkyl. A C-amido may
be substituted or unsubstituted.
          10067]      An "N-amido" group refers to a "RC(=O)N(RA)-" group in which R and RA
can be independently hydrogen, alkyl, alkenyl, alkynyl, cycloalkyl, cycloalkenyl, aryl,
heteroaryl, heteroalicyclyl, aralkyl, (hetcroaryl)alkyl or (heteroalicyclyl)alkyl. An N-amido may
be substituted or unsubstituted.
          10068]      The term "halogen atom" or "halogen" as used herein, means any one of the
radio-stable atoms of column 7 of the Periodic Table of the Elements, such as, fluorine, chlorine,
bromine and iodine.
          100691      Where the numbers of substituents is not specified (e.g. haloalkyl), there may
be one or more substituents present. For example "haloalkyl" may include one or more of the
same or different halogens, As another example, "C1 -C 3 alkoxyphenyl" may include one or more
 of the same or different alkoxy groups containing one, two or three atoms.
                                                  -I1-

         [0070]     As used herein, the abbreviations for any protective groups, amino acids and
other compounds, are, unless indicated otherwise, in accord with their common usage,
recognized abbreviations, or the IUPAC-TUB Commission on Biochemical Nomenclature (See,
Biochem. 11:942-944 (1972)).
         [0071]     The term "nucleoside" is used herein in its ordinary sense as understood by
those skilled in the art, and refers to a compound composed of an optionally substituted pentose
moiety or modified pentose moiety attached to a heterocyclic base or tautomer thereof via a N
glycosidic bond, such as attached via the 9-position of a purine-base or the 1-position of a
pyrimidine-base. Examples include, but are not limited to, a ribonucleoside comprising a ribose
moiety and a deoxyribonucleoside comprising a deoxyribose moiety.             A modified pentose
moiety is a pentose moiety in which an oxygen atom has been replaced with a carbon and/or a
carbon has been replaced with a sulfur or an oxygen atom. A "nucleoside" is a monomer that
can have a substituted base and/or sugar moiety. Additionally, a nucleoside can be incorporated
into larger DNA and/or RNA polymers and oligomers, In some instances, the nucleoside can be
a nucleoside analog drug.
          [0072]    The term "nucleotide" is used herein in its ordinary sense as understood by
those skilled in the art, and refers to a nucleoside having a phosphate ester bound to the pentose
moiety, for example, at the 5'-position.
          10073]    As used herein, the term "heterocyclic base" refers to an optionally
substituted nitrogen-containing heterocyclyl that can be attached to an optionally substituted
pentose moiety or modified pentose moiety. In some embodiments, the heterocyclic base can be
selected from an optionally substituted purine-base, an optionally substituted pyrimidine-base
 and an optionally substituted triazole-base (for example, a 1,2,4-triazole). The term "purine
 base" is used herein in its ordinary sense as understood by those skilled in the art, and includes
 its tautomers. Similarly, the term "pyrimidine-base" is used herein in its ordinary sense as
 understood by those skilled in the art, and includes its tautomers.        A non-limiting list of
 optionally substituted purine-bases includes purine, adenine, guanine, hypoxanthine, xanthine,
 alloxanthine, 7-alkylguaninc (e.g, 7-methylguanine), theobromine, caffeine, uric acid and
 isoguanine. Examples of pyrimidine-bases include, but are not limited to, cytosine, thyminc,
 uracil, 5,6-dihydrouracil and 5-alkylcytosine (e.g., 5-methylcytosine).       An example of an
 optionally substituted triazole-base is 1,2,4-triazole-3-carboxamide.         Other non-limiting
 examples of heterocyclic bases include diaminopurine, 8-oxo-N -alkyladenine (e.g., 8-oxo-N
 methyladenine), 7-deazaxanthine, 7-deazagianine, 7-deazaadenine, N4 ,Nethanocytosin,         NN6
 ethano-2,6-diaminopurine,        5-halouracil    (e.g.,  5-fluorouracil    and    5-bromouracil),
                                                 -12-

pseudoisocytosine, isocytosine, isoguanine, and other heterocyclic bases described in U.S.
Patent Nos. 5,432,272 and 7,125,855, which are incorporated herein by reference for the limited
purpose of disclosing additional heterocyclic bases. In some embodiments, a heterocyclic base
can be optionally substituted with an amine or an enol protecting group(s).
         [00741     The term "-N-linked amino acid" refers to an amino acid that is attached to
the indicated moiety via a main-chain amino or mono-substituted amino group. When the amino
acid is attached in an -N-linked amino acid, one of the hydrogens that is part of the main-chain
amino or mono-substituted amino group is not present and the amino acid is attached via the
nitrogen. N-linked amino acids can be substituted or unsubstituted.
         [0075]     The term "-N-linked amino acid ester derivative" refers to an amino acid in
which a main-chain carboxylic acid group has been converted to an ester group. In some
embodiments, the ester group has a formula selected from alkyl-O-C(=O)-, cycloalkyl-0-C(=0)
, aiyl-O-C(=O)- and aryl(alkyl)-O-C(=0)-.           A non-limiting list of ester groups include
substituted and unsubstituted versions of the following: methyl-O-C(=0)-, ethyl-O-C(=0)-, n
propyl-O-C(=0)-,      isopropyl-O-C(=0)-, n-butyl-O-C(=O)-, isobutyl-0-C(=0)-, tert-butyl-0
C(=0)-, neopentyl-0-C(=0)-, cyclopropyl-0-C(=0)-, cyclobutyl-O-G(=0)-, cyclopentyl-0
C(=O)-, cyclohexyl-0-C(=0)-, phcnyl-O-C(=0)-, benzyl-O-C(=0)- and naphthyl-O-C(=O)-.
N-linked amino acid ester derivatives can be substituted or unsubstituted.
         100761      The term "-O-linked amino acid" refers to an amino acid that is attached to
the indicated moiety via the hydroxy from its main-chain carboxylic acid group. When the
amino acid is attached in an -0-linked amino acid, the hydrogen that is part of the hydroxy
from its main-chain carboxylic acid group is not present and the amino acid is attached via the
oxygen. 0-linked amino acids can be substituted or unsubstituted.
         [0077]      As used herein, the term "amino acid" refers to any amino acid (both standard
and non-standard amino acids), including, but not limited to, a-amino acids, p-amino acids, y
amino acids and 8-amino acids. Examples of suitable amino acids include, but are not limited
to, alanine, asparagine, aspartate, cysteine, glutamate, glutamine, glycine, proline, shrine,
tyrosine, arginine, histidine, isoleucine, leucine, lysine, methionine, phenylalanine, threonine,
tryptophan and valine. Additional examples of suitable amino acids include, but are not limited
to, ornithine, hypusine, 2-aminoisobutyric acid, dehydroalanine, gamma-aminobutyric acid,
citrulline, beta-alanine, alpha-ethyl-glycine, alpha-propyl-glycine and norleucine.
                                                 -13-

         100781      The terms "phosphorothioate" and "phosphothioate" refer to a compound of
                                               Y-                                         YH
                           S=P- Os=                                                          0
the general formula                       - its protonated forms (for example,            O        and
       H                                             SH
 S=P-0-                                         O    P   O
     OH         ) and its tautomers (such as        OH
         [00791      As used herein, the term "phosphate" is used in its ordinary sense as
understood by those skilled in the art, and includes its protonated forms (for example,
     OH                   OH
 O=       O-         O=-O
     O~         and       OH         ). As used herein, the terms "monophosphate," "diphosphate,"
and triphosphatee" are used in their ordinary sense as understood by those skilled in the art, and
include protonated forms.
         [00801      The terms "protecting group" and "protecting groups" as used herein refer to
any atom or group of atoms that is added to a molecule in order to prevent existing groups in the
molecule from undergoing unwanted chemical reactions. Examples of protecting group moieties
are described in T. W. Greene and P. G. M. Wits, Protective Groups in Organic Synthesis, 3.
Ed. John Wiley & Sons, 1999, and in J.F.W. McOmie, Protective Groups in Organic Chemistry
Plenum Press, 1973, both of which are hereby incorporated by reference for the limited purpose
of disclosing suitable protecting groups. The protecting group moiety may be chosen in such a
way, that they are stable to certain reaction conditions and readily removed at a convenient stage
using methodology known from the art. A non-limiting list of protecting groups include benzyl;
substituted benzyl; alkylcarbonyls and alkoxycarbonyls (e.g., t-butoxycarbonyl (BOC), acetyl,
or   isobutyryl);    arylalkylcarbonyls      and   arylalkoxycarbonyls     (e.g.,  benzyloxycarbonyl);
substituted methyl ether (e.g. methoxymethyl ether); substituted ethyl ether; a substituted benzyl
ether; tetrahydropyranyl ether; silyls (e.g., trimethylsilyl, triethylsilyl, triisopropylsilyl, t
butyldimethylsilyl,      tri-iso-propylsilyloxymethyl,     [2-(trimethylsilyl)cthoxy]methyl     or    t
butyldiphenylsilyl); esters (e.g. benzoate ester); carbonates (e.g. methoxymethylcarbonate);
sulfonates (e.g. tosylate or mesylate); acyclic ketal (e.g. dimethyl acetal); cyclic ketals (e.g., 1,3
dioxane, 1,3-dioxolanes, and those described herein); acyclic acetal; cyclic acetal (e.g., those
described herein); acyclic hemiacetal; cyclic hemiacetal; cyclic dithioketals (e.g., 1,3-dithiane or
 1,3-dithiolane); orthoesters (e.g., those described herein) and triarylmethyl groups (e.g., trityl;
monomethoxytrityl (MMTr); 4,4'-dimethoxytrityl (DMTr); 4,4'.4"-trimethoxytrityl (TMTr); and
those described herein).
                                                    -14-

         [0081]     The term "pharmaceutically acceptable salt" refers to a salt of a compound
that does not cause significant irritation to an organism to which it is administered and does not
abrogate the biological activity and properties of the compound. In some embodiments, the salt
is an acid addition salt of the compound. Pharmaceutical salts can be obtained by reacting a
compound with inorganic acids such as hydrohalic acid (e.g., hydrochloric acid or hydrobromic
acid), sulfuric acid, nitric acid and phosphoric acid. Pharmaceutical salts can also be obtained
by reacting a compound with an organic acid such as aliphatic or aromatic carboxylic or sulfonic
acids, for example formic, acetic, succinic, lactic, malic, tartaric, citric, ascorbic, nicotinic,
methanesulfonic, ethanesulfonic, p-toluenesulfonic, salicylic or naphthalenesulfonic           acid.
Pharmaceutical salts can also be obtained by reacting a compound with a base to form a salt
such as an ammonium salt, an alkali metal salt, such as a sodium or a potassium salt, an alkaline
earth metal salt, such as a calcium or a magnesium salt, a salt of organic bases such as
dicyclohexylamine,        N-methyl-D-glucamine,          tris(hydroxymethyl)methylamine,     CI-C7
alkylamine, cyclohexylamine, triethanolamine, ethylenediamine, and salts with amino acids
such as arginine and lysine.
         [0082]     Terms and phrases used in this application, and variations thereof, especially
in the appended claims, unless otherwise expressly stated, should be construed as open ended as
opposed to limiting. As examples of the foregoing, the term 'including' should be read to mean
'including, without limitation,' 'including but not limited to,' or the like; the term 'comprising'
as used herein is synonymous with 'including,' 'containing,' or 'characterized by,' and is
inclusive or open-ended and does not exclude additional, unrecited elements or method steps;
the term 'having' should be interpreted as 'having at least;' the term 'includes' should be
interpreted as 'includes but is not limited to;' the term 'example' is used to provide exemplary
instances of the item in discussion, not an exhaustive or limiting list thereof; and use of terms
like 'preferably,' 'preferred,' 'desired,' or 'desirable,' and words of similar meaning should not
be understood as implying that certain features are critical, essential, or even important to the
structure or function, but instead as merely intended to highlight alternative or additional
features that may or may not be utilized in a particular embodiment. In addition, the term
"comprising" is to be interpreted synonymously with the phrases "having at least" or "including
at least". When used in the context of a process, the term "comprising means that the process
includes at least the recited steps, but may include additional steps. When used in the context of
a compound, composition or device, the term "comprising" means that the compound,
composition or device includes at least the recited features or components, but may also include
additional features or components. Likewise, a group of items linked with the conjunction 'and'
                                                 -15-

should not be read as requiring that each and every one of those items be present in the
grouping, but rather should be read as 'and/or' unless expressly stated otherwise. Similarly, a
group of items linked with the conjunction 'or' should not be read as requiring mutual
exclusivity among that group, but rather should be read as 'and/or' unless expressly stated
otherwise.
         [00831       With respect to the use of substantially any plural and/or singular terms
herein, those having skill in the art can translate from the plural to the singular and/or from the
singular to the plural as is appropriate to the context and/or application.            The various
singular/plural permutations may be expressly set forth herein for sake of clarity. The indefinite
article "a" or "an" does not exclude a plurality. A single processor or other unit may fulfill the
functions of several items recited in the claims. The mere fact that certain measures are recited
in mutually different dependent claims does not indicate that a combination of these measures
cannot be used to advantage.         Any reference signs in the claims should not be construed as
limiting the scope.
         [0084]       It is understood that, in any compound described herein having one or more
chiral centers, if an absolute stereochemistry is not expressly indicated, then each center may
independently be of R-configuration or S-configuration or a mixture thereof. Thus, the
compounds provided herein may be enantiomerically pure, enantiomerically enriched, racemic
mixture, diastereomerically pure, diastereomerically enriched, or a stereoisomeric mixture. In
addition it is understood that, in any compound described herein having one or more double
bond(s) generating geometrical isomers that can be defined as E or Z, each double bond may
 independently be E or Z a mixture thereof.
          10085]      Likewise, it is understood that, in any compound described, all tautomeric
 forms are also intended to be included.         For example all tautomers of a phosphate and a
phosphorothioate       groups are intended to be included.          Examples of tautomers of a
                                                      O-                             0
                                                                    I                ll
                                                                                HS-P-O
                                                -S-P--         S=P-O
 phosphorothioate include the following:              D                       ,      OH         and
        7H
  S=P-O
      OH        .r . Furthermore, all tautomers of heterocyclic bases known in the art are intended
 to be included, including tautomers of natural and non-natural purine-bases and pyrimidine
 bases.
                                                   -16-

         [0086]     It is to be understood that where compounds disclosed herein have unfilled
valencies, then the valencies are to be filled with hydrogens or isotopes thereof, e.g., hydrogen-I
(protium) and hydrogen-2 (deuterium).
         [00871     It is understood that the compounds described herein can be labeled
isotopically.   Substitution with isotopes such as deuterium may afford certain therapeutic
advantages resulting from greater metabolic stability, such as, for example, increased in vivo
half-life or reduced dosage requirements. Each chemical element as represented in a compound
structure may include any isotope of said element. For example, in a compound structure a
hydrogen atom may be explicitly disclosed or understood to be present in the compound. At any
position of the compound that a hydrogen atom may be present, the hydrogen atom can be any
isotope of hydrogen, including but not limited to hydrogen-1 (protium) and hydrogen-2
(deuterium). Thus, reference herein to a compound encompasses all potential isotopic forms
unless the context clearly dictates otherwise.
         100881      It is understood that the methods and combinations described herein include
crystalline forms (also known as polymorphs, which include the different crystal packing
arrangements of the same elemental composition of a compound), amorphous phases, salts,
solvates and hydrates. In some embodiments, the compounds described herein exist in solvated
forms with pharmaceutically acceptable solvents such as water, ethanol, or the like. hI other
embodiments, the compounds described herein exist in unsolvated form. Solvates contain either
stoichiornetric or non-stoichiometric amounts of a solvent, and may be formed during the
process of crystallization with pharmaceutically acceptable solvents such as water, ethanol, or
the like. Hydrates are formed when the solvent is water, or alcoholates are formed when the
solvent is alcohol. In addition, the compounds provided herein can exist in unsolvated as well
as solvated forms. In general, the solvated forms are considered equivalent to the unsolvated
 forms for the purposes of the compounds and methods provided herein.
         100891      Where a range of values is provided, it is understood that the upper and lower
 limit, and each intervening value between the upper and lower limit of the range is encompassed
within the embodiments.
                                                 -17-

Compounds
        [00901      Some embodiments disclosed herein relate to a compound of Formula (I) or a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof:
                                                      0        B'
                                     R3 0
                                                             R1
                                               F            R
                                                  (I)
                                                     N       N       NH2
wherein: Bl can be an optionally substituted ~~                            , an optionally substituted
            OR6                                                      R7
   N       N         NH                                     N        N
   ~                     , or an optionally substituted ~                        ; R' can be selected
from an unsubstituted C,. 6 alkyl, an unsubstituted C2 6 alkenyl, an unsubstituted C%6 alkynyl, an
unsubstituted C3.( cycloalkyl and an unsubstituted Cvc, haloalkyl; R2 can be halo, -OR ^ or
N(R 9 R9 C); R' can be hydrogen or         R 4A    ; R4^ can be selected from 0-, OH, an optionally
substituted N-linked amino acid and an optionally substituted N-linked amino acid ester
derivative; Ra can be selected from O, OH, an -O-optionally substituted aryl, an -0
optionally substituted hcteroaryl, an -0-optionally substituted heterocyclyl, an optionally
substituted N-linked amino acid, an optionally substituted N-linked amino acid ester derivative
             O          0
     R 2 0-P-0-P-O
              I          I
             OR         OR' 0
and                             n; R and R6 can be independently selected from hydrogen, an
unsubstituted C1. 6 alkyl, an unsubstituted CI.6 alkenyl, an unsubstituted C3.6 alkynyl and an
unsubstituted C3.6 cycloalkyl; R2 can be NHR3; R3 can be NHR 4 ; R9A can be hydrogen or
C(=0)R"; R        and R?( can be independently hydrogen or an optionally substituted C,. 6 alkyl;
R', R" and R can be independently absent or hydrogen; R" can be selected from hydrogen,
                 -
                                                 -18-

an optionally substituted C1-6 alkyl, an optionally substituted C3-6 alkenyl, an optionally
substituted C3.6 cycloalkyl, -C(=O)RA and -C(=O)ORA2; R14 can be selected from hydrogen, an
optionally substituted C1.6 alkyl, an optionally substituted C3.6 alkenyl, an optionally substituted
C3.6 cycloalkyl, -C(=O)R^' and -C(=O)ORA 4; R's can be an optionally substituted CI. 6 alkyl or
an optionally substituted C3.6 cycloalkyl; X' can be N or -CR 6; R16 can be selected from
hydrogen, halogen, an optionally substituted C1. 6 alkyl, an optionally substituted C2.6 alkenyl and
an optionally substituted C2.6 alkynyl; RAl, RA2, R^' and R^4 can be independently selected from
C1- 6 alkyl, C2-6 alkenyl, C2-6 alkynyl, C3 .6 cycloalkyl, C3.6 cycloalkenyl, Cc-m aryl, heteroaryl,
heteroalicyclyl, aryl(C1.6 alkyl), heteroaryl(C, 6  alkyl) and heteroalicyclyl(Ct.6 alkyl); n can be 0
or 1; Z1 can be 0 or S; and provided that when RW is           Rc^   ; and R4A is O- or OH, then RIB
                       o        0
                            - ---    O
              R 12o-P1-
                       I
                      OR"'
                                 l
                                OR'0
isO,OHor                                n".
         100911      The substituents attached to the 2'-carbon can vary. In some embodiments,
R2 can be halo. For example, R 2 can be fluoro or chloro. In other embodiments, R2 can be -OH.
In still other embodiments, R2 can be OR9A, wherein R9A can be -C(=O)R"5 , and R1' can be an
optionally substituted C1- 6 alkyl. Suitable alkyl groups include, but are not limited to optionally
substituted variants of the following: methyl, ethyl, n-propyl, isopropyl, n-butyl, isobutyl, tert
butyl, pentyl (branched and straight-chained) and hexyl (branched and straight-chained). In yet
still other embodiments, R 2 can be OR 9A, wherein R 9A can be -C(=O)R' 5 , and R 5 can be an
optionally substituted C3-6 cycloalkyl. Suitable cycloalkyl groups include, but are not limited to
optionally substituted variants of the following:         cyclopropyl, cyclobutyl, cyclopentyl and
cyclohexyl.      In some embodiment, R2 can be -N(R 9 BR9 7), wherein R9B3 and R9C can be
independently hydrogen or an optionally substituted C,.6 alkyl. In some embodiments, R91 and
R9 c can be both hydrogen.        In other embodiments, at least one of RBS and RC can be an
optionally substituted Ci-6 alkyl. In sonic embodiments, R91' and R9( can be both an optionally
substituted C1. 6 alkyl.    In some embodiments, R913 and R'9          can be the same.       In other
embodiments, R9 and R9 can be different.
          [0092]     In some embodiments, R can be an unsubstituted C1 6 alkyl. For example, R'
can be unsubstituted methyl, unsubstituted ethyl, unsubstituted n-propyl, unsubstituted
 isopropyl, unsubstituted n-butyl, unsubstituted isobutyl, unsubstituted tert-butyl, unsubstituted
 pentyl (branched and straight-chained) or unsubstituted hexyl (branched and straight-chained).
                                                  -19-

                                                                                    1
In some embodiments, R1 can be an unsubstituted C2A alkenyl. For example, R can be ethenyl,
n-propenyl, isopropenyl, n-butenyl, isobutenyl, tert-butenyl, pentenyl (branched and straight
chained), hexenyl (branched and straight-chained), vinyl or allenyl. In some embodiments, R1
can be an unsubstituted alkynyl.       Suitable alkynyl groups include, but are not limited to the
following: ethenyl, propynyl, n-butynyl, isobutynyl-, tert-butynyl, pentynyl (branched and
straight-chained) and hexynyl (branched and straight-chained). In still other embodiments, R'
can be an unsubstituted C3.6 cycloalkyl such as those described herein.                In yet other
embodiments, R1 can be an unsubstituted haloalkyl. Examples of suitable haloalkyl include, but
are not limited to, chloromethyl, fluoromethyl, difluoromethyl, trifluoromethyl, 1-chloro-2
fluoromethyl and 2-fluoroisobutyt.
                                                                                             3
          100931      In some embodiments, R3 can be hydrogen. In other embodiments, R can be
         R4^     In some embodiments, the compound of Formula (1) can be a monophosphate. In
 other embodiments, the compound of Formula (1) can be a thiomonophosphate.                  In some
 embodiments, the compound of Formula (I) can be a diphosphate. In other embodiments, the
 compound of Formula (I) can be an alpha-thiodiphosphate.                In some embodiments, the
 compound of Formula (I) can be a triphosphate.             In other embodiments, the compound of
 Formula (I) can be an alpha-thiotriphosphate. In some embodiments, R4^ can be 0 or OH; and
 R4B can be 0 or OH.            In other embodiments, R 4A can be 0- or OH; and R4 can be
           o         o
 R' 2O-P-O--P-O
            I
           OR'
                      I
                     OR'0
                                , wherein    R, R" and R' can be independently absent or hydrogen;
 and n can be 0.         In still other embodiments, RJA can be 0- or OH; and R413 can be
           O         o
     2              -P--O
  R     -
       0-P-O
            I         I
           OR"       ORt0
                                  wherein R' 0 , R"1 and R12 can be independently absent or hydrogen;
  and n can be 1. The substituents attached to the phosphorus can vary. In some embodiments, a
  compound of Formula (1) can be a phosphoramidate. In other embodiments, a compound of
  Formula (I) can be a thiophosphoramidate. In still other embodiments, a compound of Formula
  (I) can be a phosphorbisamidate. In yet still other embodiments, a compound of Formula (1) can
  be a thiophosphorbisamidate.
                                                     -20-

         [0094]      In some embodiments, R4 ^ can be an optionally substituted N-linked amino
acid. Various amino acids are suitable, including those described herein. Examples of suitable
amino acids include, but are not limited to, alanine, asparagine, aspartate, cysteine, glutamate,
glutamine, glycine, proline, shrine, tyrosine, arginine, histidine, isoleucine, leucine, lysine,
methionine, phenylalanine, threonine, tryptophan and valine. In other embodiments, R4 A can be
an optionally substituted N-linked amino acid ester derivative. Examples of N-linked amino
acid ester derivatives include, but are not limited to, ester derivatives of any of the following
amino acids: alanine, asparagine, aspartate, cysteine, glutamate, glutamine, glycine, proline,
serine, tyrosine, arginine, histidine, isoleucine, leucine, lysine, methionine, phenylalanine,
threonine, tryptophan and valine. Additional examples of N-linked amino acid ester derivatives
include, but are not limited to, an ester derivative of any of the following amino acids: alpha
ethyl-glycine, alpha-propyl-glycine and beta-alanine.         In some embodiments, the N-linked
amino acid ester derivative can be a C16 alkyl ester derivative, for example, an isopropyl ester of
alanine.      In other embodiments, the N-linked amino acid ester derivative can be a C3 -6
cycloalkyl ester derivative, such as a cyclohexyl ester of alanine.
          [00951      In    some      embodiments,        R 4A     can    have      the     structure
                   9
 R         R17 R
     0          NH-
                        Cwherein R'7can be selected from hydrogen, an optionally substituted C1.6
 alkyl, an optionally substituted C,.6 cycloalkyl, an optionally substituted aryl, an optionally
 substituted aryl(C.r, alkyl) and an optionally substituted haloalkyl; R1 s can be selected from
 hydrogen, an optionally substituted C1.6 alkyl, an optionally substituted C1 .6 haloalkyl, an
 optionally substituted C3 -6 cycloalkyl, an optionally substituted C6aryl, an optionally substituted
 Cio aryl and an optionally substituted aryl(C. 6 alkyl); and R' 9 can be hydrogen or an optionally
 substituted Ci.4 -alkyl.
          [0096]      When R18 is substituted, R's can be substituted with one or more substituents
 selected from N-amido, mercapto, alkylthio, an optionally substituted aryl, hydroxy, an
 optionally substituted heteroaryl, 0-carboxy and amino.         In some embodiments, R's can be
 hydrogen. In some embodiments, R' 8 can be an unsubstituted C1.(,-alkyl, such as those described
 herein.     In other embodiments, RL8 can be methyl.        In some embodiments, R 7 can be an
 optionally substituted C1.6 alkyl.       Examples of optionally substituted Ci.6 -alkyls include
 optionally substituted variants of the following:      methyl, ethyl, n-propyl, isopropyl, n-butyl,
 isobutyl, tert-butyl, pentyl (branched and straight-chained) and hexyl (branched and straight
                                                                                                     7
 chained). In some embodiments, R17 can be methyl or isopropyl. In some embodiments, R
                                                  -21-

can be ethyl or neopentyl.      In other embodiments, R 7 can be an optionally substituted C3 .6
cycloalkyl. Examples of optionally substituted C3,6 cycloalkyl include optionally substituted
variants of the following: cyclopropyl, cyclobutyl, cyclopentyl and cyclohexyl.         In some
embodiments, R 7 can be an optionally substituted cyclohexyl. In still other embodiments, R 7
can be an optionally substituted aryl, such as phenyl and naplithyl.           In yet still other
embodiments, R' 7 can be an optionally substituted aiyl(CI, alkyl). In some embodiments, R' 7
can be an optionally substituted benzyl.       In some embodiments, R17 can be an optionally
substituted C1 ,6 haloalkyl, for example, CF3 . In some embodiments, R' 9 can be hydrogen. In
other embodiments, R19 can be an optionally substituted CI-4-alkyl, such as methyl, ethyl, n
                                                                                9
propyl, isopropyl, n-butyl, isobutyl or tert-butyl.     In some embodiments, R    can be methyl.
Depending on the groups that are selected for Rs and R' 9 , the carbon to which R'5 and R 9 are
attached may be a chiral center. In some embodiment, the carbon to which R18 and R9 are
attached may be a (R)-chiral center. In other embodiments, the carbon to which R' and R' 9 are
attached may be a (S)-chiral center.
                                            R17       R    Rl9
                                                o          NH
         100971      Examples of suitable                          groups include the following:
 R17 0    R 8 R19          R 170    R 8 R19          H3CO                  H3CO H3C H
             HN--                      HN--HN--                                     HN-
                                                                          O     HHCH
                                       0
 H3 OH      C H
                                                                      0
                   O~0H           3C   H                       H0                  OHAC     H
                                    00    HN-\
               SH                                     3H     0>    HN-             0H 3   HNH
            o       HN--                  HN-)                                     0      HN
                oO                                 O       H                       OHC      H
                          HN-                             HN--HN-2
                                                 -22-

                                       H,                               H
                      o0                                                                0
                       H-    '- H'                                             H'
                                   oo o                and             0
        100981       In some embodiments, R413 can be an -0-optionally substituted aryl. For
example, R41" can be an -0-optionally substituted phenyl. When the phenyl is substituted, the
ring can be substituted I, 2, 3 or more than 3 times, Suitable mono-substituted phenyl groups
include, ortho-substituted phenyl, meta-substituted phenyl and para-substituted phenyl. In some
embodiments, R 4B can be ortho-chlorophenyl. In some embodiments, R41 can be 3-chloro-4
fluorophenyl. Alternatively, R 43 can be an -0-optionally substituted naphthyl.             In other
embodiments, R4 " can be an -0-optionally substituted heteroaryl. In still other embodiments,
R4 can be an -0-optionally substituted heterocyclyl.
        100991       In some embodiments, R4 can be an optionally substituted N-linked amino
acid, such as those described for R4^ .       In other embodiments, R" can be an optionally
substituted N-linked amino acid ester derivative, for example, those described herein. In some
                                              R20        R2'    22
embodiments, R 41 can have the structure           or        N% -        wherein R 20 can be selected
from hydrogen, an optionally substituted C 6 -alkyl, an optionally substituted C; 6 cycloalkyl, an
optionally substituted aryl, an optionally substituted         aryl(CI-6   alkyl) and an optionally
substituted haloalkyl; R2' can be selected from hydrogen, an optionally substituted C,-6 alkyl, an
optionally substituted C,., haloalkyl, an optionally substituted C3 6 cycloalkyl, an optionally
substituted C6 aryl, an optionally substituted CIO aryl and an optionally substituted aryl(C 1 6
alkyl); and R 2 2 can be hydrogen or an optionally substituted C 1 4 -alkyl.
        [0100]       When R 2 is substituted, R 2 1 can be substituted with one or more substituents
selected from N-amido, mercapto, alkylthio, an optionally substituted aryl, hydroxy, an
optionally substituted heteroaryl, 0-carboxy and amino. In some embodiments, R2 can be an
unsubstituted Cu 6 -alkyl, such as those described herein.       In some embodiments,     R2' can be
hydrogen.    In other embodiments, R2 can be methyl.          In some embodiments, R 2 0 can be an
                                                 -23-

optionally substituted CI.6 alkyl.       Examples of optionally substituted Cic, alkyls include
optionally substituted variants of the following: methyl, ethyl, n-propyl, isopropyl, n-butyl,
isobutyl, tert-butyl, pentyl (branched and straight-chained) and hexyl (branched and straight
chained). In some embodiments, R20 can be methyl or isopropyl. In some embodiments, R 20
can be ethyl or neopentyl.       In other embodiments, R 20 can be an optionally substituted C3.6
cycloalkyl.    Examples of optionally substituted C3.6 cycloalkyl include optionally substituted
variants of the following: cyclopropyl, cyclobutyl, cyclopentyl and cyclohexyl.             In an
embodiment, R20 can be an optionally substituted cyclohexyl. In still other embodiments, R20
can be an optionally substituted aryl, such as phenyl and naphthyl.            In yet still other
embodiments, R 20 can be an optionally substituted aryl(C. 6 alkyl). In some embodiments, R 20
can be an optionally substituted benzyl.        In some embodiments, R 20 can be an optionally
substituted C1 -, haloalkyl, for example, CF 3. In some embodiments, R22 can be hydrogen. In
other embodiments, R22 can be an optionally substituted C1 4-alkyl, such as methyl, ethyl, n
propyl, isopropyl, n-butyl, isobutyl or tert-butyl.      In an embodiment, R22 can be methyl.
Depending on the groups that are selected for R2' and R22, the carbon to which R 2' and R22 are
attached may be a chiral center. In some embodiment, the carbon to which R2 1 and R22 are
attached may be a (R)-chiral center. In other embodiments, the carbon to which R2' and R 22 are
attached may be a (S)-chiral center.
                                              R20      R
                                                 o        NH-
        [0101]        Examples of suitable                        groups include the following:
 R200     R21   R2 2        R20 0    R21 R22         H3C                   H3CO        H
    0        HN-                0    HN--                      HN--            0      HN
 H3CO H3C      H                            O                             OH 3 0  H
             HN-                                    HN-                   O      HN
            H3 C     H               0-                     OH3C   H                 3C
                                                                                  O-0H     H
                   HN--              0     HN-                                            HN
                                                  -24-

                                                 -O0         H                    OH3C     H
                      MN-                           iN                                A
            o           N-                                   HN-                  0      HN
                                                     0HAG      H                  o-0HAC   H
                     o:
               o        HN-     ,                    0       HN-                  0       HN-J
                             N-                   0
                                                                               0  H
         o0                                   0    0                                0
                                         H,                         H
       o                  s         0-                            0
                          S
                          H)                     H                        H    S
           o                            0                and        0
        [0102]       ]i some embodiments, R4A can be an optionally substituted N-linked amino
                                                                               41
acid or an optionally substituted N-linked amino acid ester derivative and R " can be an -0
optionally substituted aryl. In other embodiments, R4^ can be an optionally substituted N-linked
                                                                                     411
amino acid or an optionally substituted N-linked amino acid ester derivative and R can be an
O-optionally substituted heteroaryl. In some embodiments, R4Acan be an optionally substituted
N-linked amino acid or an optionally substituted N-linked amino acid ester derivative and R43
can be an optionally substituted N-linked amino acid or an optionally substituted N-linked
amino acid ester derivative.      In some embodiments, R 4A and R413 can be the same. In other
embodiments,    R 4A  and R 41 can be different.
        101031       The nucleobase can vary. In some embodiments, Bl can be guanine. In some
                                                                       0
                                                                  N        Nil
                                                                       N        Nil 2
embodiments, Bl         can   be an optionally      substituted  ~v                   -  In other
                                                    -25-

                                                                  0
                                                         <N
                                                          I       N      NH
embodiments, Bl can be an optionally substituted ^^^'                        2
                                                                                wherein R 5 can be
selected from hydrogen, an unsubstituted C1.6 alkyl, an unsubstituted C3.6 alkenyl, an
unsubstituted C3.6 alkynyl and an unsubstituted C3.6 cycloalkyl. In some embodiments, Bl can
                             0
                    N                 R5
                    N        N        Nil1
be unsubstituted ^^^r                        In some embodiments, R5 can be an unsubstituted C1.6
alkyl. For example, Rs can be methyl, ethyl, n-propyl, isopropyl, n-butyl, isobutyl, tert-butyl,
pentyl (branched and straight-chained) or hexyl (branched and straight-chained).          In some
embodiments, R5 can be an unsubstituted C3.6 alkenyl.        In other embodiments, R5 can be an
unsubstituted C3-6 alkynyl.      In still other embodiments, R5 can be an unsubstituted C3 .6
cycloalkyl, for example, cyclopropyl, cyclobutyl, cyclopentyl or cyclolhexyl.
        101041     In    some      embodiments,      B'  can    be   an   optionally    substituted
             R6
   N           N
           NNH
                         wherein R6 can be selected from hydrogen, an unsubstituted C1.6 alkyl,
an unsubstituted C3.-6 alkenyl, an unsubstituted C3-6 alkynyl and an unsubstituted C3.6 cycloalkyl.
                                                              OR6
                                                       N          N
                                                     <N<
                                                             N       NH,
In some embodiments, Bl can be unsubstituted ^^^                            In some embodiments,
R6 can be hydrogen. In some embodiments, R6 can be an unsubstituted C6 alkyl. For example,
R6 can be methyl, ethyl, n-propyl, isopropyl, n-butyl, isobutyl, tert-butyl, pentyl (branched and
straight-chained) or hexyl (branched and straight-chained). In some embodiments, R6 can be an
ethyl. In some embodiments, R6 can be an unsubstituted C3-6 alkenyl. In other embodiments, R6
                                                  -26-

can be an unsubstituted C3.6 alkynyl. In other embodiments, R6 can be an unsubstituted C3.6
cycloalkyl, for example, cyclopropyl, cyclobutyl, cyclopentyl or cyclohexyl.
        [0105]         In    some    embodiments,     Bl     can    be    an   optionally    substituted
             R7
  X,             NN
  N          N          R
                            wherein Xl can be N or -CR'6 ; R' 6 can be selected from hydrogen,
halogen, an optionally substituted Cl-6 alkyl, an optionally substituted C2.6 alkenyl and an
optionally substituted C2-, alkynyl; R7 can be NHR       3; R3 can be NHR14 ; R13 can be selected from
hydrogen, an optionally substituted C, 6 alkyl, an optionally substituted C3.6 alkenyl, an
optionally substituted C 3.6 cycloalkyl, -C(=O)RA        and -C(=O)ORA2 ; R' 4 can be selected from
hydrogen, an optionally substituted C,. 6 alkyl, an optionally substituted C3.6 alkenyl, an
optionally substituted C3.6 cycloalkyl, -C(=O)R3 and -C(=O)OR A; RA, RA2 , RA3 and RA4 can
be independently selected from C,-6 alkyl, C2.6 alkenyl, C2. 6 alkynyl, C3 .6 cycloalkyl, C3.6
cycloalkenyl, C6 .,o aryl, heteroaryl, lieteroalicyclyl, aryl(C,.6 alkyl), heteroaryl(C,   6  alkyl) and
heteroalicyclyl(C,. 6      alkyl).     In  other   embodiments,      Bl    can  be   an   unsubstituted
             R7
                 NN
    X/
   N         N          R8
                             In some embodiments, X' can be N (nitrogen). In other embodiments,
X can be -CR        6, wherein R16 can be selected from hydrogen, halogen, an optionally substituted
C,.6 alkyl, an optionally substituted C2- alkenyl and an optionally substituted C2.( alkynyl. In
some embodiments, X' can be CH. In some embodiments, R7 and R8 can be both NH 2. In other
embodiments, at least one of R7 and R8 can be NH). In some embodiments, R7 can be NHR 3 ,
wherein R" can be an optionally substituted C1. 6 alkyl.            In some embodiments, Rs can be
NHR' 4 , wherein R14 can be an optionally substituted Cl. 6 alkyl. In other embodiments, R7 can
be NHR13 , wherein R" can be selected from an optionally substituted C3 .6 alkenyl, an optionally
                                                                                                g
substitutedsbtttdCa,
               C3.6 cycloalkyl, -C(=O)R       and -C(=O)OR^.A2.      In other embodiments, R' can be
NHR14 , wherein R"1     4
                           can be selected from an optionally substituted C3.6 alkenyl, an optionally
substituted C3-6 cycloalkyl, -C(=O)RA 3 and -C(=O)OR          1.  In some embodiments, R7 and Rs can
                                                   -27-

be the same. In other embodiments, R7 and R8 can be different. In some embodiments, B' can
                NH2
      NN            N
      ND        N          NI-,
be
         10106]      In some embodiments, Z1 can be 0 (oxygen). In other embodiments, Z can
be S (sulfur).
          101071     Some examples of compounds of Formula (1) include, but are not limited to
the following:
                                           NN
                        N-, NH                                                    -   N
      110    O
         F      bid           NH2                                  F       Ol        NH,
                                   <N0
      Oil
                                    N- Nil
 H-O--P-O-P         0--         NN              NH ,     a    r     u         c,           and
       I        I        I                         I
      01-1     01-1     01-1                N--    I
                                     F bit      N112 ,or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt of
the foregoing.
                                              -28-

         10108]      Further exanipics of compounds of Formula (I) include, but arc not limited to
the following:
                                                                 -CI
                                 _1                                0          90         <0
                       11
          0                                          NI               MEL
            CI;-!                                       \/0                  !                NH0
                  0                 Oil         ~NEI,                     ti        Nl
    0-0
                  il
             0o    -           0      H          NNl
         F
                       7                             o                                 'N
                                                                                OlN
                   NIl                  -     N     N0?
                     0          0
                              -11-
              NH 1             ~                              0    -P
                        F      HNil         N     .
                                                             0 0                                 i NH
                         0~~~~~-          NNINA         9--,

                         \                 N,     or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt of the
foregoing.
         [0109]      As described herein, a compound of Formula (I), or a pharmaceutically
acceptable salt thereof, can have R' being         IR4    ; R4 ^ being an optionally substituted N
linked amino acid or an optionally substituted N-linked amino acid ester derivative; and R413
being an -0-optionally substituted aryl, an -0-optionally substituted heteroaryl, an -0
optionally substituted heterocyclyl, an optionally substituted N-linked amino acid or an
optionally substituted N-linked amino acid ester derivative . By neutralizing the charge on the
phosphate or thiophosphate, penetration of the cell membrane may be facilitated as a result of
the increased lipophilicity of the compound. Once absorbed and taken inside the cell, the groups
attached to the phosphorus can be easily removed by esterases, proteases and/or other enzymes.
 In some embodiments, the groups attached to the phosphorus can be removed by simple
hydrolysis.    Inside the cell, the phosphate thus released may then be metabolized by cellular
enzymes to the diphosphate or the active triphosphate. Likewise, the thio-phosphate may be
metabolized to the alpha-thiodiphosphate or the alpha-thiotriphosphate. Furthermore, in some
 embodiments, varying the substituents on a compound described herein, such as compound of
 Fonnula (I), can help maintain the efficacy of such the compound by reducing undesirable
 effects, such as isomerization.
          101101     In some embodiments, the phosphorylation of a thio-monophosphate of a
 compound of Formula (1), or pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, can be stereoselective.
 For example, a thio-monophosphate of a compound of Formula (I) can be phosphorylated to
 give an alpha-thiodiphosphate and/or an alpha-thiotriphosphate compound that can be enriched
 in the (R) or (S) diastercomer with respect to the 5'-0-phosphorous atom. For example, one of
 the (R) and (S) configuration with respect to the 5'-O-phosphorous atom of the alpha
 thiodiphosphate and/or the alpha-thiotriphosphate compound can be present in an amount >
 50%,      75%, 2 90%,      95% or    99% compared to the amount of the other of the (R) or (S)
 configuration    with   respect to the 5'-0-phosphorous         atom.    In some     embodiments,
 phosphorylation of a compound of Formula (1), or pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, can
                                                -30-

result in the formation of a compound that has the (R)-configuration at the 5'-0-phosphorous
atom.      In some embodiments, phosphorylation           of a compound       of Formula (1),     or
pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, can result in formation of a compound that has the (S)
configuration at the 5'-O-phosphorous atom.
         [01111      In some embodiments, a compound of Formula (1), or a pharmaceutically
acceptable salt thereof, can act as a chain terminator of HCV replication. For example, since
compounds of Formula (I) do not contain a hydroxyl group at the 3'-position, once the
compound is incorporated into an RNA chain no further chain elongation can occur.
         10112]      In some embodiments, a compound of Formula (I), or a pharmaceutically
acceptable salt thereof, can have increased metabolic and/or plasma stability.             Ili some
embodiments, a compound of Formula (I), or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, can be
more resistant to hydrolysis and/or more resistant to enzymatic transformations. For example, a
compound of Formula (I), or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, can have increased
metabolic stability, increased plasma stability, can be more resistant to hydrolysis and/or can be
more resistant to enzymatic transformations compared to a compound that is identical in
structure but for having a OH group in place of the fluoro at the 3'-position.              In some
embodiments, a compound of Formula (I), or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, can
have improved properties. A non-limiting list of example properties include, but are not limited
to, increased biological half-life, increased bioavailability, increase potency, a sustained in vivo
response,    increased dosing intervals, decreased dosing amounts, decreased cytotoxicity,
reduction in required amounts for treating disease conditions, reduction in viral load, reduction
 in time to scroconversion (i.e., the virus becomes undetectable in patient serum), increased
sustained viral response, a reduction of morbidity or mortality in clinical outcomes, increased
subject compliance, decreased liver conditions (such as liver fibrosis, liver cirrhosis and/or liver
cancer), and compatibility with other medications.         In some embodiments, a compound of
Formula (1), or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, can have a biological half-life of
greater than 24 hours. In some embodiments, a compound of Formula (I), or a pharmaceutically
 acceptable salt thereof, can have a biological half-life greater than a compound that is identical
 in structure but for having a OH group in place of the fluoro at the 3'-position.          In some
 embodiments, a compound of Formula (1), or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, can
 have more potent antiviral activity (for example, a lower ECsn in an HCV replicon assay) as
 compared to the current standard of care. In some embodiments, a compound of Formula (I), or
 a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, does not significantly inhibit mitochondrial function
 of the mitochondrial RNA polymerase.          For example, a compound of Formula (I), or a
                                                 -31-

pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, is incorporated in the human mitochondrial RNA
polymeirase less than 10% compared to the natural 5'-triphosphate nucleotide with the same B.
         [0113]    Additionally, in some embodiments, the presence of a thiophosphoramidate,
phosphoramidate, thiophosphorbisamidate or phosphorbisamidate in a compound of Formula (1)
can increase the stability of the compound by inhibiting its degradation.          Also, in some
embodiments,        the     presence     of      a    thiophosphoramidate,      phosphoramidate,
thiophosphorbisamidate or phosphorbisamidate can make the compound more resistant to
cleavage in vivo and provide sustained, extended efficacy.            In some embodiments, a
thiophosphoramidate, phosphoramidate, thiophosphorbisamidate or phosphorbisamidate can
facilitate the penetration of the cell membrane by a compound of Formula (I) by making the
compound more lipophilic.      In some embodiments, a thiophosphoramidate, phosphoramidate,
thiophosphorbisamidate     or phosphorbisanidate      can have improved oral bioavailability,
improved aqueous stability and/or reduced risk of byproduct-related toxicity.            In some
embodiments, for comparison purposes, a compound of Formula (I) can be compared to a
compound that is identical in structure but for having a OH group in place of the fluoro at the 3'
position.
Synthesis
         10114]     Compounds of Formula (1) and those described herein may be prepared in
various ways. General synthetic routes to the compound of Formula (1), and some examples of
starting materials used to synthesize the compounds of Formula (1) are shown in Schemes I and
2, and described herein. The routes shown and described herein are illustrative only and are not
intended, nor are they to be construed, to limit the scope of the claims in any manner
whatsoever. Those skilled in the art will be able to recognize modifications of the disclosed
syntheses and to devise alternate routes based on the disclosures herein; all such modifications
and alternate routes are within the scope of the claims.
         [0115]     Compounds of Formula (1) can be prepared using various methods known to
those skilled in the art.    Examples of methods are shown in Schemes I and 2. Suitable
phosphorus containing precursors can be commercially obtained or prepared by synthetic
methods known to those skilled in the art.         Examples of general structures of phosphorus
containing precursors are shown in Schemes 1 and 2, and include phosphorochlorid(ates and
thiophosphorochloridates.     Suitable phosphorochloridates and thiophosphorochloridates arc
commercially available and/or can be synthetically prepared.
                                                -32-

Scheme I
                        HO       0          +     R411-pCl()
                                                        R4A
                                 FR2a
                                (A)                    (B)
         [0116]     One method for forming a compound of Formula (I) is shown in Scheme 1.
In Scheme 1, R1", Ra and BI" can be the same as R1, R2 and B as described herein for Formula
(I). In some embodiments, a compound of Formula (1) can be generated from a compound of
Formula (A) and a compound of Formula (B) using an organometallic reagent, such as a
Grignard reagent. Suitable Grignard reagents are known to those skilled in the art and include,
but are not limited to, alkylmagnesium chlorides and alkylmagncsium bromides. In other
embodiments, an appropriate base can be used to form a compound of Formula (I). Examples of
suitable bases include, but are not limited to, an amine base, such as an alkylamine (including
mono-, di- and tri-alkylamines (e.g., triethylamine)), optionally substituted pyridines (e.g.
collidine) and optionally substituted imidazoles (e.g., N-methylimidazole)).
         10117]     When compounds of Formula (I) has Z' being sulfur, the sulfur can be added
in various manners. In some embodiments, the sulfur can be part of the phosphorus containing
                                   S
                            R4 8 -P-Cl
precursor, for example,            R4^   .  Alternatively, one of the oxygens attached to ihe
phosphorus can be exchanged with a sulfur using a sulfurization reagent. Suitable sulfurization
agents arc known to those skilled in the art, and include, but are not limited to, elemental sulfur,
Lawesson's reagent, cyclooctasulfur, 3 H- 1,2-Benzodithiole-3-one- 1,1-dioxide (Beaucage's
reagent), 3-((N,N-dimethylaminomethylidene)amino)-3 H-1,2,4-dithiazole-5-thione (DDfT)          and
bis(3-triethoxysilyl)propyl-tetrasulfide (TEST).
                                                -33-

Scheme 2
   HO                                                                       al
                                POC 3, N-Methylimidzole            0
                               ___________                  _      OJH      -P-                     8
               (A)                                                                                R2
                                                           o             O
                                                           R-O-P
                                                                         0
                                                           OR 0'
                                                              1
                                                                         OR10   n           O
                                                                                                 FR2
         10118]      A phosphorus containing precursor can be coupled to the nucleoside, for
example, a compound of Formula (A).              Following the coupling of the phosphorus containing
precursor, any leaving groups can be cleaved under suitable conditions, such as hydrolysis. In
Scheme 2, R'", R2" and B" can be the same as R', R 2 and B' as described herein for Formula (I).
Further phosphorus containing groups can be added using methods known to those skilled in the
art, for example using a pyrophosphate. If desired, one or more bases can be used during the
addition of each phosphorus-containing group. Examples of suitable bases are described herein.
         [0119]      As provided herein, R2 can be -OC(=O)R". The -OC(=O)R' 5 group can be
formed at the 2'-position using various methods known to those skilled in the art.                 As an
example, a compound of Formula (I), wherein R2 is a hydroxy group, can be treated with an
alkyl anhydride (e.g., acetic anhydride and propionic anhydride) or an alkyl acid chloride (e.g.,
acetylchloride).    If desired, a catalyst can be used to facilitate the reaction. An example of
suitable catalyst is 4-dimethylaminopyridine (DMAP). Alternatively, the -OC(=0)"5 group can
be formed at the 2'-position by reacting an alkyl acid (e.g. acetic acid and propionic acid) in the
presence of a carbodiimide or a coupling reagent. Examples of carbodiimides include, but are
not limited to, N,N'-dicyclohexylcarbodiimide (DCC), N,N'-diisopropylcarbodiimide (DIC) and
 1-ethyl-3-(3-dimethylaminopropyl) carbodiimide (EDC).
         10120]      To reduce the formation of side products, one or more the groups attached to
the pentose ring can be protected with one or more suitable protecting groups. As an example, if
R2 is a hydroxy group, the hydroxy group can be protected with a suitable protecting group,
such as triarylmethyl and/or silyl group. Examples of triarylmethyl groups include but are not
limited    to,  trityl,  monomethoxytrityl         (MMTr),    4,4'-dimethoxytrityl (DMTr),       4,4',4"
triniethoxytrityl    (TMTr),.      4,4',4"-tris-   (benzoyloxy)    trityl  (TBTr),  4,4',4"-tris     (4,5
                                                      -34-

dichloroplithalimido)   trityl  (CPTr), 4,4',4"-tris (levulinyloxy) trityl (TLTr), p-anisyl-I
naphthylphenylmethyl,          di-o-anisyl-l-naphthylmethyl,        p-tolyldipheylmethyl,          3
(imidazolylmethyl)-4,4'-dimethoxytrityl,     9-phenylxanthen-9-yl   (Pixyl), 9-(p-methoxyphcnyl)
xanthen-9-yl    (Mox), 4-decyloxytrityl, 4- hexadecyloxytrityl,       4,4'-dioctadecyltrityl,  9-(4
octadecyloxyplienyl) xanthen-9-yl,      1,l'-bis-(4-methoxyphcnyl)-l'-pyrenylmethyl,    4,4',4"-tris
(tert-butylphenyl) methyl (TTTr) and 4,4'-di-3, 5-hexadienoxytrityl. Examples of suitable silyl
groups are described herein and include trimethylsilyl (TMS), teri-butyldimethylsilyl (TBDMS),
triisopropylsilyl (TIPS), tert-butyldiphenylsilyl (TBDPS), tri-iso-propylsilyloxymethyl and [2
(trimethylsilyl)ethoxy]methyl.
Pharmaceutical Compositions
         101211     Some embodiments described herein relates to a pharmaceutical composition,
that can include a therapeutically effective amount of one or more compounds described herein
(e.g., a compound of Formula (I)), or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof) and a
pharmaceutically acceptable carrier, diluent, excipient or combination thereof.            In some
embodiments, the pharmaceutical composition can include a single diastereomer of a compound
of Formula (1), or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, (for example, a single diastereomer
is present in the pharmaceutical composition at a concentration of greater than 99% compared to
the total concentration of the other diastereomers). In other embodiments, the pharmaceutical
composition can include a mixture of diastereomers of a compound of Formula (I), or a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof. For example, the pharmaceutical composition can
include a concentration of one diastercomer of> 50%,       60%, > 70%, > 80%,      90%,      95%, or
    98%, as compared to the total concentration of the other diastercomers.                In some
embodiments, the pharmaceutical composition includes a 1:1 mixture of two diastercomers of a
compound of Formula (I), or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof.
         [0122]     The term "pharmaceutical composition" refers to a mixture of one or more
compounds disclosed herein with other chemical components, such as diluents or carriers. The
pharmaceutical composition facilitates administration of the compound to an organism.
Pharmaceutical compositions can also be obtained by reacting compounds with inorganic or
organic acids such as hydrochloric acid, hydrobromic acid, sulfuric acid, nitric acid, phosphoric
acid, methanesulfonic acid, ethanesulfonic acid, p-toluenesulfonic acid and salicylic acid.
Pharmaceutical compositions will generally be tailored to the specific intended route of
administration.
                                                  -35-

         [0123]      The term "physiologically acceptable" defines a carrier, diluent or excipient
that does not abrogate the biological activity and properties of the compound.
         10124]      As used herein, a "carrier" refers to a compound that facilitates the
incorporation of a compound into cells or tissues. For example, without limitation, dimethyl
sulfoxide (DMSO) is a commonly utilized carrier that facilitates the uptake of many organic
compounds into cells or tissues of a subject.
         [0125]      As used herein, a "diluent" refers to an ingredient in a pharmaceutical
composition that lacks pharmacological activity but may be pharmaceutically necessary or
desirable. For example, a diluent may be used to increase the bulk of a potent drug whose mass
is too small for manufacture and/or administration. It may also be a liquid for the dissolution of
a drug to be administered by injection, ingestion or inhalation. A common form of diluent in the
art is a buffered aqueous solution such as, without limitation, phosphate buffered saline that
mimics the composition of human blood.
         [01261      As used herein, an "excipient" refers to an inert substance that is added to a
pharmaceutical composition to provide, without limitation, bulk, consistency, stability, binding
ability, lubrication, disintegrating ability etc., to the composition,      A "diluent" is a type of
excipiclit.
         10127]      The pharmaceutical compositions described herein can be administered to a
human patient per se, or in pharmaceutical compositions where they are mixed with other active
ingredients, as in combination therapy, or carriers, diluents, excipients or combinations thereof.
Proper formulation is dependent upon the route of administration chosen.              Techniques for
formulation and administration of the compounds described herein are known to those skilled in
the art.
         [01281      The pharmaceutical compositions disclosed herein may be manufactured in a
manner that is itself known, e.g., by means of conventional mixing, dissolving, granulating,
dragee-making, levigating, emulsifying, encapsulating, entrapping or tableting processes.
Additionally, the active ingredients are contained in an amount effective to achieve its intended
purpose. Many of the compounds used in the pharmaceutical combinations disclosed herein may
be provided as salts with pharmaceutically compatible counterions.
         [0129]      Multiple techniques of administering a compound exist in the art including,
but not limited to, oral, rectal, topical, aerosol, injection and parenteral delivery, including
intramuscular,     subcutaneous,    intravenous,   intramedullary    injections,  intrathecal, direct
intraventricular, intraperitoneal, intranasal and intraocular injections.
                                                 -36-

         [0130]    One may also administer the compound in a local rather than systemic
manner, for example, via injection of the compound directly into the infected area, often in a
depot or sustained release formulation.    Furthermore, one may administer the compound in a
targeted drug delivery system, for example, in a liposome coated with a tissue-specific antibody.
The liposomes will be targeted to and taken up selectively by the organ.
         [0131]    The compositions may, if desired, be presented in a pack or dispenser device
which may contain one or more unit dosage forms containing the active ingredient. The pack
may for example comprise metal or plastic foil, such as a blister pack. The pack or dispenser
device may be accompanied by instructions for administration. The pack or dispenser may also
be accompanied with a notice associated with the container in form prescribed by a
governmental agency regulating the manufacture, use, or sale of pharmaceuticals, which notice
is reflective of approval by the agency of the form of the drug for human or veterinary
administration. Such notice, for example, may be the labeling approved by the U.S. Food and
Drug Administration for prescription drugs, or the approved product insert. Compositions that
can include a compound described herein formulated in a compatible pharmaceutical carrier
may also be prepared, placed in an appropriate container, and labeled for treatment of an
indicated condition.
Methods of Use
         [01321    Some embodiments disclosed herein relate to a method of treating and/or
ameliorating a disease or condition that can include administering to a subject a therapeutically
effective amount of one or more compounds described herein, such as a compound of Formula
(1), or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, or a pharmaceutical composition that includes
a compound described herein, or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof. Other embodiments
disclosed herein relate to a method of treating and/or ameliorating a disease or condition that can
include administering to a subject identified as suffering from the disease or condition a
therapeutically effective amount of one or more compounds described herein, such as a
compound of Formula (I), or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, or a pharmaceutical
composition that includes a compound described herein, or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt
thereof.
         [0133]    Some embodiments disclosed herein relates to a method of ameliorating or
treating a HCV infection that can include administering to a subject identified as suffering from
a HCV infection a therapeutically effective amount of one or more compounds described herein
(for example, a compound of Formula (I)), or a pharmaceutical composition that includes one or
                                                -37-

more compounds described herein, or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof.              Other
embodiments described herein relate to using one or more compounds described herein, or a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt of a compound described herein, in the manufacture of a
medicament for ameliorating and/or treating a HCV infection that can include administering to a
subject identified as suffering from a HCV infection a therapeutically effective amount of one or
more compounds described herein. Still other embodiments described herein relate to one or
more compounds described herein, or a phannaceutically acceptable salt of a compound
described herein, that can be used for ameliorating and/or treating a HCV infection by
administering to a subject identified as suffering from a HCV infection a therapeutically
effective amount of one or more compounds described herein.
         [01341     Some embodiments disclosed herein relate to methods of ameliorating and/or
treating a HCV infection that can include contacting a cell infected with the hepatitis C virus
with an effective amount of one or more compounds described herein, or a pharmaceutically
acceptable salt of a compound described herein, or a pharmaceutical composition that includes
one or more compounds described herein, or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof. Other
embodiments described herein relate to using one or more compounds described herein, or a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt of a compound described herein, in the manufacture of a
medicament for ameliorating and/or treating a HCV infection that can include contacting a cell
infected with the hepatitis C virus with an effective amount of said compound(s). Still other
embodiments described herein relate to one or more compounds described herein, or a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt of a compound described herein, that can be used for
ameliorating and/or treating a HCV infection by contacting a cell infected with the hepatitis C
virus with an effective amount of said compound(s).
         10135]     Some embodiments disclosed herein relate to methods of inhibiting
replication of a hepatitis C virus that can include contacting a cell infected with the hepatitis C
virus with an effective amount of one or more compounds described                    herein, or a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt of a compound described herein, or a pharmaceutical
composition that includes one or more compounds described herein, or a pharmaceutically
acceptable salt thereof.     Other embodiments described herein relate to using one or more
compounds described herein, or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt of a compound described
herein, in the manufacture of a medicament for inhibiting replication of a hepatitis C virus that
can include contacting a cell infected with the hepatitis C virus with an effective amount of said
compound(s). Still other embodiments described herein relate to a compound described herein,
or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt of a compound described herein, that can be used for
                                                -38-

inhibiting replication of a hepatitis C virus by contacting a cell infected with the hepatitis C
virus with an effective amount of said compound(s). In some embodiments, the compound of
Formula (I), or a pharmaceutical acceptable salt thereof, that can be used to ameliorating and/or
treating a viral infection (for example, a HCV infection) and/or inhibit replication of a virus
(such as a HCV virus) can be any of the embodiments provided in any of the embodiments
described in paragraphs [0090]-(0108].
         [0136]     In some embodiments, the compound can be a compound of Formula (I), or a
pharmaceutical acceptable salt thereof, wherein R       is hydrogen.   In other embodiments, the
compound can be a compound of Formula (I), wherein compound of Formula (I) is a mono, di,
or triphosphate, or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt of the foregoing.             In still other
embodiments, the compound can be a compound of Formula (1), wherein compound of Formula
(1) is     a thiomonophosphate,      alpha-thiodiphosphate,   or   alpha-thiotriphosphate,    or  a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt of the foregoing. In yet still other embodiments, the compound
can be a compound of Formula (I), wherein compound of Formula (I) is phosphoramidate or
phosphorbisamidate,     or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt of the foregoing.           In some
embodiments, the compound can be a compound of Formula (1), wherein compound of Formula
(1) is thiophosphoramidate or thiophosphorbisamidate, or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt of
the foregoing.
         10137J     HCV is an enveloped positive strand RNA virus in the Flaviviridac family.
There are various nonstructural proteins of HCV, such as NS2, NS3, NS4, NS4A, NS4B, NS5A
and NS5B.       NS5B is believed to be an RNA-dependent RNA polymerase involved in the
replication of HCV RNA.
         101381     Some embodiments described herein relate to a method of inhibiting NS5B
polymerase activity that can include contacting a cell infected with hepatitis C virus with an
effective amount of a compound of Formula (I), or a pharmaceutical acceptable salt thereof.
Some embodiments described herein relate to a method of inhibiting NSSB polymerase activity
that can include administering to a subject infected with hepatitis C virus an effective amount of
a compound of Formula (I), or a pharmaceutical acceptable salt thereof. In some embodiments,
a compound of Formula (I), or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, can inhibit a RNA
dependent RNA polymerase, and thus, inhibit the replication of HCV RNA.                    In some
embodiments, a compound of Formula (I), or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, can
inhibit a HCV polymerase (for example, NS5B polymerase).
         101391     Some embodiments described herein relate to a method of treating a condition
selected from liver fibrosis, liver cirrhosis and liver cancer in a subject suffering from one or
                                                -39-

more of the aforementioned liver conditions that can include administering to the subject an
effective amount of a compound or a pharmaceutical composition described herein (for example,
a compound of Formula (I), or a pharmaceutical acceptable salt thereof), wherein the liver
condition is caused by a HCV infection. Some embodiments described herein relate to a method
of increasing liver function in a subject having a HCV infection that can include administering
to the subject an effective amount of a compound or a phannaceutical composition described
herein (for example, a compound of Formula (1), or a pharmaceutical acceptable salt thereof).
Also contemplated is a method for reducing or eliminating further virus-caused liver damage in
a subject having an HCV infection by administering to the subject an effective amount of a
compound or a pharmaceutical composition described herein (for example, a compound of
Formula (I), or a pharmaceutical acceptable salt thereof). In some embodiments, this method
can include slowing or halting the progression of liver disease.        In other embodiments, the
course of the disease can be reversed, and stasis or improvement in liver function is
contemplated, In some embodiments, liver fibrosis, liver cirrhosis and/or liver cancer can be
treated; liver function can be increased; virus-caused liver damage can be reduced or eliminated;
progression of liver disease can be slowed or halted; the course of the liver disease can be
reversed and/or liver function can be improved or maintained by contacting a cell infected with
hepatitis C virus with an effective amount of a compound described herein (for example, a
compound of Formula (I), or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof.)
         10140]      There are a variety of genotypes of HCV, and a variety of subtypes within
 each genotype. For example, at present it is known that there are eleven (numbered I through
 I1) main genotypes of HCV, although others have classified the genotypes as 6 main genotypes.
 Each of these genotypes is further subdivided into subtypes (la-Ic; 2a-2c; 3a-3b; 4a-4c; 5a; 6a;
 7a- 7b; 8a-8b; 9a; 10a; and I la). In some embodiments, an effective amount of a compound of
 Formula (I), or a pharmaceutical acceptable salt thereof, or a pharmaceutical composition that
 includes an effective amount of a compound of Formula (1), or a pharmaceutical acceptable salt
 thereof, can be effective to treat at least one genotype of HCV.         In some embodiments, a
 compound described herein (for example, a compound of Formula (I), or a pharmaceutical
 acceptable salt thereof) can be effective to treat all 11 genotypes of HCV.               In some
 embodiments, a compound described herein (for example, a compound of Formula (I), or a
 pharmaceutical acceptable salt thereof) can be effective to treat 3 or more, 5 or more, 7 or more,
 or 9 or more genotypes of HCV. In some embodiments, a compound of Formula (I), or a
 pharmaceutical acceptable salt thereof can be more effective against a larger number of HCV
 genotypes than the standard of care. In some embodiments, a compound of Formula (I), or a
                                                 -40-

pharmaceutical acceptable salt thereof, can be more effective against a particular HCV genotype
than the standard of care (such as genotype 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 and/or 6).
         10141]     Various indicators for determining the effectiveness of a method for treating a
HCV infection are known to those skilled in the at Examples of suitable indicators include, but
are not limited to, a reduction in viral load, a reduction in viral replication, a reduction in time to
seroconversion (virus undetectable in patient serum), an increase in the rate of sustained viral
response to therapy, a reduction of morbidity or mortality in clinical outcomes, a reduction in
the rate of liver function decrease; stasis in liver function; improvement in liver function;
reduction in one or more markers of liver dysfunction, including alanine transaminase, aspartate
transaminase, total bilirubin, conjugated bilirubin, gamma glutamyl transpeptidase and/or other
indicator of disease response.      Similarly, successful therapy with an effective amount of a
compound or a pharmaceutical composition described herein (for example, a compound of
Formula (I), or a pharmaceutical acceptable salt thereof) can reduce the incidence of liver cancer
in HCV infected subjects.
         10142]     In some embodiments, an effective amount of a compound of Formula (1), or
a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, is an amount that is effective to reduce HCV viral
titers to undetectable levels, for example, to about 100 to about 500, to about 50 to about 100, to
about 10 to about 50, or to about 15 to about 25 international units/mL serum.                In some
embodiments, an effective amount of a compound of Formula (I), or a pharmaceutically
acceptable salt thereof, is an amount that is effective to reduce HCV viral load compared to the
HCV viral load before administration of the compound of Formula (I), or a pharmaceutically
acceptable salt thereof.      For example, wherein the HCV viral load is measured before
administration of the compound of Formula (1), or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof,
and again after completion of the treatment regime with the compound of Formula (1), or a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof (for example, I month after completion).              In some
embodiments, an effective amount of a compound of Formula (1), or a pharmaceutically
acceptable salt thereof, can be an amount that is effective to reduce HCV viral load to lower than
about 25 international units/mL serum.          In some embodiments, an effective amount of a
compound of Formula (I), or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, is an amount that is
effective to achieve a reduction in HCV viral titer in the serum of the subject in the range of
about 1.5-log to about a 2.5-log reduction, about a 3-log to about a 4-log reduction, or a greater
than about 5-log reduction compared to the viral load before administration of the compound of
Formula (I), or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof. For example, the HCV viral load can
be measured before administration of the compound of Formula (I), or a pharmaceutically
                                                  -41-

acceptable salt thereof, and again after completion of the treatment regime with the compound of
Formula (I), or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof (for example, I month after
completion).
         101431      In some embodiments, a compound of Formula (1), or a pharmaceutically
acceptable salt thereof, can result in at least a 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 10, 15, 20, 25, 50, 75, 100-fold or
more reduction in the replication of the hepatitis C virus relative to pre-treatment levels in a
subject, as determined after completion of the treatment regime (for example 1 month after
completion).     In some embodiments, a compound of Formula (I), or a pharmaceutically
acceptable salt thereof, can result in a reduction of the replication of the hepatitis C virus relative
to pre-treatment levels in the range of about 2 to about 5 fold, about 10 to about 20 fold, about
 15 to about 40 fold, or about 50 to about 100 fold. In some embodiments, a compound of
Formula (1), or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, can result in a reduction of the
hepatitis C virus replication in the range of I to 1.5 log, 1.5 log to 2 log, 2 log to 2.5 log, 2.5 to 3
log, 3 log to 3.5 log or 3.5 to 4 log more reduction of the hepatitis C virus replication compared
to the reduction of the hepatitis C virus reduction achieved by pegylated interferon in
combination with ribavirin, administered according to the standard of care, or may achieve the
same reduction as that standard of care therapy in a shorter period of time, for example, in one
month, two months, or three months, as compared to the reduction achieved after six months of
standard of care therapy with ribavirin and pegylated interferon.
         101441      In some embodiments, an effective amount of a compound of Formula (I), or
a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, is an amount that is effective to achieve a sustained
viral response, for example, non-detectable or substantially non-detectable HCV RNA (e.g., less
than about 500, less than about 200, less than about 100, less than about 25, or less than about
 15 international units per milliliter serum) is found in the subject's serum for a period of at least
about one month, at least about two months, at least about three months, at least about four
months, at least about five months, or at least about six months following cessation of therapy.
         10145]      In some embodiments, a therapeutically effective amount of a compound of
Formula (1), or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, can reduce a level of a marker of liver
fibrosis by at least about 10%, at least about 20%, at least about 25%, at least about 30%, at least
about 35%, at least about 40%, at least about 45%, at least about 50%, at least about 55%, at
least about 60%, at least about 65%, at least about 70%, at least about 75%, or at least about
80%, or more, compared to the level of the marker in an untreated subject, or to a placebo
treated subject. Methods of measuring serum markers are known to those skilled in the art and
include immunological-based methods, e.g., enzyme-linked immunosorbent assays (ELISA),
                                                  -42-

radioimmunoassays, and the like, using antibody specific for a given serum marker. A non
limiting list of examples of markers includes measuring the levels of serum alanine
aminotransferase (ALT), aspartate aminotransferase (AST),            alkaline phosphatase (ALP),
gamna-glutamyl transpeptidase (GGT) and total bilirubin (TBIL) using known methods.              In
general, an ALT level of less than about 45 IU/L (international units/liter), an AST in the range
of 10-34 IUlL, ALP in the range of 44-147 lU/L, GGT in the range of 0-51 lU/L, TBIL in the
range of 0.3-1.9 mg/dL is considered normal. In some embodiments, an effective amount of a
compound of Formula (I), or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, can be an amount
effective to reduce ALT, AST, ALP, GGT and/or TBIL levels to with what is considered a
normal level.
         [0146]     Subjects who are clinically diagnosed with HCV infection include "naive"
subjects (e.g., subjects not previously treated for HCV, particularly those who have not
previously received IFN-alpha-bascd and/or ribavirin-based therapy) and individuals who have
failed prior treatment for HCV ("treatment failure" subjects). Treatment failure subjects include
"non-responders" (i.e., subjects in whom the HCV titer was not significantly or sufficiently
reduced by a previous treatment for HCV (5 0.5 log IU/mL), for example, a previous IFN-alpha
monotherapy, a previous IFN-alpha and ribavirin combination therapy, or a previous pegylated
lFN-alpha and ribavirin combination therapy); and "relapsers" (i.e., subjects who were
previously treated for HCV, for example, who received a previous IFN-alpha monotherapy, a
previous IFN-alpha and ribavirin combination therapy, or a previous pegylated IFN-alpha and
ribavirin combination therapy, whose HCV titer decreased, and subsequently increased).
         [01471     In some embodiments, a compound of Formula (I), or a pharmaceutically
acceptable salt thereof, can be administered to a treatment failure subject suffering from HCV.
In some embodiments, a compound of Formula (I), or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt
thereof, can be administered to a non-responder subject suffering from HCV.                In some
embodiments, a compound of Formula (I), or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, can be
administered to a relapsed subject suffering from HCV.
         10148]     After a period of time, infectious agents can develop resistance to one or
more therapeutic agents. The term "resistance" as used herein refers to a viral strain displaying
a delayed, lessened and/or null response to a therapeutic agent(s). For example, after treatment
with an antiviral agent, the viral load of a subject infected with a resistant virus may be reduced
to a lesser degree compared to the amount in viral load reduction exhibited by a subject infected
with a non-resistant strain.       In some embodiments, a compound of Formula (I), or a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, can be administered to a subject infected with an HCV
                                                 -43-

strain that is resistant to one or more different anti-HCV agents (for example, an agent used in a
conventional standard of care). In some embodiments, development of resistant HCV strains is
delayed when a subject is treated with a compound of Formula (I), or a pharmaceutically
acceptable salt thereof, compared to the development of HCV strains resistant to other HCV
drugs (such as a drug used in a conventional standard of care).
         [0149]       In some embodiments, an effective amount of a compound of Formula (I), or
a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, can be administered to a subject for whom other anti
HCV medications are contraindicated.         For example, administration of pegylated interferon
alpha in combination with ribavirin is contraindicated in subjects with hemoglobinopathics (e.g.,
thalassemia major, sickle-cell anemia) and other subjects at risk from the hematologic side
effects of current therapy. In some embodiments, a compound of Formula (1), or a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, can be provided to a subject that is hypersensitive to
interferon and/or ribavirin.
         10150]       Some subjects being treated for HCV experience a viral load rebound. The
term "viral load rebound" as used herein refers to a sustained     0.5 log lU/mL increase of viral
load above nadir before the end of treatment, where nadir is a 0.5 log IU/mL decrease from
baseline. In some embodiments, a compound of Formula (I), or a pharmaceutically acceptable
salt thereof, can be administered to a subject experiencing viral load rebound, or can prevent
such viral load rebound when used to treat the subject.
         [01511       The standard of care for treating H-CV has been associated with several side
effects (adverse events).         In some embodiments, a compound of Formula (I), or a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, can decrease the number and/or severity of side effects
that can be observed in HCV patients being treated with ribavirin and pegylated interferon
according to the standard of care. Examples of side effects include, but are not limited to fever,
malaise, tachycardia, chills, headache, arthralgias, myalgias, fatigue, apathy, loss of appetite,
nausea, vomiting, cognitive changes, asthenia, drowsiness, lack of initiative, irritability,
confusion, depression, severe depression, suicidal ideation, anemia, low white blood cell counts,
and thinning of hair. In some embodiments, a compound of Formula (1), or a pharmaceutically
acceptable salt thereof, can be provided to a subject that discontinued a HCV therapy because of
one or more adverse effects or side effects associated with one or more other HCV agents (for
example, an agent used in a conventional standard of care).
         101521       Table I provides some embodiments of the percentage improvement obtained
using a compound of Formula (I), or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, as compared to
the standard of care. Examples include the following:       in some embodiments, a compound of
                                                  -44-

Formula (1), or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, results in a percentage of non
responders that is 10% less than the percentage of non-responders receiving the standard of care;
in some embodiments, a compound of Formula (I), or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof,
results in a number of side effects that is in the range of about 10% to about 30% less than
compared to the number of side effects experienced by a subject receiving the standard of care;
and in some embodiments, a compound of Formula (1), or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt
thereof, results in a severity of a side effect (such as one of those described herein) that is 25%
less than compared to the severity of the same side effect experienced by a subject receiving the
standard of care. Methods of quantifying the severity of a side effect are known to those skilled
in the art.
Table I
   Percentage      Percentage of Percentage Percentage                Number of      Severity of
     of non-          relapsers           of        of viral load     side effects   side effects
   responders                        resistance        rebound
  10% less         10% less         10% less        10% less        10% less        10% less
  25% less         25% less         25% less        25% less        25% less        25% less
  40% less         40% less         40% less       40% less         40% less        40% less
  50% less         50% less         50% less        50% less        50% less        50% less
  60% less         60% less         60% less        60% less        60% less        60% less
  70% less         70% less         70% less        70% less        70% less        70% less
  80% less         80% less         80% less        80% less        80% less        80% less
  90% less         90% less         90% less        90% less        90% less        90% less
  about 10% to     about 10% to about 10% about 10% to              about 10% to    about 10% to
  about 30%        about 30%        to about        about 30%       about 30%       about 30%
  less             less             30% less        less            less            less
  about 20% to     about 20% to about 20% about 20% to              about 20% to    about 20% to
  about 50%        about 50%        to about        about 50%       about 50%       about 50%
  less             less             50% less        less            less            less
  about 30% to     about 30% to about 30% about 30% to              about 30% to    about 30% to
  about 70%        about 70%        to about        about 70%       about 70%       about 70%
  less             less             70% less        less            less            less
  about 20% to     about 20% to about 20% about 20% to              about 20% to    about 20% to
  about 80%        about 80%        to about        about 80%       about 80%       about 80%
  less             less             80% less        less            less            less
         10153]      As used herein, a "subject" refers to an animal that is the object of treatment,
observation or experiment.        "Animal" includes cold- and warm-blooded vertebrates and
invertebrates such as fish, shellfish, reptiles and, in particular, mammals. "Mammal" includes,
without limitation, mice, rats, rabbits, guinea pigs, dogs, cats, sheep, goats, cows, horses,
primates, such as monkeys, chimpanzees, and apes, and, in particular, humans.                In some
embodiments, the subject is human.
                                                  -45-

         [01541     As used herein, the terms "treating," "treatment," "therapeutic," or "therapy"
do not necessarily mean total cure or abolition of the disease or condition. Any alleviation of
any undesired signs or symptoms of a disease or condition, to any extent can be considered
treatment and/or therapy. Furthermore, treatment may include acts that may worsen the patient's
overall feeling of well-being or appearance.
         [0155j     The terms "therapeutically effective amount" and "effective amount" are used
to indicate an amount of an active compound, or pharmaceutical agent, that elicits the biological
or medicinal response indicated. For example, a therapeutically effective amount of compound
can be the amount needed to prevent, alleviate or ameliorate symptoms of disease or prolong the
survival of the subject being treated This response may occur in a tissue, system, animal or
human and includes alleviation of the signs or symptoms of the disease being treated.
Determination of a therapeutically effective amount is well within the capability of those skilled
in the art, in view of the disclosure provided herein. The therapeutically effective amount of the
compounds disclosed herein required as a dose will depend on the route of administration, the
type of animal, including human, being treated, and the physical characteristics of the specific
animal under consideration.       The dose can be tailored to achieve a desired effect, but will
depend on such factors as weight, dict, concurrent medication and other factors which those
skilled in the medical arts will recognize.
          101561     As will be readily apparent to one skilled in the art, the useful hi vivo dosage
 to be administered and the particular mode of administration will vary depending upon the age,
 weight, the severity of the affliction, and mammalian species treated, the particular compounds
 employed, and the specific use for which these compounds are employed. The determination of
 effective dosage levels, that is the dosage levels necessary to achieve the desired result, can be
 accomplished by one skilled in the art using routine methods, for example, human clinical trials
 and in vitro studies.
          101571     The dosage may range broadly, depending upon the desired effects and the
 therapeutic indication. Alternatively dosages may be based and calculated upon the surface area
 of the patient, as understood by those of skill in the art. Although the exact dosage will be
 determined on a drug-by-drug basis, in most cases, some generalizations regarding the dosage
 can be made. The daily dosage regimen for an adult human patient may be, for example, an oral
 dose of between 0.01 mg and 3000 mg of each active ingredient, preferably between I ng and
 700 mg, e.g. 5 to 200 mg. The dosage may be a single one or a series of two or more given in
 the course of one or more days, as is needed by the subject.           In some embodiments, the
 compounds will be administered for a period of continuous therapy, for example for a week or
                                                 -46-

more, or for months or years.        In some embodiments, a compound of Formula (I), or a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, can be administered less frequently compared to the
frequency of administration of an agent within the standard of care. In some embodiments, a
compound of Formula (I), or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, can be administered one
time per day. For example, a compound of Formula (I), or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt
thereof, can be administered one time per day to a subject suffering from a HCV infection. In
some embodiments, the total time of the treatment regime with a compound of Formula (1), or a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, can less compared to the total time of the treatment
regime with the standard of care.
        [0158]      In instances where human dosages for compounds have been established for
at least some condition, those same dosages may be used, or dosages that are between about
0.1% and 500%, more preferably between about 25% and 250% of the established human
dosage.    Where no human dosage is established, as will be the case for newly-discovered
pharmaceutical compositions, a suitable human dosage can be inferred from ED5o or ID50 values,
or other appropriate values derived from in vitro or in vivo studies, as qualified by toxicity
studies and efficacy studies in animals,
         [0159]     In cases of administration of a pharmaceutically acceptable salt, dosages may
be calculated as the free base.    As will be understood by those of skill in the art, in certain
situations it may be necessary to administer the compounds disclosed herein in amounts that
exceed, or even far exceed, the above-stated, preferred dosage range in order to effectively and
aggressively treat particularly aggressive diseases or infections.
         [0160]     Dosage amount and interval may be adjusted individually to provide plasma
levels of the active moiety which are sufficient to maintain the modulating effects, or minimal
effective concentration (MEC).     The MEC will vary for each compound but can be estimated
from in vitro data.       Dosages necessary to achieve the MEC will depend on individual
characteristics and route of administration. However, HPLC assays or bioassays can be used to
determine plasma concentrations.      Dosage intervals can also be determined using MEC value.
Compositions should be administered using a regimen which maintains plasma levels above the
MEC for 10-90% of the time, preferably between 30-90% and most preferably between 50-90%.
In cases of local administration or selective uptake, the effective local concentration of the drug
may not be related to plasma concentration.
         [0161]     It should be noted that the attending physician would know how to and when
to terminate, interrupt, or adjust administration due to toxicity or organ dysfunctions.
Conversely, the attending physician would also know to adjust treatment to higher levels if the
                                                -47-

clinical response were not adequate (precluding toxicity). The magnitude of an administrated
dose in the management of the disorder of interest will vary with the severity of the condition to
be treated and to the route of administration. The severity of the condition may, for example, be
evaluated, in part, by standard prognostic evaluation methods. Further, the dose and perhaps
dose frequency, will also vary according to the age, body weight, and response of the individual
patient. A program comparable to that discussed above may be used in veterinary medicine.
         [0162]     Compounds disclosed herein can be evaluated for efficacy and toxicity using
known methods. For example, the toxicology of a particular compound, or of a subset of the
compounds, sharing certain chemical moieties, may be established by determining in vitro
toxicity towards a cell line, such as a mammalian, and preferably human, cell line. The results
of such studies are often predictive of toxicity in animals, such as mammals, or more
specifically, humans. Alternatively, the toxicity of particular compounds in an animal model,
such as mice, rats, rabbits, or monkeys, may be determined using known methods. The efficacy
of a particular compound may be established using several recognized methods, such as in vitro
methods, animal models, or human clinical trials.         When selecting a model to determine
efficacy, the skilled artisan can be guided by the state of the art to choose an appropriate model,
dose, route of administration and/or regime.
Combination Theranies
         [0163]     In some embodiments, the compounds disclosed herein, such as a compound
of Formula (I), or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, or a pharmaceutical composition
that includes a compound described herein, or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, can be
used in combination with one or more additional agent(s). Examples of additional agents that
can be used in combination with a compound of Formula (1), or a pharmaceutically acceptable
salt thereof, or a pharmaceutical composition that includes a compound of Formula (I), or a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, include, but are not limited to, agents currently used in
a conventional standard of care for treating HCV, HCV protease inhibitors, HCV polymerase
 inhibitors, NS5A inhibitors, other antiviral compounds, compounds of Formula (AA), (including
pharmaceutically acceptable salts and pharmaceutical compositions that can include a compound
of Formula (AA), or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof), compounds of Formula (BB)
(including pharmaceutically acceptable salts and pharmaceutical compositions that can include a
compound of Formula (BB), or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof), compounds of
Formula (CC) (including pharmaceutically acceptable salts and pharmaceutical compositions
 that can include a compound of Formula (CC), or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof),
                                                 -48-

and/or combinations thereof.       In some embodiments, a compound of Formula (I), or a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, or a pharmaceutical composition that includes a
compound of Formula (I), or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, can be used with one,
two, three or more additional agents described herein.        A non-limiting list of examples of
combinations of a compound of Formula (I), or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, or a
pharmaceutical composition that includes a compound of Formula (I), or a pharmaceutically
acceptable salt thereof, is provided in Tables A, B, C, D and E.
         [01641     In some embodiments, a compound of Formula (I), or a pharmaceutically
acceptable salt thereof, or a pharmaceutical composition that includes a compound of Formula
(1), or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, can be used in combination with an agent(s)
currently used in a conventional standard of care therapy. For example, for the treatment of
HCV, a compound disclosed herein can be used in combination with Pegylated interferon-alpha
2a (brand name PEGASYS@) and ribavirin, or Pegylated interferon-alpha-2b (brand name PEG
INTRON) and ribavirin.
         10165]     In some embodiments, a compound of Formula (1), or a pharmaceutically
acceptable salt thereof, or a pharmaceutical composition that includes a compound of Formula
(I), or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, can be substituted for an agent currently used
in a conventional standard of care therapy. For example, for the treatment of HCV, a compound
of Formula (1), or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, or a pharmaceutical composition
that includes a compound of Formula (I), or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, can be
used in place of ribavirin.
         10166]     In some embodiments, a compound of Formula (I), or a pharmaceutically
acceptable salt thereof, or a pharmaceutical composition that includes a compound of Formula
(I), or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, can be used in combination with an interferon,
such as a pegylated interferon. Examples of suitable interferons include, but are not limited to,
Pegylated interferon-alpha-2a (brand name PEGASYS@), Pegylated interferon-alpha-2b (brand
name PEG-INTRON@), interferon alfacon- I (brand name INFERGEN@), pegylated interferon
lambda and/or a combination thereof.
         [01671     In some embodiments, a compound of Formula (I), or a pharmaceutically
acceptable salt thereof, or a pharmaceutical composition that includes a compound of Formula
(I), or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, can be used in combination with a HCV
protease inhibitor.    A non-limiting list of example HCV protease inhibitors include the
following:    VX-950 (TELAPREVIR'w), MK-5172, ABT-450, BILN-2061,               1-201335, BMS
650032, SCH 503034 (BOCEPREVIR%), GS-9256, GS-9451, IDX-320, ACH-1625, ACH
                                                -49-

2684, TMC-435, ITMN-191 (DANOPREVIR@) and/or a combination thereof Additional HCV
protease inhibitors suitable for use in combination with a compound of Formula (1), or a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, or a pharmaceutical composition that includes a
compound of Formula (I), or a pharnaceutically acceptable salt thereof, include VP-19744, PSI
879, VCH-759/VX-759, HCV-371, IDX-375, GL-60667, JTK-109, PSI-6130, R1479, R-1626,
R-7182, MK-0608, INX-8014, INX-8018, A-848837, A-837093, BILB-1941, VCH-916, VCH
716, GSK-71185, GSK-625433, XTL-2125 and those disclosed in PCT Publication No. WO
2012/142085, which is hereby incorporated by reference for the limited purpose of its disclosure
of HCV protease inhibitors, HCV polymerase inhibitors and NS5A inhibitors. A non-limiting
list of example HCV protease inhibitors includes the compounds numbered 1001-1016 in Figure
I.
         10168]     In some embodiments, a compound of Formula (1), or a pharmaceutically
acceptable salt thereof, or a pharmaceutical composition that includes a compound of Formula
(I), or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, can be used in combination with a HCV
polyinerase inhibitor. In some embodiments, the HCV polymerase inhibitor can be a nucleoside
inhibitor.   In other embodiments, the HCV polymerase inhibitor can be a non-nucleoside
inhibitor. Examples of suitable nucleoside inhibitors include, but are not limited to, RG7128,
PSI-7851,    PSI-7977, INX-189,    PSI-352938, PSI-661,     4'-azidouridine (including known
prodrugs of 4'-azidouridine), GS-6620, IDX-184, and TMC649128 and/or combinations thereof
A non-limiting list of example nucleoside inhibitors includes compounds numbered 2001-2012
in Figure 2. Examples of suitable non-nucleoside inhibitors include, but are not limited to,
ABT-333, ANA-598, VX-222, HCV-796, BI-207127, GS-9190, PF-00868554 (FILIBUVIR@),
VX-497 and/or combinations thereof A non-limiting list of example non-nucleoside inhibitors
includes the compounds numbered 3001-3014 in Figure 3. Further HCV polymerase inhibitors
suitable for use in combination with a compound of Formula (I), or a pharmaceutically
acceptable salt thereof, or a pharmaceutical composition that includes a compound of Formula
(1), or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, include VX-500, VX-813, VBY-376, TMC
435350, EZ-058, EZ-063, GS-9132, ACH-1095, IDX-136, IDX-316, ITMN-8356, ITMN-8347,
ITMN-8096, ITMN-7587, VX-985, and those disclosed in PCT Publication No. WO
2012/142085.
         10169]     In some embodiments, a compound of Formula (1), or a pharmaceutically
acceptable salt thereof, or a pharmaceutical composition that includes a compound of Formula
(I), or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, can be used in combination with a NS5A
inhibitor. Examples of NS5A inhibitors include BMS-790052, PPI-461, ACH-2928, GS-5885,
                                              -50-

BMS-824393 and/or combinations thereof. A non-limiting list of example NS5A inhibitors
includes the compounds numbered 4001-4012 in Figure 4. Additional NS5A inhibitors suitable
for use in combination with a compound of Fornula (I), or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt
thereof, or a pharmaceutical composition that includes a compound of Formula (I), or a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, include A-832, PPI-1301 and those disclosed in PCT
Publication No. WO 2012/142085.
         [01701      In some embodiments, a compound of Formula (I), or a pharmaceutically
acceptable salt thereof, or a pharmaceutical composition that includes a compound of Formula
(I), or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, can be used in combination with other antiviral
compounds. Examples of other antiviral compounds include, but are not limited to, Debio-025,
MIR-122, cyclosporin A and/or combinations thereof, A non-limiting list of example other
antiviral compounds includes the compounds numbered 5001-5012 in Figure 5.
         [0171]      In some embodiments, a compound of Formula (I), or a pharmaceutically
acceptable salt thereof, or a pharmaceutical composition that includes a compound of Formula
(1), or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, can be used in combination with a compound
of Formula (AA), or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, or a pharmaceutical composition
that includes a compound of Formula (AA), or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof (see,
U.S. Publication No. 2013/0164261, filed June 27, 2013, the contents of which are incorporated
by reference in its entirety):
                                 S            H
                        R2AAO-P-O                 H        B1AA
                                  1                 0
                                                   _0
                                 R1lAA    Hilm-            "111m1H
                                            H              "R5AA
                                           R                     Fonnula (AA)
wherein: B^^I can be an optionally substituted heterocyclic base or an optionally substituted
heterocyclic base with a protected amino group; R^^' can be selected from 0, OH, an
optionally substituted N-linked amino acid and an optionally substituted N-linked amino acid
ester derivative; RAA2 can be absent or selected from hydrogen, an optionally substituted aryl, an
optionally      substituted    heteroaryl,     an    optionally   substituted   heterocyclyl   and
            o             O
 RAA 8 O-P           O-P
            ORAA7         ORAA     AA
                                      , wherein R^^, R^^7 and R        can be independently absent
or hydrogen, and n^^ can be 0 or 1; provided that when R^^' is 0 or OH, then RAA2 is absent,
                                                  -51-

                         0             0
               R^^0--P             O-P
                          I             I
                         ORAA          OR AA6    A       A
hydrogen or                      -           -  nA;   R^^3 can be selected from hydrogen, halogen,
OR^^9 and -OC(=O)R A^'; R^^4 can be selected from halogen, -OR                   and -OC(=O)R ^^;or
RA     and RA 4 can be both an oxygen atom which are linked together by a carbonyl group; RAAS
can be selected from an optionally substituted C2.6 alkyl, an optionally substituted C2., alkenyl,
an optionally substituted C2.6 alkynyl and an optionally substituted C3 .6 cycloalkyl; or R^^4 and
RAM together can fonm -(Cb6           alkyl)-O- or -O-(C.       6  alkyl)-; RAA 9 and  RAI I can be
independently hydrogen or an optionally substituted CI- alkyl; and RAAmO and RAA              can be
independently an optionally substituted Ci.r, alkyl or an optionally substituted C3.6 cycloalkyl. A
non-limiting list of examples of compounds of Formula (AA) includes the compounds numbered
7000-7027 in Figure 7.
         101721     In some embodiments, a compound of Formula (1), or a pharmaceutically
acceptable salt thereof, or a pharmaceutical composition that includes a compound of Formula
(I), or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, can be used in combination with a compound
of Formula (BB), or a pharnaceutically acceptable salt thereof, or a phannaceutical composition
that includes a compound of Formula (BB), or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof (see,
U.S. Publication No. 2012/0165286, published June 28, 2012, the contents of which are
incorporated by reference in their entireties):
                             RBB2     2BB3            BB1
                               SRB4,          O             BB8
                               \    RBB5                  BB7
                          XBB                           BB6
                                R BB1                             Formula (BB)
wherein B"'     can be an optionally substituted heterocyclic base or an optionally substituted
heterocyclic base with a protected amino group; X1" can be 0 (oxygen) or S (sulfur): Rni" can
be selected from -Z'l-R 1313, an optionally substituted N-linked amino acid and an optionally
substituted N-linked amino acid ester derivative; ZBB can be selected from 0 (oxygen), S
(sulfur) and N(RBBm); RaB2 and R'133 can be independently selected from hydrogen, an
optionally substituted C1.6 alkyl, an optionally substituted C2.6 alkenyl, an optionally substituted
C2 .6 alkynyl, an optionally substituted C     -6 haloalkyl and an optionally substituted aryl(CI. 6
                2
alkyl); or R".. and R'3 can be taken together to form a group selected from an optionally
substituted C3 ,6 cycloalkyl, an optionally substituted C3.6 cycloalkenyl, an optionally substituted
                                                   -52-

C3 .6 aryl and an optionally substituted C3.6 heteroaryl; R13     4
                                                                     can be selected from hydrogen,
halogen, azido, cyano, an optionally substituted C1.6 alkyl, an optionally substituted C2.6 alkenyl,
an optionally substituted C2.6 alkynyl and an optionally substituted allenyl; RrBs can be
hydrogen or an optionally substituted C1 _6 alkyl; RBB can be selected from hydrogen, halogen,
azido, amino, cyano, an optionally substituted Ct.6 alkyl, -OR"I and -OC(=O)R 11'2 ; R" 7 can
be selected from hydrogen, halogen, azido, cyano, an optionally substituted C1-6 alkyl, -OR11313
                   4
and -OC(=O)R...      ; Runs can be selected from hydrogen, halogen, azido, cyano, an optionally
substituted C1-6 alkyl, -OR11B5 and -OC(=O)R      1116 ;  ROB' can be selected from an optionally
substituted alkyl, an optionally substituted alkenyl, an optionally substituted alkynyl, an
optionally substituted cycloalkyl,      an optionally substituted cycloalkenyl,        an optionally
substituted aryl, an optionally substituted heteroaryl, an optionally substituted heterocyclyl, an
optionally substituted aryl(C 1 .6alkyl), an optionally substituted heteroaryl(C 6alkyl) and an
optionally substituted heterocyclyl(C1, 6 alkyl); Rl....      can be selected from hydrogen, an
optionally substituted alkyl, an optionally substituted alkenyl, an optionally substituted alkynyl,
an optionally substituted cycloalkyl, an optionally substituted cycloalkenyl, an optionally
substituted aryl, an optionally substituted heteroaryl, an optionally substituted heterocyclyl, an
optionally substituted aryl(Ct. 6alkyl), an optionally substituted hcteroaryl(Cl. 6 alkyl) and an
optionally substituted heterocyclyl(C.calkyl); R"1 1' 1 R' 1 ' 3 and R'15 can be independently
                                                                             1
hydrogen or an optionally substituted C1_6 alkyl; and R11312, R                4
                                                                                  and RBB16 can be
independently an optionally substituted C1 ,6 alkyl or an optionally substituted C3.6 cycloalkyl. In
some embodiments, at least one of R3112 and R1....        is not hydrogen.     A non-limiting list of
example compounds of Formula (BB) includes the compound numbered 8000-8016 in Figure 8.
         [01731     In some embodiments, a compound of Formula (I), or a pharmaceutically
acceptable salt thereof, or a pharmaceutical composition that includes a compound of Formula
(1), or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, can be used in combination with a compound
of Formula (CC), or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, or a pharmaceutical composition
that includes a compound of Fonnula (CC), or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof (see,
U.S. Publication No. 2012/0071434, published March 22, 2012, the contents of which are
incorporated by reference in its entirety):
                               S             Rcc 3a
                           R2-P-                     CC1
                               RCCI
                                     RCC411.
                                      Rcc1CCO10          11,IIIRCC 9
                                       Rcc5m               Rccs
                                              Rcc 6 RCC7             Formula (CC)
                                                -53-

wherein Bcc can be an optionally substituted heterocyclic base or an optionally substituted
heterocyclic base with a protected amino group; Rccl can be selected from 0, OH, an optionally
substituted N-linked amino acid and an optionally substituted N-linked amino acid ester
                 2
derivative; RC     can be selected from an optionally substituted aryl, an optionally substituted
                                                                    0             0
                                                           RCC210-P--O-P
                                                                     I             I
heteroaryl, an optionally substituted heterocyclyl and              OR       -      R       , wherein
Recl 9 , Rcc2' and Rcc2 can be independently absent or hydrogen, and ncC can be 0 or 1;
                                                                 0        F    0
                                                         Rcc210-P        0-P
                                                                  |             |
                                                        C2Oicc2R               ORcc1
provided that when Rccl is O- or OH, then Rcc2     (7            Oce                        Rcc3"1 and
Rccab can be independently selected from hydrogen, deuterium, an optionally substituted C6
alkyl, an optionally substituted C2.6 alkenyl, an optionally substituted C2.6 alkynyl, an optionally
substituted C6 haloalkyl and aryl(C. 6 alkyl); or RCC3" and Rccan can be taken together to form
an optionally substituted C3.. cycloalkyl; Rc 4 can be selected from hydrogen, azido, an
optionally substituted C1.6 alkyl, an optionally substituted C2.6 alkenyl and an optionally
substituted C2.6 alkynyl; Rccs can be selected from hydrogen, halogen, azido, cyano, an
optionally substituted C6 alkyl, -ORci          and -OC(=O)Reli; Rec6 can be selected from
hydrogen, halogen, azido, cyano, an optionally substituted CI-, alkyl, -ORecl2 and
OC(=O)Rec a; Rcc7 can be selected from hydrogen, halogen, azido, cyano, an optionally
substituted Cpralkyl, -OReci4 and -oC(=0)Reels; or Rcc6 and Rec7 can be both oxygen atoms
and linked together by a carbonyl group; Reds can be selected from hydrogen, halogen, azido,
cyano, an optionally substituted C1.6 alkyl, -ORuCI   6
                                                         and -OC(=O)REc17; Rec 9 can be selected
from hydrogen, azido, cyano, an optionally substituted C- alkyl and -ORCC'; Rm10 , ReC12,
              6
Rcci,    Recl   and Rccls can be independently selected from hydrogen and an optionally
substituted C16 alkyl; and RCl i, Recl 3, Rcets and Rcc17 can be independently selected from an
optionally substituted C1.6 alkyl and an optionally substituted C3.6 cycloalkyl.             In some
embodiments, when ReC3U, Rec3h, Rec , Rccs. Ree?, Rccs and Red 9 are all hydrogen, then RCC6 is
                                        4
                                                               0            o
                                                      RCC210-P--O-P
                                                               I CC0
                                                               ORc2
                                                                             I
                                                                            ORCcc,
not azido. In some embodiments, RCC 2 cannot be                        -            - "" when Rca is
hydrogen, ReCob is hydrogen, RCC4 is H, Recs is OH or H,              Rec 6  is hydrogen, OH, or
OC(=O)CH 3, RCC7 is hydrogen, OH, OCH 3 or -OC(=O)CH 3, Rces is hydrogen, OH or OCH3,
R"" 9 is H and Bm is an optionally substituted adenine, an optionally substituted guanine, an
                                                 -54-

optionally substituted uracil or an optionally substituted hypoxanthine. In some embodiments,
                           o            O
                 RCC21-P            0-P
                           I               I
Rc cannot be                 Cc2w       CR    ncC. A non-limiting list of examples of compounds
of Formula (CC) includes the compounds numbered 6000-6078 in Figure 6.
         [0174]     Some embodiments described herein relate to a method of ameliorating or
treating a HCV infection that can include contacting a cell infected with the HCV infection with
a therapeutically effective amount of a compound of Formula (1), or a pharmaceutically
acceptable salt thereof, in combination with one or more agents selected from an interferon,
ribavirin, a HCV protease inhibitor, a HCV polymerase inhibitor, a NS5A inhibitor, an antiviral
compound, a compound of Formula (AA), a compound of Formula (BB) and a compound of
Formula (CC), or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt of any of the aforementioned compounds.
         101751     Some embodiments described herein relate to a method of ameliorating or
treating a HCV infection that can include administering to a subject suffering from the HCV
infection   a therapeutically     effective  amount of a     compound     of Formula (1),     or a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, in combination with one or more agents selected from
an interferon, ribavirin, a HCV protease inhibitor, a HCV polymerase inhibitor, a NS5A
inhibitor, an antiviral compound, a compound of Formula (AA), a compound of Formula (BB)
and a compound of Formula (CC), or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt of any of the
aforementioned compounds.
         10176]     Some embodiments described herein relate to a method of inhibiting the
replication of a hepatitis C virus that can include contacting a cell infected with the hepatitis C
virus with an effective amount of a compound of Formula (1), or a pharmaceutically acceptable
salt thereof, in combination with one or more agents selected from an interferon, ribavirin, a
HCV protease inhibitor, a HCV polymerase inhibitor, a NS5A inhibitor, an antiviral compound,
a compound of Formula (AA), a compound of Formula (BB) and a compound of Formula (CC),
or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt of any of the aforementioned compounds.
         10177]     Some embodiments described herein relate to a method of inhibiting the
replication of a hepatitis C virus that can include administering to a subject infected with the
hepatitis C virus an effective amount of a compound of Formula (1), or a pharmaceutically
acceptable salt thereof, in combination with one or more agents selected from an interferon,
ribavirin, a H CV protease inhibitor, a HCV polymerase inhibitor, a NS5A inhibitor, an antiviral
compound, a compound of Formula (AA), a compound of Formula (1B)               and a compound of
Formula (CC), or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt of any of the aforementioned compounds.
                                                 -55-

        101781      In some embodiments, a compound of Formula (I), or a pharmaceutically
acceptable salt thereof, can be administered with one or more additional agent(s) together in a
single pharmaceutical composition. In some embodiments, a compound of Formula (I), or a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt the thereof, can be administered with one or more additional
agent(s) as two or more separate pharmaceutical compositions.        For example, a compound of
Formula (1), or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, can be administered in one
pharmaceutical composition, and at least one of the additional agents can be administered in a
second pharmaceutical composition. If there are at least two additional agents, one or more of
the additional agents can be in a first pharmaceutical composition that includes a compound of
Formula (I), or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, and at least one of the other
additional agent(s) can be in a second pharmaceutical composition.
        [0179]      The dosing amount(s) and dosing schedule(s) when using a compound of
Formula (1), or a pharmaccutically acceptable salt thereof, or a pharmaceutical composition that
includes a compound of Formula (1), or a phamiaceutically acceptable salt thereof, and one or
more additional agents are within the knowledge of those skilled in the art. For example, when
performing a conventional standard of care therapy using art-recognized dosing amounts and
dosing schedules, a compound of Formula (I), or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, or a
pharmaceutical composition that includes a compound of Formula (I), or a pharmaceutically
acceptable salt thereof, can be administered in addition to that therapy, or in place of one of the
agents of a combination therapy, using effective amounts and dosing protocols as described
herein.
        [01801      The order of administration      of a compound of Formula (1),            or a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, with one or more additional agent(s) can vary. In some
embodiments, a compound of Formula (I), or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, can be
administered prior to all additional agents. In other embodiments, a compound of Formula (I),
or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, can be administered prior to at least one additional
agent. In still other embodiments, a compound of Formula (1), or a pharmaceutically acceptable
salt thereof, can be administered concomitantly with one or more additional agent(s). In yet still
other embodiments, a compound of Formula (1), or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof,
can be administered subsequent to the administration of at least one additional agent. In some
embodiments, a compound of Formula (I), or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, can be
administered subsequent to the administration of all additional agents.
        10181]      In some embodiments, the combination of a compound of Formula (1), or a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, in combination with one or more additional agent(s) in
                                               -56-

Figures 1-8 (including pharmaceutically acceptable salts and prodrugs thereof) can result in an
additive effect. In some embodiments, the combination of a compound of Formula (1), or a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, in combination with one or more additional agent(s) in
Figures 1-8 (including pharmaceutically acceptable salts and prodrugs thereof) can result in a
synergistic effect. In some embodiments, the combination of a compound of Formula (I), or a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, in combination with one or more additional agent(s) in
Figures 1-8 (including pharmaceutically acceptable salts and prodrugs thereof) can result in a
strongly synergistic effect. In some embodiments, the combination of a compound of Formula
(I), or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, in combination with one or more additional
agent(s) in Figures 1-8 (including pharmaceutically acceptable salts and prodrugs thereof) is not
antagonistic.
         101 82]    As used herein, the term "antagonistic"      means that the activity of the
combination of compounds is less compared to the sum of the activities of the compounds in
combination when the activity of each compound is detennined individually (i.e. as a single
compound).       As used herein, the term "synergistic effect" means that the activity of the
combination of compounds is greater than the sum of the individual activities of the compounds
in the combination when the activity of each compound is determined individually. As used
herein, the term "additive effect" means that the activity of the combination of compounds is
about equal to the sum of the individual activities of the compound in the combination when the
activity of each compound is determined individually.
         10183]     A potential advantage of utilizing a compound of Formula (I), or a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, in combination with one or more additional agents) in
Figures 1-8 (including pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof) may be a reduction in the
required amount(s) of one or more compounds of Figures 1-8 (including pharmaceutically
acceptable salts thereof) that is effective in treating a disease condition disclosed herein (for
example, HCV), as compared to the amount required to achieve same therapeutic result when
one or more compounds of Figures 1-8 (including pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof) are
administered without a compound of Formula (I), or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof.
For example, the amount of a compound in Figures 1-8 (including a pharmaceutically acceptable
salt thereof), can be less compared to the amount of the compound in Figures 1-8 (including a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof), needed to achieve the same viral load reduction when
administered as a monotherapy.       Another potential advantage of utilizing a compound of
Formula (I), or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, in combination with one or more
additional agent(s) in Figures 1-8 (including pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof) is that
                                               -57-

the use of two or more compounds having different mechanism of actions can create a higher
barrier to the development of resistant viral strains compared to the barrier when a compound is
administered as monotherapy.
         101841      Additional advantages of utilizing a compound of Formula (1),            or a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, in combination with one or more additional agent(s) in
Figures 1-8 (including pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof) may include little to no cross
resistance between a compound of Formula (I), or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof,
and one or more additional agent(s) in Figures 1-8 (including pharmaceutically acceptable salts
thereof) thereof;    different routes for elimination of a compound        of Formula (I), or a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, and one or more additional agent(s) in Figures 1-8
(including pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof); little to no overlapping toxicities between
a compound of Formula (I), or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, and one or more
additional agent(s) in Figures 1-8 (including pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof); little to
no significant effects on cytochrome P450; little to no pharmacokinetic interactions between a
compound of Formula (I), or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, and one or more
additional agent(s) in Figures 1-8 (including pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof); greater
percentage of subjects achieving a sustained viral response compared to when a compound is
administered as monotherapy and/or a decrease in treatment time to achieve a sustained viral
response compared to when a compound is administered as monotherapy.
         [01851      A non-limiting list of example combination of compounds of Formula (I), or
a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, or a pharmaceutical composition that includes a
compound described herein, with one or more additional agent(s) are provided in Tables A, B,
C, D and E. Each numbered X and Y compound in Tables A, B, C, D and E has a corresponding
name and/or structure provided in Figures 1-8. The numbered compounds in Tables A, B, C, D
and E includes pharmaceutically acceptable salts of the compounds and pharmaceutical
compositions containing the compounds or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof.            For
example, 1001 includes the compound corresponding to 1001, pharmaceutically acceptable salts
thereof,    and    pharmaceutical   compositions     that include   compound     1001    and/or   a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof. The combinations exemplified in Tables A, B, C, D
and E are designated by the formula X:Y, which represents a combination of a compound X
with a compound Y.         For example, the combination designated as 1001:9002 in Table A
represents a combination of compound 1001 with compound 9002, including pharmaceutically
acceptable salts of compound 1001 and/or 9002, and pharmaceutical compositions including
compound        1001   and    9002   (including    pharmaceutical    compositions   that    include
                                                -58-

pharmaceutically acceptable salts of compound 1001 and/or compound 9002).               Thus, the
combination designated as 1001: 9002 in Table A represents the combination of Telaprevir
(compound 1001, as shown in Figure 1) and                              Nil      (compound 9002
, as shown in Figure 9), including pharmaceutically acceptable salts of compound 1001 and/or
9002, and pharmaceutical compositions including compound 1001 and 9002 (including
pharmaceutical compositions that include pharmaceutically acceptable salts of compound 1001
and/or compound 9002). Each of the combinations provided in Tables A, B, C, D and E can be
used with one, two, three or more additional agents described herein. In some embodiments
described herein, the combination of agents can be used to treat, ameliorate and/or inhibit a virus
and/or a viral infection, wherein the virus can be HCV and the viral infection can be an HCV
viral infection.
                                              -59-

Table A: Example combinations of a compound X with a compound Y.
    X:Y          X:Y           X:Y          X:Y          X:Y         X:Y
 1001 :9000   1001 :9001    1001 :9002   1001 :9003   1001 :9004  1001 :9005
 1002:9000    1002:9001     1002:9002    1002:9003    1002:9004   1002:9005
 1003 :9000   1003 : 9001   1003 :9002   1003 :9003   1003 : 9004 1003 : 9005
 1004:9000    1004:9001     1004:9002    1004:9003    1004:9004   1004:9005
 1005:9000    1005:9001     1005 :9002   1005:9003    1005 :9004  1005:9005
 1006:9000    1006:9001     1006:9002    1006:9003    1006:9004   1006:9005
 1007:9000    1007:9001     1007:9002    1007:9003    1007:9004   1007:9005
 1008 :9000   1008 :9001    1008 :9002   1008 :9003   1008: 9004  1008 :9005
 1009:9000    1009:9001     1009:9002    1009:9003    1009:9004   1009:9005
 1010:9000    1010:9001     1010:9002    1010:9003    1010:9004   1010:9005
 1011 :9000   1011:9001     1011 :9002   1011:9003    1011 :9004  1011 :9005
 1012 :9000   1012 :9001    1012 :9002   1012 :9003   1012 :9004  1012 :9005
 1013 :9000   1013 :9001    1013 :9002   1013 :9003   1013 :9004  1013 :9005
 1014:9000    1014:9001     1014 :9002   1014:9003    1014:9004   1014:9005
 1015 :9000   1015 :9001    1015 :9002   1015 :9003   1015:9004   1015 :9005
 1016:9000    1016:9001     1016:9002    1016:9003    1016:9004   1016:9005
 2001 :9000  2001 :9001    2001 :9002   2001 :9003    2001 :9004  2001 :9005
 2002 : 9000 2002: 9001    2002 : 9002  2002 :9003    2002 :9004  2002 9005
 2003 :9000  2003 :9001    2003 :9002   2003 :9003    2003 :9004  2003 :9005
 2004 :9000  2004: 9001    2004: 9002   2004: 9003    2004: 9004  2004: 9005
 2005 :9000  2005 :9001    2005 :9002   2005 : 9003   2005 : 9004 2005 :9005
 2006 :9000  2006: 9001    2006 :9002   2006: 9003    2006: 9004  2006 :9005
 2007: 9000  2007: 9001    2007 :9002   2007 :9003    2007 :9004  2007 :9005
 2008 : 9000 2008: 9001    2008 :9002   2008 :9003    2008 :9004  2008 :9005
 2009: 9000  2009: 9001    2009 :9002   2009 :9003    2009 :9004  2009 :9005
 2010:9000   2010:9001     2010:9002    2010:9003     2010:9004   2010:9005
 2011:9000   2011:9001     2011 :9002   2011:9003     2011 :9004  2011 :9005
 2012:9000   2012:9001     2012:9002    2012:9003     2012:9004   2012:9005
                                          -60-

   X:Y         X:Y         X:Y         X:Y         X:Y        X:Y
1001:9006   1001:9007   1001 :9008  1001:9009   1001:9010  1001 :9011
1002 :9006  1002: 9007  1002 :9008  1002 :9009  1002 :9010 1002: 9011
1003 : 9006 1003 :9007  1003 : 9008 1003 :9009  1003 :9010 1003 : 9011
1004:9006   1004:9007   1004:9008   1004:9009   1004:9010  1004:9011
1005:9006   1005:9007   1005:9008   1005:9009   1005:9010  1005:9011
1006:9006   1006:9007   1006:9008   1006:9009   1006:9010  1006:9011
1007 :9006  1007 : 9007 1007 :9008  1007 :9009  1007 :9010 1007: 9011
1008:9006   1008:9007   1008 :9008  1008:9009   1008:9010  1008:9011
1009 :9006  1009 :9007  1009 :9008  1009 : 9009 1009 :9010 1009 :9011
1010:9006   1010:9007   1010:9008   1010:9009   1010:9010  1010:9011
1011:9006   1011 :9007  1011 :9008  1011:9009   1011:9010  1011 :9011
1012 :9006  1012 :9007  1012 :9008  1012 :9009  1012 :9010 1012:9011
1013 :9006  1013 :9007  1013 :9008  1013 :9009  1013 :9010 1013 :9011
1014:9006   1014:9007   1014:9008   1014:9009   1014:9010  1014:9011
1015 : 9006 1015 :9007  1015 :9008  1015 :9009  1015: 9010 1015 : 9011
1016:9006   1016:9007   1016:9008   1016:9009   1016:9010  1016:9011
2001 :9006  2001 :9007  2001 :9008  2001 :9009  2001 :9010 2001 :9011
2002:9006   2002:9007   2002:9008   2002:9009   2002:9010  2002:9011
2003 :9006  2003 :9007  2003 :9008  2003 :9009  2003 :9010 2003 :9011
2004:9006   2004:9007   2004:9008   2004:9009   2004:9010  2004:9011
2005 :9006  2005 :9007  2005 : 9008 2005 :9009  2005: 9010 2005 :9011
2006:9006   2006:9007   2006:9008   2006:9009   2006:9010  2006:9011
2007:9006   2007:9007   2007:9008   2007:9009   2007:9010  2007:9011
2008:9006   2008:9007   2008 :9008  2008:9009   2008:9010  2008:9011
2009:9006   2009:9007   2009:9008   2009:9009   2009:9010  2009:9011
2010:9006   2010:9007   2010:9008   2010:9009   2010:9010  2010:9011
2011:9006   2011:9007   2011:9008   2011:9009   2011:9010  2011:9011
2012:9006   2012:9007   2012:9008   2012:9009   2012:9010  2012:9011
                                     -61-

   X:Y         X:Y        X:Y        X:Y      X:Y X:Y
1001 :9012  1001 :9013 1001 :9014 1001 :9015
1002 :9012  1002: 9013 1002 :9014 1002 : 9015
1003 : 9012 1003 :9013 1003 :9014 1003 : 9015
1004:9012   1004:9013  1004:9014  1004:9015
1005:9012   1005 :9013 1005:9014  1005 :9015
1006 :9012  1006 :9013 1006: 9014 1006: 9015
1007 :9012  1007 :9013 1007 :9014 1007 :9015
1008 :9012  1008 :9013 1008 :9014 1008 :9015
1009:9012   1009:9013  1009:9014  1009:9015
1010: 9012  1010 :9013 1010 :9014 1010 :9015
1011:9012   1011 :9013 1011 :9014 1011 :9015
1012:9012   1012 :9013 1012 :9014 1012 :9015
1013 : 9012 1013 :9013 1013 :9014 1013 :9015
1014:9012   1014:9013  1014:9014  [014:9015
1015:9012   1015 :9013 1015 :9014 1015:9015
1016:9012   1016:9013  1016:9014  1016:9015
2001 :9012  2001 :9013 2001 :9014 2001 :9015
2002 :9012  2002 :9013 2002 :9014 2002 : 9015
2003:9012   2003:9013  2003 :9014 2003:9015
2004:9012   2004:9013  2004:9014  2004:9015
2005 :9012  2005 :9013 2005 :9014 2005 : 9015
2006:9012   2006:9013  2006:9014  2006:9015
2007:9012   2007:9013  2007:9014  2007:9015
2008:9012   2008:9013  2008 :9014 2008:9015
2009:9012   2009:9013  2009:9014  2009:9015
2010:9012   2010:9013  2010:9014  2010:9015
2011:9012   2011:9013  2011 :9014 2011:9015
2012:9012   2012:9013  2012:9014  2012:9015
                                   -62-

Table B: Example combinations of a compound X with a compound Y.
     X:Y         X:Y          X:Y          X:Y          X:Y         X:Y
 3001 :9000   3001 :9001   3001 :9002   3001 :9003   3001 : 9004 3001:9005
 3002 : 9000  3002 :9001   3002 : 9002  3002 : 9003  3002: 9004  3002 :9005
 3003 :9000   3003 :9001   3003 : 9002  3003 : 9003  3003 :9004  3003 :9005
 3004 :9000   3004: 9001   3004 : 9002  3004: 9003   3004 :9004  3004 :9005
 3005 :9000   3005:9001    3005 : 9002  3005 :9003   3005 :9004  3005 :9005
 3006 : 9000  3006 : 9001  3006 : 9002  3006: 9003   3006 :9004  3006 :9005
 3007 :9000   3007 : 9001  3007 : 9002  3007 :9003   3007 :9004  3007 :9005
 3008 :9000   3008 : 9001  3008 :9002   3008 :9003   3008 :9004  3008: 9005
 3009 : 9000  3009 : 9001  3009 : 9002  3009 : 9003  3009 : 9004 3009 : 9005
 3010:9000    3010:9001    3010:9002    3010:9003    3010:9004   3010:9005
 3011 :9000   3011 :9001   3011 :9002   3011:9003    3011:9004   3011:9005
 3012:9000    3012:9001    3012:9002    3012:9003    3012:9004   3012:9005
 3013 :9000   3013 :9001   3013 :9002   3013:9003    3013 :9004  3013:9005
 3014:9000    3014:9001    3014:9002    3014:9003    3014:9004   3014:9005
 4001 :9000   4001 :9001   4001 :9002   4001 :9003   4001 :9004  4001 :9005
 4002 :9000   4002 :9001   4002 : 9002  4002 :9003   4002 :9004  4002 :9005
 4003 : 9000  4003 :9001   4003 : 9002  4003 :9003   4003 :9004  4003 : 9005
 4004 :9000   4004: 9001   4004 :9002   4004 :9003   4004 :9004  4004:9005
 4005 :9000   4005 :9001   4005 :9002   4005 :9003   4005 :9004  4005 :9005
 4006 :9000   4006:9001    4006:9002    4006:9003    4006:9004   4006:9005
 4007 :9000   4007 :9001   4007 :9002   4007 :9003   4007 :9004  4007 :9005
 4008 :9000   4008 :9001   4008:9002    4008:9003    4008:9004   4008:9005
 4009 :9000   4009 :9001   4009 :9002   4009 :9003   4009 :9004  4009 :9005
 4010 :9000   4010 :9001   4010 :9002   4010: 9003   4010 :9004  4010: 9005
 4011 :9000   4011 :9001   4011 :9002   4011:9003    4011:9004   4011:9005
 4012 :9000   4012 :9001   4012 :9002   4012 :9003   4012 :9004  4012 :9005
  5001 :9000  5001 :9001   5001 :9002   5001 :9003   5001 :9004  5001 :9005
  5002 :9000  5002 :9001   5002 : 9002  5002 :9003   5002: 9004  5002 :9005
  5003 :9000  5003 :9001   5003 : 9002  5003 :9003   5003 :9004  5003 :9005
  5004 :9000  5004 : 9001  5004 : 9002  5004 :9003   5004 :9004  5004: 9005
  5005 : 9000 5005 : 9001  5005 : 9002  5005 : 9003  5005 : 9004 5005 : 9005
  5006 :9000  5006: 9001   5006 :9002   5006: 9003   5006 :9004  5006:9005
  5007 :9000  5007 :9001   5007 : 9002  5007 : 9003  5007 :9004  5007 : 9005
  5008 :9000  5008 : 9001  5008 :9002   5008 : 9003  5008: 9004  5008 : 9005
  5009 :9000  5009 :9001   5009 :9002   5009 : 9003  5009 :9004  5009 : 9005
  5010:9000   5010:9001    5010:9002    5010:9003    5010:9004   5010:9005
  5011 :9000  5011 :9001   5011 :9002   5011:9003    5011:9004   5011:9005
  5012:9000   5012:9001    5012:9002    5012:9003    5012:9004   5012:9005
                                          -63-

   X:Y         X:Y         X:Y         X:Y        X:Y        X:Y
3001 :9006 3001 :9007   3001:9008 3001:9009 3001 :9010 3001:9011
3002 :9006 3002 :9007 3002 :9008 3002 :9009 3002: 9010 3002 : 9011
3003 :9006 3003 :9007 3003 :9008 3003 :9009 3003 :9010 3003 : 9011
3004:9006   3004:9007   3004:9008   3004:9009  3004:9010  3004:9011
3005 :9006  3005 :9007  3005 :9008  3005 :9009 3005 :9010 3005 :9011
3006:9006   3006:9007   3006:9008   3006:9009  3006:9010  3006:9011
3007:9006   3007:9007   3007:9008   3007:9009  3007:9010  3007:9011
3008:9006   3008:9007   3008:9008   3008:9009  3008:9010  3008:9011
3009 :9006  3009 :9007  3009 :9008  3009 :9009 3009 :9010 3009 :9011
3010:9006 3010:9007 3010:9008 3010:9009 3010:9010 3010:9011
3011 :9006  3011 :9007  3011 :9008  3011:9009  3011:9010  3011:9011
3012 :9006  3012 :9007  3012 :9008  3012 :9009 3012:9010  3012 :9011
3013 :9006  3013 :9007  3013 :9008  3013 :9009 3013 :9010 3013 :9011
3014:9006   3014:9007   3014:9008   3014:9009  3014:9010  3014:9011
4001 :9006  4001 :9007  4001 :9008  4001 :9009 4001 :9010 4001 :9011
4002 :9006  4002 :9007  4002 :9008  4002 :9009 4002 :9010 4002 :9011
4003 :9006  4003 :9007  4003 :9008  4003 :9009 4003 :9010 4003 :9011
4004 :9006  4004 :9007  4004 :9008  4004 :9009 4004: 9010 4004: 9011
4005 :9006  4005 : 9007 4005 : 9008 4005 :9009 4005 :9010 4005 :9011
4006 :9006  4006 :9007  4006 :9008  4006: 9009 4006 :9010 4006 :9011
4007 9006   4007 :9007  4007 :9008  4007 :9009 4007 :9010 4007 :9011
4008 :9006 4008 :9007 4008 :9008 4008 :9009 4008 : 9010 4008 :9011
4009 : 9006 4009 : 9007 4009 :9008 4009 :9009 4009 : 9010 4009 : 9011
4010:9006   4010:9007   4010:9008   4010:9009  4010:9010  4010:9011
4011 :9006  4011 :9007  4011 :9008  4011 :9009 4011 :9010 4011 :9011
4012:9006   4012:9007   4012:9008   4012:9009  4012:9010  4012:9011
5001:9006   5001 :9007  5001 :9008  5001 :9009 5001 :9010 5001 :9011
5002:9006   5002:9007   5002:9008   5002:9009  5002:9010  5002:9011
5003 :9006  5003 :9007  5003 : 9008 5003 :9009 5003 :9010 5003 : 9011
5004:9006   5004:9007   5004:9008   5004:9009  5004:9010  5004:9011
5005 :9006  5005 :9007  5005 :9008  5005 :9009 5005 :9010 5005 : 9011
5006 :9006  5006 :9007  5006 : 9008 5006: 9009 5006 :9010 5006: 9011
5007 :9006  5007 :9007  5007 : 9008 5007 :9009 5007 :9010 5007: 9011
5008:9006 5008:9007 5008:9008 5008:9009 5008:9010 5008:9011
5009 :9006 5009 :9007 5009 : 9008 5009 :9009 5009 :9010 5009 : 9011
5010:9006 5010:9007 5010:9008       5010:9009  5010:9010 5010:9011
5011 :9006 5011 :9007 5011 :9008    5011:9009  5011 :9010 5011:9011
5012 :9006 5012 :9007 5012 : 9008   5012 :9009 5012 :9010 5012 :9011
                                      -64-

   X:Y         X:Y         X:Y         X:Y     X:Y X:Y
3001 :9012  3001 :9013  3001 :9014 3001 :9015
3002:9012   3002:9013   3002:9014  3002:9015
3003 :9012  3003 :9013  3003 :9014 3003 :9015
3004:9012   3004:9013   3004:9014  3004:9015
3005 :9012  3005 : 9013 3005 :9014 3005 :9015
3006:9012   3006:9013   3006:9014  3006:9015
3007:9012   3007:9013   3007:9014  3007:9015
3008 :9012  3008:9013   3008:9014  3008 :9015
3009:9012   3009:9013   3009:9014  3009:9015
3010 :9012  3010:9013   3010:9014  3010:9015
3011 :9012  3011 :9013  3011 :9014 3011:9015
3012:9012   3012:9013   3012:9014  3012:9015
3013 :9012  3013 :9013  3013 :9014 3013 :9015
3014:9012   3014:9013   3014:9014  3014:9015
4001 :9012  4001 :9013  4001 :9014 4001 :9015
4002 :9012  4002 :9013  4002 :9014 4002 :9015
4003 : 9012 4003 : 9013 4003 :9014 4003 :9015
4004:9012   4004:9013   4004:9014  4004:9015
4005 :9012  4005 :9013  4005 :9014 4005 :9015
4006 :9012  4006 :9013  4006 :9014 4006 : 9015
4007 :9012  4007 :9013  4007:9014  4007:9015
4008 :9012  4008 :9013  4008 :9014 4008 :9015
4009 :9012  4009 :9013  4009:9014  4009:9015
4010:9012   4010:9013   4010:9014  4010:9015
4011 :9012  4011 :9013  4011 :9014 4011 :9015
4012 :9012  4012 :9013  4012 :9014 4012 :9015
5001 :9012  5001 :9013  5001 :9014 5001 :9015
5002:9012   5002:9013   5002:9014  5002:9015
5003 :9012  5003 :9013  5003 :9014 5003 :9015
5004:9012   5004:9013   5004:9014  5004:9015
5005 :9012  5005 :9013  5005 :9014 5005 :9015
5006:9012   5006:9013   5006:9014  5006:9015
5007:9012   5007:9013   5007:9014  5007:9015
5008 :9012 5008 :9013 5008:9014 5008 :9015
5009:9012 5009:9013     5009:9014  5009:9015
5010 :9012 5010 :9013   5010 :9014 5010: 9015
5011 :9012 5011 :9013   5011 :9014 5011:9015
5012 :9012 5012 :9013   5012 :9014 5012 : 9015
                                     -65-

Table C: Example combinations of a compound X with a compound Y.
    X:Y          X:Y          X:Y          X:Y           X:Y         X:Y
 6000 : 9000  6043 : 9000 6000: 9001 6043 : 9001      6000 : 9002 6043 : 9002
 6001 : 9000  6044 : 9000  6001 : 9001  6044 : 9001   6001 : 9002 6044 : 9002
 6002 :9000   6045 :9000   6002 :9001   6045 :9001    6002 :9002  6045 :9002
 6003 : 9000  6046 : 9000  6003 : 9001  6046 : 9001   6003 : 9002 6046 : 9002
 6004: 9000   6047 : 9000  6004: 9001   6047 :9001    6004: 9002  6047 :9002
 6005 : 9000  6048: 9000   6005 : 9001  6048 : 9001   6005 : 9002 6048 :9002
 6006: 9000   6049 : 9000  6006 : 9001  6049 : 9001   6006 : 9002 6049 :9002
 6007 :9000   6050: 9000   6007 :9001   6050 :9001    6007 :9002  6050 :9002
 6008:9000    6051 :9000   6008:9001    6051 :9001    6008:9002   6051 :9002
 6009 :9000   6052: 9000   6009 :9001   6052 :9001    6009 :9002  6052 :9002
 6010 :9000   6053 :9000   6010 :9001   6053 :9001    6010 :9002  6053 :9002
 6011 :9000   6054 :9000   6011 :9001   6054 :9001    6011 :9002  6054 :9002
 6012 :9000   6055 :9000   6012 :9001   6055 :9001    6012 :9002  6055 :9002
 6013 :9000   6056 : 9000  6013 : 9001  6056 :9001    6013 : 9002 6056 :9002
 6014 :9000   6057 :9000   6014: 9001   6057 :9001    6014 :9002  6057 :9002
 6015:9000    6058:9000    6015:9001    6058:9001     6015:9002   6058 :9002
 6016:9000    6059:9000    6016:9001    6059:9001     6016:9002   6059:9002
 6017:9000    6060:9000    6017:9001    6060:9001     6017:9002   6060:9002
 6018 :9000   6061 :9000   6018 :9001   6061 :9001    6018 : 9002 6061 :9002
 6019:9000    6062:9000 6019:9001       6062:9001     6019:9002 6062:9002
 6020 :9000   6063 :9000 6020: 9001     6063 :9001    6020 :9002  6063 :9002
 6021 :9000   6064:9000 6021 :9001      6064:9001     6021 :9002  6064:9002
 6022 :9000   6065 : 9000 6022 : 9001   6065 : 9001   6022 :9002  6065 :9002
 6023 :9000   6066: 9000   6023 :9001   6066 :9001    6023 :9002  6066 :9002
 6024:9000    6067:9000    6024:9001    6067:9001     6024:9002   6067 :9002
 6025 : 9000  6068 : 9000  6025 : 9001  6068 : 9001   6025 : 9002 6068 :9002
 6026 :9000   6069 :9000   6026 :9001   6069 :9001    6026 :9002  6069 :9002
 6027 : 9000  6070 : 9000  6027 : 9001  6070 : 9001   6027 : 9002 6070 : 9002
 6028 :9000   6071 :9000   6028:9001    6071 :9001    6028 :9002  6071 :9002
 6029 :9000   6072 :9000   6029 :9001   6072: 9001    6029 :9002  6072 : 9002
 6030: 9000   6073 : 9000  6030 : 9001  6073 : 9001   6030 : 9002 6073 : 9002
 6031 :9000   6074: 9000   6031 :9001   6074 :9001    6031 :9002  6074 :9002
 6032 : 9000  6075 : 9000  6032 : 9001  6075 : 9001   6032 : 9002 6075 : 9002
 6033 :9000   6076: 9000   6033 :9001   6076: 9001    6033 :9002  6076 :9002
 6034: 9000   6077: 9000   6034 :9001   6077 :9001    6034 :9002  6077 :9002
 6035 : 9000  6078 : 9000  6035 : 9001  6078 : 9001   6035 :9002  6078 :9002
 6036: 9000                6036: 9001                 6036 :9002
 6037 :9000                6037 :9001                 6037 :9002
 6038 :9000                6038 :9001                 6038 :9002
 6039 :9000                6039 :9001                 6039 :9002
 6040 :9000                6040 :9001                 6040 :9002
 6041 :9000                6041 :9001                 6041 :9002
 6042 :9000                6042 :9001                 6042 :9002
                                         -66-

   X:Y         X:Y         X:Y         X:Y         X:Y         X:Y
6000 :9003  6043 : 9003 6000 :9004  6043 :9004  6000 :9005  6043 : 9005
6001 9003   6044: 9003  6001 : 9004 6044: 9004  6001 9005   6044 : 9005
6002 9003   6045 : 9003 6002: 9004  6045 :9004  6002 :9005  6045 :9005
6003 : 9003 6046 : 9003 6003 : 9004 6046 : 9004 6003 : 9005 6046 :9005
6004: 9003  6047: 9003  6004: 9004  6047 :9004  6004 :9005  6047 :9005
6005 :9003  6048: 9003  6005 : 9004 6048 :9004  6005 :9005  6048 :9005
6006: 9003  6049 :9003  6006 :9004  6049 : 9004 6006 :9005  6049 :9005
6007 :9003  6050: 9003  6007 :9004  6050 :9004  6007 :9005  6050 :9005
6008 :9003  6051 :9003  6008 :9004  6051 :9004  6008 :9005  6051 :9005
6009 :9003  6052: 9003  6009 9004   6052 :9004  6009 :9005  6052 :9005
6010 :9003  6053 :9003  6010 :9004  6053 :9004  6010 :9005  6053 :9005
6011 :9003  6054:9003   6011 :9004  6054:9004   6011 :9005  6054:9005
6012 :9003  6055 :9003  6012 :9004  6055 :9004  6012 :9005  6055 :9005
6013 : 9003 6056: 9003  6013 :9004  6056 :9004  6013 :9005  6056 :9005
6014:9003   6057:9003   6014:9004   6057 :9004  6014:9005   6057:9005
6015 :9003  6058:9003   6015 :9004  6058 :9004  6015 :9005  6058 :9005
6016:9003   6059:9003   6016:9004   6059 :9004  6016:9005   6059:9005
6017:9003   6060:9003   6017:9004   6060:9004   6017 :9005  6060:9005
6018:9003   6061 :9003  6018:9004   6061 :9004  6018 :9005  6061 :9005
6019 :9003  6062 :9003  6019:9004   6062 :9004  6019 :9005  6062 :9005
6020 :9003  6063 : 9003 6020 :9004  6063 :9004  6020: 9005  6063 :9005
6021 :9003  6064: 9003  6021 9004   6064: 9004  6021 :9005  6064:9005
6022 :9003  6065 : 9003 6022 :9004  6065 :9004  6022 :9005  6065 :9005
6023 :9003  6066: 9003  6023 :9004  6066 :9004  6023 :9005  6066 :9005
6024: 9003  6067: 9003  6024 :9004  6067 9004   6024 :9005  6067 :9005
6025 :9003  6068: 9003  6025 :9004  6068 :9004  6025 :9005  6068 :9005
6026 :9003  6069: 9003  6026 :9004  6069 :9004  6026 :9005  6069 :9005
6027 :9003  6070: 9003  6027 :9004  6070 :9004  6027 :9005  6070 :9005
6028 :9003  6071 :9003  6028 :9004  6071 :9004  6028 :9005  6071 :9005
6029 :9003  6072 :9003  6029 :9004  6072 :9004  6029 :9005  6072 : 9005
6030 :9003  6073 :9003  6030 :9004  6073 :9004  6030 :9005  6073 :9005
6031 :9003  6074:9003   6031 :9004  6074:9004   6031 :9005  6074:9005
6032 :9003  6075 :9003  6032 :9004  6075 :9004  6032 :9005  6075 :9005
6033 :9003  6076: 9003  6033 :9004  6076 :9004  6033 :9005  6076 :9005
6034: 9003  6077: 9003  6034 :9004  6077 :9004  6034 :9005  6077 :9005
6035 :9003  6078 :9003  6035 :9004  6078 :9004  6035 :9005  6078 :9005
6036: 9003              6036 :9004              6036 :9005
6037 :9003              6037 :9004              6037 :9005
6038 :9003              6038 :9004              6038 :9005
6039 :9003              6039 :9004              6039 :9005
6040 :9003              6040 :9004              6040 :9005
6041 : 9003             6041 : 9004             6041 : 9005
6042 :9003              6042 :9004              6042 :9005
                                     -67-

   X:Y         X:Y         X:Y         X:Y         X:Y         X:Y
6000 :9006  6043 : 9006 6000 : 9007 6043 9007   6000 :9008 6043 :9008
6001 :9006  6044:9006 6001 :9007    6044:9007   6001 :9008  6044:9008
6002 :9006  6045 : 9006 6002: 9007  6045 :9007  6002 :9008  6045 :9008
6003 :9006  6046: 9006 6003 : 9007  6046 :9007  6003 :9008  6046 :9008
6004 :9006  6047 : 9006 6004: 9007  6047 :9007  6004 :9008  6047 :9008
6005 :9006  6048 : 9006 6005 : 9007 6048 : 9007 6005 :9008  6048 : 9008
6006 :9006  6049: 9006 6006: 9007 6049 :9007    6006 :9008  6049 :9008
6007 :9006  6050: 9006 6007 :9007 6050 :9007    6007 :9008  6050 :9008
6008 :9006  6051 :9006 6008:9007 6051 :9007     6008 :9008  6051 :9008
6009 :9006  6052 :9006 6009 :9007 6052 :9007 6009 :9008 6052 :9008
6010:9006   6053 :9006 6010 :9007 6053 :9007 6010 :9008 6053 :9008
6011 :9006  6054:9006   6011:9007   6054:9007   6011 :9008  6054:9008
6012 :9006  6055 :9006  6012 :9007  6055 :9007  6012 :9008  6055 :9008
6013 :9006  6056: 9006  6013 :9007  6056 :9007  6013 :9008  6056 :9008
6014:9006   6057:9006   6014:9007   6057:9007   6014:9008   6057 :9008
6015 :9006  6058 : 9006 6015 : 9007 6058 :9007  6015 :9008  6058 :9008
6016:9006   6059:9006 6016:9007 6059:9007       6016:9008   6059 :9008
6017:9006   6060:9006 6017:9007 6060:9007       6017:9008   6060:9008
6018:9006   6061 :9006 6018:9007 6061 :9007     6018 :9008  6061 :9008
6019:9006   6062 :9006 6019:9007 6062 :9007     6019 :9008  6062 :9008
6020 :9006  6063 :9006 6020 :9007 6063 :9007    6020 :9008  6063 :9008
6021 :9006  6064:9006   6021 :9007 6064:9007    6021 :9008  6064:9008
6022 :9006  6065 : 9006 6022: 9007 6065 :9007   6022 :9008  6065 :9008
6023 :9006  6066 :9006  6023 : 9007 6066 :9007  6023 :9008  6066 : 9008
6024: 9006  6067 :9006  6024: 9007 6067 :9007   6024 :9008  6067 :9008
6025 :9006  6068: 9006 6025 :9007 6068 :9007    6025 :9008  6068 :9008
6026: 9006  6069 :9006 6026 :9007 6069 :9007    6026 :9008  6069 : 9008
6027 : 9006 6070 : 9006 6027 :9007 6070 :9007   6027 :9008  6070 :9008
6028:9006   6071:9006   6028:9007   6071:9007   6028 :9008  6071 :9008
6029 :9006  6072 :9006  6029 :9007  6072 :9007  6029 :9008  6072 : 9008
6030:9006   6073 :9006  6030 :9007  6073 :9007  6030  :9008 6073 :9008
6031 :9006  6074: 9006  6031 :9007  6074 :9007  6031  :9008 6074 :9008
6032 :9006  6075 :9006  6032 :9007  6075 :9007  6032 :9008  6075 :9008
6033 :9006  6076 :9006 6033 :9007 6076 :9007 6033 :9008 6076 :9008
6034: 9006  6077 :9006 6034: 9007 6077 :9007 6034 :9008 6077 :9008
6035 :9006  6078 : 9006 6035 :9007 6078: 9007 6035 :9008 6078 :9008
6036: 9006              6036 :9007              6036 :9008
6037 :9006              6037 :9007              6037 :9008
6038 :9006              6038 9007               6038 :9008
6039 :9006              6039: 9007              6039 :9008
6040 :9006              6040: 9007              6040 :9008
6041 :9006              6041 :9007              6041 :9008
6042 : 9006             6042 :9007              6042 : 9008
                                     -68-

   X:Y         X:Y         X:Y         X:Y        X:Y         X:Y
6000:9009   6043 :9009  6000:9010   6043 :9010 6000:9011   6043 :9011
6001:9009   6044:9009   6001:9010   6044:9010  6001 :9011  6044:9011
6002 :9009  6045 :9009  6002 :9010  6045 :9010 6002 :9011  6045 :9011
6003 : 9009 6046: 9009  6003 : 9010 6046 :9010 6003 :9011  6046 : 9011
6004:9009   6047:9009   6004:9010   6047:9010  6004:9011   6047 :9011
6005 :9009  6048:9009   6005 :9010  6048 :9010 6005 :9011  6048 :9011
6006:9009   6049:9009   6006:9010   6049:9010  6006:9011   6049 :9011
6007:9009   6050:9009   6007:9010   6050:9010  6007:9011   6050:9011
6008:9009   6051:9009   6008:9010   6051 :9010 6008 :9011  6051 :9011
6009 :9009  6052 : 9009 6009 :9010 6052 :9010  6009 :9011  6052 :9011
6010 :9009  6053:9009   6010 :9010  6053 :9010 6010 :9011  6053 :9011
6011 :9009  6054:9009   6011 :9010  6054:9010  6011 :9011  6054:9011
6012 :9009  6055 :9009  6012 :9010  6055 :9010 6012 :9011  6055 :9011
6013 :9009  6056 :9009  6013 : 9010 6056 :9010 6013 :9011  6056 :9011
6014:9009   6057:9009   6014:9010   6057:9010  6014:9011   6057 :9011
6015 :9009  6058:9009   6015 :9010  6058:9010  6015 :9011  6058 :9011
6016 :9009  6059 :9009  6016 :9010  6059 :9010 6016 :9011  6059 :9011
6017:9009   6060:9009 6017:9010 6060:9010 6017 :9011       6060:9011
6018:9009   6061 :9009  6018: 9010  6061 :9010 6018:9011   6061 :9011
6019:9009   6062 :9009  6019:9010   6062 :9010 6019:9011   6062 :9011
6020:9009   6063:9009   6020:9010   6063:9010  6020:9011   6063 :9011
6021 :9009  6064:9009   6021 :9010  6064:9010  6021 :9011  6064:9011
6022 :9009  6065 :9009 6022 :9010 6065 :9010   6022 :9011  6065 :9011
6023 :9009  6066:9009   6023 :9010  6066:9010  6023 :9011  6066:9011
6024:9009   6067:9009   6024:9010   6067 :9010 6024:9011   6067 :9011
6025 :9009  6068 :9009  6025 : 9010 6068: 9010 6025 :9011  6068 :9011
6026:9009   6069:9009   6026:9010   6069:9010  6026:9011   6069:9011
6027 :9009  6070 :9009  6027 :9010  6070 :9010 6027 :9011  6070 :9011
6028: 9009  6071 :9009  6028: 9010  6071 :9010 6028 :9011  6071 :9011
6029 :9009  6072 :9009  6029 :9010  6072 :9010 6029 :9011  6072 :9011
6030:9009   6073 :9009  6030:9010   6073 :9010 6030:9011   6073 :9011
6031 :9009  6074: 9009  6031 :9010  6074 :9010 6031 :9011  6074 :9011
6032 :9009  6075 :9009  6032 :9010  6075 :9010 6032 :9011  6075 :9011
6033 :9009  6076:9009 6033 :9010 6076:9010 6033 :9011      6076:9011
6034:9009   6077 :9009 6034 :9010 6077:9010    6034 :9011   6077 :9011
6035 :9009  6078 :9009 6035 :9010 6078 :9010    6035 :9011  6078 :9011
6036:9009                6036:9010              6036:9011
6037:9009               6037:9010               6037:9011
6038 :9009              6038 :9010              6038 :9011
6039:9009               6039:9010               6039:9011
 6040:9009               6040:9010              6040:9011
 6041 :9009              6041 :9010             6041 :9011
 6042 :9009              6042 :9010             6042 :9011
                                      -69-

   X:Y         X:Y         X:Y         X:Y        X:Y        X:Y
6000 :9012  6043 :9012  6000: 9013  6043 :9013 6000 :9014 6043 :9014
6001 :9012  6044: 9012  6001 :9013  6044 :9013 6001 :9014 6044 :9014
6002:9012   6045:9012   6002:9013   6045:9013  6002:9014  6045:9014
6003 :9012  6046: 9012  6003 :9013  6046 :9013 6003 :9014 6046 :9014
6004:9012   6047:9012   6004:9013   6047:9013  6004:9014  6047:9014
6005:9012   6048:9012   6005:9013   6048:9013  6005:9014  6048:9014
6006:9012   6049:9012   6006:9013   6049:9013  6006:9014  6049:9014
6007:9012   6050:9012   6007:9013   6050:9013  6007 :9014 6050:9014
6008 :9012  6051 :9012  6008 :9013  6051 :9013 6008 :9014 6051 :9014
6009:9012   6052:9012 6009:9013 6052:9013      6009:9014  6052:9014
6010 : 9012 6053 : 9012 6010 :9013  6053 :9013 6010 :9014 6053 : 9014
6011 :9012  6054:9012   6011:9013   6054:9013  6011 :9014 6054:9014
6012:9012   6055 :9012  6012:9013   6055 :9013 6012:9014  6055 :9014
6013 :9012  6056:9012   6013 :9013  6056:9013  6013 :9014 6056:9014
6014:9012   6057:9012   6014:9013   6057:9013  6014:9014  6057:9014
6015 :9012  6058: 9012  6015 :9013  6058 :9013 6015 :9014 6058 :9014
6016 :9012  6059: 9012  6016 :9013  6059 :9013 6016 :9014 6059 :9014
6017:9012   6060:9012   6017:9013   6060:9013  6017:9014  6060:9014
6018 :9012  6061 :9012  6018 :9013  6061 :9013 6018:9014  6061 :9014
6019 :9012  6062 :9012  6019:9013   6062 :9013 6019:9014  6062 :9014
6020 :9012  6063 : 9012 6020: 9013  6063 :9013 6020 :9014 6063 :9014
6021 :9012  6064:9012   6021:9013   6064:9013  6021 :9014 6064:9014
6022 :9012  6065:9012   6022:9013   6065 :9013 6022 :9014 6065 :9014
6023 :9012  6066:9012   6023 :9013  6066:9013  6023 :9014 6066:9014
6024:9012   6067:9012   6024:9013   6067:9013  6024:9014  6067:9014
6025:9012   6068:9012   6025:9013   6068:9013  6025:9014  6068 :9014
6026 :9012  6069 :9012  6026 :9013  6069 :9013 6026 :9014 6069 :9014
6027 :9012  6070 :9012  6027 :9013  6070 :9013 6027 :9014 6070 :9014
6028 :9012  6071:9012   6028:9013   6071 :9013 6028 :9014 6071 :9014
6029 :9012  6072 :9012  6029 :9013  6072 :9013 6029 :9014 6072 :9014
6030:9012   6073 :9012  6030:9013   6073 :9013 6030:9014  6073 :9014
6031 :9012  6074:9012   6031 :9013  6074:9013  6031:9014  6074:9014
6032:9012   6075:9012   6032:9013   6075:9013  6032:9014  6075:9014
6033 :9012  6076:9012   6033:9013   6076:9013  6033:9014  6076:9014
6034 :9012  6077 :9012  6034:9013   6077 :9013 6034 :9014 6077 :9014
6035 :9012  6078 :9012  6035 :9013  6078 :9013 6035 :9014 6078 :9014
6036:9012               6036:9013              6036:9014
6037 :9012              6037:9013              6037 :9014
6038 :9012              6038 :9013             6038 :9014
6039 :9012              6039:9013              6039:9014
6040:9012               6040:9013              6040 :9014
6041 : 9012             6041 :9013             6041 :9014
6042 : 9012             6042 : 9013            6042 :9014
                                      -70-

   X:Y         X:Y     X:Y   X:Y   X:Y X:Y
6000:9015   6043 :9015
6001 :9015  6044:9015
6002:9015   6045 :9015
6003 : 9015 6046: 9015
6004:9015   6047:9015
6005 :9015  6048 :9015
6006:9015   6049:9015
6007:9015   6050:9015
6008 :9015  6051 :9015
6009:9015   6052:9015
6010 :9015  6053 :9015
6011 :9015  6054:9015
6012:9015   6055:9015
6013 :9015  6056:9015
6014:9015   6057:9015
6015:9015   6058:9015
6016 :9015  6059 :9015
6017:9015   6060:9015
6018 :9015  6061 :9015
6019:9015   6062:9015
6020:9015   6063 :9015
6021 :9015  6064:9015   --      --  --
6022:9015   6065:9015
6023 :9015  6066:9015
6024:9015   6067:9015
6025 :9015  6068 :9015
6026:9015   6069:9015
6027 :9015  6070:9015
6028:9015   6071:9015
6029:9015   6072:9015
6030:9015   6073:9015
6031 :9015  6074:9015
6032 :9015  6075 :9015
6033 :9015  6076:9015
6034:9015   6077:9015
6035:9015   6078:9015
6036 :9015
6037 :9015
6038 :9015
6039 :9015
6040 :9015
6041 : 9015
6042 :9015
                           -71-

Table D: Example combinations of a compound X with a compound Y.
     X:Y          X:Y         X:Y          X:Y          X:Y         X:Y
  9000 : 7000 9001 : 7000 9002 : 7000 9003 : 7000 9004 : 7000 9005 : 7000
  9000:7001    9001 :7001  9002:7001    9003:7001    9004:7001   9005:7001
  9000 :7002   9001 :7002  9002 :7002   9003 : 7002  9004: 7002  9005 7002
  9000:7003    9001 :7003  9002 :7003   9003 :7003   9004 :7003  9005 :7003
  9000 :7004   9001 :7004  9002 :7004   9003 :7004   9004: 7004  9005 :7004
  9000 :7005   9001 :7005  9002 :7005   9003 :7005   9004 : 7005 9005 : 7005
  9000:7006    9001 :7006  9002:7006    9003 :7006   9004: 7006  9005 :7006
  9000 :7007   9001 :7007  9002 :7007   9003 :7007   9004 :7007  9005 :7007
  9000 :7008   9001 :7008  9002 :7008   9003 :7008   9004 :7008  9005 :7008
  9000 :7009   9001 :7009  9002 :7009   9003 :7009   9004 :7009  9005 :7009
  9000:7010    9001 :7010  9002:7010    9003 :7010   9004:7010   9005:7010
  9000:7011    9001:7011   9002:7011    9003:7011    9004:7011   9005:7011
  9000:7012    9001:7012   9002:7012    9003:7012    9004:7012   9005:7012
  9000:7013    9001 :7013  9002:7013    9003 :7013   9004 :7013  9005:7013
  9000:7014    9001 :7014  9002:7014    9003:7014    9004:7014   9005:7014
  9000:7015    9001 :7015  9002 :7015   9003 :7015   9004:7015   9005:7015
  9000 :7016   9001 :7016  9002 :7016   9003 :7016   9004 :7016  9005 :7016
  9000:7017    9001 :7017  9002:7017    9003 :7017   9004:7017   9005 :7017
  9000:7018    9001 :7018  9002:7018    9003:7018    9004:7018    9005:7018
  9000:7019    9001 :7019  9002:7019     9003:7019   9004:7019    9005:7019
  9000 :7020   9001 :7020  9002 :7020    9003 :7020  9004 :7020   9005 :7020
   9000 :7021  9001 :7021   9002 :7021   9003 :7021  9004 :7021   9005 :7021
   9000 :7022  9001 :7022   9002 :7022   9003 :7022   9004 :7022  9005 :7022
   9000 :7023  9001 :7023   9002 :7023   9003 :7023   9004 :7023  9005 :7023
   9000 :7024  9001 :7024   9002 :7024   9003 :7024   9004 :7024  9005 :7024
   9000 :7025   9001 :7025  9002 :7025   9003 :7025   9004 :7025  9005 :7025
   9000 :7026   9001 :7026  9002 :7026   9003 :7026   9004 :7026  9005 :7026
   9000 : 7027  9001 :7027  9002 : 7027  9003 :7027   9004: 7027  9005 :7027
                                            -72-

   X:Y         X:Y         X:Y         X:Y         X:Y         X:Y
9006:7000   9007:7000   9008:7000   9009:7000   9010:7000   9011:7000
9006:7001   9007:7001   9008:7001   9009:7001   9010:7001   9011:7001
9006:7002   9007:7002   9008:7002   9009:7002   9010:7002   9011 :7002
9006 :7003  9007 :7003  9008 :7003  9009 :7003  9010 :7003  9011 : 7003
9006 :7004  9007 :7004  9008 :7004  9009 :7004  9010: 7004  9011 :7004
9006:7005   9007:7005   9008:7005   9009:7005   9010:7005   9011:7005
9006:7006   9007:7006   9008:7006   9009:7006   9010:7006   9011:7006
9006:7007   9007 :7007  9008 :7007  9009 :7007  9010: 7007  9011:7007
9006:7008   9007:7008   9008:7008   9009:7008   9010:7008   9011:7008
9006 :7009  9007 :7009  9008 :7009  9009 : 7009 9010 :7009  9011 : 7009
9006:7010   9007:7010   9008:7010   9009:7010   9010:7010   9011:7010
9006:7011   9007:7011   9008:7011   9009:7011   9010:7011   9011:7011
9006:7012   9007 :7012  9008 :7012  9009:7012   9010:7012   9011:7012
9006:7013   9007 :7013  9008:7013   9009:7013   9010: 7013  9011 :7013
9006:7014   9007:7014   9008:7014   9009:7014   9010:7014   9011:7014
9006:7015   9007:7015   9008:7015   9009:7015   9010:7015   9011:7015
9006:7016   9007:7016   9008:7016   9009:7016   9010:7016   9011 :7016
9006:7017   9007:7017   9008:7017   9009:7017   9010:7017   9011:7017
9006:7018   9007:7018   9008:7018   9009:7018   9010:7018   9011:7018
9006:7019   9007:7019   9008:7019    9009:7019  9010:7019   9011:7019
9006 :7020  9007 :7020  9008 :7020   9009 :7020 9010 :7020  9011:7020
 9006 :7021  9007 :7021 9008 :7021   9009 :7021 9010 :7021   9011 : 7021
 9006:7022   9007:7022   9008:7022   9009:7022   9010:7022   9011:7022
 9006:7023   9007:7023   9008:7023   9009:7023   9010:7023   9011 :7023
 9006:7024   9007:7024   9008:7024   9009:7024   9010:7024   9011:7024
 9006:7025   9007:7025   9008:7025   9009:7025   9010:7025   9011:7025
 9006:7026   9007:7026   9008:7026   9009:7026   9010:7026   9011 :7026
 9006 :7027  9007 :7027  9008 :7027  9009 :7027  9010: 7027  9011: 7027
                                        -73-

    X:Y          X:Y         X:Y           X:Y          X:Y      I X:Y
 9012:7000 9013:7000 9014:7000 9015:7000
 9012:7001 9013:7001 9014:7001 9015:7001
 9012:7002 9013 :7002 9014:7002 9015:7002
 9012 :7003 9013 : 7003 9014 : 7003 9015 :7003
 9012:7004 9013 :7004 9014:7004 9015:7004
 9012:7005 9013 :7005 9014:7005 9015:7005
 9012:7006 9013:7006 9014:7006 9015:7006
 9012:7007 9013 :7007 9014:7007 9015:7007
 9012:7008 9013:7008 9014:7008 9015:7008
 9012:7009 9013:7009 9014:7009 9015:7009
 9012:7010 9013:7010 9014:7010 9015:7010
 9012:7011 9013:7011 9014:7011 9015:7011
 9012:7012 9013 :7012 9014:7012 9015:7012
 9012 :7013 9013 : 7013 9014 :7013 9015 : 7013
 9012:7014 9013 :7014 9014:7014 9015:7014
 9012 : 7015 9013 : 7015 9014 : 7015 9015 : 7015
  9012:7016 9013:7016 9014:7016 9015:7016
  9012:7017 9013 :7017 9014:7017 9015:7017
  9012 :7018 9013 :7018 9014 :7018 9015 :7018
  9012:7019 9013 :7019 9014:7019 9015:7019
  9012:7020 9013:7020 9014:7020 9015:7020
  9012:7021 9013 :7021 9014:7021 9015:7021
  9012:7022 9013 :7022 9014:7022 9015:7022
  9012:7023 9013:7023 9014:7023 9015:7023
  9012 :7024 9013 :7024 9014 :7024 9015 :7024
  9012:7025 9013:7025 9014:7025 9015:7025
  9012:7026 9013 :7026 9014:7026 9015:7026
  9012 : 7027 9013 :7027 9014 : 7027 9015 :7027
Table E: Example combinations of a compound X with a compound Y.
    X:Y          X:Y          X:Y           X:Y          X:Y          X:Y
8000 : 9000   8000: 9001   8000 : 9002   8000: 9003   8000: 9004   8000 : 9005
8001 :9000    8001 :9001   8001 :9002    8001 :9003   8001 : 9004  8001 :9005
8002 : 9000   8002 : 9001  8002 : 9002   8002 :9003   8002: 9004   8002: 9005
 8003 : 9000  8003 :9001   8003 : 9002   8003 : 9003  8003 : 9004  8003 : 9005
 8004: 9000   8004: 9001   8004: 9002    8004:9003     8004: 9004  8004: 9005
 8005 :9000   8005 :9001   8005 : 9002   8005 :9003    8005 : 9004 8005 :9005
 8006: 9000   8006 : 9001  8006: 9002    8006: 9003    8006: 9004  8006 : 9005
 8007 :9000   8007 :9001   8007 : 9002   8007 :9003    8007: 9004  8007 :9005
 8008: 9000   8008 :9001   8008 :9002    8008 :9003    8008: 9004  8008 :9005
 8009 : 9000  8009 :9001   8009: 9002    8009 :9003    8009: 9004  8009 :9005
 8010: 9000   8010: 9001   8010: 9002    8010 :9003    8010 :9004  8010 :9005
 8011 :9000   8011 :9001   8011 :9002    8011 :9003    8011 :9004  8011 :9005
 8012:9000    8012:9001    8012:9002     8012:9003     8012:9004   8012:9005
 8013 :9000   8013 :9001   8013 :9002    8013 :9003    8013 :9004  8013 :9005
 8014:9000    8014:9001    8014:9002     8014:9003     8014:9004   8014:9005
 8015:9000    8015:9001    8015:9002     8015:9003     8015:9004    8015:9005
 8016 :9000   8016 :9001    8016: 9002    8016 :9003   8016 :9004   8016 :9005
                                           -74-

   X:Y            X:Y           X:Y           X:Y            X:Y             X:Y
8000:9006      8000:9007     8000:9008    8000:9009       8000:9010       8000 :9011
8001 :9006     8001 :9007    8001 :9008   8001 :9009      8001 :9010      8001 :9011
8002 :9006     8002 :9007    8002 :9008   8002 : 9009     8002 :9010      8002 : 9011
8003 :9006     8003 :9007    8003 : 9008  8003 :9009      8003 :9010      8003 :9011
8004:9006      8004:9007     8004 :9008   8004:9009       8004:9010       8004:9011
8005 :9006     8005 :9007    8005 : 9008  8005 :9009      8005 :9010      8005 :9011
8006:9006 8006:9007          8006:9008    8006:9009       8006:9010       8006:9011
8007:9006 8007:9007          8007:9008    8007:9009        8007:9010      8007:9011
8008: 9006 8008 :9007        8008 :9008   8008 :9009       8008 :9010     8008 :9011
8009:9006 8009:9007          8009:9008    8009:9009        8009:9010      8009:9011
8010:9006 8010:9007          8010:9008     8010:9009       8010:9010      8010:9011
8011:9006 8011 :9007         8011:9008     8011:9009       8011:9010      8011 :9011
8012:9006 8012:9007          8012:9008     8012:9009       8012:9010      8012:9011
8013 : 9006 8013 :9007       8013 :9008    8013 :9009      8013 :9010     8013 :9011
8014:9006 8014:9007          8014:9008     8014:9009       8014:9010      8014:9011
8015 : 9006 8015 :9007       8015 : 9008   8015 : 9009     8015: 9010     8015 : 9011
8016:9006 8016:9007          8016:9008     8016:9009       8016:9010      8016:9011
8000:9012 8000:9013          8000:9014     8000:9015
8001 :9012 8001 :9013        8001 : 9014   8001 :9015
8002:9012 8002:9013          8002:9014     8002:9015
8003 :9012 8003 :9013        8003 :9014    8003 :9015
8004:9012 8004:9013          8004:9014     8004:9015
8005 :9012 8005 :9013        8005:9014     8005:9015
8006:9012 8006:9013          8006:9014     8006:9015
8007:9012 8007:9013           8007:9014    8007:9015
8008:9012 8008:9013           8008:9014    8008:9015            -              -
8009:9012 8009 :9013          8009:9014    8009:9015
8010:9012 8010:9013           8010:9014    8010:9015
8011 :9012 8011:9013          8011:9014    8011 :9015
 8012:9012 8012:9013          8012:9014    8012:9015
 8013 :9012 8013 :9013        8013 :9014   8013 :9015
 8014:9012 8014:9013          8014:9014    8014:9015
 8015 :9012 8015 :9013        8015 :9014   8015 :9015
 8016:9012 8016:9013          8016:9014    8016:9015
                                         EXAMPLES
        10186]     Additional embodiments are disclosed in further detail in the following
examples, which are not in any way intended to limit the scope of the claims.
                                             -75-

                                                     EXAMPLE I
      (2R,3SR,5R)-2-(2-amino-6-ethoxy-9H-purin-9-yl)-4-fluoro-5-(hydroxymethyl)-3
                                          methyltetrahydrofuran-3-ol (1)
  BnO'O"
                      0
                         \                BnO &       Oj\               BnOW         O O
            F      'OH                          F     OH                      F'     OBz
              1-1                                 1-2                           1-3
                                                                                               /-N
                           0                              N                  HO      xO      N,
                                                                                             N
AO     O             OAc                          0             CI
                    LW..     -~~        AcO7                                          -.   4
        Fi'       b-8zz                                  N N  1                    F     '-OH    Y
                                                         F O1                                      NH2
              1-4                               1-5         NH2
            101871            Prenaration of (32-2): To a stirred solution of 1-1 (5.0 g, 19.53 mmol) in
anhydrous McCN was added IBX (7.66 g, 27.34 mmol), and the mixture was heated to 80 C for
12 h.       The mixture was cooled to room temperature (R.T.) and filtered.                    The filtrate was
concentrated to dryness to give the ketone (4.87 g, 98%) as a colorless oil. To a solution of the
ketone (4.87 g, 19.33 mmol) in anhydrous THF was added methyl magnesium bromide (19.53
mL, 58.59 mmol) dropwise at -78 "C under N2 . The mixture was warmed to R.T. for 12 h. The
reaction was quenched with a saturated ammonium chloride solution, extracted with ethyl
acetate (EA) and concentrated to give a residue, which was purified on a silica gel column (2
 10% EA in PE) to give 1-2 (4.37 g, 83%) as colorless oil.
            [01881            Preparation of (32-3):      To a solution of 1-2 (4.37 g, 16.19 mmol) in
anhydrous dichloromethanc, DMAP (3.95 g, 32.38 mmol), TEA (4.91 g, 48.56 mmol) in ice
water bath was added BzCl (6.80 g, 48.56 mmol). The mixture was stirred at R.T. for 12 I. The
reaction was quenched with a saturated sodium hydrogen carbonate solution and extracted with
 EA. The organic phase was concentrated to dryness and purified on a silica gel column (2-20%
 EA in PE) to give 1-3 (5.3 g, 87%) as a colorless oil.
             [0189]            Preparation of (32-4): To a solution of 1-3 (2.0 g, 5.33 mmol) and AC20
 (4.91 g, 48.13 mmol) in acetic acid (50 mL) was added concentrated H2SO 4 (0.6 g, 6.01 mmol)
 at 0 "C. The mixture was stirred at R.T. for 12 h. The mixture was then poured into ice water
 and extracted with EA. The organic phase was concentrated to dryness, and the residue was
 purified on a silica gel column (2-30% EA in PE) to give 1-4 (1.5 g, 81%) as a colorless oil.
             [0190]            Preparation of (32-5):    To a stirred solution of 6-chloroguanine (560 mug,
 3.31 mmol) and 1-4 (1.11 g, 2.76 mmol) in anhydrous vlcCN (5 mL) under N2 was added 1,8
 diazobicyclo[5.4.0] undec-7-cne (1.27 g, 8.28 mmol) at 0 "C. The mixture was stirred at R.T.
 for 0.5 h. TMSOTf (2.45 g, 11.04 mmol) was added at 0 "C. The mixture was heated to 60*C
  for 4 i and then concentrated to dryness. The residue was partitioned between EA and saturated
                                                           -76-

sodium hydrogen carbonate. The organic phase was separated and concentrated to dryness. The
residue was purified on a silica gel column (2-60% EA in PE) to give 1-5 (800 mg, 70%) as a
white foam solid.
         10191]       Preparation of (1): To a solution of 1-6 (500 mg, 0.68 mmol) in anhydrous
ethanol was added sodium ethoxide (0.64 mL, 2.04 mmol) at R.T. The mixture was stirred at
R.T. for 16 h. The reaction was quenched by acetic acid to pH = 7. The solvent was removed
under reduce pressure. The residue was re-dissolved in EA, and washed with water and brine.
The organic phase was dried and concentrated to dryness. The residue was purified on a silica
gel column (1-3% DCM in MeOH) to give 1 (400 mg, 98%) as a white foam. ESI-MS: m/z
327.8 [M+H].
                                              EXAMPLE 2
   (2S)-neopentvl 2-(((((2R.3R.4S.5 R)-5-(2-anino-6-eth oxv-1 H-n urin-9(611)-vl)-3-fluoro-4
                                                                              2
                       hvdroxv-4-methvltetrahvdrofuran-2-vl)methoxv)(
                         chloronhenoxy)hliosphorvilanino)rolanoate (2)
                             o:            -c                                       N  '-A-_O'
                11                    -P-cl
    cl-P-cl                        0~    I                      0 CI
        1 - iNH                                                      NH     F     b H N,     N
      2-1                         2-2                          O                          NH2
                                                                        2
          [0192]       Preparation of (2-2): To a stirred solution of 2-1 (2.00 g, 13.16 mmol) and
 2-chlorophenol (1.68 g, 13.16 mmol) in anhydrous DCM (100 iL) was added a solution of TEA
 (1.33 g, 13.16 mmol) in DCM (20 mL) dropwise at -78*C. After the addition, the mixture was
 gradually warmed to R.T. and stirred for 2 h.           The solution was re-cooled to -78 *C and
 neopentyl 2-aminopropanoate hydrogen chloride (3.51 g, 13.16 mmol) was added, followed by
 TEA (2.66 g, 26.32 mmol) dropwise at -78 *C. The mixture was gradually warmed to R.T. and
 stirred at R.T. for 2 h. The solvent was removed, and the residue was dissolved in methyl-butyl
  ether. The precipitate was filtered off, and the filtrate was concentrated to dryness. The residue
  was purified on a silica gel column (pure anhydrous DCM) to give 2-2 (1.86 g, 32.18%) as a
  colorless oil.
           [0193J      Preparation of (2):     To a stirred solution of 1 (100 mg, 0.31 mmol) in
  anhydrous THF (10 mL) was added t-BuMgCI (1.53 mL, 1M in THF) dropwisc at -78 C. The
  mixture was stirred at R.T. for 30 mins and re-cooled to -78 "C. To the above mixture was
  added 2-2 (561 mg, 1.53 mmol) dropwise. The mixture was stirred at R.T. for 2 h. The reaction
  was quenched with water and extracted with EA. The organic layer was dried over anhydrous
  Na2S0   4  and concentrated to dryness. The residue was purified on a silica gel column (1-8%
                                                   -77-

DCM in MeOH) to give the crude product, which was further purified by RP HPLC (water and
McCN system) to give 2 (19.83 mg, 10%) as a white solid. ESI-LCMS: m/z 659.3 [M+H]*.
                                            EXAMPLE 3
  (2S)-cycloliexyl 2-(((((2R,3R,4S,5R)-5-(2-amino-6-eth oxv-1 H-purin-9(6H)-vfl-3-fluoro-4
                 livdroxy-4-methvltetrahvdrofurani-2-vllnethoxy)(3-clhloro-4
                        fluorophenoxv)hlioshioryl)lmiflno)lpropanoate (3)
                              CI                         CI
                                 F                   F
         01                    N                     F    N                    N
                                     0-P-Cl                   0-   -O          N       i
      CI-    cI     Cl--c         001                                                  N
                                O       NH                  ONH         F'   OH N       N
         2-1                    -1
                                 3-1
                                                   O      -   Ix
                                                                      3
                                                                                     NH2
         101941      Preparation of (3-1): To a stirred solution of phosphoryl trichloride (2.00 g,
13.16 mmol) and phenol (1.92 g, 13.16 mmol) in anhydrous DCM (100 mL) was added a
solution of TEA (1.33 g, 13.16 mmol) in DCM (20 mL) dropwise at -78 "C. After addition, the
mixture was gradually warmed to R.T. and stirred for 2 h. The solution was re-cooled to -78 "C
and the amine (2.72 g, 13.16 mmol) was added, followed by TEA (2.66 g, 26.32 mmol)
dropwise at -78 "C. The mixture was gradually warmed to R.T. and stirred for 2 h. The solvent
was removed, and the residue was dissolved in methyl-butyl ether. The precipitate was filtered
off, and the filtrate was concentrated. The residue was purified on a silica gel column (pure
anhydrous DCM) to give 3-1 (1.90 g, 36.39%) as a colorless oil.
          10195]      Preparation of (3):    To a stirred solution of 1 (181 mng, 0.55 mmol) in
 anhydrous THIF (10 mL) was added I-BuMgCI (2.77 mL, IM in THF) dropwise at -78 "C. The
 mixture was stirred at R.T. for 30 mins and re-cooled to -78 *C. To the mixture was added 3-1
 (1.01 g, 2.77 mmol) dropwise. The mixture was stirred at R.T. for 12 h. The reaction was
 quenched with water and extracted with EA. The organic layer was dried over anhydrous
 Na 2 SO 4 and concentrated to dryness. The residue was purified on a silica gel column (1-8%
 DCM in McOH) to give the crude product, which was further purified by RP HPLC (water and
 MeCN system) to give 3 (76.81 ng, 20%) as a white solid. ESI-LCMS: m/z 689.3 [M+H]'.
                                                 -78-

                                             EXAMPLE 4
  (2S)-neopentvl 2-(((((2R,3R,4S,5R)-5-(2-amino-6-ethoxv-1 H-purin-9(6H)-yl)-3-fluoro-4
hydroxy-4-metliyltetrahydrofuran-2-I)methoxy)(enoxy)phosplhorvl)amino)proPlanoate
                                                   141
                O               IO-    -ci                  O -- O 0
             1                       NH                         NH    F      H N
     4-1     C1INH                                                                  2
         [01961      Preparation of (4-2): To a stirred solution of 4-1 (3.20 g, 15.38 mmol) and
amine (3.0 g, 15.38 mmol) in anhydrous DCM (100 mL) was added a solution of TEA (30.76 g,
30.76 mmol) in DCM (20 mL) dropwise at -78 0C. After addition, the mixture was gradually
warmed to R.T. and stirred for 2 h. The solvent was removed, and the residue was dissolved in
methyl-butyl ether. The precipitate was filtered off, and the filtrate was concentrated. The
residue was purified on a silica gel column (pure anhydrous DCM) to give 4-2 (2.0 g, 39%) as a
colorless oil.
         [0197]      Preparation of (4):       To a stirred solution of 1 (83 mg, 0.25 mmol) in
anhydrous THF (10 mL) was added a solution of t-BuMgC (1.27 mL, IM in THF) dropwise at
78 *C. The mixture was stirred at R.T. for 30 mins and then re-cooled to -78 *C. A solution of
4-2 (423 mg, 1.27 mrnmol) was added dropwisc, and the mixture was stirred at R.T. for 12 i. The
reaction was quenched with water and extracted with EA. The organic layer was dried over
Na 2 SO 4 and concentrated. The residue was purified on a silica gel column to give the crude
product, which was further purified by RP HPLC (water and McCN system) to give 4 (80 mg,
 51%) as a white solid. ESI-LCMS: mIz 625.1 [M+Hf.
                                              EXAMPLE 5
   (2S)-cycloliexvl 2-(((((2R.3R,4S.5R)-5-(2-amino-6-eth oxv-1 H-purin-9(6H)-yl)-3-fluoro-4
  h~ydroxy-4-miethlyltetr-ahydrofur-an-2-yllmiethioxy)(phlenoxy)phlosphiorvllainio)priop~anoate
                                                            (5)2
                                    0         ciP-C              0      O         N       O
            O-p-CI                O        NH                  O>L NH      F    O   N-  N
                                              ~           Wto1        NHo'          H
                        a~
         4-1                        5-1                                   5
          10198]      Prcparation of (5-1): To a stirred solution of 4-1 (2.00 g, 9.57 mmol) and
 amine (1.98 g, 9.57 mmol) in anhydrous DCM (100 mL) was added a solution of TEA (1.93 g,
  19.14 mmol) in DCM (20 nL) dropwise at -78 *C. After addition, the mixture was gradually
 warmed to R.T. and stirred for 2 h. The solvent was removed, and the residue was dissolved in
                                                    -79-

methyl-butyl ether. The precipitate was filtered off, and the filtrate was concentrated.         The
residue was purified on a silica gel column (pure anhydrous DCM) to give 5-1 (700 mg, 21%) as
a colorless oil.
          [0199]        Preparation of (5):     To a stirred solution of 1 (70 mg, 0.21 mmol) in
anhydrous THF (1.5 mL) was added a solution of t-BuMgCI (1.07 mL, IM in THF) dropwise at
-78 "C. The mixture was stirred at R.T. for 30 mins and then re-cooled to -78 "C. A solution of
 5-1 (369 mg, 1.07 mmol) was added dropwise. The mixture was stirred at R.T. for 2 I The
 reaction was quenched with water and extracted with EA. The organic layer was dried over
 Na 2SO 4 and concentrated. The residue was purified on a silica gel column to give the crude
 product, which was further purified by RP HPLC (water and MeCN system) to give 5 (50 mg,
 38%) as a white solid. ESI-LCMS: m/z 637.01 [M+H]*.
                                               EXAMPLE 6
                2-amino-9-((2R,3S,4R,5R)-4-fluoro-3-hvdroxv-5-(hvdroxvmethvl)-3
                         methvltetrahvdrofuran-2-vl)-1 H-purin-6(9-I)-one (6)
                                                                                  N
                                    BnO           OAc            BnO     O      N
      nO             Ox
                                                                      F'    b    N-.   N
                  't
                   OBzBz                                                    OBz -<
            1-3                             6-1                            6-2       NH2
     BnO              N       CI          HO      y    N        O            HO       O    N       OH
            F      'OBzN    N                   F   'OH   N   NH                  F      'OH N   NH
               6-3        NHMMTr                    6-4     NHMMTr                    6        NH2
           [0200]        Preparation of (6-1): To a solution of 1-3 (3.0 g, 8.02 mmol) and Ac2 0
  (4.91 g, 48.13 mmol) in acetic acid (30 mL) was added a solution of concentrated H2SO4(2.41 g,
  24.06 mmol) in acetic acid (10 mL) at 0 *C. The mixture was stirred at R.T. for 12 I. The
  mixture was poured into ice water and extracted with EA.          The organic phase was dried and
  concentrated to give a residue, which was purified by silica gel column chromatography (10%
  EA in PE) to give 6-1 (2.3 g, 81%) as a colorless oil.
           102011        Preparation of (6-2): To a stirred mixture of 6-chloroguanine (560 mg, 3.31
  mmol) and 6-1 (1.11 g, 2.76 mmol) in anhydrous MeCN (5 mL) under N2 was added 1,8
   diazobicyclo[5.4.0] undec-7-enc (1.27 g, 8.28 mniol) at 0 "C. The mixture was stirred at R.T.
   for 0.5 h. The mixture was re-cooled to 0 "C and TMSOTf (2.45 g, 11.04 mmol) was added.
   The resulting mixture was heated to 60 "C for 4 h and then concentrated to dryness. The residue
   was partitioned between EA and saturated sodium hydrogen carbonate. The organic phase was
                                                    -80-

separated and concentrated to give a residue, which was purified by silica gel column
chromatography (2% MeOH in DCM) to give 6-2 (800 mg, 70%) as a white solid.
        [0202]       Preparation of (6-3):      To a solution of 6-2 (839 mg, 1.64 mmol) in
anhydrous dichloromethane (10 mL) were added MMTrCl (1.46 g, 4.75 nmol), AgNO               3  (697
mg, 4.1 mmol) and colliding (794 mg, 6.56 mmol). The mixture was stirTed at R.T. for 12 i.
The reaction was quenched with saturated sodium hydrogen carbonate solution. The mixture
was filtered, and the filtrate was extracted with EA. The organic layer was washed with water
and brine, dried and concentrated to give a residue, which was purified on silica gel column
chromatography (20% EA in PE) to give 6-3 (1.3 g, 72.5%) as a white solid.
        [0203]       Preparation of (6-4): To a solution of 3-hydroxyl acrylic nitrile (413 g, 5.82
mmol) in anhydrous THF was added sodium hydrogen (464 mg, 11.6 mmol). The mixture was
warmed to R.T. for 0.5 h, and then the mixture was re-cooled to 0 *C. To the mixture was added
a solution of 6-3 (0.912 g, 1.16 mmol) in anhydrous THIF (5 mL). The mixture was warmed to
R.T. for 12 h. The reaction was quenched with water and extracted with EA. The organic phase
was separated and concentrated to give a residue, which was purified by silica gel column
chromatography (5% MeOH in DCM) to give 6-4 (600 mg, 85%) as a white solid.
        [0204]       Preparation of (6):     To a solution of 6-4 (785 mg, 1.19 mmol) and
ammonium format (1.50 g, 23.75 mmol) in acetone (50 mL) was added dry Pd/C (785 mg).
The mixture was heated to reflux for 12 h. The mixture was filtered, and the filtrate was
concentrated under reduced pressure.          The residue was purified by silica gel column
chromatography (10% MeOH in DCM) to give 6 (400 mg, 59%) as a white solid. ESI-MS: m/z
299.77 [M+H] .
                                            EXAMPLE 7
    (2S)-neopentvL 2-(((((2R,3 R,4S,5R)-5-(2-amino-6-oxo-1 H-purin-9(6H')-v-13-fluoro-4
                      livdroxv-4-metlivltetraliydrofuran-2-vl)methoxv)(2
                        clilorophenoxv)pliosphorvl)amino)nropanoate (7)
                                         C1                       C1
                   O    =                0- 0(-Ci           a     0-  0 -O-
                                                                         0            N        O
                                                                                               0l
   HO           N          0 .       O       NH                 O     NH     F     'HN      NH
         F     OH     NN              01                                                   NH2
              6-4     NHMMTr           2-2                          7
        [02051       Preparation of (7): To a stirred solution of 6-4 (161 mg, 0.28 mmol) in
anhydrous THF (1 mL) was added a solution of /-BuMgC1 (1.41 mL, IM in THF) dropwise at 0
*C. The mixture was stirred at R.T. for 0.5 h and then re-cooled to 0 *C. To the mixture was
added a solution of 2-2 (517 mg, 1.41 mmol) dropwise. The mixture was stirred at R.T. for 2 hi.
                                                  -81-

The reaction was quenched with water and extracted with EA. The organic layer was dried and
concentrated. The residue was purified on a silica gel column to give a protected intermediate
(100 mg). The protected intermediate was treated with a 60% acetic acid aqueous solution and
stirred  at R.T. for 12 h. The solvent was removed under reduced pressure. The residue was
purified by silica gel column chromatography and then RP HPLC separation (0.1% HCOOH in
water and MeCN) to give 7 (12.13 mg, 10%) as a white solid. ESI-LCMS: m/z 63 1.1 [M+H].
                                               EXAMPLE 8
     (2S)-cvclohexvl 2-(((((2R,3R.4S,5R)-5-(2-amino-6-oxo-1H-purin-9(6H)-vl)-3-fluoro-4
                   hvdroxy-4-methyltetrahvdrofuran-2-vl)methoxy)(3-chloro-4
                         fluorophenoxv)lxosplioivlamino)propanoate (8)
                                      ci                           cl
                                  F                           F
                                                                          Oot%
                                                                            0 O0        jN          o
                                          00 XIO-ci
                                                                    ',
                  0   N                             CO-
                                       O         NH                  O   _ NH       FF 'OH N      NH
     HO - -            , HO +
               F'
             F tFH
                     N, NH +Q
                      T>
                                     3LJH<                                          F     H     NH2
                                                                    I      HNN
               6-4     NHMMTr              3-1                            8
          [0206]       Preparation of (8):     To a stirred solution of 6-4 (100 mg, 0.18 mmol) in
 anhydrous THF (1 mL) was added a solution of i-BuMgCl (0.9 mL, 0.9 mmol) dropwise at -78
 'C. The mixture was stirred at R.T. for 0.5 h and then re-cooled to -78 *C. To the mixture was
 added a solution of3-1 (357 mg, 0.9 mmol) dropwise. The mixture was stirred at R.T. for 12 h.
 The reaction was quenched with water and extracted with EA. The organic layer was dried and
 concentrated. The residue was purified on a silica gel column to give a protected intermediate
 (100 mg). The protected intermediate was treated with a 65% HCOOH aqueous solution and
 stirred at R.T. for 12 h. The solvent was removed under reduced pressure. The residue was
 purified by silica gel column chromatography and then RP HPLC (0.1% HCOOH in water and
  McCN) to give 8 (16.83 ig, 14%) as a white solid. ESI-LCMS: m/z 661.1 [M+H] t .
                                               EXAMPLE 9
      (2S)-cvclohexvl 2-(((((2R,3R,4S.5R)-5-(2-amino-6-oxo-1 H-nurin-9(6H)-vl)-3-fluoro-4
  hvdroxy-4-methvltetrahdrofuran-2-v)methoxy)(henox)phosphlorv)amino)rolanioafte
     HO      C    N        O                O -C                          o      O-          N       0
                                       O          HO                         NH      F'     OH N-  NH
                    N,   NH
             6         NH2        W~~L'                                ~    iNH                    2
                                          5-1
                                                    -82-

        [0207]      To a stirred solution of 6 (21 mg, 0.07 mmol) in NMI (0.25 mL) was added a
solution of 5-1 (0.35 mL, IM in THF) dropwise at 0"C. The mixture was stirred at R.T. for 5 h1,
then more 5-1 (0.21 mL) was added. The mixture was stirred for 3 days. Additionally, 5-1
(0.21 mL) was added, and the mixture was stirred at 35 "C for I day. After cooling to R.T., the
mixture was diluted with EA, washed with NH 4CI-AcOH (2 times), NH4 CI (3 times), NaHCO 3 .
The organic layer was dried over sodium sulfate and concentrated. Chromatography on silica gel
with 5-10% MeOH in DCM gave 9 (27 mg) as a slightly-yellow solid. Further chromatography
on silica gel provided pure 9 (19 mg) as a white solid. ESI-LCMS: mlz 607.2 [M-H]~.
                                           EXAMPLE 10
                                           Compound (10)
                                                 Y0)-0                         N-O
         HO      o   NO-I                         C      \          O%     j       N
                                                                             H       NH2
                        N( NH
                     HXN=                                                            NHHH
                 1                                                       10
         [02081     To an ice cold solution of 1 (53 mg; 016 mmol) in anhydrous THF (2 mL)
 was added isopropylmagnesium chloride (0.12 mL; 2 M in THF). The mixture stirred at 0 "C
 for 20 min. A solution of phosphorochloridate reagent P-1 (0.15 g; 3 equiv.) in TH F (0.3 mL)
 was added dropwise. The mixture stirred overnight at R.T. The reaction was quenched with
 saturated aq. NH4 CI solution and stirred at R.T. for 10 min, The mixture was diluted with water
 and CH 2CI2 . The resulting two layers were separated. The organic layer was washed with
 water, half saturated aq. NaHCOs and brine, and then dried with Na 2 SO 4. The evaporated
 residue was purified on silica gel column with CH2Cl2-MeOH solvent system (2-10% gradient)
 to yield a Rp/Sp-mixture of 10 (48 mg; 50%). "P-NMR (DMSO-d 6 ): 6 3.98, 3.81. MS: m/z         =
 595 [M-1]~.
                                                   -83-

                                             EXAMPLE 11
                                            Compound (11)
                       N                    0                                        N  O
       HO                                                          O/PrON
                             NH2
                             NH                                   OY
                                                                  OOH       g     OH
        [0209]     To an ice cold solution of 1 (95 mg; 029 mnol) in anhydrous THF (3 m1L)
was added isopropylmagnesium chloride (0.29 mL; 2 M1 in THF). The mixture stirred at 0 "C
for 20 min. A solution of thiophosphorochloridate reagent S-1 (0.28 g; 3 equiv.) in THF (0.3
mL) was added, and the mixture stirred I day at 40            4C.   The reaction was quenched with
saturated aq. NH 4CI solution and stirred at R. T. for 10 min. The mixture was diluted with water
and CH2Cl2 , and the two layers were separated. The organic layer was washed with water, half
saturated aq. NaHCO3, and brine, and dried with Na2 SO 4. The evaporated residue was purified
on silica gel column with CH 2CI-McOH solvent system (4-10% gradient) to yield Rp/Sp
                                  3 1P-NMR   (DMSO-d 6 ): 8 68.32, 68.19. MS: m/z = 611 [M-I]-.
mixture of 11 (42 mg; 24%).
                                              EXAMPLE 12
                                             Compound (12)
                           N    0-"=S                                               N  0
            7$   H
                            NN
                               N        S-2      c
                                                                     N
                                                                                       N
                               NH 2                                                    NHNH
                                                                              12 -i    NH
                 I '4H0-T1
         102101      To a solution of 1 (91 mg; 0.28 miol) in acetonitrile (2 mL) were added I
 methylimidazole (0.21 mL; 8 equiv.) and thiophosphorochloridate reagent S-2 (0.3 g; 3 equiv).
 The mixture stirred 1 day at 40 "C. The reaction was quenched at R.T. with McOH, and the
 mixture evaporated. The oily residue was dissolved in CH 2C12 and washed with IN citric acid,
 half saturated aq. NaHCO 3 and brine, and dried with Na 2SO 4. The evaporated residue was
 purified on silica gel column with CH2 CI 2-MeOH solvent system (4-10% gradient) to yield
                                                   -84-

Rp/Sp-mixture of 12 (120 mg; 66%).          31'P-NMR        (DMSO-d 6 ): 6 68.27, 68.24. MS: m/z = 651
[M-].
                                             EXAMPLE 13
                                            Compound (13)
                          N   0-          \O        H 0N                                          O
                                                    ('NS
           HO           N  N          S-3                CI                O/              N   N!
                     OH       NH2                                                  rF 13OH       NH2
                                 I                                      OYI-          13
                                                                         0
        102111      Compound 13 was prepared in the same way as described for 12 from 1 (75
mg; 0.23 mmol) with 1-methylimidazole (0.15 mL) and thiophosphorochloridate reagent S-3
(0.24 g) in acetonitrile (2 mL). 55 mg yield (37%).             31
                                                                  P-NMR(DMSO-d): 668.40,68.16. NS:
m/z= 639 [M-1].
                                             EXAMPLE 14
                                    Compounds (14) and (15)
                                      rN 00                                         jN       a
                   HO-eNNH                     ---             HO-u-O            AN
                         F OH       NH2                             OH     F        H    NFN2
                            6                                                14
                                                   O
                                                   11
                                                            0It     0I[              r N A
                                            HO-PO--O--O                         0 N
                                                                I   I        \j             H
                                                   OH OH OH F                      O NNH
                                                                                F bH       NH2
                                                                              15
        [0212]      Dry 6 (18 mg, 0.05 mmol) was dissolved in the mixture of PO(OMe) 3 (0.750
mL ) and pyridine (0.5 mL).        The mixture was evaporated in vacuum for 15 mins at bath
temperature (42 0C), and then cooled down to R.T. N-Methylimidazole (0.009 mL, 0.11 mmol)
was added followed by POC 3 (0.009 mL, 0.1 mmol). The mixture was kept at R.T. for 45 mins.
Tributylamine (0.065 mL, 0.3 mmol) and N-tetrabutyl ammonium salt of pyrophosphate (100
mg) was added. Dry DMF (about I mL) was added to get a homogeneous solution. In I I, the
reaction was quenched with 2M ammonium acetate buffer (I mL, pH = 7.5), diluted to 10 mL
with water and loaded on the column HiLoad 16/10 with                      Q    Sepharose High Performance.
                                                      -85-

Separation was done in a linear gradient of NaCI from 0 to IN in 50mM TRIS-buffer (pH = 7.5).
The fractions eluted at 60% buffer B contained 14 and at 80% buffer B contained 15.        The
corresponding fractions were concentrated, and the residue purified by RP HPLC on Synergy 4
micron Hydro-RP column (Phenominex). A linear gradient of methanol from 0 to 30% in
50mM triethylammonium acetate buffer (pH 7.5) was used for elution. The corresponding
fractions were combined, concentrated and lyophilized 3 times to remove excess of buffer.
Compound 14: P3 - NMR (D20): -3.76 (s); 'H -NMR (D20): 8.00(s, 1H), 5.88(s, IH), 5.10-4.95
(in, 2H), 4.05-3.98 (in, 2H), 1.00 (s, 3H); MS: 378.2 [M-1]~. Compound 15: P3 -NMR (D20):
 10.24(Pa), -11.46(Pp), -23.18(Py); 'H -NMR (D00): (D20): 8.44(s, IH), 8.17 (s, IH), 5.05(s,
 IH), 4.18 (i, 2H), 4.02 (m, 3H); MS 538.0 [M-I].
                                          EXAMPLE 15
                                       HCV Replicon Assay
Cells
          10213]    Huh-7 cells containing the self-replicating, subgenomic HCV replicon with a
stable luciferase (LUC) reporter were cultured in Dulbecco's modified Eagle's medium
 (DMEM) containing 2mM L-glutaminc and supplemented with 10% heat-inactivated fetal
 bovine serum (FBS), 1%penicillin-streptomyocin, 1% nonessential amino acids, and 0.5 mg/miL
 G418.
 Determination of anti-HCV activity
          [02141     Determination of 50% inhibitory concentration (ECso) of compounds in HCV
 replicon cells were performed by the following procedure. On the first day, 5,000 HCV replicon
 cells were plated per well in a 96-well plate. On the following day, test compounds were
 solubilized in 100% DMSO to 100x the desired final testing concentration. Each compound was
 then serially diluted (1:3) up to 9 different concentrations.   Compounds in 100% DMSO are
 reduced to 10% DMSO by diluting 1:10 in cell culture media. The compounds were diluted to
  10% DMSO with cell culture media, which were used to dose the HCV replicon cells in 96-well
  format. The final DMSO concentration was 1%. The HCV replicon cells were incubated at 37
 *C for 72 I. At 72 h, cells were processed when the cells are still subconfluent. Compounds
  that reduce the LUC signal are determined by Bright-Glo Luciferase Assay (Promega, Madison,
  WI). % Inhibition was determined for each compound concentration in relation to the control
  cells (untreated HCV replicon) to calculate the ECso.
                                                 -86-

         [0215]     Compounds of Formula (I) arc active in the replicon assay. The antiviral
activity of exemplary compounds is shown in Table 2, where 'A' indicates an EC50 < 1 pM, 'B'
indicates an ECso     1 pM and< 10 pM, and 'C' indicates an ECseo   10 pM and< 100 pM.
Table 2
              Compound # ECso         Compound #       ECso Compound #        ECso
                    2           A           6            C          10          A
                    3           A           7            C          II          C
                    4           A           8            C          12          B
                    5           A           9            B |        13          B
                                          EXAMPLE 16
                                     NSSB Inhibition Assay
         102161     The enzyme activity of NS5B570-Conl (Delta-21) was measured as an
incorporation of tritiated NMP into acid-insoluble RNA products. The complementary IRES
(cIRES) RNA sequence was used as a template, corresponding to 377 nucleotides from the 3'
end of HCV (-) strand RNA of the Con-I strain, with a base content of 21% Ade, 23% Urna,
28% Cyt, and 28% Gua. The clRES RNA was transcribed in vitro using a T7 transcription kit
(Ambion, Inc.) and purified using the Qiagen RNeasy maxi kit. HCV polymerase reactions
contained 50 nM NS53570-Conl, 50 nM cIRES RNA, about 0.5 pCi tritiated NTP, 1 pM of
competing cold NTP, 20 mM NaCl, 40 mM Tris-HCI (pH 8.0), 4 mM dithiothreitol, and 4 mM
MgCl2 . Standard reactions were incubated for 2 h at 37*C, in the presence of increasing
concentration of inhibitor. At the end of the reaction, RNA was precipitated with 10% TCA,
and acid-insoluble RNA products were filtered on a size exclusion 96-well plate. After washing
of the plate, scintillation liquid was added and radio labeled RNA products were detected
according to standard procedures with a Trilux Topcount scintillation counter. The compound
concentration at which the enzyme-catalyzed rate was reduced by 50% (IC5o) was calculated by
fitting the data to a non-linear regression sigmoidall). The ICs( values were derived from the
mean of several independent experiments and are shown in Table 3. Compounds of Formula (1)
showed activity in this assay. A value of 'A' in the table below indicates an ICS( of < I pM, a
value of'B' indicates an ICSO> 1 pM and < 10 pM, and a value of 'C' indicates an IC50 value of
> 10 pM and < 100 pM.
Table 3
                                       Compound #      Ia
                                            15           A
                                               -87-

                                           EXAMPLE 17
                       Assessment of inhibition of mitochondrial function
        102171      Drug-associated dysfunction of mitochondria is believed to play a role in the
etiology of the various adverse symptoms that occur in patients treated with antiviral
nucleoside/nucleotides. For this reason, evaluation of compounds for their potential to inhibit
mitochondrial function is useful. To assess the potential for nucleotide/nucleoside analogs to
interfere with normal mitochondrial functions and exhibit mitochondrial toxicity, the following
were measured: (1) the ability of nucleotides to be incorporated by human mitochondrial RNA
polymerase in vitro and (2) the cellular inhibition of the synthesis of the mitochondrial DNA
(mtDNA)-encodcd protein, cytochrome c oxidase (COX-I), relative to the nuclear DNA
(nDNA)-encoded mitochondrial protein succinate dehydrogenase subunit A (SDH-A) in HepG2
cells. Control compounds and compounds of Formula (I) were studied in these assays.
Biochemical assay
         102181     Arnold et al. "Sensitivity of Mitochondrial Transcription and Resistance of
RNA Polymerase II Dependent Nuclear Transcription to Antiviral Ribonucleosides" PLoS
Pathog     (2012)   8(11):   c1003030.     doi:10.1371/journal.ppat.1003030,  which    is hereby
incorporated by reference in its entirety.
Assessment of incorporation of nucleotides by human mitochondrial RNA volvmerase
 (HMRP)
DdRp assay with human mitochondrial RNA polymerase
         [0219]     The DdRp assay with human mitochondrial RNA polymerase was performed
 under single turnover conditions where enzyme concentration is in excess of the
                         33P-RNA/DNA      primer/template was used at a concentration of 100 nM,
 prinmer/template. The
 together with 320 nM enzyme. The standard 10-pL reactions were carried out at 30'C for I
 minute with 100 pM of each nucleotide 5'-triphosphate (NTP), 10 mM MgCi2 , 50 mM NaCl, 40
 mM Tris, pH 7.5, and 1 mM DTT. The reaction was stopped by adding 20 pL of formamide
 loading dye containing 50 mM EDTA.           RNA products were resolved by electrophoresis on
 22.5% TBE Urea polyacrylanide sequencing gels that were scanned using a TYPHOON
 Phosphorlmager.
         102201     The template strand shown in Figure 10 was designed to measure the
 incorporation of GTP analogs. Primer/Template:         (SEQ ID NO: 1) UUUUGCCGCGCC and
 (SEQ ID NO: 2) GGGAATGCACGGCGCGGC. In the control water lanes, no incorporation
 was observed as indicated by the lack of product band. GTP and 3'-deoxy-GTP were found to
 be efficient substrates for incorporation as demonstrated by the significant product bands. The
 potential for misincorporation was assessed using the control nucleotide ATP. As shown by the
                                                 -88-

lack of product band in Figure 10, control ATP was a poor substrate for incorporation.
Nucleotide analog 2'-Me-GTP (the nucleotide metabolite of monophosphate prodrug INX
0189/BMS-986094) was tested and found to be a good substrate for incorporation by HMRP as
indicated by the product band. Nucleotide analog 2'-Me-2'-F-GTP (nucleotide metabolite of
monophosphate prodrug GS-938) was tested and also found to be incorporated by HMRP. In
contrast, compounds of Formula (I) were not efficient substrates for incorporation into the
template strand by HMRP as indicated by the lack of product bands in Figure 10.
Assessment of inhibition of mitochondrial protein synthesis - Cell Based Assay
Assay Principle
         [0221]      MitoBiogenesisTM In Cell ELISA kits (Cat. #MS643) were obtained from
Mitosciences, OR, USA. The MitoBiogenesisNI In Cell ELISA kit is a duplexing 96 well assay
that ratios both an itDNA and an nDNA encoded mitochondrial protein. Cells were seeded in
96 microplates and after exposure to compounds for several cell doublings, the levels of the two
mitochondrial proteins were measured simultaneously in each well. The two proteins assayed
were each subunits of different oxidative phosphorylation enzyme complexes, one protein being
subunit I of Complex IV (cytochrome c oxidase; COX 1) that is mtDNA encoded and the other
being the 70 kDa subunit of Complex 11 (succinate dehydrogenase subunit A; SDH A) that is
nDNA encoded.        Complex IV includes several proteins that are encoded by the mtDNA while
the proteins of Complex 11 are entirely encoded by nDNA. To control for the density of cells
present at the end of the culture period, the number of cells were assessed by staining with Janus
Green and the levels of COX I/SDH A normalized to the final cell density.
96 Well Plate Assay Format for HcpG2 Cells
         102221      On the first day, 1000 HepG2 cells per well were plated in a 96 well plate.
On the following day, compounds to be tested were solubilized in 100% DMSO to 100 x the
desired final testing concentration. Each compound was serially diluted (1:3) up to 9 distinct
concentrations.    Compounds in 100% DMSO were reduced to 10% (v/v) DMSO by diluting
 1:10 in cell culture media. A 10 pL aliquot of the compounds diluted to 10% (v/v) DMSO with
cell culture media was used to dose the cells in duplicate. The final DMSO concentration was
 1% (v/v). Untreated cells and wells containing no cells were included on the plate to serve as
controls. Cells were then incubated with compounds and observed for 8 clays at 37*C and 5%
C0 2 . Plates were processed as described below in the assay procedure.
Batch Assay Format for HepG2 Cells
         [0223]      An alternate cell culture procedure was employed to test the potential to
mediate mitochondrial toxicity at higher concentrations than achievable in the 96 well plate
format.    HepG2 cells were grown either in media/DMSO alone or in a series of compound
                                                -89-

concentrations in 15 cm 2 dishes or 6 well plates at an initial cell seeding density of 5 x 106 and 5
x   104 cells/mL, respectively. Cells were then incubated and observed for 8 days at 37*C and 5%
CO 2. After 8 days, the cells were harvested by trypsinization, counted, and seeded in 96 well
plates at a density of 25,000 cells/well in 16 replicate wells. Cells were allowed to adhere
overnight and then the plates were processed as described below in the assay procedure.
Assay Procedure
          [0224]     The assay was performed according to the manufacturer's instructions.
Briefly, after the end of the culture period the cell culture media was gently aspirated from the
wells of the plate and replaced with 100 pL of 4% (v/v) paraformaldchyde solution in phosphate
buffered saline (PBS, Electron Microscopy Sciences Cat. #15713). After a 20 minls incubation
at R.T., the solution was removed and the wells washed 3 x with 300 pL of PBS. After the final
wash, the PBS was removed and the wells overlayed with 100 pL PBS. The plates were then
scaled and stored at 4'C until used. To perform the assay, the PBS overlay was removed by
blotting on a paper towel and 100 pL of 0.5% (v/v) acetic acid added to each well to block
endogenous alkaline phosphatase activity. After a 5 mins incubation at R.T., the acetic acid
solution was removed and the cells washed once with 200 pL PBS.                    Then, 100 pL of
 permeabilization buffer (0.1% (v/v) Triton X 100) was added to each well.             After 30 mins
 incubation at R.T., the perneabilization buffer was removed and each well was blocked with
 200 ptL of 2 x blocking solution for 2 h at R.T. The 2 x blocking solution was then removed and
  100 piL of primary antibody solution containing anti COX I and anti SDH A antibodies in I x
 blocking solution was added to each well. Plates were then sealed and incubated overnight at
 4'C. The primary antibody/blocking solution was removed and the plate washed 3 x with 250
   iL 0.05% (v/v) Tween 20 in PBS. Then, 100 plL of secondary antibody solution containing
 alkaline plhosphatase (AP) labeled anti SDH A antibody and horserdish peroxidase (HRP)
  labeled anti COX I antibody was added and incubated for I h at R.T. The plate was then
 washed 4 x with 250 pL 0.05% (v/v) Tween 20 in PBS. After blotting the plate dry 100 [IL of
  AP detection reagent was added to each well, and the plate incubated in the dark for 30 minis at
  R.T. The optical density of each well was then measured at 405 nm. The AP detection reageit
  was then removed and replaced with 100 [L of HRP detection reagent, and the plate incubated
  in the dark for a further 30 mins at R.T. The optical density of each well was then measured at
  600 nn. The HRP detection reagent was then removed and each well was then stained with 50
  plL of I x Janus Green Stain for 5 mins at R.T. After removal of the dye, the plates were washed
  5 x in ultrapure water to remove any remaining dye. The Janus Green stain was then solubilized
                                                  -90-

by the addition of 100 pL of 0.5 M HCI and incubated for 10 mins. The optical density of each
well was then measured at 595 nm.
Data Analysis
         [02251     The average     of all   replicate background      measurements     from each
experimental condition was calculated and subtracted from the experimental values of the same
condition. The SDH A and COX I signals were then plotted as a ratio (COX I/SDH A) and
normalized to the Janus Green staining intensity to correct for differences in cell density.
Results
         [0226]     Control compound d4T was tested and found not to inhibit mitochondrial
protein synthesis at concentrations as shown in Figures II A-B. Control compound ddC was
tested and found to strongly inhibit mitochondrial protein synthesis. See Figures llA-B. As
demonstrated in Figure 1IB, nucleoside monophosphate prodrug INX-08189/BMS-986094
(which delivers 2'-Me-GTP) was tested in the assay and found to strongly inhibit mitochondrial
protein synthesis. In contrast, compounds of Formula (I) were tested and found to not inhibit
mitochondrial protein synthesis as shown in Figure I IA.
                                          EXAMPLE 18
                                   Combination of Compounds
Combination Testing
          102271    Two or more test compounds are tested in combination with each other using
an HCV genotype lb HCV replicon harbored in Huh7 cells with a stable luciferase (LUC)
reporter. Cells are cultured under standard conditions in Dulbecco's modified Eagle's medium
(DMEM; Mediatech Inc, Herndon, VA) containing 10% heat-inactivated fetal bovine serum
 (FBS; Mediatech inc, Hemdon, VA) 2mM L-glutamine, and nonessential amino acids (JRH
 Biosciences). HCV replicon cells are plated in a 96-well plate at a density of 104 cells per well
 in DMEM with 10% FBS. On the following day, the culture medium is replaced with DMEM
 containing either no compound as a control, the test compounds serially diluted in the presence
 of 2% FBS and 0.5% DMSO, or a combination of a compound of Formula (I) with one or more
 test compounds serially diluted in the presence of 2% FBS and 0.5% DMSO. The cells are
 incubated with no compound as a control, with the test compounds, or the combination of
 compounds for 72 I The direct effects of the combination of the test compounds are examined
 using a luciferase (LUC) based reporter as determined by the Bright-Glo Luciferase Assay
 (Promega, Madison, WI). Dose-response curves are determined for individual compounds and
  fixed ratio combinations of two or more test compounds.
          102281     The method utilized for evaluating combination effects used a program called
  MacSynergy II. MacSynergy It software was kindly provided by Dr. M. Prichard (University of
                                                 -91-

Michigan). The Prichard Model allows for a three-dimensional examination of drug interactions
                                                        2
and a calculation of the synergy volume (units: pM %) generated from running the replicon
assay using a checkerboard combination of two or more inhibitors. The volumes of synergy
(positive volumes) or antagonism (negative volumes) represent the relative quantity of
synergism or antagonism per change in the concentrations of the two drugs.            Synergy and
antagonism volumes are defined based on the Bliss independence model. In this model, synergy
volumes of less than -25 indicate antagonistic interactions, volumes in the -25 - 25 range
 indicate additive behavior, volumes in the 25 - 100 range indicate synergistic behavior and
volumes >100 indicate strong synergistic behavior.           Determination of in vitro additive,
 synergistic and strongly synergistic behavior for combinations of compounds can be of utility in
 predicting therapeutic benefits for administering the combinations of compounds in vivo to
 infected patients.
          102291     Although the foregoing has been described in some detail by way of
 illustrations and examples for purposes of clarity and understanding, it will be understood by
 those of skill in the art that numerous and various modifications can be made without departing
 from the spirit of the present disclosure. Therefore, it should be clearly understood that the
 forms disclosed herein are illustrative only and are not intended to limit the scope of the present
 disclosure, but rather to also cover all modification and alternatives coming within the true
  scope and spirit of the invention.
                                                 -92-

WHAT IS CLAIMED IS:
        1.       A compound of Formula (I), or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, having
the structure:
                                                              o       B'
                                              R 30            O      R13
                                                         FR2
                                                               (I)
                 wherein:
                                                              0
                                                     N             N
                                                      N       N      NH 2
                 B is an optionally substituted                           , an optionally substituted
                      OR6                                                 R7
            N         ~N                                         K/N
                      N       NH,                                         N
             L~                    or an optionally substituted ~
                  R' is selected from the group consisting of an unsubstituted Cv6 alkyl, an
         unsubstituted C2 . alkenyl, an unsubstituted C2 .6 alkynyl, an unsubstituted C3.( cycloalkyl
         and an unsubstituted C-, haloalkyl;
                  R2 is halo, -ORA or -N      RRC;
                  R3 is hydrogen or         R4 ^
                  R4^ is selected from the group consisting of O~, OH, an optionally substituted N
          linked amino acid and an optionally substituted N-linked amino acid ester derivative;
                  R is selected from the group consisting of O~, OH, an -0-optionally substituted
          aryl, an -0-optionally substituted heteroaryl, an -0-optionally substituted heterocyclyl,
          an optionally substituted N-linked amino acid, an optionally substituted N-linked amino
                                              o         O
                                      R' 20--P-()        P--
                                              I          I
                                              OR"       OR' 0
           acid ester derivative and                             "
                                                    -93-

         R5 and R6 are independently selected from the group consisting of hydrogen, an
unsubstituted C6 alkyl, an unsubstituted C3.6 alkenyl, an unsubstituted C3., alkynyl and
an unsubstituted C3.6 cycloalkyl;
         R' is NHR;
         R8 is NHR14 ;
                                      5
         R9A is hydrogen or -C(=O)R     ;
         R91 and R9 c are independently hydrogen or an optionally substituted C6 alkyl;
         R10, R" and R' are independently absent or hydrogen;
         R"' is selected from the group consisting of hydrogen, an optionally substituted
C-6 alkyl, an optionally substituted C3-6          alkenyl, an optionally substituted C3-6
cycloalkyl, C(=O)R^' and -C(=O)ORA2;
         R14 is selected from the group consisting of hydrogen, an optionally substituted
C1.6 alkyl, an optionally substituted C3.6 alkenyl, an optionally substituted C3-6
cycloalkyl, -C(=O)RA3 and -C(=O)ORA 4 ;
         R' 5 is an optionally substituted C.6 alkyl or an optionally substituted C3.6
cycloalkyl;
         X' isN or -CR 6 ,
          R ' is selected from the group consisting of hydrogen, halogen, an optionally
substituted C.6 alkyl, an optionally substituted C2.6 alkenyl and an optionally substituted
 C2.6 alkynyl;
          R A, R   2  RA3 and R^4 are independently selected from the group consisting of
 C16 alkyl,     C.6 alkenyl, C2-( alkynyl, C3-6 cycloalkyl, C3.6 cycloalkenyl, C6.10 aryl,
 heteroaryl, heteroalicyclyl, aryl(C -6alkyl), lieteroaryl(C 1 6 alkyl) and heteroalicyclyl(C
 6 alkyl);
          n1is 0 or 1;
          Z' is 0 or S; and
                                     R4BA.
           provided that when R3 is               ;and R4^ is O0 or OH, then R41 is 0, oH
              o        o
    R"O-P-O             [-0
              cP
              ORD    I ORIo
 or
 2.        The compound of Claim 1, wherein R2 is halo.
 3.        The compound of Claim 1, wherein R is -OR 9A.
                                          -94-

        4.      The compound of Claim 3, wherein R9A is hydrogen.
                                                                       15
        5.      The compound of Claim 3, wherein R9 A is -C(=O)R .
                                                         2         9
        6.       The compound of Claim 1, wherein R is -N(R 'Rc).
                                                         2
        7.       The compound of Claim 1, wherein R is -NH 2 .
                                                                           9
        8.       The compound of Claim 6, wherein at least one of R 3 and R9e is an optionally
substituted Cic, alkyl.
                                                               9          9
        9.       The compound of Claim 6, wherein R u and R c are both an optionally
substituted C1.6 alkyl.
         10.     The compound of any one of Claims 1-9, wherein R is an unsubstituted C1 6
alkyl.
         11.     The compound of any one of Claims 1-9, wherein R' is an unsubstituted C2. 6
alkenyl.
         12.     The compound of any one of Claims 1-9, wherein R' is an unsubstituted C2 -6
 alkynyl.
         13.     The compound of any one of Claims 1-9, wherein R' is an unsubstituted C3. 6
 cycloalkyl.
          14.     The compound of any one of Claims 1-9, wherein R' is a C, 6 haloalkyl.
                                                                          3
          15.     The compound of any one of Claims 1-14, wherein R is hydrogen.
                                                                              R413   -
           16.    The compound of any one of Claims 1-14, wherein R is
                                                                           4        R4^    .
           17.    The compound of Claim 16, wherein R            is an optionally substituted N-linked
  amino acid.
                  The compound of Claim 16, wherein R A is an optionally substituted N-linked
                                                             4
           18.
  amino acid ester derivative.
                  The compound of Claim 16, wherein R Ais selected from the group consisting of
                                                           4
           19.
  alanine, asparagine, aspartate, cysteine, glutamate, glutamine, glycine, proline, shrine, tyrosine,
  argininc, histidine, isoleucine, leucine, lysine, methionine, phenylalanine, threonine, tryptophan,
  valinc and ester derivatives thereof.
           20.    The compound of Claim 16, wherein R is selected from the group consisting of
  alanine isopropyl ester, alanine cyclohexyl ester, alanine neopentyl ester, valine isopropyl ester,
  isoleucine isopropyl ester, methionine isopropyl ester and leucine isopropyl ester.
                                                    -95-

                                                                             R17\      RS    19
        21.     The compound of Claim 16, wherein R4 A has the structure
wherein R17 is selected from the group consisting of hydrogen, an optionally substituted CI-6
alkyl, an optionally substituted C3.6 cycloalkyl, an optionally substituted aryl, an optionally
substituted aryl(C 1 6 alkyl) and an optionally substituted haloalkyl; Rs is selected from the
group consisting of hydrogen, an optionally substituted Ci-6 alkyl, an optionally substituted Cp
haloalkyl, an optionally substituted C3.6 cycloalkyl, an optionally substituted C aryl, an
optionally substituted Cm(, aryl and an optionally substituted aryl(C ,6alkyl); and R19 is hydrogen
or an optionally substituted Ct.c-alkyl; or Rig and R 19 is taken together to form an optionally
substituted C3.6 cycloalkyl.
        22.     The compound of Claim 21, wherein R' 8 is hydrogen.
        23.     The compound of Claim 21, wherein R' 5 is an optionally substituted Ci. 6 alkyl.
        24.     The compound of any one of Claims 21-23, wherein R' 9 is hydrogen.
        25.     The compound of any one of Claims 21-23, wherein R19 is an optionally
substituted C6 alkyl.
        26.     The compound of any one of Claims 21-25, wherein R' 7 is an optionally
substituted C1.6 alkyl.
        27.     The compound of any one of Claims 21-25, wherein R'7 is an optionally
substituted C3s.cycloalkyl.
                                                         R17      Rig R' 9         nhCO
         28.    The compound of Claim 21, wherein                               is
                                             0                                        0
                 0
         O)     IlN--                                 HN-~                            O       N-
                                                 -96-

                 o     HN--                  0    O0
                  OO                                    r        O'
                                                                 0                4
     Y0              N              C)
             0             ,-          0              or             0
substituted aryl.
         30.      The compound of any one of Claims 16-28, wherein R4 1 is an -0-optionally
substituted heteroaryl.
         31.      The compound of any one of Claims 16-28, wherein RIB is an -0-optionally
substituted heterocyclyl.
         32.      The compound of any one of Claims 16-28, wherein 1R4 is an optionally
substituted N-linked amino acid.
         33.      The compound of any one of Claims 16-28, wherein R413 is an optionally
substituted N-linked amino acid ester derivative.
         34.      The compound of any one of Claims 16-28, wherein RI        is selected from the
group consisting of alanine, asparagine, aspartate, cysteine, glutamate, glutamine, glycine,
proline,     scrine, tyrosine, arginine,  histidine,  isolcucine,   leucine, lysine,   methionine,
phenylalanine, threonine, tryptophan, valine and ester derivatives thereof.
         35.      The compound of any one of Claims 16-28, wherein R41 1 is selected from the
group consisting of alanine isopropyl ester, alanine cyclohexyl ester, alanine neopentyl ester,
valine isopropyl ester, isoleucine isopropyl ester, methionine isopropyl ester and leucine
isopropyl ester.
         36.      The compound of any one of Claims 16-28, wherein R41 3 has the structure
R2 0      R2     R22
     0          N1l-
                        , wherein R2 " is selected from the group consisting of hydrogen, an
optionally substituted Cw6 -alkyl, an optionally substituted C3. 6 cycloalkyl, an optionally
substituted aryl, an optionally substituted aryl(C,        alkyl) and an optionally substituted
               2
haloalkyl; R ' is selected from the group consisting of hydrogen, an optionally substituted Cj.6
                                                -97-

alkyl, an optionally substituted C1.6 haloalkyl, an optionally substituted C3.6 cycloalkyl, an
optionally substituted C6 aryl, an optionally substituted CIO aryl and an optionally substituted
                                                                                      2      22
aryl(C 1 6 alkyl); and R22 is hydrogen or an optionally substituted CI- 6-alkyl; or R ' and R is
taken together to form an optionally substituted C3-6 cycloalkyl.
         37.     The compound of Claim 36, wherein R2 is hydrogen.
         38.     The compound of Claim 36, wherein R is an optionally substituted C,. 6 alkyl.
                                                                      22
         39.     The compound of any one of Claims 36-38, wherein R is hydrogen.
                                                                              22
         40.     The compound of any one of Claims 36-38, wherein R is an optionally
 substituted C,16 alkyl.
                                                                               20
         41.      The compound of any one of Claims 36-40, wherein R is an optionally
 substituted C1.6 alkyl.
                                                                               21
         42.      The compound of any one of Claims 36-40, wherein R is an optionally
 substituted C3. 6 cycloalkyl.
                                                        R20       R'1  22        lbCO
          43.     The compound of Claim 36, wherein                            is
                                              0                                    -0
                  IIN-         -               OH   O
              -0                         --Y    0                                 0
                                     OO                                               0
                      os
           o          O
      2
           II         II
   R' O-P--O- -P--O
            I          I
           OR'"       OR'"                                                        O
                                 Soandn is 0.
                                                  -98-

     46.       The compound of Claim 16, wherein R ^ is 0
                                                            4
                                                                        or OH; and R48 is
     o            O
   20_-p-0       -p-O
   R'0P-0         P-O
       I             0
      OR"         OR' 0
                         n , and n is 1.
     47.       The compound of any one of Claims 1-46, wherein B' is an optionally substituted
          0
 N1       N         NH2
                                                                         N           NHI
                                                                         N       N        NI,
      48.       The compound of any one of Claims 1-46, wherein B is I
      49.       The compound of any one of Claims 1-46, wherein Bl is an optionally substituted
            OR6
  N          N
  N        N         N~H
                                                         6
       50.      The compound of Claim 49, wherein R is an unsubstituted CI, alkyl or an
unsubstituted C3.6 cycloalkyl.
       51.      The compound of any one of Claims 1-46, wherein Bl is an optionally substituted
            R,
      X,    NN
        52.      The compound of any one of Claims 1-51, wherein Z' is 0.
        53.      The compound of any one of Claims 1-5 1, wherein Z' is S.
        54.      The compound of Claim I has a structure selected from the group consisting of:
                                              -99-

                        N                                                                                     rNo
HONXj                       /H                                             o-N                             ON
                                          N-N
                F   OH       NH2                                                       ONil,
HO0
                       OH1-               Nil
                                                                 H2                                    and
               09
      O-       O i      O i                            N    I I
                                                         Ni 2  ,  or a pharmaccitically acceptable salt of
the foregoing.
         55.      The compound of Claim I has a structure selected from the group consisting of:
             -      o -OI          N                                                                    0
                               Nrl        N                               /H
            O                                                                  N            0
            0                          N N'NH                O                     '
             I                                                   _FO                   /fl    o F I  Ni-I,
           ci
                  0                itl
                          N I-100
                     F0                                                                 -N
         rO
  cl   \        0                             0-     \        /O      r1
                                               NiN                    Nil                  N
                                       N-  1                                       tii         \i1
                     NHbl                     H~                                               Mb
       Qh0                                     0-/i
                                                    -100-

                                                            OP-'
                                                      0   -1
                 -    -II                                                                N
                   N-i
                   O.                    N
            o i                 t     Z                       0 ~~Nl
                -T
                   NH                N
                                                 , or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt of the
foregoing.
         56.       A pharmaceutical composition comprising a therapeutically effective amount of a
compound of any one of Claims 1-55, or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, and a
pharmaceutically acceptable carrier, diluent, excipient or combination thereof.
          57.      Use of a compound of any one of Claims 1-55, or a pharmaceutically acceptable
salt thereof, or a pharmaceutical composition of Claim 56 for preparing a medicament for
ameliorating or treating a HCV infection.
          58.      Use of a compound of any one of Claims 1-55, or a pharmaceutically acceptable
 salt thereof, for preparing a medicament for inhibiting NSSB polymerase activity of a hepatitis C
 virus.
          59.      Use of a compound of any one of Claims 1-55, or a pharmaceutically acceptable
 salt thereof, for preparing a medicament for inhibiting replication of a hepatitis C virus.
          60.      Use of a compound of any one of Claims 1-55, or a pharmaceutically acceptable
 salt thereof, for preparing a medicament for contacting a cell infected with a hepatitis C virus,
 whereby ameliorating or treating the HCV infection.
          61.       Use of a compound of any one of Claims 1-55 or a pharmaceutical composition
 of Claim 56 in the preparation of a medicament for ameliorating or treating a HCV infection,
 wherein the medicament is manufactured for use in combination with one or more agents
 selected from the group consisting of an interferon, ribavirin, a HCV protease inhibitor, a HCV
                                                -101-

polymerase inhibitor, a NS5A inhibitor, an antiviral compound, a compound of Formula (AA), a
compound of Formula (BB) and a compound of Formula (CC), or a pharmaceutically acceptable
salt any of the aforementioned compounds.
         62.    Use of a compound of any one of Claims 1-55 in the preparation of a medicament
for contacting a cell infected with a hepatitis C virus, wherein the medicament is manufactured
for use in combination with one or more agents selected from the group consisting of an
interferon, ribavirin, a HCV protease inhibitor, a HCV polymerase inhibitor, a NSSA inhibitor,
an antiviral compound, a compound of Formula (AA), a compound of Formula (BB), a
compound of Formula (BB) and a compound of Formula (CC), or a pharmaceutically acceptable
salt any of the aforementioned compounds.
         63.    The use of any one of Claims 61-62, wherein the one or more agents are selected
from the group consisting of Compounds 1001-1016, 2001-2012, 3001-3014, 4001-4012, 5001
5012, 6001-6078, 7000-7027 and 8000-8016, or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt of any of the
aforementioned compounds.
         64.     A method of ameliorating or treating a HCV infection comprising administering
to a subject suffering from the HCV infection a therapeutically effective amount of a compound
of any one of Claims 1-55, or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, or a pharmaceutical
composition of Claim 56.
         65.     A method for inhibiting NSSB polymerase activity of a hepatitis C virus
 comprising2 contacting a cell infected with the hepatitis C virus with an effective amount of a
 compound of any one of Claims 1-55, or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, or a
 pharmaceutical composition of Claim 56.
          66.    A method for inhibiting replication of a hepatitis C virus comprising contacting a
 cell infected with the hepatitis C virus with a compound of any one of Claims 1-55, or a
 pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, or a pharmaceutical composition of Claim 56.
          67.    A method for ameliorating or treating a HCV infection comprising contacting a
 cell infected with the hepatitis C virus with a compound of any one of Claims 1-55, or a
 pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, or a pharmaceutical composition of Claim 56.
          68.    A method of ameliorating or treating a HCV infection comprising contacting a
 cell infected with the hepatitis C virus with a therapeutically effective amount of a compound of
 any one of Claims 1-55, in combination with one or more agents selected from the group
 consisting of an interferon, ribavirin, a HCV protease inhibitor, a HCV polymerase inhibitor, a
 NS5A inhibitor, an antiviral compound, a compound of Formula (AA), a compound of Formula
                                                 -102-

(BB) and a compound of Formula (CC), or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt any of the
aforementioned compounds.
         69.    A method of ameliorating or treating a HCV infection comprising administering
to a subject suffering from the HCV infection a therapeutically effective amount of a compound
of any one of Claims 1-55, in combination with one or more agents selected from the group
consisting of an interferon, ribavirin, a HCV protease inhibitor, a HCV polymerase inhibitor, a
NS5A inhibitor, an antiviral compound, a compound of Formula (AA), a compound of Formula
 (22) and a compound of Formula (CC), or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt any of the
 aforementioned compounds.
         70.     The method of any one of Claims 68-69, wherein the one or more agents are
 selected from the group consisting of Compounds 1001-1016, 2001-2012, 3001-3014, 4001
 4012, 5001-5012, 6001-6078, 7000-7027 and 8000-8016, or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt
 of any of the aforementioned compounds.
                                               -103-

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
