                                             Abstract
           A system and process that can be used to determine vehicle attitude with only one
   navigation receiver. In one embodiment, the antenna of the navigation receiver is driven
 5 with a signal that modulates sensitivity in azimuth. The received navigation signal
   strength is demodulated by the phase at which the antenna is sweeping and a phase angle
   and a magnitude for the incoming signal are calculated. Using this calculated phase
   angle, magnitude and antenna characteristics, the location of the user (i.e. the navigation
   receiver) and the location of the navigation satellite, the attitude of the antenna and hence
10 the user or user vehicle can be determined.
                                                 1

       1/4
                      12
       TILT-N
                          _10
     GPS RECEIVER
         ____     ___
               ____    ___14
      FIG. 1
&
  /Z
             TIME
      FIG. 2

          SYSTEM AND PROCESS OF DETERMINING VEHICLE ATTITUDE
                                                Field
 5          This disclosure relates to determining vehicle attitude using GPS, Global
   Navigation Satellite System (GNSS) or other satellite navigation system.
                                             Background
           Prior solutions to determining vehicle attitude using GPS have required two or
10 more antenna/receiver combinations. Small devices such as micro-unmanned aerial
   vehicles (UAV's), personal navigators, cellular telephones and other small vehicles lack
   the dimensions required to host traditional multiple antenna attitude determination
   systems.
           In addition to attitude determination, multiple antenna systems have been used to
15 detect spoofing by computing the direction of the incoming satellite navigation signal.
           In safety critical applications, such as Positive Train Control (PTC) systems, the
   attitude of the locomotive on track is critical to locate the train. Attitude computed
   directly from each antenna of a multiple antenna system creates an additional input to
   check correctness of other calculations.
20
                                              Summary
           A system and process are described that can be used to determine vehicle attitude
   with only one GPS, GNSS or the like antenna/receiver. The system and process can be
   employed to determine attitude of any vehicle or person including, but not limited to,
25 unmanned aerial vehicles, manned aircraft, ground vehicles, trains, water-bome vehicles,
   individuals with hand-carried GPS, GNSS or like receivers, and the like. The described
   system and methods can be implemented with only one antenna and therefore enables
   attitude determination on smaller vehicles and/or vehicles that lack the dimensions
   suitable to host a traditional multiple antenna attitude determination system.
                                                   1

            In one non-limiting exemplary embodiment, the antenna of the GPS, GNSS or
   like receiver is driven with a signal that modulates sensitivity in azimuth. The received
   signal strength is demodulated by the phase at which the antenna is sweeping, and a
   phase angle and a magnitude for the incoming signal are calculated. Using this
 5 calculated phase angle, magnitude and antenna characteristics, the location of the user
   (i.e. the receiver) and the location of the GPS, GNSS or like satellite, the attitude of the
   antenna and hence the user or user vehicle can be determined.
            Using one satellite in the process will provide a rough estimate of vehicle attitude.
   The more satellites used in the process, the more accurate the calculated attitude.
10          The system and process described herein can be used with any satellite navigation
   system including, but not limited to, GPS, GNSS or the like, that uses at least one
   navigation satellite that transmits signals that can be received by a suitable navigation
   receiver used on earth, on land, in air or underwater, for navigation. The navigation
   satellite(s) can be referred to generically as a GPS satellite(s) or the like. Signals from
15 the navigation satellite are received by a navigation antenna/receiver (or navigation
   transceiver) that can also be referred to generically as a GPS antenna/receiver.
            In another non-limiting exemplary embodiment, if certain signals are coming
   from the wrong angle, or they are all coming from the same angle, multipath error can be
   rejected or it can be concluded that the receiver is being "spoofed." This spoofing
20 detection can be implemented using a single antenna instead of the multiple antenna
   systems previously used.
            In another non-limiting exemplary embodiment, if an antenna array is used,
   jamming signals coming from the same angle will only impact the incoming antenna
   pointed at the incoming angle while other antennas still receive valid signal
25 measurements forming an anti-jamming capability.
            In another non-limiting exemplary embodiment, in a land vehicle where the
   vehicle is known to be local level given vehicle characteristics and/or aided by an
   embedded Inertial Measurement Unit (IMU), only the phase angle may be required in the
   process in order to determine attitude.
                                                   2

           In another non-limiting exemplary embodiment, a static antenna pattern formed
   from multiple aimed receivers/antennas and absolute signal strength could be used to
   determine attitude.
           In another non-limiting exemplary embodiment, an active ray-dome with active
 5 controllable interference characteristics could be used to modulate the satellite signal.
   This implementation could use smart materials that are given a stimulus, such as
   electrical current, to change the local RF transmission resistance of the dome. Physical
   blockages such as rotating RF shields could also be used.
           In another non-limiting exemplary embodiment, complex interference patterns
10 could be used to better estimate elevation. This implementation could include a high
   frequency interference pattern that only impacts (or impacts proportionally) signals at a
   certain elevation. In addition, any number of new modulation frequencies and variable
   magnitudes, possibly arranged non-linearly, could be added to the input pattern and used
   to better compute azimuth and elevation. This modulation frequency loop could be made
15 active such as modulating a high frequency with shaped magnitude (ramp up/ramp down)
   at the expected GPS signal incoming azimuth. Multiple passes could be used to find the
   maximum signal strength and then essentially track the navigation satellite through the
   sky using this method. Each navigation satellite could be given a unique frequency to
   allow implementation of this technique across multiple navigation satellites.
20         In another non-limiting exemplary embodiment, active noise elements could be
   used that modulate Signal to Noise ratio (S/N) rather than signal strength (SS). Because
   noise is the denominator to signal, the S/N modulation would appear the same as a SS
   modulation and could be substituted for signal strength.
           In another non-limiting exemplary embodiment, the physical structure of the
25 vehicle could be used to purposely create interference patterns that are then used to
   provide estimates of attitude based on computed interference pattern and the resultant
   experienced signal modulation.
                                                 3

                                               Drawings
            Figure 1 illustrates a navigation receiver on a user or user vehicle showing
   azimuth sweeping of the receiver antenna.
            Figure 2 illustrates a plot of antenna angle p versus time.
 5          Figure 3 illustrates a plot of signal strength versus time.
            Figure 4 is a top view of a vehicle illustrating phase angle and magnitude.
            Figure 5 illustrates a navigation satellite relative to earth and determining vehicle
   attitude.
            Figure 6 illustrates an aerial vehicle creating an interference pattern to estimate
10 attitude.
            Figure 7 illustrates how to estimate attitude from the technique in Figure 6.
                                        Detailed Description
            With reference initially to Figure 1, a navigation receiver 10 (also known as a
15 GPS receiver) with an antenna 12 is illustrated. For example, the navigation receiver 10
   can be carried by a local level vehicle represented schematically at 14. The single
   navigation receiver 10 is used to determine the vehicle forward direction attitude 0 (i.e.
   the angular orientation of the vehicle with respect to a vector pointing up with respect to
   the surface of the earth).
20          Turning to Figure 2, a first step in the process is to drive the antenna 12 of the
   navigation receiver 10 with a signal that modulates sensitivity in azimuth <p as indicated
   by the arrow in Figure 1. Figure 2 plots 0 to 360 degrees antenna angle <p at frequency f.
   In one example, the navigation receiver 10 can be located in a ground vehicle where 0
   degrees antenna angle is equal to the maximum signal strength toward the front of the
25 vehicle. The antenna sensitivity can be swept in azimuth either by mechanical or
   electronic means.
            In another non-limiting exemplary embodiment, instead of sweeping a single
   antenna, multiple static antennas or an antenna with multiple static elements could be
   used.
                                                    4

            As shown in Figure 3, the received signal strength (SS) from each navigation
   satellite (also known as a GPS satellite) has a sinusoidal signature (for satellites not
   directly overhead). For each navigation satellite, the SS has a frequency f at phase angle
   equal to a (i.e. the direction of the incoming signal) with respect to the vehicle. The
 5 vehicle forward direction attitude 0 (Figure 5) can be computed based on the vehicle and
   navigation satellite location using known methods.
            Next, the received navigation signal strength is demodulated by the phase at
   which the antenna 12 is sweeping and a phase angle u for the incoming signal is
   calculated. With reference to Figure 4, the phase angle a is the angle (i.e. the direction of
10 the incoming signal with respect to the vehicle) where the signal strength SS from the
   navigation satellite 16 is maximum. The vector D indicates the vector direction of the
   navigation satellite 16 while the vector F points forward through the front end of the
   vehicle 14. The magnitude m of the SS is the amplitude of the received navigation signal
   at the phase angle a and gives a measure of azimuth.
15          With reference to Figure 5, using the determined phase angle u, the location of the
   vehicle 14 (i.e. known from the navigation receiver 10) and the location/position of the
   navigation satellite 16, the attitude of the antenna 12 and hence the vehicle 14 forward
   direction attitude 0 is determined.
20 I.       Non-limiting exemplary calculation of vehicle attitude
            The following non-limiting example shows how to determine vehicle attitude
   from a single navigation receiver. Other examples and techniques are possible.
            Given:          g = antenna gain
                            e =  elevation of incoming signal with respect to the vehicle
25                          a  = azimuth or direction of the incoming signal with respect to the
                    vehicle
                            em   = elevation of incoming signal with respect to the antenna
                            tilt = antenna tilt angle (virtual or otherwise) with respect to the
                    vehicle level
30                          w = angular rate of antenna sensitivity rotation
                                                     5

                            t = time
                            SS  = signal strength
           Assuming an antenna with linear gain characteristics between zero degrees
 5 elevation and 90 degrees (this assumption does not limit the validity of the technique
   described herein).
                   g =  em/90       (equation 1)
10         Rotating the antenna gain characteristics at rate w at a fixed antenna tilt angle as
   shown in Figure 1, the resultant incoming elevation angle with respect to the antenna can
   be determined as follows:
                   em  =  e + tilt * sin(w*t + a)         (equation 2)
15
           For convenience, assume a gain of one equals a SS of one and substitute in for the
   antenna gain equation (this assumption does not limit the validity of the technique
   described herein):
20                 SS  = (e + tilt * sin(w* t + a))/90            (equation 3)
           The resultant SS appears as the modulated signal shown in Figure 3. In practice,
   a is unknown when the vehicle attitude is unknown. Therefore, the azimuth or phase
   angle estimate can be computed over one antenna cycle as follows:
25
                   a= atan(mean(ss*cos(w*t))/mean(ss*sin(w*t)))           (equation 4)
           In practice, elevation is unknown when the vehicle attitude is unknown, therefore
   the elevation estimate can be computed, if the expected in space signal strength can be
30 estimated, as:
                                                   6

                   elest  = mean(ss) * 90          (equation 5)
           In the exemplary case of an airborne environment, effects such as atmospheric
 5 delay can be overcome using, for example, a high pass matching filter, especially in the
   case of a high dynamic environment.
           The averaging time can be extended over multiple cycles depending on
   modulation frequency, observed noise, vehicle dynamic characteristics or other reasons.
           Using known methods, taking into account the absolute position of the vehicle
10 and the position of the navigation satellite, an estimate can be computed for the vehicle
   forward direction attitude 0 for inclusion into the navigation filter.
           In the case of multiple navigation satellites, using known methods, taking into
   account the absolute position of the vehicle, the positions of the navigation satellites, and
   taking multiple measurements from the multiple navigation satellites, the absolute
15 attitude 0 can be solved using a least squares implementation.
           In the case of a locomotive, known to be local level to the earth, a course attitude
   o can be computed from     one navigation satellite. Using multiple satellites, the
   consistency between each satellite observation can be used to give confidence in the
   computed attitude 0.
20         In the above example, if the elevation of the satellite is greater than 90 degrees
   minus tilt angle, the SS signal will invert. This can be captured by monitoring the
   magnitude m of the SS, the computed elevation or comparing with other satellite
   observations.
25         In an alternate embodiment, the vehicle can include a static antenna pattern or
   array formed from multiple aimed antenna/receivers, or each antenna could utilize a
   single navigation receiver. Absolute signal magnitude m measured directly from each
   antenna could be used to determine attitude.
30 II.     Non-limiting exemplary calculation using a static antenna pattern
                                                  7

           The following non-limiting example shows how to determine vehicle attitude
   from a static antenna pattern. Other examples and techniques are possible.
           In this example, a static antenna pattern on a local level vehicle can be used with
   each antenna having unity gain in elevation but linear gain pattern in azimuth from zero
 5 gain at zero degrees, one at 90 degrees and zero again at 180 degrees. Aligning four of
   these antennas perpendicular to the horizon each at 90 degree azimuth angle from each
   other will create an array capable of determining attitude for a ground based vehicle
   including, but not limited to, a locomotive. In this example, antenna 1 is pointed forward,
   antenna 2 pointed to the right, antenna 3 pointed aft, and antenna 4 point left.
10         The following equations can be used to compute a vehicle azimuth observation.
   The navigation satellite signal not directly overhead will only be received by two of the
   four antennas.
           If the navigation signal is received by antenna 1 and antenna 2, the azimuth can be
   computed by:
15                         a = azimuth of incoming signal with respect to the vehicle
                           ssl = signal strength from antenna 1
                           ss2 = signal strength from antenna 2
                           gl = gain of antenna 1
                           g2 = gain of antenna 2
20
           Since the signal is only received by antenna 1 and antenna 2, the measurement is
   coming from the quadrant where an increase in a results in a gain that is decreasing for
   antenna 1 and the gain is increasing for antenna 2.
25         gl  = (90-a)/90
           g2  = a/90                      (equation 6)
           Taking the ratio and solving for a:
30         a =  90/(1+(gl/g2))             (equation 7)
                                                  8

           The signal in space is the same for both antennas and attenuated per the antenna
   gain, so the gains can be replaced with SS.
 5         a  = 90/(1+(ssl/ss2))          (equation 8)
           In practice, a is the unknown when the vehicle attitude is unknown therefore
   equation 8 is used to compute the estimated incoming signal azimuth with respect to the
   vehicle which provides a measure of vehicle attitude.
10         Each angular quadrant will have unique equations to determine the azimuth
   observation. Therefore, the algorithm will determine which quadrant the signals are
   coming from prior to computing azimuth. In practice, an antenna will not have an ideal
   linear relationship between azimuth and gain. Therefore, lookup tables or fitted
   equations can be used to compute the gains for each antenna, or similarly a representation
15 that takes the ratio of SS's and computes an angle. This relationship can be calibrated for
   an antenna array.
           Any number of antennas pointed in any number of directions can be used to more
   finely determine the incoming signal direction. The antennas can share a single
   navigation receiver, or each antenna can have a dedicated navigation receiver channel
20 depending on how many navigation satellites would be visible given the antenna field of
   view.
           An advantage of this implementation is that the navigation antenna gain pattern
   can be focused to increase gain given a narrower antenna pattern. This allows better low
   signal strength reception.
25         Another advantage of this implementation is that the set-up would have anti-jam
   characteristics because the navigation receiver antenna would reject interference from
   signal sources that are not on the direct line (e.g. within the narrow navigation antenna
   pattern) between the vehicle and the navigation satellite. For example, an unmanned
   aerial vehicle (UAV) being jammed from the forward direction would only lose
                                                  9

   navigation signals arriving from the front of the vehicle. Navigation measurements from
   the sides and rear of the vehicle would still be valid allowing uninterrupted navigation.
           In addition to determining attitude, the described process can also be used to
 5 determine error conditions such as multipath or spoofing. For example, if one or more
   navigation signals are coming from the wrong angle (e.g. one navigation signal does not
   agree with others), that can indicate a possible multipath condition. In addition, if all of
   the navigation signals are coming from the same phase angle a, that can indicate possible
   spoofing.
10         Figure 6 illustrates another embodiment for determining or estimating attitude
   where in this example a UAV 20 is used to purposefully introduce a signal blockage
   using the physical structure of the UAV. At position 1 shown in Figure 6, the navigation
   signal is blocked by the wing or other structure of the UAV. A purposeful circular bank
   or turn of the UAV is then commanded to position 2 where the navigation signal can be
15 received by the navigation receiver 10 on the UAV.
           Figure 7 shows a plot of the expected interference pattern (in solid line) versus the
   interference pattern actually experienced (in dashed line). The expected interference
   pattern(s) is stored in a look-up table in memory on the UAV or elsewhere and the
   interference pattern(s) can be one or more predetermined pattem(s) based on UAV
20 structure and the orientation of the UAV. The actual interference pattern can then be
   compared against the expected pattern(s) in the look-up table to find the correct
   orientation. The difference between the expected interference versus the actual
   experienced interference provides an estimate of the attitude of the UAV. The difference
   can be calculated by any suitable calculation technique such as best fit or demodulation.
25 The closer the match between the expected interference and the actual experienced
   interference, the more accurate the determined vehicle attitude.
            So the embodiment in Figures 6 and 7 uses the wing of the UAV 20 as the
   interference pattern between the navigation satellite 16 and the fixed UAV antenna 12.
   This method could be used at any time including, but not limited to, during periods where
                                                 10

  other magnetic and inertial sensors of the UAV 20 are being calibrated or in other various
  failure scenarios of UAV systems.
           The examples disclosed in this application are to be considered in all respects as
  illustrative and not limitative. The scope of the invention is indicated by the appended
5 claims rather than by the foregoing description; and all changes which come within the
  meaning and range of equivalency of the claims are intended to be embraced therein.
                                               11

                                             CLAIMS
   1.      A process of determining vehicle attitude using one or more navigation satellites,
   comprising:
 5         modulating the sensitivity of an antenna of a single navigation receiver in
   azimuth;
           using the navigation receiver to receive a navigation signal from at least one
   navigation satellite;
           demodulating the received navigation signal strength by the phase at which the
10 antenna is sweeping and determining a phase angle for the incoming signal;
           determining the location of the navigation receiver;
           determining the location of the one navigation satellite; and
           using the phase angle, the location of the navigation receiver and the location of
   the one navigation satellite to determine the attitude of the vehicle.
15
   2.      The process of claim 1, further comprising:
           using the navigation receiver to receive multiple navigation signals from multiple
   navigation satellites;
           determining a phase angle for each of the incoming signals;
20         determining the location of each navigation satellite; and
           using the phase angles, the location of the navigation receiver and the locations of
   the navigation satellites to determine the attitude of the vehicle.
   3.      The process of any one of claim 1 or claim 2, further comprising determining if
25 the received navigation signals are coming from the wrong angle or if the received
   navigation signals are all coming from the same angle, wherein the navigation receiver
   has an anti-spoofing capability.
                                                 12

   4.      The process of any one of claim 1 or claim 2, further comprising an array of the
   antennas on the vehicle, each antenna having a single navigation receiver, and each
   antenna is pointed in a different direction;
           using each navigation receiver to receive a navigation signal from at least one
 5 navigation satellite;
           determining an angle for the incoming signal to each antenna using the received
   navigation signal strength and based on the direction at which the respective antenna is
   pointing; and
           determining the attitude of the vehicle using the angles, the location of the vehicle
10 and the location of the at least one navigation satellite.
   5.      The process of claim 4, further comprising rejecting jamming signals coming
   from a signal source that is in a direct line with one of the antennas, and using other
   antennas of the array to receive navigation signals, wherein that the array of antennas has
15 an anti-jamming capability.
                                                  13

    <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
<U+2702>
                               1/4

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           2/4

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           3/4
                <U+2702>
e

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           4/4

