                                            ABSTRACT
An expandable helical stent is provided, wherein the stent may be formed of a main stent
component and a securement. The main stent component is formed from a flat strip having one
or more undulating side bands (401, 402) that may be connected to form geometrically shaped
cells (430) and are helically wound to form a stent. The helical coils of the main stent
component may be spaced apart or nestled to each other. The nestling of the undulation of
adjacent helical windings contributes to maintaining the tubular shape and uniformity of the
helically coiled stent. Alternatively, the flat strip may comprise a single undulating pattern. At
the ends of the main stent component are end bands (407), which when wound, form a
cylindrical ring. In one embodiment, one or more struts of the main stent component may have
a width sufficient to include one or more fenestrations. The fenestrated struts may be connected
by loops or turns wherein the material is narrower than that of the fenestrated struts to provide
enhanced flexibility. The helical tubular is maintained with a securement.
                                                (Fig 1)

WO 2010/122424                              PCT/1B2010/001036
                           1/9
                       a
                                      N
                                      N:
                   Q    __
                             ~h    t o
                              to
                                C
                      o
                                          a
                                o
                                11
                                         Q
                  in
                 ~H
                 V
                              0
                        N
                  C           ON
               V
                N
                    0
                 U,-.
                 q4~ 4
                             to
                             V

                                                   1
                                  HELICAL HYBRID STENT
         This application claims the benefit of U.S. Application Serial no. 12/428,347, filed on
April 22, 2009, the entire content of which is incorporated by reference.
                                    FIELD OF THE INVENTION
         The invention relates generally to stents, which are intraluminal endoprosthesis devices
implanted into vessels within the body, such as blood vessels, to support and hold open the
vessels, or to secure and support other endoprostheses in vessels.
                               BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
         Various stents are known in the art. Typically, stents are generally tubular in shape, and
are expandable from a relatively small, unexpanded diameter to a larger, expanded diameter. For
implantation, the stent is typically mounted on the end of a catheter with the stent being held on
the catheter in its relatively small, unexpanded diameter. Using a catheter, the unexpanded stent
is directed through the lumen to the intended implantation site. Once the stent is at the intended
implantation site, it is expanded, typically either by a balloon or by allowing the stent to
self-expand. In either case, the expanded stent resists the tendency of the vessel to narrow,
thereby maintaining the vessel's patency.
         Stents may be constructed from tubes or from a flat sheet of metal, which is rolled and
fixed such as by welding, mechanical lock or otherwise, to form the tubular structure of the stent.
         Some examples of patents relating to stent designs include U.S. Patent No. 4,733,665 to
Palmaz; U.S. Patent No. 4,800,882 and 5,282,824 to Gianturco; U.S. Patent Nos. 4,856,516 and
5,116,365 to Hillstead; U.S. Patent Nos. 4,886,062 and 4,969,458 to Wiktor; U.S. Patent No.
5,019,090 to Pinchuk; U.S. Patent No. 5,102,417 to Palmaz and Schatz; U.S. Patent No.
5,104,404 to Wolff; U.S. Patent No. 5,161,547 to Tower; U.S. Patent No. 5,383,892 to Cardon et
al.; U.S. Patent No. 5,449,373 to Pinchasik et al.; and U.S. Patent No. 5,733,303 to Israel et al.

                                                  2
         One type of stent is known as the helical or coiled stent. Such stent designs are described
in, for example, U.S. Patent Nos. 6,503,270 and 6,355,059, incorporated herein, in toto, by
reference. This stent design is configured as a helical stent in which the coil is formed from a
wound strip of cells wherein the cells form a serpentine pattern comprising a series of bends.
Other similar helically coiled stent structures are known in the art.
         Prior stent designs have focused on providing sufficient radial strength when it is
expanded so that it can sufficiently support the lumen. Stents with high radial strength, however,
tend also to be more longitudinally stiff than the vessel in which it is implanted. When the stent
is more longitudinally stiff than the vessel in which it is implanted, increased trauma to the
vessel may occur at the ends of the stent, due to stress concentrations on account of the mismatch
in compliance between the stented and un-stented sections of the vessel, or otherwise. In
addition, the stent may interfere with the vessel's natural tendency to bend and to stretch.
Conversely, stents with good flexibility often lack sufficient and/or uniform radial support for the
vessel wall. Thus, a continued need exists in the art for a stent having a balance of good radial
strength and a high degree of longitudinal flexibility.
         Another problem in the art arises when trying to simplify the manufacturing process of a
stent to reduce costs yet prevent manufacturing defects, while still producing a stent with
uniformly high flexibility and sufficient radial support.
                                 SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
         The present invention provides a helical stent for intravascular use that is longitudinally
flexible such that it can easily be tracked down a tortuous lumen while conforming to the
contours of the vessel and provide uniform support to the vessel after deployment. The stent of
the invention comprises a main stent component and a second stent component. The main stent
component may be of a metal or amorphous metal alloy material. With an amorphous metal

                                                  3
stent, the stent has the radial support of a conventional metal stent combined with longitudinal
flexibility, conformability and fatigue resistance to repeated longitudinal bending, compression
and twisting which may be higher than that achievable by metal stents.
         Upon formation into a stent, the main stent component forms a tubular structure of helical
windings at an oblique angle to the longitudinal axis of the stent. The helical windings extend at
least along the central portion of the stent. Each winding may be spaced apart from the adjacent
winding, or may be nestled in the adjacent winding. The distance along the longitudinal axis of
the stent between the windings may be varied depending on the needs of the particular stent.
Before it is helically wound to form a tubular stent, the main stent component is a flat ribbon or
strip, which is defined by undulations (e.g., sinusoidal, zig-zag) or a patterned band of cells (e.g.,
hexagonal or other like-geometric structure). The strip is composed of one or more side bands
that wind helically along the length of the stent, as well as end bands extending from either or
both ends of the side bands, positioned at an angle to the side bands. The end bands are
configured to form a right cylinder to the longitudinal axis of the stent at either or both ends of
the formed stent. The side bands and end bands are understood to include portions having, for
example, a generally sinusoidal, zig-zag, hexagonal or other like geometric structure.
         In one embodiment of the invention, the main stent component may have one or more
struts, which are sufficiently wide to include one or more full or partial fenestrations. The
fenestrated struts may be connected by loops or turns whose width is narrower than that of the
fenestrated struts to provide enhanced flexibility in the loops or turns.
         In another embodiment, the main stent component may be designed such that each helical
winding is nestled next to an adjacent helical winding of the helical structure so that the space
between the windings is minimized; that is, one winding is nestled into an adjacent, substantially
similar winding as the side band ribbon travels diagonally around the circumference of the stent.

                                                    4
In this manner, the helical windings of the stent provide enhanced coverage of the wall of the
lumen without loss of overall stent flexibility. Because the helical windings may be nestled into
one another without directly touching each other, the overall flexibility of the formed stent is
unaffected by the proximity of adjacent windings of the helical coils.
        The second stent component, i.e., a securement, functions to maintain the tubular shape
of the main stent component while aiding in longitudinal flexibility. The securement provides
structural support to the stent. The securement is oriented and affixed to the main stent
component such that, upon expansion or bending of the stent, the securement contributes to the
overall flexibility of the stent while still maintaining the main stent component in a tubular
shape. The securement may comprise fibers, wires, threads, ribbons, strips, polymers, meshes or
the like.
                            BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
        Figure 1 illustrates a main stent component composed of a flat ribbon with a patterned
band according to one embodiment of the invention.
        Figure 2 illustrates a main stent component of a patterned band formed into a tubular
shape having a space between adjacent helical windings.
        Figure 3 illustrate another embodiment wherein a helical winding of the main stent
component is nestled into an adjacent helical winding.
        Figure 4 illustrates an embodiment of a main stent component composed of a flat ribbon
having a patterned band and comprises struts with one or more exemplary fenestrations.
        Figure 4A is an enlarged view of an end band of the main stent component of Figure 4.
        Figure 5 illustrates a main stent component composed of a flat ribbon having undulations
and comprising struts with one or more exemplary fenestrations.
        Figure 5A is an enlarged view of a first end band of the flat ribbon of Figure 5.

                                                   5
        Figure 5B is an enlarged view of a second end band of the flat ribbon of Figure 5.
        Figure 6 illustrates a photograph of a securement structure and a main stent component.
        Figure 7 illustrates an embodiment of a helical main stent component with a patterned
band and embedded in a securement.
        Figure 8 illustrates an embodiment of the helical main stent component embedded in
several ribbon securements.
        Figure 9 illustrates a helical main stent component maintained by a plurality of helical
securements fastened at discrete points.
                        DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION
        This invention provides a new class of intraluminal prosthetic devices defined as helical
hybrid stents. As further explained below, the stents of the invention comprise a main stent
component in the form of a helical tubular structure, which may be held in the tubular shape by a
second stent component, i.e., a securement. The main stent component is formed from a
continuous undulating or patterned strip helically wound to form a helical stent. The strip has
end sections that form cylindrical rings in the tubular helical stent. As such, one inventive
feature is the central body of the stent having a spiral structure which is flanked by cylindrical
rings at both ends of the stent. The strip forming the central body portion comprises one or more
side bands each having undulations while the ends sections comprise one or more end bands
each having undulations. Each end band is connected to a side band at an angle offset to the side
band and may extend back toward the side band. The lengths of struts forming the undulations
of the side or end bands may be uniform or variable to assist in the helical winding. The side and
end bands may be connected to one another by cross-struts. The length and shape of the cross
struts may be varied across the length of the strip, and the cross-strut may contain one or more
loops. The undulations of the helically wound stent may be nestled next to an adjacent helical

                                                    6
undulation to promote uniform coverage. The main stent component may be formed of any
conventional metallic substance or an amorphous metal alloy.
         In any of the novel helical stents herein, the main stent component may also include struts
having full or partial fenestrations of any suitable shape and size in the side and/or end bands.
Fenestrations allow the deposit of a therapeutic agent with clinical benefits within the recesses of
the helical stent. The stent may be configured with struts of sufficient width to accommodate the
fenestrations and loops connecting the struts of sufficiently narrow dimensions to accommodate
bending and expansion of the resulting stent.
         The main stent component, with or without fenestrations or nestling, may be held in place
by another inventive feature, i.e., the securement. The securement may comprise any form of
polymer, fibers, wires, threads, bands, ribbons, meshes or sheets affixed to the main stent
component by any of a variety of means known in the art, such as, for example, welding,
bonding, embedding, braiding, weaving, crimping, tying, press-fitting or injection into a mold
with the main stent component, also including joining by adhesive means, e.g., gluing, dip
coating, spray coating, or the like. The securement may be oriented circumferentially, helically,
longitudinally or otherwise and may be affixed to or embedded in a portion or the entirety of the
main stent component such that, upon expansion or bending of the stent, the securement
facilitates the overall flexibility of the stent while still maintaining the main stent component in a
tubular shape.
         The main stent component may be formed and patterned from a strip using methods
known in the art or described herein. FIG. 1 illustrates an embodiment of the invention wherein
the main stent component is formed as a patterned band, shown in an uncoiled state, i.e., flat. As
depicted in FIG. 1, the pattern of the ribbon comprises a single row of cells 430, defined by an
interconnected first side band 401 with undulations and a second side band 402 with undulations.

                                                   7
Also, end bands 406 and 407 extend at an oblique angle to side bands 401 and 402. As the main
stent component is formed into a tubular shape, the row of cells 430 take on a continuous helical
winding along the central portion of the longitudinal axis of the stent while end bands 406 and
407 form a right cylindrical shape at each end of the stent. The formation of the tubular helical
central body portion from a flat patterned band in this manner is distinguished from the process
where the design is formed from a pre-existing tubular material.
         In FIG. 1, the first side band 401 and second side band 402 extend in a generally parallel
orientation except at either end of the side bands where the first side band tapers toward the
second side band and the second side band tapers toward the first side band. As depicted in FIG.
 1, the undulating pattern of the first side band 401 comprises troughs (e.g., 410, 411) that extend
toward the second side band 402 and peaks (e.g., 414, 415) that point away from the second side
band 402. Similarly, the undulations of the second side band 402 comprise troughs (e.g., 412,
413) that extend toward the first side band 401 and peaks (e.g., 416, 417) that point away from
the first side band 401. Thus, in FIG. 1, the first and second side bands are oriented out-of-phase
with each other (troughs substantially aligned with troughs). In other embodiments, the first and
second side bands may be in-phase so that the peaks and troughs are substantially aligned.
         In FIG. 1, the struts of the side bands defining peaks (416, 417) and troughs (412, 413)
have substantially equal lengths in the central strip portion but become shorter as the side bands
taper toward each other. In the embodiment of FIG. 1, the first side band 401 and second side
band 402 are connected to each other by a plurality of first cross-struts 403, defining a row of
cells. Specifically, at least one trough (e.g., 411) of the first side band 401 is connected to a
corresponding trough (e.g., 413) of the second side band 402 via a first cross strut 403 in FIG. 1.
Thus, in this embodiment, a series of cells are formed, each cell 430 defined individually by the
joining of the adjacent side bands to form an enclosed space by cross-struts. For example, a cell

                                                    8
in the central strip portion is defined by the portion of the first side band between troughs 410
and 411, the portion of the second side band between troughs 412 and 413 and first cross-struts
403 respectively connecting troughs 410 and 412 and troughs 411 and 413.
         In alternative embodiments, the number, length and shape of first cross-struts 403 may
differ from that illustrated in FIG. 1. For example, the first cross-struts 403 may connect the first
band 401 and second band 402 at regular intervals at, inter alia, every trough, every second
trough, every third trough, or every fourth trough, etc., thereby making larger cells or cells with
different geometric properties. Also, cross-struts may be omitted and the first side band may be
connected directed to the second side band. For example, cell 449 is diamond shaped and
defined only by the undulations of the first and second side bands. In other embodiments, the
first cross-struts 403 may connect the first side band 401 and second side band 402 at varying,
non-regular intervals. Variable, non-regular interval connections may form a variety of
differently sized cells along a continuous main stent component as may be appropriate for a
particular use. Further, the cross-struts may connect the peaks of the first side band to the trough
of the second side band, or the troughs of the first side band to the peaks of the second side band.
         The first cross-struts 403 may each have the same width relative to each other and to the
side bands 401, 402, as shown in FIG. 1. Alternatively, the first cross-struts 403 may have a
different width from the first and second side bands 401, 402, or a different width from each
other, as appropriate for a particular use. The cross-struts may connect adjacent or offset troughs
of the first and second side bands 401, 402. In addition, first cross-struts 403 may comprise a
straight member or may contain one or more loops. As shown in FIG. 1, differently shaped
cross-struts, or no cross-struts may alternatively be employed in a single stent design depending
on the particular use of the stent so that a stent having different cell shapes may be formed.
Exemplary cell shapes are described in U.S. Patent No. 7,141,062 (triangular cells) or 5,733,303

                                                  9
(square cells); the disclosure of square and triangular cell structures is incorporated from these
patents by reference herein. Square cells have four points of connection as between radially
supporting elements while a triangular cell has three points of connection between radially
supporting elements. The undulations of the side and end bands provide the radially supporting
elements of the invention.
         The side bands 401 and 402 of the main stent component 400 in the embodiment depicted
in FIG. 1 taper at each end. The length of the cross-struts 403 shorten toward each end of the
main stent component 400, so that the first and second side bands 401, 402 become more snugly
arranged and eventually are connected directly at points of connection 404 and 405.
Alternatively, or in addition to shortened cross-struts, the side bands may taper to one another by
reducing the strut lengths in the undulations.
         Extending from the end of either or both side bands 401 and 402 in FIG 1 are end bands
406 and 407. Thus, a first end band 406 extends from the end of the first side band 401 in a
direction offset and oblique from the general direction of the first side band 401. In FIG. 1, the
first end band extends back in the direction of the first side band at an angle less than 45 degrees
to the direction of the first side band when the strip is laid flat. A second end band 407 extends
from the end of the second side band 402 in a general direction offset and oblique from the
general direction of the second side band 402 and opposite the first end band. In FIG. 1, the
second end band also extends back in the direction of the second side band at an angle less than
45 degrees to the direction of the second side band when the strip is laid flat. When forming the
tubular stent, end bands 406 and 407 are configured to form right cylinders at the ends of the
stent, and flank both ends of the helical winding of the strip. First end band 406 has first edge
450 and second edge 451. In the tubular form, first edge 450 is brought together with second
edge 451 to form a right cylinder to the longitudinal axis of the stent. Second end band 403 has

                                                  10
first edge 452 and second edge 453. In the tubular form, first edge 452 is brought together with
second edge 453 for form a right cylinder to the longitudinal axis of the stent. As further
explained below, edge 450 and 451 may be permanently connected, or as an alternative, may be
held in position with a securement, which may hold the two edges in close proximity to form a
right cylinder to the longitudinal axis of the stent.
         The first end band 406 and second end band 407 each contain undulations having struts
and loops or turns. The first end band 406 has troughs (e.g., 418, 419) that extend toward the
first side band 401 and peaks (e.g., 422, 423) that point away from the first side band 401.
Likewise, the second end band 407 has troughs (e.g., 420, 421) that extend toward the second
side band and peaks (e.g., 424, 425) that point away from the second side band 402. The first
end band 406 connects directly to the first side band 401 at, e.g., trough 418; however, as the
first end band 406 angularly extends away from the first side band, second cross-struts 426
connect the first end band 406 to the first side band 401. Likewise, the second end band 407
connects directly to the second side band 402 at, e.g., trough 420; however, as the second end
band 407 angularly extends away from the second side band, second cross-struts 426 connect the
second end band 407 to the second side band 402. As depicted in FIG. 1, the second cross-struts
426 may contain one or more loops between points of connection with adjacent end bands and/or
side bands. The peaks of the first end band 406 and second end band 407 optionally may have
additional circular structures extending from the peaks (e.g., 423, 424) as depicted by FIG. 1.
         In addition, a third end band 408 having undulations is arranged generally parallel to first
end band 406, with the troughs of the third end band, e.g., 427, extending toward the first end
band and directly connected to said first end band. A fourth end band 409 having undulations is
arranged generally parallel to second end band 407, with the troughs of the fourth end band, e.g.
428, extending toward the second end band.

                                                    11
         FIG. 2 illustrates the main stent component 400 of FIG. 1 helically wound into a tubular
structure. The strip of cells 430 in main stent component 400 forms a helical winding in the
central portion in which a cell in one winding is longitudinally-spaced apart from the cell of an
adjacent winding. First side band 401 and second side band 402 are connected by cross-struts
403 and are helically wound around the longitudinal axis of the stent so that first and second side
bands alternate along the stent's longitudinal axis. In the helically wound stent, as shown in FIG.
2, first side band 401 is adjacent and connected to adjacent second side band 402 by cross strut
403, but is also adjacent and unconnected to the second side band of an adjacent winding 402".
Similarly, second side band 402 is unconnected to a longitudinally adjacent first side band 401'
in the helical stent. End bands 406 and 407 secure the ends of the tubular structure and form
substantial right cylindrical rings relative to the longitudinal axis of the stent. Open spaces, e.g.,
431 and 432, exists between adjacent windings, e.g., 433, 434, 435. In FIG. 2, the first and
second side bands 401 and 402 are spaced apart either by the presence of the cross-struts, or by
the spaced winding of the helical strip. In addition, a securement, as discussed below, may
maintain the spacing between the adjacent windings.
         FIG. 3 illustrates a stent according to another embodiment of the invention wherein the
helical windings are positioned so that little or no substantial longitudinal space exists between
cycles of the helical coils. That is, as illustrated by FIG. 3, the peaks (e.g. 414, 415) of the first
helical winding 460 are nestled toward troughs (e.g. 412, 413) of the second helical winding 461;
yet, the first side band 401 remains substantially parallel to the second side band 402. Likewise,
the peaks (e.g. 416, 417) of the second helical winding 461 are nestled toward troughs (e.g. 410,
411) of the first helical winding 460. It may be desirable to position the nestled side bands so
that no direct contact occurs between first side band 401 and second side band 402. Because the
first side band 401 and the second side band 402 are arranged so that the substantially similar but

                                                  12
opposite undulations are aligned, the first side band 401 and the second side band 402 can
approach one another in this fashion over the entire length of the formed stent. Side bands
having struts of identical lengths also aid in nestling. In this manner, the first side band 401 and
the second side band 402 may be described as nestled to one another. In FIG. 3, the first and
second side bands 401 and 402 are spaced apart only by the presence of the cross-struts. As
shown, the distance between the nestled windings is shorter than the length of cross-strut 403.
Further, the first side band is nestled toward helically adjacent second side band without direct
connection between the first side band and adjacent second side band. The stent of FIG. 3 has
the additional advantage that the nestling of adjacent windings minimizes the unsupported areas
of the vessel wall and/or securement to prevent sagging of the securement into the lumen upon
expansion without any loss of flexibility to the stent, as further discussed below. In addition, the
nestling of the helical coils separately may facilitate the maintenance of the structure in the
tubular form.
        FIG. 4 illustrates an alternative embodiment wherein the main stent component 1300 is
laid out in flat form, i.e., uncoiled. As depicted, the main stent component 1300 has a patterned
band in the longitudinal direction. Like the embodiment of FIG. 1, the design of the main stent
component 1300 in FIG. 4 contains a first side band 1301, a second side band 1302, a first end
band 1306, a second end band 1307, a third end band 1308 and a fourth end band 1309. In the
tubular form, side bands 1301 and 1302 form a continuous helical winding for the central portion
of the stent body while first and second end bands 1306 and 1307 form right cylinders to the
longitudinal axis of the stent for the end rings of the stent. In the first end band, first edge 1350
is brought together with second edge 1351 while, in the second end band, first edge 1352 is
brought together with second edge 1353. Main stent component 1300 comprises struts having
one or more fenestrations into which a therapeutic substance may be deposited.

                                                  13
         Each band is formed with struts of sufficient width to include one or more fenestrations
as shown, for example, in FIG. 4. The fenestrated struts of main stent component 1300 may be
of any geometric shape, including, but not limited to, round, oval or rectangular. Further, the
fenestrations may extend through the entire thickness of the strut (full fenestrations), or may
extend only partially through (partial fenestrations), being open only on one side of the strut
(luminal or abluminal in the tubular form). Also, the stent may have struts containing
fenestrations having variable sizes, numbers and shapes on one strut or between different struts.
The invention contemplates struts having full and/or partial fenestrations on either or both of the
side and/or end bands. The struts defining the peaks and troughs of the side bands may vary in
length along the length of the main stent component to accommodate the desired shape for the
resulting helically coiled stent structure and the number of fenestrations. For example, in FIG.
4A, side band struts 1358 and 1359 differ in length as do end band struts 1356 and 1357. The
fenestrated struts are connected by loops or turns 1370 wherein the material is narrower than that
of the fenestrated struts to provide enhanced flexibility.
         FIG. 5 illustrates yet another embodiment of the invention where the main stent
component 1200 is laid out in flat form, i.e., uncoiled. As depicted, the main stent component
1200 is a single side band 1201 in the longitudinal direction when laid flat. Side band 1201 is
attached to first end band 1202 and second end band 1203 by cross-struts 1240 and 1241,
respectively. Side band 1201 comprises an alternating pattern of peaks (e.g., 1210, 1212) and
troughs (e.g., 1211, 1213) defined by struts having the same or variable lengths. Each side and
end band is formed with struts having sufficient width to include one or more full or partial
fenestrations, as described above for FIG. 4, and are also applicable to FIG. 5. The fenestrated
struts are connected by loops or turns 1270 that are narrower than that of the fenestrated struts to
provide enhanced flexibility. As shown in FIG. 5A, the struts are of varying length and vary in

                                                  14
the number of fenestrations in each strut. For example, strut 1217 has a different length and
number of fenestrations than strut 1215. Strut 1216 has a different length but the same number
of fenestrations than strut 1215. And struts 1214 and 1215 have the same lengths and number of
fenestrations. The stent of FIG. 5A contemplates that struts (e.g., 1217) near the ends of the first
side band 1201 may have different lengths than struts 1214 and 1215 and are configured to aid in
helical winding.
         End bands 1202 and 1203 form circumferential end rings upon rolling of the structure
into a stent. The first end band 1202 and second end band 1203 extend from the ends of the side
band 1201 in a direction angularly offset from the general direction of the side band 1201. End
bands 1202 and 1203 are configured to form right cylinders at the ends of the stent, flanking the
helical windings of the central stent body upon winding of the structure into a stent. First end
band 1202 has first edge 1250 and second edge 1251. In the tubular form, first edge 1250 is
brought together with second edge 1251 to form a right cylinder to the longitudinal axis of the
stent. Second end band 1203 has first edge 1252 and second edge 1253. In the tubular form,
first edge 1252 is brought together with second edge 1253 to form a right cylinder to the
longitudinal axis of the stent. As further explained below, the edges (1250 and 1251; 1252 and
1253) may be permanently affixed, or as an alternative, may be held in position with a
securement which may keep the two edges in close proximity to maintain a right cylinder to the
longitudinal axis of the stent.
         In FIG. 5A, first end band 1202 comprises a band of undulations. The direction of the
first end band 1202 is offset at an angle to the direction of the side band 1201. In FIG. 5A, the
first end band extends from the side band is at an angle less than 45 degrees to the central body
of the stent when the stent is laid flat. The undulating pattern of the first end band 1202
comprises alternating peaks (e.g., 1219, 1221) and troughs (e.g., 1220, 1222). Troughs (1220,

                                                  15
1222) of the first end band extend in the direction of the side band while the peaks (1219, 1221)
point away from the side band. First end band 1202 also may contain struts having fenestrations.
In FIG. 5A, cross-links 1240 and 1242, for example, connect the side band to the first end band.
Cross-links 1240 and 1242 extend from the troughs of the first end band to the peak of the side
band. Cross-links extending between the side band and the first end band are flexible connectors
having one or more curved portions. The invention also contemplates an embodiment where the
cross-links may contain one or more loops.
        In FIG. 5B, second end band 1203 also comprises a band of undulations. The direction
of the second end band 1203 is angularly offset to the direction of the side band 1201.
Preferably, the second end band extends from the side band at an angle less than 45 degrees to
the central body of the stent when the stent is laid flat. The undulating pattern of the second end
band 1203 comprises alternating peaks (e.g., 1223, 1225) and troughs (e.g., 1224, 1226).
Troughs (1224, 1226) of the second end band extend in the direction of the side band while the
peaks (1223, 1225) point away from the side band. Second end band 1203 contains struts having
fenestrations. In FIG. 5B, cross-link 1241 connects the side band to the second end band. Cross
link 1241 extends from the trough of the second end band to the trough of the side band. Cross
links extending between the side band and second end band are flexible connectors having one or
more curved portions. Cross-links connecting the side band to the second end band may
comprise at least one loop.
        In addition, the invention contemplates other end bands similar in construction to first
and second end bands and connected to either the first or second end bands to facilitate helical
winding and uniform coverage. In FIG. 5B, a third end band 1204 having fenestrated struts is
connected to the second end band by cross-link 1243. As illustrated in FIGS 5A and 5B, the
invention contemplates first and second end bands which are not identically connected to the

                                                  16
undulating or patterned side bands and which are not identical to each other. Like the side band,
any one or all the end bands may comprise struts sufficiently wide to accommodate one or more
full or partial fenestrations which are connected together with loops having a narrower gauge
than the fenestrated struts.
         The main stent component may be held in a helically wound position by a second
component, securing the helical windings into a tubular structure. The second component,
referred to herein as a securement, may be one or more of a variety of means for securing the
main stent component in the tubular form. The securement maintains the helical winding of the
central stent body and/or the formation of right cylinders by the end bands. In one embodiment,
the securement comprises a structure in the form of fibers, sheets, threads or ribbons which are
wrapped around or itself embedded in the coiled main stent component. In another embodiment,
wires or ribbons formed of a metal or non-metal material maintain the main stent component in
its tubular configuration. The securement comprises a material that allows flexibility and
expansion of the helical main stent component without tearing or detachment of the securement
and allows movement between the coiled windings of the main stent body relative to each other.
Such a material may be applied to a tubular stent in a continuous or non-continuous manner
depending upon the particular needs of the structure contemplated.
         Preferably, the securement allows expansion of the stent and maximal bending during
and after implantation without reaching the elastic limit. The elastic range may be a product
either of inherent elasticity in the material used, such as with certain polymers, or of the
inclusion of a reserve length of a non-elastic material between points of connection with the
main stent component. Yet another advantage of a securement is the prevention of "stent jail"
phenomenon, or the complication of tracking into side branches covered by the stent. A further

                                                  17
advantage is the high fatigue resistance of particular securement structures with high elastic
range.
        In one embodiment, the securement is a polymer that is a biocompatible material.
Biocompatible material may be durable, such as polyesters, polyanhydrides, polyethylenes,
polyorthoesters, polyphosphazenes, polyurethane, polycarbonate urethane, silicones, polyolefins,
polyamides, polycaprolactams, polyimides, polyvinyl alcohols, acrylic polymers and
copolymers, polyethers, celluiosics and any of their combinations in blends or as copolymers.
Of particular use may be silicone backbone-modified polycarbonate urethane and/or expanded
polytetrafluoroethylene (ePTFE). Any polymer having a high elastic ratio (high elongation
factor within the elastic range) is particularly suitable for a securement. The polymer may also
be porous. In embodiments where the polymer a continuous structure with small inter-fiber
distance, it may also be used as a matrix for eluting drug thereby providing a uniform elution
bed. This type of porous securement may be applied to any other stent structure.
        FIG. 6 shows the coiled main stent component 600 of FIG. 4, described above, wherein a
porous and durable polymer securement 601 is applied over main stent component 600. Two
adjacent struts of a first side band are connected to one another by turn 602, which includes a
"dimple". The inclusion of a dimple in the turns is an optional feature depending upon the
desired properties of the resulting stent. FIG. 6 also illustrates turn 603 which is without a
dimple, and is employed in this embodiment at points where cross-struts connect the first side
band to the second side band.
        In FIG. 7, the helical main stent component 500 is secured by embedding the tubular
structure in a polymer sheet 701 and illustrates one coiled form of the main stent component
depicted in FIG. 2, that is, one where the adjacent helical coils of the stent are spaced apart but
the stent maintains its helical structure through the embedded polymer securement. The

                                                   18
securement may be disposed within interstices and/or embedded throughout the stent. In one
embodiment, a polymer sheet may secure portions of the stent structure or may fully envelop the
entire stent to hold the central portion in the helical form and the end bands in the cylindrical
form.
        Polymeric securements as described above may also be employed in the form of threads,
wires or ribbons, thereby securing the main stent component through, for example, a series of
points of connection with the main stent component. One or more securement threads, wires or
ribbons may be coiled around the stent in a helically different direction than the main stent
component. In particular, the thread, wire or ribbon may be coiled around the stent in the reverse
helical orientation from the direction of the helically wound strip. Alternatively, securements
may be arranged along a longitudinal axis of the stent. Arranged in any non-parallel direction
with the main stent component, each thread, wire or ribbon may overlap with the main stent
component in a regular pattern across the length of the stent and may effectively function to
secure the helical stent body structure. The securement thread, wire or ribbon may be affixed to
the main stent component at one or more points of overlap through a variety of means, e.g.,
welding, bonding, embedding, braiding, weaving, crimping, tying, press-fitting or the like,
including also joining by adhesive means, e.g., gluing, dip coating, spray coating or the like. The
polymeric securement may also be injected into a mold with or without the stent and hence
become integrated within the stent. The threads, wires or ribbons maintain the tubular shape of
the stent, while the longitudinally flexible quality of the polymeric material discussed above will
enhance the overall flexibility of the stent.
        FIG. 8 illustrates a helically coiled stent wherein the main stent component 800 forms a
helically wound tubular structure that is secured in place by two ribbons 801. The ribbons 801
are a polymeric material that extend along the length of the stent. The ribbons may be affixed to

                                                   19
the outside or the inside surface of the stent, or may be embedded in the helically coiled main
stent component. In FIG. 8, the main stent component 800 is embedded within each ribbon 801
at points where the main stent component 800 and each second component ribbon 801 intersect.
        FIGS. 9 illustrate a helically coiled stent wherein the main stent component 1000 forms a
tubular structure similar to FIG. 2 and one or more securement wires 1001 are coiled in a
different helical direction to that of the coiled central body portion of the stent. The securement
wires 1001 are affixed to the main stent component 1000 at various points of connection 1002
along the stent, thereby maintaining the helical, tubular structure.
        In addition to polymeric securements, any other suitable material, including metals and/or
non-metals, may be employed as securements in the form of threads, wires or ribbons to secure
the main stent component. The metal or non-metal securement wire, thread or ribbon may be
affixed to the main stent component where they overlap through one or more of a variety of
means as identified above. If the material employed to manufacture the second component is of
a lesser longitudinal flexibility than desired, increased flexibility may be achieved by increasing
the length of the thread, wire or ribbon between points of connection, thereby providing reserve
length of the second component that can extend upon expansion or bending of the stent.
        In embodiments where the main stent component is an amorphous metal alloy, further
advantages may be provided, i.e., enhanced corrosion resistance, resistance to unwanted
permanent deformation and/or higher strength for a given metal thickness. Stents of the
invention comprising amorphous metal alloys may also exhibit significantly lower conductance
or are non-conductive, compared to their crystalline or polycrystalline counterparts. Such alloys
may provide improved tensile strength, elastic deformation properties, and reduced corrosion
potential to the devices. These may be important features in medical devices to provide an
extended fatigue-resistant lifespan for devices that are subjected to repeated deformations and

                                                 20
fatigue in the body. In addition, these features allow production of smaller or thinner devices
that are as strong as their bulkier conventional counterparts.
         In another embodiment, the amorphous metal alloy of the main stent component may be a
metalloid, non-limiting examples of which include silicon, boron, and phosphorus. Another
possible amorphous metal alloy is a Fe-Cr-B-P alloy. Many other similar alloys are suitable and
known to one of ordinary skill in the art. One embodiment of this invention contemplates
intraluminal prosthetic devices comprising at least one amorphous metal alloy combined with
components made of other materials, limited only by the biocompatibility of the materials. This
embodiment of the invention may contain one or more amorphous metal alloys. For example,
the device may have components constructed of stainless steel, cobalt chromium ("CoCr"), NiTi
or other known materials. The details of these alloys, which have certain advantages, are
disclosed in U.S. Patent Nos. 5,836,964 and 5,997,703, which are hereby expressly incorporated
by reference.
         The methods of manufacturing the amorphous metal alloys are described in U.S.
Application Ser. No. 12/428,347, filed on April 22, 2009, the contents of which are hereby
incorporated by reference. Amorphous metal stents of the invention may be formed of one or
more flat strips of helically wound metal. Because amorphous metal alloys cannot be easily
welded without the metal reverting to an undesirable crystalline form, the present invention
contemplates a securement for the helically wound amorphous metal alloy main stent
component, further described below.
         Where the main stent component is an amorphous metal alloy, the method of combining
or joining the amorphous metal alloy to the securements can be achieved using particular
methods known in the art. For example, a biocompatible polymer securement covering all or
part of the amorphous metal main stent component may be used to secure the helical windings in

                                                  21
its tubular shape for positioning and expansion in the lumen as well as the end bands in a
cylindrical shape. Other non-limiting examples of securement methods include physical joining
(e.g., braiding, weaving, crimping, tying, and press-fitting) and joining by adhesive methods
(e.g., gluing, dip coating, and spray coating). Combinations of these methods are also
contemplated by this invention.
         As a further advantage of the invention, any or all of the securement or main stent
component may be embedded with a therapeutic agent that will inhibit or decrease cell
proliferation or will reduce restenosis. The main stent component may comprise at least one
fenestration where the drug is deposited. Non-limiting examples of such drugs include for
example sirolimus, rapamycin, everolimus and paclitaxol, and analogs of these. In addition, the
stent may be treated to have active or passive surface components such as agents that will be
advantageous for a longer time after the stent is embedded in the vessel wall.
         The stent of the present invention may be balloon expandable or self-expanding as is
known in the art. When a balloon-expandable stent system is used to deliver the stent, the stent
is mounted on the balloon and the catheter assembly is positioned at the implantation site. The
balloon is then inflated, radially applying a force inside the stent and the stent is expanded to its
expanded diameter. Alternatively, the stent may be self-expanding in which case a balloon is not
needed to facilitate expansion and delivery of the stent.
         The general concepts described herein can be utilized to form helical stents with different
configurations than the particular embodiments described herein. It will be appreciated by
persons skilled in the art that the present invention is not limited to what has been particularly
shown and described above. Rather, the scope of the present invention is defined by the claims
which follow.

                                                    22
         CLAIMS
         1.         A stent having a tubular structure comprising:
         a coiled main stent component having a first and second side bands and first and second
end bands, wherein each of the bands has an undulating pattern, wherein the first and second side
bands are intermittently connected, and the end bands form right cylinders at the longitudinal
ends of the stent; and
         a securement maintaining the tubular structure of the stent.
         2.       A stent having a helical structure comprising a main stent component and
securement, where the main stent component comprises:
                  a) a first side band having undulations;
                  b) a second side band having undulations and connected to said first side band;
                  c) a first end band having undulations and connected to said first side band;
                  d) a second end band having undulations and connected to said second side band;
and
         wherein said first and second side bands are helically wound along the longitudinal axis
of the stent, said first end band forms a first right cylinder relative to the longitudinal axis at a
first end of the stent and said second end band forms a second right cylinder relative to the
longitudinal axis of the stent at a second end of the stent; and
         wherein said securement maintains the helical structure of at least a portion of the main
stent component.
         3.         A main stent component in the form of a flat strip comprising:
         a first side band having undulations;

                                                  23
         a second side band having undulations and connected to the first side band; and
         a first end band having undulations, a first edge, and a second edge, said first end band
connected to said first side band and extending at an oblique angle to said first side band.
         4.        The flat strip main stent component of claim 3 further comprising:
         a second end band having undulations, a first edge and a second edge, said second end
band connected to said second side band and extending at an oblique angle to said second side
band.
         5.       A main stent component in the form of a flat strip comprising:
         a side band having undulations;
         a first end band having undulations, a first edge and a second edge, said first end band
connected to said side band and extending at an oblique angle to said side band; and
         a second end band having undulations, a first edge and a second edge, said second end
band connected to said side band and extending at an oblique angle to said side band.
         6.       The main stent component according to any of claims 1, 2, 3 or 5 wherein one or
more said side bands contain struts having one or more fenestrations.
         7.       A main stent component in the form of a flat strip comprising:
         a side band having undulations connected to a first end band having undulations, said
first end band extending at an oblique angle to the direction of said side band; and
         said side band and end band having an undulating pattern of struts joined by loops,
wherein one or more said struts contain a fenestration and said loops having a width narrower
than the width of said struts containing said fenestration.
         8.       The flat strip main stent component of claim 7, further comprising a second side
band connected to said side band and a second end band, said second end band extending at an

                                                  24
oblique angle to the direction of the second side band; and
        said second side band and second end bands having an undulating pattern of struts joined
by loops, wherein one or more said struts contain a fenestration and said loops having a width
narrower than the width of said struts containing said fenestration.
        9.      The main stent component according to any of claims 6, 7 or 8 wherein said
fenestration is filled with a therapeutic agent.
        10.     The main stent component according to claims 7 or 8, wherein some adjacent
struts of the undulating pattern have the same lengths.
        11.     The securement according to any of claims 1 or 2 wherein said securement
comprises a structure selected from a group consisting of a thread, a wire and a ribbon.
        12.     The securement according to claims 11, wherein said securement is wound around
the stent in a helical path different from the helical path of the main stent component.
        13.     The securement according to claim 11, wherein the securement overlaps at a point
of connection with the main stent component periodically over the length of the stent.
        14.     The securement according to any of claims 1 or 2 comprising a fiber mesh.
        15.     The securement according to any of claims 1 or 2 comprising a porous material.
        16.     The securement according to any of claims 1 or 2 comprising a durable material.
        17.     The securement according to claim 16 wherein the durable material is
polyurethane.
        18.     The securement according to any of claims 1 or 2, wherein said securement is
embedded across the entire length of the helical main stent component.

                                                25
         19.    The securement according to any of claims 1 or 2, wherein the securement is
affixed to the helical main stent component at an end.
         20.    The main stent component according to any of claims 1, 2, 3, 5 or 7 comprising a
metal.
         21.    The main stent component according to claim 20 cut from a flat sheet of metal.
         22.    The main stent component according to any of claims 1, 2, 3, 5 or 7 comprising
an amorphous metal alloy.
         23.    The main stent component according to claim 22, wherein said amorphous metal
alloy comprises an element selected from the group consisting of silicon, boron, and
phosphorous.
         24.    The main stent component according to claim 22, wherein said amorphous metal
alloy is an iron-based alloy containing Fe, Cr, B, and P.
         25.    The main stent component according to claim 22 wherein the amorphous metal
alloy contains silicon.
         26.    The main stent component according to claim 22 wherein the amorphous metal
alloy comprises a Fe-Cr-B-P alloy.
         27.    The main stent component according to any of claims 1, 2, 3, or 8 wherein the
first and second side bands are connected by at least one cross strut.
         28.    The main stent component according to claim 27, wherein at least one said cross
strut has a loop.
         29.    The stent according to any of claims 1 or 2 wherein said first side band is nestled
next to a helically neighboring second side band.

                                                  26
        30.     A method of making a stent from the flat strip of any of claims 3, 5 or 7,
comprising the steps of:
                a) helically winding the main stent component along a longitudinal axis; and
                b) bringing the first edge of the first end band with the second edge of the first
end band in close proximity to form a right cylinder to the longitudinal axis of the stent.
        31.     A method of making a stent from the flat strip of any of claims 4, 5 or 8,
comprising the steps of:
                a) helically winding the main stent component along a longitudinal axis to form a
helically coiled structure;
                b) bringing the first edge of the first end band with the second edge and the first
end band into close proximity to form a right cylinder to the longitudinal axis; and
                c) bringing the first edge of the second end band with the second edge of the
second end band into close proximity to form a right cylinder to the longitudinal axis.
        32.     The method of any of claims 30 or 31, further comprising the step of applying a
securement.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
