ABSTRACT
     The present utility model discloses a pillow inner capable of accommodating external objects and a pillow
having the same. The pillow inner comprises a first front neck portion, a second front neck portion and a rear
neck portion; the rear neck portion is of a U-shaped structure; the first front neck portion and the second
front neck portion are connected to two ends of the U-shaped structure, respectively; and an accommodating
groove is formed on an outer side of the U-shaped structure. By forming an accommodating groove on an
outer side of the rear neck portion of the pillow inner in the utility model, the pillow inner can have objects
stored therein so that the functions of pillows are increased. In this way, the hat on the pillowcase of the
pillow can be put into the accommodating groove of the pillow inner. This avoids the problems of increased
volume of pillows, unaesthetic appearance and inconvenience in carrying, which are caused if the hat is
outside the pillow or if the hat is merely in the pillowcase.

       PILLOW INNER CAPABLE OF ACCOMMODATING EXTERNAL OBJECTS AND PILLOW HAVING THE SAME
      This application claims priority to Chinese application number <removed-apn>72.6, filed 19 January 2018,
with a title of PILLOW INNER CAPABLE OF ACCOMMODATING EXTERNAL OBJECTS AND PILLOW HAVING THE
SAME. The above-mentioned patent application is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.
TECHNICAL FIELD
      The utility model relates to the technical field of beddings and in particular to a pillow inner capable of
accommodating external objects and a pillow having the same.
BACKGROUND
      Pillows are common bedding terms in people's daily life. There are generally three types of pillow inners
for the existing pillows: pillow inners with inserts, shaping pillow inners and shape memory pillow inners. For
the pillow inners with inserts, various inserts are used in conventional pillow inners, including silk, feather,
cashmere or the like. The conventional pillow inners are made of single material as inserts and thus simple in
function, and they have been unable to satisfy people's demands of multiple levels. For shaping pillow inners,
for example, the popular wavy foam pillow inners, they are relatively firm although they greatly overcome the
shortcomings of pillow inners with inserts. For shape memory pillow inners, they are made of soft memory
material. However, the above mentioned three types of pillow inners are applicable to common pillows not to
some special pillows, for example, such pillow inners have no function of storing objects.
SUMMARY
      In view of problems of single function and incapability of storing objects in the prior art, the present
utility model provides a pillow inner capable of accommodating external objects and a pillow having the same.
The functions of pillow inners and pillows can be effectively increased, and such pillow inners and pillows can
be widely popularized.
      For this purpose, the present utility model employs the following technical solutions.
      The present utility model provides a pillow inner capable of accommodating external objects, comprising
a first front neck portion, a second front neck portion and a rear neck portion; the rear neck portion is of a
U-shaped structure; the first front neck portion and the second front neck portion are connected to two ends
of the U-shaped structure, respectively; and an accommodating groove is formed on an outer side of the
U-shaped structure.

      Optionally, the first front neck portion and the second front neck portion are integrally formed with the
rear neck portion.
      Optionally, a joint of the first front neck portion and the U-shaped structure is wavy.
      Optionally, the outer side is an upper side, a lower side, a rear side, a left side or a right side of the
U-shaped structure.
      Optionally, the first front neck portion, the second front neck portion and the rear neck portion are all
made of memory foam.
      The present utility model further provides a pillow comprising a pillowcase and a pillow inner; an opening
and a hat are formed on the pillowcase; and the accommodating groove on the pillow core is used for
accommodating the hat.
      Optionally, a zipper component is provided at the opening and the zipper component comprises an
external zipper and an internal zipper.
      Compared with the prior art, the present utility model has the following beneficial effects.
      1. In the pillow inner capable of accommodating external objects and the pillow having such a pillow
inner in the present utility model, by forming an accommodating groove on an outer side of the rear neck
portion of the pillow inner, the pillow inner can have objects stored therein so that the functions of pillows are
increased. In this way, the hat on the pillowcase of the pillow can be put into the accommodating groove of
the pillow inner. This avoids the problems of increased volume of pillows, unaesthetic appearance and
inconvenience in carrying, which are caused if the hat is outside the pillow or if the hat is merely in the
pillowcase.
      2. In the pillow inner capable of accommodating external objects and the pillow having such a pillow
inner in the present utility model, by forming the accommodating groove on the upper side, low side, rear side,
left side and/or right side of the U-shaped structure (in this case, the U-shaped structure is arranged in such a
manner that two ends of the U-shaped leg of the U-shaped structure face the observer), various kinds of
objects can be stored in the pillow inner, for example, hats and scarfs. Meanwhile, the arrangement of the
accommodating groove reduces the structural volume and weight of the pillow inner and reduces the
production cost.
      3. In the pillow with a hat in the present utility model, by providing an external zipper and an internal
zipper on the pillowcase, the opening of the pillowcase is closed externally by the external zipper when the
hat is stored in the accommodating groove and the opening of the pillowcase is closed internally by the
internal zipper when the hat is in use. By the external zipper and the internal zipper, the stable overall shape
and the nice appearance of the pillow are ensured, and other things are prevented from entering the interior
of the pillow.

BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWING
      To describe the technical solutions in the embodiments of the present utility model or in the prior art
more clearly, the accompanying drawings to be used in the description of the embodiments will be briefly
described below. Apparently, the drawings described hereinafter are some of the embodiments of the present
utility model, and a person of ordinary skill in the art can obtain other drawings according to these drawings
without paying any creative effort.
      Fig. 1 is an overall structure diagram of a novel pillow inner according to the present utility model, in
which:
      1: first front neck portion;
      2: second front neck portion;
      3: rear neck portion; and
      4: accommodating groove.
DETAILED DESCRIPTION
      The technical solutions in the embodiments of the present utility model will be clearly and completely
described below with reference to the accompanying drawings in the embodiments of the present utility
model. Apparently, the embodiments described herein are merely a part but not all of the embodiments of
the present utility model. All other embodiments obtained by a person of ordinary skill in the art without
paying any creative effort on the basis of the embodiments in the present utility model shall fall into the
protection scope of the present utility model.
      In view of problems of single function and incapability of storing objects in the prior art, the present
utility model provides a pillow inner capable of accommodating external objects and a pillow having the same.
The functions of pillow inners and pillows can be effectively increased, and such pillow inners and pillows can
be widely popularized.
      To make the objectives, features and advantages of the present utility model more obvious and
comprehensible,       the present   utility model  will  be   further described   below   in detail  by specific
implementations with reference to the accompanying drawings.
      As shown in Fig. 1, the present utility model provides a pillow inner capable of accommodating external
objects, comprising a first front neck portion 1, a second front neck portion 2 and a rear neck portion 3; the
rear neck portion 3 is of a U-shaped structure; the first front neck portion 1 and the second front neck portion
2 are connected to two ends of the U-shaped structure, respectively; and an accommodating groove 4 is
formed on an outer side of the U-shaped structure. By forming an accommodating groove 4 on an outer side

of the rear neck portion 3 of the pillow inner, the pillow inner can have objects stored therein so that the
functions of pillows are increased. In this way, the hat on the pillowcase of the pillow can be put into the
accommodating groove 4 of the pillow inner. This avoids the problems of increased volume of pillows,
unaesthetic appearance and inconvenience in carrying, which are caused if the hat is outside the pillow or if
the hat is merely in the pillowcase.
     The rear neck portion 3 corresponds to the rear side of the neck, and the first front neck portion 1 and
the second front neck portion 2 correspond to the left side or right side of the neck, respectively. The outer
side of the U-shaped structure refers to other sides except for the inner side of the "U".
     For ease of production, in the present utility model, the first front neck portion 1 and the second front
neck portion 2 are integrally formed with the rear neck portion 3.
     To ensure the nice appearance of the pillow inner and the pillow having such a pillow inner, in the
present utility model, a joint of the first front neck portion 1 and the U-shaped structure is wavy. Preferably,
when in use, the joint of the first front neck portion 1 and the U-shaped structure is located below a person's
ears, and is depressed to avoid oppression to the ears due to the too large height of the pillow inner. Therefore,
the comfort is improved.
     When the U-shaped structure is arranged in such a manner that two ends of the U-shaped leg of the
U-shaped structure face the observer, the outer side in the present utility model is the upper side, lower side,
rear side, left side and/or right side of the U-shaped structure.
     In the present utility model, the first front neck portion 1, the second front neck portion 2 and the rear
neck portion 3 are all made of memory foam.
     The present utility model further provides a pillow having such a pillow inner, comprising a pillowcase
and a pillow inner; an opening and a hat are formed on the pillowcase; and the accommodating groove 4 on
the pillow core is used for accommodating the hat.
     In the present utility model, a zipper component is provided at the opening and the zipper component
comprises an external zipper and an internal zipper. By providing an external zipper and an internal zipper on
the pillowcase, the opening of the pillowcase is closed externally by the external zipper when the hat is stored
in the accommodating groove 4 and the opening of the pillowcase is closed internally by the internal zipper
when the hat is in use. By the external zipper and the internal zipper, the stable overall shape and the nice
appearance of the pillow are ensured, and other things are prevented from entering the interior of the pillow.
     The principle and implementations of the present invention have been described by specific examples
herein. The description of embodiments is merely used for helping the understanding of the method of the
present utility model and its key concepts. Meanwhile, for a person of ordinary skill in the art, changes may be
made to the specific implementations and application ranges according to the concepts of the present utility
model. In conclusion, the contents of the description shall not be regarded as limitations to the present utility

model.
What is claimed is:
      1. A pillow inner capable of accommodating external objects, comprising a first front neck portion, a
second front neck portion and a rear neck portion; the rear neck portion is of a U-shaped structure; the first
front neck portion and the second front neck portion are connected to two ends of the U-shaped structure,
respectively; and an accommodating groove is formed on an outer side of the U-shaped structure.
      2. The pillow inner capable of accommodating external objects according to claim 1, wherein the first
front neck portion and the second front neck portion are integrally formed with the rear neck portion.
      3. The pillow inner capable of accommodating external objects according to claim 1, wherein a joint of
the first front neck portion and the U-shaped structure is wavy.
      4. The pillow inner capable of accommodating external objects according to claim 1, wherein the outer
side is an upper side, a lower side, a rear side, a left side and/or a right side of the U-shaped structure.
      5. The pillow inner capable of accommodating external objects according to claim 1, wherein the first
front neck portion, the second front neck portion and the rear neck portion are all made of memory foam.

             <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
1
    FIG. 1
                                  DRAWINGS

