NEUROSTIMULATION SYSTEM FOR DEFINING A GENERALIZED IDEAL
MULTIPOLE CONFIGURATION
ABSTRACT
A system for a neurostimulator coupled to electrodes. The system comprises an input device
configured for generating control signals. The system further comprising memory storing a first
set of variable values defining a first spatial relationship between a central ideal pole of a first
polarity and the plurality of electrodes, a second set of variable values defining a second spatial
relationship respectively between four ideal poles of a second polarity and the first ideal pole,
and a third set of variable values defining relative intensities between the four ideal poles. The
system further comprises control circuitry configured for modifying the first variable values,
the second variable values, and/or the third variable values, and generating stimulation
parameter values defining relative amplitude values for the electrodes that emulate the ideal
poles, and instructing the neurostimulator to convey energy to the electrodes in accordance with
the stimulation parameter values.

      NEUROSTIMULATION SYSTEM FOR DEFINING A GENERALIZED IDEAL
                            MULTIPOLE CONFIGURATION
                               FIELD OF THE INVENTION
                The present invention relates to tissue stimulation systems, and more
particularly, to neurostimulation systems for programming neurostimulation leads.
                          BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
                Implantable neurostimulation systems have proven therapeutic in a
wide variety of diseases and disorders. Pacemakers and Implantable Cardiac
Defibrillators (ICDs) have proven highly effective in the treatment of a number of
cardiac conditions (e.g., arrhythmias). Spinal Cord Stimulation (SCS) systems have
long been accepted as a therapeutic modality for the treatment of chronic pain
syndromes, and the application of tissue stimulation has begun to expand to
additional applications such as angina pectoralis and incontinence. Deep Brain
Stimulation (DBS) has also been applied therapeutically for well over a decade for
the treatment of refractory chronic pain syndromes, and DBS has also recently been
applied in additional areas such as movement disorders and epilepsy. Further, in
recent investigations, Peripheral Nerve Stimulation (PNS) systems have
demonstrated efficacy in the treatment of chronic pain syndromes and incontinence,
and a number of additional applications are currently under investigation.
Furthermore, Functional Electrical Stimulation (FES) systems, such as the Freehand
system by NeuroControl (Cleveland, Ohio), have been applied to restore some
functionality to paralyzed extremities in spinal cord injury patients.
                These implantable neurostimulation systems typically include one or
more electrode carrying stimulation leads, which are implanted at the desired
                                             1

stimulation site, and a neurostimulator (e.g., an implantable pulse generator (IPG))
implanted remotely from the stimulation site, but coupled either directly to the
neurostimulation lead(s) or indirectly to the neurostimulation lead(s) via a lead
extension. The neurostimulation system may further comprise an external control
device to remotely instruct the neurostimulator to generate electrical stimulation
pulses in accordance with selected stimulation parameters.
               Electrical stimulation energy may be delivered from the neurostimulator
to the electrodes in the form of an electrical pulsed waveform. Thus, stimulation
energy may be controllably delivered to the electrodes to stimulate neural tissue.
The combination of electrodes used to deliver electrical pulses to the targeted tissue
constitutes an electrode combination, with the electrodes capable of being
selectively programmed to act as anodes (positive), cathodes (negative), or left off
(zero). In other words, an electrode combination represents the polarity being
positive, negative, or zero. Other parameters that may be controlled or varied
include the amplitude, width, and rate of the electrical pulses provided through the
electrode array. Each electrode combination, along with the electrical pulse
parameters, can be referred to as a "stimulation parameter set."
               With some neurostimulation systems, and in particular, those with
independently controlled current or voltage sources, the distribution of the current to
the electrodes (including the case of the neurostimulator, which may act as an
electrode) may be varied such that the current is supplied via numerous different
electrode configurations. In different configurations, the electrodes may provide
current or voltage in different relative percentages of positive and negative current or
voltage to create different electrical current distributions (i.e., fractionalized electrode
combinations).
                                               2

               As briefly discussed above, an external control device can be used to
instruct the neurostimulator to generate electrical stimulation pulses in accordance
with the selected stimulation parameters. Typically, the stimulation parameters
programmed into the neurostimulator can be adjusted by manipulating controls on
the external control device to modify the electrical stimulation provided by the
neurostimulator system to the patient. Thus, in accordance with the stimulation
parameters programmed by the external control device, electrical pulses can be
delivered from the neurostimulator to the stimulation electrode(s) to stimulate or
activate a volume of tissue in accordance with a set of stimulation parameters and
provide the desired efficacious therapy to the patient. The best stimulus parameter
set will typically be one that delivers stimulation energy to the volume of tissue that
must be stimulated in order to provide the therapeutic benefit (e.g., treatment of
pain), while minimizing the volume of non-target tissue that is stimulated.
                However, the number of electrodes available, combined with the ability
to generate a variety of complex stimulation pulses, presents a huge selection of
stimulation parameter sets to the clinician or patient. For example, if the
neurostimulation system to be programmed has an array of sixteen electrodes,
millions of stimulation parameter sets may be available for programming into the
neurostimulation system. Today, neurostimulation system may have up to thirty-two
electrodes, thereby exponentially increasing the number of stimulation parameters
sets available for programming.
               To facilitate such selection, the clinician generally programs the
neurostimulator through a computerized programming system. This programming
system can be a self-contained hardware/software system, or can be defined
predominantly by software running on a standard personal computer (PC). The PC
                                               3

or custom hardware may actively control the characteristics of the electrical
stimulation generated by the neurostimulator to allow the optimum stimulation
parameters to be determined based on patient feedback or other means and to
subsequently program the neurostimulator with the optimum stimulation parameter
set or sets, which will typically be those that stimulate all of the target tissue in order
to provide the therapeutic benefit, yet minimizes the volume of non-target tissue that
is stimulated. The computerized programming system may be operated by a
clinician attending the patient in several scenarios.
               For example, in order to achieve an effective result from SCS, the lead
or leads must be placed in a location, such that the electrical stimulation will cause
paresthesia. The paresthesia induced by the stimulation and perceived by the
patient should be located in approximately the same place in the patient's body as
the pain that is the target of treatment. If a lead is not correctly positioned, it is
possible that the patient will receive little or no benefit from an implanted SCS
system. Thus, correct lead placement can mean the difference between effective
and ineffective pain therapy. When electrical leads are implanted within the patient,
the computerized programming system, in the context of an operating room (OR)
mapping procedure, may be used to instruct the neurostimulator to apply electrical
stimulation to test placement of the leads and/or electrodes, thereby assuring that
the leads and/or electrodes are implanted in effective locations within the patient.
               Once the leads are correctly positioned, a fitting procedure, which may
be referred to as a navigation session, may be performed using the computerized
programming system to program the external control device, and if applicable the
neurostimulator, with a set of stimulation parameters that best addresses the painful
site. Thus, the navigation session may be used to pinpoint the volume of activation
                                                 4

(VOA) or areas correlating to the pain. Such programming ability is particularly
advantageous for targeting the tissue during implantation, or after implantation
should the leads gradually or unexpectedly move that would otherwise relocate the
stimulation energy away from the target site. By reprogramming the neurostimulator
(typically by independently varying the stimulation energy on the electrodes), the
volume of activation (VOA) can often be moved back to the effective pain site without
having to re-operate on the patient in order to reposition the lead and its electrode
array. When adjusting the volume of activation (VOA) relative to the tissue, it is
desirable to make small changes in the proportions of current, so that changes in the
spatial recruitment of nerve fibers will be perceived by the patient as being smooth
and continuous and to have incremental targeting capability.
                One known computerized programming system for SCS is called the
Bionic Navigator@, available from Boston Scientific Neuromodulation Corporation.
The Bionic Navigator@ is a software package that operates on a suitable PC and
allows clinicians to program stimulation parameters into an external handheld
programmer (referred to as a remote control). Each set of stimulation parameters,
including fractionalized current distribution to the electrodes (as percentage cathodic
current, percentage anodic current, or off), may be stored in both the Bionic
Navigator@ and the remote control and combined into a stimulation program that can
then be used to stimulate multiple regions within the patient.
                Prior to creating the stimulation programs, the Bionic Navigator@ may
be operated by a clinician in a "manual mode" to manually select the percentage
cathodic current and percentage anodic current flowing through the electrodes, or
may be operated by the clinician in an "automated mode" to electrically "steer" the
current along the implanted leads in real-time (e.g., using a joystick or joystick-like
                                                5

controls), thereby allowing the clinician to determine the most efficacious stimulation
parameter sets that can then be stored and eventually combined into stimulation
programs. In the context of SCS, current steering is typically either performed in a
rostro-caudal direction (i.e., along the axis of the spinal cord) or a medial-lateral
direction (i.e., perpendicular to the axis of the spinal cord). The Bionic Navigator@
may use one of two ways to electrically steer the current along the implanted leads.
                In one current steering method, known as "weaving," the anode or
anodes are moved around the cathode, while the cathode slowly progresses down
the sequence of electrodes. In the context of SCS, the active electrode
combinations typically used to implement the weaving sequence includes a narrow
tripole (tightly spaced center cathode and two flanking anodes), narrow upper bipole
(tightly spaced anode above cathode), wide upper bipole (widely spaced anode
above cathode), wide tripole (widely spaced center cathode and two flanking
anodes), wide lower bipole (widely spaced anode below cathode), narrow lower
bipole (narrowly spaced anode below cathode). In another current steering method,
known as "panning," a pre-defined electrode combination is shifted down the
sequence of electrodes without changing the basic form of the electrode
combination. These current steering methods may have different clinical uses (e.g.,
finding the "sweet spot" in the case of panning, or shaping the electrical field around
the cathode in the case of weaving).
                 In the context of SCS, a volume of activation (VOA) will typically be
displaced in concordance with the displacement of the cathode or group of cathodes
as electrical current is steering in a particular direction. In one method, the VOA may
be rostro-caudally displaced along the spinal cord of the patient using, e.g., the
weaving or panning steering current steering methods, in order to stimulate the
                                                6

rostro-caudal dermatome associated with the ailment to be treated. In another
method known as Transverse Tripole Stimulation (TTS), wherein a tripole electrode
configuration consisting of a central cathode and two flanking anodes is used, to
selectively stimulate dorsal column (DC) nerve fibers without stimulating the dorsal
root (DR) nerve fibers typically associated with painful or otherwise uncomfortable
side-effects. To target a population of DC nerve fibers where medio-lateral fiber
distribution is mapped into rostro-caudal dermatomes, steering of current onto the
DC nerve fibers is a critical component of TTS. Typically, in the three-column
electrode arrangement, steering of current in TTS can be achieved by adjusting the
intensity of the flanking anodes, as described in U.S. Patent Publication No.
2010/0023097.
               The Bionic Navigator@ presently performs current steering in
accordance with a steering or navigation table. For example, an exemplary
navigation table, which includes a series of reference electrode combinations (e.g.,
for a lead of 8 electrodes) with associated fractionalized current values (i.e.,
fractionalized electrode configurations), can be used to gradually steer electrical
current from one basic electrode combination to the next, thereby electronically
steering the volume of activation (VOA) along the leads.
               While the use of navigation tables have proven to be useful in steering
electrical current between electrodes in an efficient manner, that are certain inherent
disadvantages associated with navigation tables. For example, assuming a current
step size of 5% in the navigation table, there are literally billions of fractionalized
electrode configurations that can be selected. However, due to memory and time
constraints, only a limited number of fractionalized electrode configurations are
stored within the navigation table. Therefore, not every desired electrode
                                              7

combination and associated fractionalized current values can be represented within
a steering table.
[0001] Furthermore, a substantial amount of time and effort must be spent in
developing navigation tables for each new lead design, thereby presenting a
bottleneck for lead development. For example, each steering table must take into
account the variability in electrode position or stimulation input. The variability in
electrode position may be due to, e.g., a different lead model, different lead
configurations (e.g., a closely spaced side-by-side configuration, a closely spaced
top-bottom configuration, a widely spaced top-bottom configuration, or a widely
spaced side-by-side configuration), stagger of the leads, etc. The variability in
stimulation input may be due to, e.g., the development or inclusion of additional
steerable fields (e.g., medio-lateral tripole steering), upgrades in steering controls
(e.g., focusing/blurring of fields, anode intensification or de-intensification (i.e.,
increasing or decreasing local anodic current relative to cathodic current), current
steering from different screens, etc. Because the implementation of new navigation
tables must take into account all leads that are to be used with the IPG, as well as
the different lead positions, this challenge slows the ability to include new navigation
features in the system.
                Furthermore, if the remote control needs to be reprogrammed; for
example, if the patient returns to a physician's office to be refitted to improve the
stimulation therapy provided by the neurostimulator, the clinician may have to start
the fitting from scratch. In particular, while the remote control is capable of uploading
the stimulation parameter sets to the Bionic Navigator@ to aid in reprogramming the
remote control, they may be different from any stimulation parameter sets that are
capable of being generated using the navigation table due to the limited number of
                                                8

fractionalized electrode configurations within the navigation table; that is, the
fractionalized electrode configurations currently stored in the remote control may not
match any fractionalized electrode configurations stored in the navigation table
because they were originally generated when the Bionic Navigator@ was operated in
the manual mode.
               In any event, if the stimulation parameter sets uploaded from the
remote control to the Bionic Navigator@ do not identically match any stimulation
parameter set corresponding to a fractionalized electrode configuration stored in the
navigation table, it cannot be used as a starting point in reprogramming the remote
control/IPG. As a result, the amount of time required to reprogram the remote
control/IPG may be as long as the amount of time required to originally program the
remote control/IPG with the Bionic Navigator@. Because programming the remote
control can be quite complex, even when the Bionic Navigator@ is operated in the
navigation mode, the time lost as a result of having to reprogram the remote
control/IPG from scratch, can be quite significant.
               In one novel method, described in U.S. Patent Publication No.
2011/0106215, a stimulation target in the form of an ideal target pole (e.g., an ideal
bipole or tripole) is defined and the stimulation parameters, including the
fractionalized current values on each of the electrodes, are computationally
determined in a manner that emulates these ideal target poles. It can be
appreciated that current steering can be implemented by moving the ideal target
poles about the leads, such that the appropriate fractionalized current values for the
electrodes are computed for each of the various positions of the ideal target pole. As
a result, the current steering can be implemented using an arbitrary number and
arrangement of electrodes, thereby solving the afore-described problems.
                                               9

               While the computation of stimulation parameters to emulate ideal target
poles is quite useful, there remains a need to provide a more generalized format for
ideal target poles to provide more flexibility to steering current in an arbitrary
direction. For example, ideal target poles aligned along the longitudinal axis of the
spinal cord of a patient may be optimum when steering current in a rostro-caudal
(longitudinal) direction, but may not be optimum when steering current in a medial
lateral (transverse) direction. Likewise, ideal target poles aligned perpendicular to
the longitudinal axis of the spinal cord of a patient may be optimum when steering
current in a medial-lateral (transverse) direction, but may not be optimum when
steering current in a rostro-caudal direction (longitudinal). There also remains a
need for improved techniques using ideal target poles to steer current in the rostro
caudal direction and the medial-lateral direction.
                Furthermore, because there a limited number of electrodes when
steering current in a particular direction using arbitrarily defined target poles, there
remains a need to modify the current steering on-the-fly to prevent any target poles
from being moved outside the maximum extent of the electrode array. Also, for ideal
multipole configurations, which include at least one ideal cathode and at least one
ideal anode, it is desirable to match the spacing between the ideal cathode(s) and
ideal anode(s) with the spacing of the physical electrodes in order to minimize
dilution of the electrical current on multiple electrodes, which may otherwise cause
amplitude fluctuation or a non-focused stimulation region during current steering.
However, because different types of neurostimulation leads have different electrode
separations, a current steering algorithm that is designed for a particular electrode
separation cannot be used for other electrode separations. Furthermore, when
multiple neurostimulation leads are used, the spacings between the electrodes will
                                               10

typically not be uniform, thereby providing a challenge when attempting to match the
ideal cathode/anode spacings with the spacings of the physical electrodes.
                             SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
                 In accordance with a first aspect of the present inventions, a system for
an electrical neurostimulator coupled to a plurality of electrodes is provided.
                The system comprises a user-controlled input device configured for
generating control signals (e.g., directional control signals). In one embodiment, the
user-control input device includes a control element, a continual actuation of which
generates the control signals. The user-controlled input device may comprise, e.g.,
one or more of a graphical arrow, a joystick, a touchpad, a button pad, a group of
keyboard arrow keys, a mouse, a roller ball tracking device, and horizontal and
vertical rocker-type arm switches for generating the directional control signals.
                The system further comprises memory storing a first set of variable
values defining a first spatial relationship (e.g., a rectilinear position) between a
central ideal pole of a first polarity (e.g., negative) and the plurality of electrodes, a
second set of variable values defining a second spatial relationship (e.g., absolute
distances) respectively between four ideal poles of a second polarity (e.g., positive)
and the first ideal pole, and a third set of variable values defining relative intensities
(e.g., fractionalized intensity values) between the four ideal poles.
                 In one embodiment, a first pair of the four ideal poles and the central
ideal pole may be aligned with a first axis along which the absolute distances for the
first pair of ideal poles are respectively defined, and a second pair of the four ideal
poles and the central ideal pole may be aligned with a second axis along which the
absolute distances for the second pair of ideal poles are respectively defined. The
first and second axes may be orthogonal to each other or non-orthogonal to each
                                                11

other. The absolute distances for the first pair of ideal poles may be independently
defined from each other, and the absolute distances for the second pair of ideal
poles may be independently defined from each other. The memory may store a
fourth set of variable values defining a polarity of the central ideal pole and a polarity
for the four ideal poles. Alternatively, the memory may store a fourth set of variable
values defining an angle between one or both of the first and second axes and a
reference axis. For example, the angle between both of the first and second axes
and the reference axis may be defined. Or, the angle between one of the first and
second axes and the reference axis is defined, and the fourth set of variable values
may further define an angle between the first and second axes.
               The system further comprises control circuitry configured for modifying
at least one of the first set of variable values, the second set of variable values, and
the third set of variable values in response to the control signals, and generating,
based on the modification, stimulation parameter values defining relative amplitude
values for the plurality of electrodes that emulate the ideal poles, and instructing the
electrical neurostimulator to convey electrical energy to the plurality of electrodes in
accordance with the plurality of stimulation parameter values. In an optional
embodiment, the system further comprises telemetry circuitry, wherein the control
circuitry is configured for transmitting the stimulation parameter values to the
neurostimulation device via the telemetry circuitry. In another optional embodiment,
the system further comprises a housing containing the user input device, the
memory, and the control circuitry.
                In accordance with a second aspect of the present inventions, another
system for an electrical neurostimulator coupled to a plurality of electrodes is
provided.
                                               12

               The system comprises a user-controlled input device configured for
generating directional control signals. In one embodiment, the user-control input
device includes a control element, a continual actuation of which generates the
control signals. The user-controlled input device may comprise, e.g., one or more of
a graphical arrow, a joystick, a touchpad, a button pad, a group of keyboard arrow
keys, a mouse, a roller ball tracking device, and horizontal and vertical rocker-type
arm switches for generating the directional control signals. The system further
comprises control circuitry configured for sequentially defining a plurality of different
ideal bipole/tripole configurations relative to the plurality of electrodes in response to
the directional control signals.
                In one embodiment, one sequence of the different ideal bipole/tripole
configurations begins with one of an ideal tripole configuration and an ideal bipole
configuration and ends with the other of the ideal tripole configuration and the ideal
bipole configuration. In this case, an ideal cathode at the beginning and end of the
sequence may have the same position relative to the plurality of electrodes, which
may be maintained throughout the sequence, or the ideal cathode at the beginning
and end of the sequence may have different positions relative to the plurality of
electrodes, which position may be incrementally changed in one direction throughout
the sequence. The ideal bipole/tripole configurations may comprise a tripole
configuration having an ideal cathode and two ideal anodes that aligned along an
axis or a tripole configuration having an ideal cathode and two ideal anodes that are
misaligned along an axis.
                In another embodiment, one sequence of the different ideal
bipole/tripole configurations begins with one of a narrow ideal bipole configuration
and a wide ideal bipole configuration and ends with the other of the narrow ideal
                                               13

bipole configuration and the wide ideal bipole configuration. In this case, an ideal
cathode at the beginning and end of the sequence may have the same position
relative to the plurality of electrodes, which may be maintained throughout the
sequence.
               In still another embodiment, the control circuitry is configured for
sequentially defining the different ideal bipole/tripole configurations in the following
order: a narrow ideal tripole configuration, a narrow upper ideal bipole configuration,
a wide upper ideal bipole configuration, a wide ideal tripole configuration, a wide
lower ideal bipole configuration, a narrow lower ideal bipole configuration, and back
to the narrow ideal tripole configuration.
               In this case, the control circuitry may be configured for maintaining the
same position of an ideal cathode relative to the plurality of electrodes between the
narrow ideal tripole configuration and the wide upper ideal bipole configuration,
incrementally changing the position of the ideal cathode relative to the plurality of
electrodes in one direction between the wide upper ideal bipole configuration and the
wide lower ideal bipole configuration, and maintaining the same position of the ideal
cathode relative to the plurality of electrodes between the wide lower ideal bipole
configuration and the narrow ideal tripole configuration.
               In another case, the control circuitry may be configured for maintaining
the same position of an ideal cathode relative to the plurality of electrodes between
the wide ideal tripole configuration and the narrow lower ideal bipole configuration,
incrementally changing the position of the ideal cathode relative to the plurality of
electrodes in one direction between the narrow lower ideal bipole configuration and
the narrow upper ideal bipole configuration, and maintaining the same position of the
                                               14

deal cathode relative to the plurality of electrodes between the narrow upper ideal
bipole configuration and the wide ideal tripole configuration.
               The control circuitry is further configured for generating a plurality of
stimulation parameter sets respectively corresponding to the plurality of ideal
bipole/tripole configurations, with each set of stimulation parameter values defining
relative amplitude values for the plurality of electrodes that emulate the respective
ideal bipole/tripole configuration, and instructing the electrical neurostimulator to
convey electrical energy to the plurality of electrodes in accordance with the plurality
of stimulation parameter sets. In an optional embodiment, the system further
comprises telemetry circuitry, wherein the control circuitry is configured for
transmitting the stimulation parameter values to the neurostimulation device via the
telemetry circuitry. In another optional embodiment, the system further comprises a
housing containing the user input device, the memory, and the control circuitry.
                In accordance with a third aspect of the present inventions, a method
of providing therapy to a patient using a plurality of electrodes implanted within the
patient is provided. The method comprises generating directional control signals,
e.g., by continually actuating a control element to generate the directional control
signals. The method further comprises sequentially defining a plurality of different
ideal bipole/tripole configurations relative to the plurality of electrodes in response to
the directional control signals. The details of the bipole/tripole configurations may be
the same as those discussed above.
               The method further comprises generating a plurality of stimulation
parameter sets respectively corresponding to the plurality of ideal bipole/tripole
configurations, and conveying electrical energy to the plurality of electrodes in
accordance with the plurality of stimulation parameter sets, thereby emulating the
                                               15

respective ideal bipole/tripole configurations. The method may optionally comprise
transmitting the stimulation parameter sets to a neurostimulation device. In the
context of SCS, the conveyance of the electrical energy to the plurality of electrodes
in accordance with the plurality of stimulation parameter sets may incrementally
rostro-caudally displace a volume of activation (VOA) along a spinal cord of the
patient.
                 In accordance with a fourth aspect of the present inventions, still
another system for an electrical neurostimulator coupled to a plurality of electrodes is
provided.
                 The system comprises a user-controlled input device configured for
generating directional control signals. In one embodiment, the user-control input
device includes a control element, a continual actuation of which generates the
control signals. The user-controlled input device may comprise, e.g., one or more of
a graphical arrow, a joystick, a touchpad, a button pad, a group of keyboard arrow
keys, a mouse, a roller ball tracking device, and horizontal and vertical rocker-type
arm switches for generating the directional control signals. The system further
comprises control circuitry configured for sequentially defining a plurality of different
ideal multipole configurations that includes two orthogonal ideal tripole configurations
relative to the plurality of electrodes in response to the directional control signals.
                  In one embodiment, the control circuitry may be configured for
sequentially defining the different multipole configurations in the following order: a
first ideal tripole configuration oriented in a first direction, a second ideal tripole
configuration oriented in the first direction, a third ideal tripole configuration oriented
in a second direction orthogonal to the first direction, and a fourth ideal tripole
configuration oriented in the second direction. In this case, the first ideal tripole
                                                16

configuration may be a narrow symmetrical ideal tripole configuration, the second
ideal tripole configuration may be a narrow asymmetrical ideal tripole configuration,
the third ideal tripole configuration may be a narrow symmetrical ideal tripole
configuration, and the fourth ideal tripole configuration may be a wide symmetrical
ideal tripole configuration.
                 The control circuitry may be configured for incrementally changing a
position of a central ideal cathode relative to the plurality of electrodes between the
first ideal tripole configuration and the second ideal tripole configuration, maintaining
the same position of a central ideal cathode relative to the plurality of electrodes
between the second ideal tripole configuration and the third ideal tripole
configuration, incrementally changing a position of a central ideal cathode relative to
the plurality of electrodes between the third ideal tripole configuration and the fourth
ideal tripole configuration.
                 In an optional embodiment, the control circuitry is configured for
defining a quadpole configuration after the fourth ideal tripole configuration in
response to the control signals. In this case, the control circuitry may be configured
for maintaining the same positions of a central cathode and two anodes relative to
the plurality of electrodes between the fourth ideal tripole configuration and the ideal
quadpole configuration. The quadpole configuration may include an anode
positioned equidistant between the two anodes.
                 The control circuitry is further configured generating a plurality of
stimulation parameter sets respectively corresponding to the ideal multipole
configurations, with each stimulation parameter set defining relative amplitude values
for the plurality of electrodes that emulate the respective ideal multipole
configuration, and instructing the electrical neurostimulator to convey electrical
                                                 17

energy to the plurality of electrodes in accordance with the plurality of stimulation
parameter sets. In an optional embodiment, the system further comprises telemetry
circuitry, wherein the control circuitry is configured for transmitting the stimulation
parameter sets to the neurostimulation device via the telemetry circuitry. In another
optional embodiment, the system further comprises a housing containing the user
input device, the memory, and the control circuitry.
                In accordance with a fifth aspect of the present inventions, another
method of providing therapy to a patient using a plurality of electrodes implanted
adjacent a spinal cord of the patient is provided. The method comprises generating
directional control signals, e.g., by continually actuating a control element to
generate the directional control signals. The method comprises sequentially defining
a plurality of different ideal multipole configurations relative to the plurality of
electrodes in response to the directional control signals, wherein the plurality of
different ideal multipole configurations includes a first ideal tripole configuration
medio-laterally oriented relative to the spinal cord and a second ideal tripole
configuration rostro-caudally oriented relative to the spinal cord. The details of the
multipole configurations may be the same as those discussed above.
               The method further comprises generating a plurality of stimulation
parameter sets respectively corresponding to the ideal multipole configurations, and
instructing the electrical neurostimulator to convey electrical energy to the plurality of
electrodes in accordance with the plurality of stimulation parameter sets, thereby
emulating the respective ideal multipole configurations. In the context of SCS, the
conveyance of the electrical energy to the plurality of electrodes in accordance with
the plurality of stimulation parameter sets may incrementally medio-laterally displace
a volume of activation (VOA) across a spinal cord of the patient.
                                               18

               In accordance with a sixth aspect of the present inventions, yet another
system for an electrical neurostimulator coupled to a plurality of electrodes having a
maximum extent is provided. As one example, if the electrode array is a linear
electrode array, the maximum extent may be coincident with an electrode at the end
of the linear electrode array.
               The system comprises a user-controlled input device configured for
generating directional control signals. In one embodiment, the user-control input
device includes a control element, a continual actuation of which generates the
control signals. The user-controlled input device may comprise, e.g., one or more of
a graphical arrow, a joystick, a touchpad, a button pad, a group of keyboard arrow
keys, a mouse, a roller ball tracking device, and horizontal and vertical rocker-type
arm switches for generating the directional control signals. The system further
comprises memory storing a plurality of ideal multipole configurations (e.g., at least
one ideal bipole configuration and at least one ideal tripole configuration).
               The system further comprises control circuitry configured for defining
the plurality of ideal multipole configurations relative to the electrode array in
response to the directional control signals, determining a spatial relationship
between at least one of the defined plurality of ideal multipole configurations and the
maximum extent of the electrode array, and modifying the defined plurality of the
ideal multipole configurations based on the determined spatial relationship, such that
the modified plurality of the ideal multipole configurations is spatially within the
maximum extent of the electrode array.
               The control circuitry may modify the defined plurality of ideal multipole
configuration in a variety of manners; e.g., by eliminating one or more of the defined
multipole configuration(s), modifying when a pole of the same polarity is initially
                                              19

displaced during the defined ideal multipole configurations(s), displacing a pole for
one or more of the defined ideal multipole configuration(s), displacing poles of
different polarities relative to each other for one or more of the defined ideal
multipole configuration(s), etc.
                If the poles of different polarities are to be displaced relative to each
other, the memory, for each of the defined ideal multipole configuration(s), may store
a variable value defining a spatial relationship between the poles of the different
polarities (e.g. an absolute distance between the poles of different polarities), in
which case, the control circuitry may be configured for displacing the poles of
different polarities relative to each other for ideal multipole configuration(s) by
modifying the respective at least one variable value (e.g., by decreasing the variable
value(s)). The defined plurality of ideal multipole configurations may include a
defined plurality of wide ideal bipole/tripole configurations and a defined plurality of
narrow ideal bipole/tripole configurations. In this case, the ideal multipole
configuration(s) with which the variable values are associated may include the
defined plurality of wide ideal bipole/tripole configurations, and the control circuitry
may be configured for displacing the poles of different polarities relative to each
other for the these multipole configuration(s) by decreasing the respective variable
value(s).
                In one embodiment, the defined plurality of narrow ideal bipole/tripole
configurations initially comprises a narrow upper ideal bipole configuration and a
narrow lower ideal bipole configuration, and the defined plurality of wide ideal
bipole/tripole configurations initially comprises two identical wide upper ideal bipole
configurations, a first wide ideal tripole configuration, and two identical wide lower
ideal bipole configurations. In this case, the control circuitry may be configured for
                                                 20

decreasing the variable values associated with a first one of the two identical wide
upper ideal bipole configurations and a first one of the two identical wide lower ideal
bipole configurations to a first identical value, changing one of a second one of the
two identical wide upper ideal bipole configurations and a second one of the two
identical wide lower ideal bipole configurations to a second wide ideal tripole
configuration, modifying a relative intensity between the poles of different polarities
of the second wide ideal tripole configuration, decreasing the variable value
associated with the second wide ideal tripole configuration (e.g., to the first identical
value), and modifying a relative intensity between the poles of different polarities of
the first wide ideal tripole configuration .
                The control circuitry is further configured generating a plurality of
stimulation parameter sets respectively corresponding to the modified ideal multipole
configurations, with each stimulation parameter set defining relative amplitude values
for the plurality of electrodes that emulate the respective ideal multipole
configuration, and instructing the electrical neurostimulator to convey electrical
energy to the plurality of electrodes in accordance with the plurality of stimulation
parameter sets. In an optional embodiment, the system further comprises telemetry
circuitry, wherein the control circuitry is configured for transmitting the stimulation
parameter sets to the neurostimulation device via the telemetry circuitry. In another
optional embodiment, the system further comprises a housing containing the user
input device, the memory, and the control circuitry.
                In accordance with a seventh aspect of the present inventions, still yet
another system for an electrical neurostimulator coupled to a plurality of electrodes is
provided. In one embodiment, the plurality of electrodes have non-uniform spacings.
                                                21

               The system comprises a user-controlled input device configured for
generating control signals (e.g., directional control signals). In one embodiment, the
user-control input device includes a control element, a continual actuation of which
generates the control signals. The user-controlled input device may comprise, e.g.,
one or more of a graphical arrow, a joystick, a touchpad, a button pad, a group of
keyboard arrow keys, a mouse, a roller ball tracking device, and horizontal and
vertical rocker-type arm switches for generating the directional control signals.
               The system further comprises control circuitry configured for defining at
least one ideal multipole configuration (e.g., an ideal bipole configuration or an ideal
tripole configuration) relative to the plurality of electrodes in response to the control
signals. Each of the multipole configurations has at least two poles (e.g., two poles
having different polarities) aligned along a pole axis. The control circuitry, for each of
the ideal multipole configuration(s), is further configured for, designating at least one
of the electrodes as a reference electrode, estimating an effective electrode
separation at each of the reference electrode(s), and defining a spacing between the
two poles based on the estimated effective electrode separation at each of the
reference electrode(s).
               In one embodiment, the control circuitry is configured for estimating the
effective electrode separation at each of the reference electrode(s) by computing a
weighted average of actual separations between the respective reference electrode
and indexed ones of the electrodes. Each of the actual separations between the
respective reference electrode and the indexed electrodes may have a first
directional component perpendicular to the pole axis and a second directional
component parallel to the pole axis. The control circuitry may be configured for
estimating the effective electrode separation at each of the reference electrode(s) in
                                                22

                                        N
                                       ZWx(i) eW,(i) dy(i)
accordance with the equation: Se     =    N                , where Se is the effective
                                            W(ij eW,(i)
electrode separation at the reference electrode, i is the index for one of the indexed
electrodes, N is the total number of the indexed electrodes, W, is a weighting value
as a function of the first directional component of the actual separation between the
reference electrode and the indexed electrode i, Wy is a weighting value as a
function of the second directional component of the actual separation between the
reference electrode and the indexed electrode i, and dy is the second directional
component of the actual separation between the reference electrode and the
indexed electrode i. The weighting values may be as follows: W(i) = e                and
 WY(i)= e(- dy(i)eY], where A, and Ay are constants, and d, is the first directional
component of the actual separation between the reference electrode and the
indexed electrode i. In one embodiment, A, is greater than Ay.
               The control circuitry may be configured for only selecting as the
indexed electrodes, the electrodes located on one side of a line intersecting the
respective reference electrode and perpendicular to the pole axis. The effective
electrode separation at any of the reference electrode(s) may be estimated to be a
maximum value if at least one of the following conditions is satisfied: no electrodes
are located on the one side of the line intersecting the respective reference electrode
or the actual separations between the respective reference electrode and all
electrodes located on the one side of the line intersecting the respective reference
electrode are below a minimum value.
                                              23

                In another embodiment, the control circuitry is configured for estimating
an effective electrode separation at a point in space along the pole axis based on the
estimated effective electrode separation at each of the reference electrode(s), and
defining the spacing between the two poles based on the estimated effective
electrode separation at the point in space along the pole axis. The control circuitry is
configured for defining the spacing between the two poles to be a multiple of the
estimated effective electrode separation at the point in space along the pole axis.
                If a plurality of reference electrodes are used, the control circuitry may
be configured for estimating an effective electrode separation at a point in space
along the pole axis by computing a weighted average of the estimated effective
electrode separations at the plurality of reference electrodes, and optionally the
maximum electrode separations at a plurality of imaginary electrodes surrounding
the plurality of reference electrodes. The imaginary electrodes may comprise two
imaginary electrodes for each of the reference electrodes respectively located on two
lines that are parallel to the pole axis.
               The estimated effective electrode separations at the plurality of
reference electrodes may be weighted based on a distance between the point in
space and the reference electrodes. For example, assuming that each of the
distances between the point in space and the reference electrodes has a first
directional component perpendicular to the pole axis and a second directional
component parallel to the pole axis, the control circuitry may be configured for
estimating the effective electrode separation at the point in space along the pole axis
                                            N
                                              Wx(j)   W(j) e Se(j)
in accordance with the equation: Ss      =     Nwhere                   S, is the effective
                                                 24

electrode separation at the point in space, j is the index for one of the reference
electrodes, N is the total number of the reference electrodes, W, is a weighting value
as a function of the first directional component of the distance between the point in
space and the reference electrodes, Wy is a weighting value as a function of the
second directional component of the distance between the point in space and the
reference electrode j, and Se is the estimated effective electrode separation at the
reference electrodes. The weighting values may be as
                   -| x - Ex(j) e                 (-|y- - EY(j) eA)
follows: Wx(j)=     e              ) and W(j)= e                    , where Ax and Ay are
constants, x is the coordinate of the point in space along an axis perpendicular to the
pole axis, y is the coordinate of the point in space along the pole axis, Ex is the
coordinate of the position of the reference electrode j along an axis perpendicular to
the pole axis, and Ey is the coordinate of the position of the reference electrode j
along the pole axis. In one embodiment, Ax may be greater than Ay.
               The control circuitry is further configured for generating at least one
stimulation parameter set respectively corresponding to the ideal multipole
configuration(s), with each set of stimulation parameter values defining relative
amplitude values for the plurality of electrodes that emulate the respective ideal
multipole configuration(s), and instructing the electrical neurostimulator to convey
electrical energy to the plurality of electrodes in accordance with the stimulation
parameter set(s). In an optional embodiment, the system further comprises
telemetry circuitry, wherein the control circuitry is configured for transmitting the
stimulation parameter sets to the neurostimulation device via the telemetry circuitry.
 In another optional embodiment, the system further comprises a housing containing
the user input device and the control circuitry.
                                               25

               Other and further aspects and features of the invention will be evident
from reading the following detailed description of the preferred embodiments, which
are intended to illustrate, not limit, the invention.
                      BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
               The drawings illustrate the design and utility of preferred embodiments
of the present invention, in which similar elements are referred to by common
reference numerals. In order to better appreciate how the above-recited and other
advantages and objects of the present inventions are obtained, a more particular
description of the present inventions briefly described above will be rendered by
reference to specific embodiments thereof, which are illustrated in the accompanying
drawings. Understanding that these drawings depict only typical embodiments of the
invention and are not therefore to be considered limiting of its scope, the invention
will be described and explained with additional specificity and detail through the use
of the accompanying drawings in which:
               Fig. 1 is a plan view of a Spinal cord Stimulation (SCS) system
constructed in accordance with one embodiment of the present inventions;
               Fig. 2 is a perspective view of the arrangement of the SCS system of
Fig. 1 with respect to a patient;
               Fig. 3 is a profile view of an implantable pulse generator (IPG) and a
surgical paddle lead used in the SCS system of Fig. 1;
               Fig. 4 is a profile view of an implantable pulse generator (IPG) and
percutaneous leads used in the SCS system of Fig. 1;
               Fig. 5 is front view of a remote control (RC) used in the SCS system of
Fig. 1;
                                               26

               Fig. 6 is a block diagram of the internal components of the RC of Fig.
4;
               Fig. 7 is a block diagram of the internal components of a clinician's
programmer (CP) used in the SCS system of Fig. 1;
               Fig. 8 is a plan view of a user interface of the CP of Fig. 7 for
programming the IPG of Fig. 3;
               Fig. 9 is a plan view of generalized ideal multipole that can be used by
the CP of Fig. 7 to define different ideal multipole configurations;
               Fig. 10 is a plan view of a longitudinal ideal tripole configuration that
can be derived from the generalized ideal multipole of Fig. 9;
               Fig. 11 is a plan view of a transverse ideal tripole configuration that can
be derived from the generalized ideal multipole of Fig. 9;
               Fig. 12 is a plan view of a rotated ideal tripole configuration that can be
derived from the generalized ideal multipole of Fig. 9;
               Fig. 13 is a plan view of an asymmetric ideal tripole configuration that
can be derived from the generalized ideal multipole of Fig. 9;
               Fig. 14 is a plan view of a generalized ideal longitudinal tripole that can
be used by the CP of Fig. 7 to define different ideal bipole/tripole configurations;
               Fig. 15 is a sequence of different ideal bipole/tripole configurations that
can be derived from the ideal longitudinal tripole of Fig. 14 to rostro-caudally
displace a volume of activation;
               Fig. 16 is a plot illustrating a weaving space for the sequence of
bipole/tripole configurations illustrated in Fig. 15;
                                                27

               Fig. 17 is a plot illustrating the weaving space of Fig. 16, particularly
showing the fine resolution incremental steps between the ideal bipole/tripole
configurations;
               Fig. 18 is a plot illustrating the weaving space of Fig. 16, particularly
showing the coarse resolution incremental steps between the ideal bipole/tripole
configurations;
               Fig. 19 is another sequence of different ideal bipole/tripole
configurations that can be derived from the ideal longitudinal tripole of Fig. 14 to
rostro-caudally displace a volume of activation;
               Fig. 20 is a plot illustrating a weaving space for the sequence of ideal
bipole/tripole configurations illustrated in Fig. 19;
               Fig. 21 is a plan view of a generalized ideal multipole that can be used
by the CP of Fig. 7 to define different ideal multipole configurations;
               Fig. 22a is a sequence of electrode configurations that can be defined
by the CP of Fig. 7 to medio-laterally displace a volume of activation;
               Fig. 22b is a sequence of ideal multipole configurations that can be
derived from the generalized ideal multipole of Fig. 21 to medio-laterally displace a
volume of activation;
               Fig. 22c is plot of the different parameter values used to transition
between the ideal multipole configurations of Fig. 22b;
               Fig. 23 is still another sequence of different ideal bipole/tripole
configurations that can be derived from the ideal longitudinal tripole of Fig. 14 to
rostro-caudally displace a volume of activation, wherein one of the ideal bipole/tripole
configurations exceeds the maximum extent of the electrode array;
                                                 28

               Fig. 24 is a corrected sequence of the ideal bipole/tripole
configurations shown in Fig. 23, wherein none of the ideal bipole/tripole
configurations exceeds the maximum extent of the electrode array;
               Fig. 25 is a plot illustrating a weaving space for the sequence of ideal
bipole/tripole configurations illustrated in Fig. 24;
               Fig. 26 is a plot illustrating a weaving space for a sequence of ideal
bipole/tripole configurations that may be varied to prevent an ideal bipole/tripole
configuration from exceeding the maximum extent of the electrode array;
               Figs. 27a-27c are plots of a weaving space illustrating the manner in
which the ideal bipole/tripole configurations are varied to prevent an ideal
bipole/tripole configuration from exceeding a maximum rostral extent of the electrode
array;
               Figs. 28a-28c are plots of a weaving space illustrating the manner in
which the ideal bipole/tripole configurations are varied to prevent an ideal
bipole/tripole configuration from exceeding a maximum caudal extent of the
electrode array;
               Fig. 29 is a corrected sequence of the ideal bipole/tripole
configurations shown in Fig. 23, wherein the ideal tripole configurations and the ideal
upper ideal bipole configurations are eliminated to prevent the ideal bipole/tripole
configurations from exceeding the maximum rostral extent of the electrode array;
               Fig. 30 is a plot illustrating a weaving space for the sequence of lower
ideal bipole configurations illustrated in Fig. 29;
               Fig. 31a is a plan view of three percutaneous neurostimulation leads
and an ideal tripole configuration aligned with the center neurostimulation lead,
                                                29

wherein the separation between the poles of the ideal tripole configuration is the
same as the electrode spacing of the center neurostimulation lead;
               Fig. 31b is a plan view of three staggered percutaneous
neurostimulation leads and an ideal tripole configuration rotated relative to the center
neurostimulation lead, wherein the separation between the poles of the ideal tripole
configuration is not the same as the electrode spacing of the center neurostimulation
lead;
               Fig. 32a is a plan view of two staggered percutaneous
neurostimulation leads with a point in space at which an effective electrode
separation can be estimated in the rostral direction or the caudal direction;
               Fig. 32b is a plan view of two widely spaced staggered percutaneous
neurostimulation leads, wherein electrodes on the right neurostimulation lead is not
taken into account when estimating an effective electrode separation at a reference
electrode on the left neurostimulation lead;
               Fig. 32c is a plan view of two narrowly spaced staggered percutaneous
neurostimulation leads, wherein an electrode on the right neurostimulation lead
dominates the estimation of an effective electrode separation at a reference
electrode on the left neurostimulation lead; and
               Fig. 33 is a flow diagram illustrating one method performed in the CP
of Fig. 8 to estimate an effective electrode separation at a point in space, which can
be utilized to define a spacing between one pole located at the point in space and
another pole of an ideal multipole configuration.
                 DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE EMBODIMENTS
               The description that follows relates to a spinal cord stimulation (SCS)
system. However, it is to be understood that while the invention lends itself well to
                                              30

applications in SCS, the invention, in its broadest aspects, may not be so limited.
Rather, the invention may be used with any type of implantable electrical circuitry
used to stimulate tissue. For example, the present invention may be used as part of
a pacemaker, a defibrillator, a cochlear stimulator, a retinal stimulator, a stimulator
configured to produce coordinated limb movement, a cortical stimulator, a deep brain
stimulator, peripheral nerve stimulator, microstimulator, or in any other
neurostimulator configured to treat urinary incontinence, sleep apnea, shoulder
sublaxation, headache, etc.
               Turning first to Fig. 1, an exemplary SCS system 10 generally
comprises at least one implantable neurostimulation lead 12, an implantable pulse
generator (IPG) 14 (or alternatively RF receiver-stimulator), an external remote
control RC 16, a Clinician's Programmer (CP) 18, an External Trial Stimulator (ETS)
20, and an external charger 22.
               The IPG 14 is physically connected via one or more lead extensions 24
to the neurostimulation lead 12, which carries a plurality of electrodes 26 arranged in
an array. The neurostimulation lead 12 is illustrated as a surgical paddle lead in Fig.
1, although as will be described in further detail below, one or more percutaneous
stimulation leads can be used in place of the surgical paddle lead 12. As will also be
described in further detail below, the IPG 14 includes pulse generation circuitry that
delivers electrical stimulation energy in the form of a pulsed electrical waveform (i.e.,
a temporal series of electrical pulses) to the electrode array 26 in accordance with a
set of stimulation parameters.
               The ETS 20, which has similar pulse generation circuitry as the IPG 14,
also provides electrical stimulation energy to the electrode array 26 in accordance
with a set of stimulation parameters. The major difference between the ETS 20 and
                                              31

the IPG 14 is that the ETS 20 is a non-implantable device that is used on a trial basis
after the neurostimulation leads 12 have been implanted and prior to implantation of
the IPG 14, to test the responsiveness of the stimulation that is to be provided.
Thus, any functions described herein with respect to the IPG 14 can likewise be
performed with respect to the ETS 20. Further details of an exemplary ETS are
described in U.S. Patent No. 6,895,280.
               The RC 16 may be used to telemetrically control the ETS 20 via a bi
directional RF communications link 32. Once the IPG 14 and stimulation lead 12 are
implanted, the RC 16 may be used to telemetrically control the IPG 14 via a bi
directional RF communications link 34. Such control allows the IPG 14 to be turned
on or off and to be programmed with different stimulation programs after
implantation. Once the IPG 14 has been programmed, and its power source has
been charged or otherwise replenished, the IPG 14 may function as programmed
without the RC 16 being present.
               The CP 18 provides clinician detailed stimulation parameters for
programming the IPG 14 and ETS 20 in the operating room and in follow-up
sessions. The CP 18 may perform this function by indirectly communicating with the
IPG 14 or ETS 20, through the RC 16, via an IR communications link 36.
Alternatively, the CP 18 may directly communicate with the IPG 14 or ETS 20 via an
RF communications link (not shown).
               The external charger 22 is a portable device used to transcutaneously
charge the IPG 14 via an inductive link 38. For purposes of brevity, the details of the
external charger 22 will not be described herein. Details of exemplary embodiments
of external chargers are disclosed in U.S. Patent No. 6,895,280. Once the IPG 14
has been programmed, and its power source has been charged by the external
                                            32

charger 22 or otherwise replenished, the IPG 14 may function as programmed
without the RC 16 or CP 18 being present.
               As shown in Fig. 2, the electrode lead 12 is implanted within the spinal
column 42 of a patient 40. The preferred placement of the electrode lead 12 is
adjacent, i.e., resting upon, the spinal cord area to be stimulated. Due to the lack of
space near the location where the electrode leads 12 exit the spinal column 42, the
 IPG 14 is generally implanted in a surgically-made pocket either in the abdomen or
above the buttocks. The IPG 14 may, of course, also be implanted in other locations
of the patient's body. The lead extension 24 facilitates locating the IPG 14 away
from the exit point of the electrode leads 12. As there shown, the CP 18
communicates with the IPG 14 via the RC 16.
                Referring to Fig. 3, the IPG 14 comprises an outer case 44 for housing
the electronic and other components (described in further detail below), and a
connector 46 to which the proximal end of the neurostimulation lead 12 mates in a
manner that electrically couples the electrodes 26 to the internal electronics
(described in further detail below) within the outer case 44. The outer case 44 is
composed of an electrically conductive, biocompatible material, such as titanium,
and forms a hermetically sealed compartment wherein the internal electronics are
protected from the body tissue and fluids. In some cases, the outer case 44 may
serve as an electrode.
                In the embodiment illustrated in Fig. 3, the neurostimulation lead 12
takes the form of a surgical paddle lead 12 on which the electrodes 26 (in this case,
electrodes E1-E22) are carried. The electrodes 26 are arranged in a two
dimensional array in four columns along the axis of the neurostimulation lead 12. In
the illustrated embodiment, the electrodes 26 are arranged in two inner columns of
                                              33

electrodes 26' (electrodes E7-E16), and two outer columns of electrodes 26"
(electrodes E1-E6 and E17-E22) that flank and are longitudinally offset from the
inner electrode columns. In other embodiments, the outer and inner electrode
columns may not be longitudinally offset from each other. The actual number of
leads and electrodes will, of course, vary according to the intended application.
Further details regarding the construction and method of manufacture of surgical
paddle leads are disclosed in U.S. Patent Publication Nos. 2007/0150036 and
2010/0057162.
               In an alternative embodiment illustrated in Fig. 4, the neurostimulation
lead 12 takes the form of a percutaneous stimulation lead on which the electrodes 12
(in this case, electrodes E1-E8) are disposed as ring electrodes. Although only one
percutaneous stimulation lead 12 is shown, multiple percutaneous stimulation leads
(e.g., two), can be used with the SCS system 10. The actual number and shape of
leads and electrodes will, of course, vary according to the intended application.
Further details describing the construction and method of manufacturing
percutaneous stimulation leads are disclosed in U.S. Patent Publication Nos.
2007/0168007 and 2007/0168004.
               As will be described in further detail below, the IPG 14 includes pulse
generation circuitry that provides electrical conditioning and stimulation energy in the
form of a pulsed electrical waveform to the electrode array 26 in accordance with a
set of stimulation parameters programmed into the IPG 14. Such stimulation
parameters may comprise electrode combinations, which define the electrodes that
are activated as anodes (positive), cathodes (negative), and turned off (zero),
percentage of stimulation energy assigned to each electrode (fractionalized
electrode configurations), and electrical pulse parameters, which define the pulse
                                              34

amplitude (measured in milliamps or volts depending on whether the IPG 14 supplies
constant current or constant voltage to the electrode array 26), pulse width
(measured in microseconds), pulse rate (measured in pulses per second), and burst
rate (measured as the stimulation on duration X and stimulation off duration Y).
               Electrical stimulation will occur between two (or more) activated
electrodes, one of which may be the IPG case. Simulation energy may be
transmitted to the tissue in a monopolar or multipolar (e.g., bipolar, tripolar, etc.)
fashion. Monopolar stimulation occurs when a selected one of the lead electrodes
26 is activated along with the case of the IPG 14, so that stimulation energy is
transmitted between the selected electrode 26 and case. Bipolar stimulation occurs
when two of the lead electrodes 26 are activated as anode and cathode, so that
stimulation energy is transmitted between the selected electrodes 26. For example,
an electrode on one lead 12 may be activated as an anode at the same time that an
electrode on the same lead or another lead 12 is activated as a cathode. Tripolar
stimulation occurs when three of the lead electrodes 26 are activated, two as anodes
and the remaining one as a cathode, or two as cathodes and the remaining one as
an anode. For example, two electrodes on one lead 12 may be activated as anodes
at the same time that an electrode on another lead 12 is activated as a cathode.
              The stimulation energy may be delivered between electrodes as
monophasic electrical energy or multiphasic electrical energy. Monophasic electrical
energy includes a series of pulses that are either all positive (anodic) or all negative
(cathodic). Multiphasic electrical energy includes a series of pulses that alternate
between positive and negative. For example, multiphasic electrical energy may
include a series of biphasic pulses, with each biphasic pulse including a cathodic
(negative) stimulation phase and an anodic (positive) recharge phase that is
                                               35

generated after the stimulation phase to prevent direct current charge transfer
through the tissue, thereby avoiding electrode degradation and cell trauma. That is,
charge is delivered through the electrode-tissue interface via current at an electrode
during a stimulation period (the length of the stimulation pulse), and then pulled back
off the electrode-tissue interface via an oppositely polarized current at the same
electrode during a recharge period (the length of the recharge pulse).
               In the illustrated embodiment, IPG 14 can individually control the
magnitude of electrical current flowing through each of the electrodes. In this case, it
is preferred to have a current generator, wherein individual current-regulated
amplitudes from independent current sources for each electrode may be selectively
generated. Although this system is optimal to take advantage of the invention, other
stimulators that may be used with the invention include stimulators having voltage
regulated outputs. While individually programmable electrode amplitudes are optimal
to achieve fine control, a single output source switched across electrodes may also
be used, although with less fine control in programming. Mixed current and voltage
regulated devices may also be used with the invention. Further details discussing
the detailed structure and function of IPGs are described more fully in U.S. Patent
Nos. 6,516,227 and 6,993,384.
               It should be noted that rather than an IPG, the SCS system 10 may
alternatively utilize an implantable receiver-stimulator (not shown) connected to the
neurostimulation leads 12. In this case, the power source, e.g., a battery, for
powering the implanted receiver, as well as control circuitry to command the
receiver-stimulator, will be contained in an external controller inductively coupled to
the receiver-stimulator via an electromagnetic link. Data/power signals are
transcutaneously coupled from a cable-connected transmission coil placed over the
                                              36

implanted receiver-stimulator. The implanted receiver-stimulator receives the signal
and generates the stimulation in accordance with the control signals.
               Referring now to Fig. 5, one exemplary embodiment of an RC 16 will
now be described. As previously discussed, the RC 16 is capable of communicating
with the IPG 14, CP 18, or ETS 20. The RC 16 comprises a casing 50, which
houses internal componentry (including a printed circuit board (PCB)), and a lighted
display screen 52 and button pad 54 carried by the exterior of the casing 50. In the
illustrated embodiment, the display screen 52 is a lighted flat panel display screen,
and the button pad 54 comprises a membrane switch with metal domes positioned
over a flex circuit, and a keypad connector connected directly to a PCB. In an
optional embodiment, the display screen 52 has touch screen capabilities. The
button pad 54 includes a multitude of buttons 56, 58, 60, and 62, which allow the IPG
14 to be turned ON and OFF, provide for the adjustment or setting of stimulation
parameters within the IPG 14, and provide for selection between screens.
               In the illustrated embodiment, the button 56 serves as an ON/OFF
button that can be actuated to turn the IPG 14 ON and OFF. The button 58 serves
as a select button that allows the RC 16 to switch between screen displays and/or
parameters. The buttons 60 and 62 serve as up/down buttons that can be actuated
to increment or decrement any of stimulation parameters of the pulse generated by
the IPG 14, including pulse amplitude, pulse width, and pulse rate. For example, the
selection button 58 can be actuated to place the RC 16 in a "Pulse Amplitude
Adjustment Mode," during which the pulse amplitude can be adjusted via the
up/down buttons 60, 62, a "Pulse Width Adjustment Mode," during which the pulse
width can be adjusted via the up/down buttons 60, 62, and a "Pulse Rate Adjustment
Mode," during which the pulse rate can be adjusted via the up/down buttons 60, 62.
                                             37

Alternatively, dedicated up/down buttons can be provided for each stimulation
parameter. Rather than using up/down buttons, any other type of actuator, such as
a dial, slider bar, or keypad, can be used to increment or decrement the stimulation
parameters. Further details of the functionality and internal componentry of the RC
16 are disclosed in U.S. Patent No. 6,895,280.
                Referring to Fig. 6, the internal components of an exemplary RC 16 will
now be described. The RC 16 generally includes a processor 64 (e.g., a
microcontroller), memory 66 that stores an operating program for execution by the
processor 64, as well as stimulation parameter sets in a navigation table (described
below), input/output circuitry, and in particular, telemetry circuitry 68 for outputting
stimulation parameters to the IPG 14 and receiving status information from the IPG
14, and input/output circuitry 70 for receiving stimulation control signals from the
button pad 54 and transmitting status information to the display screen 52 (shown in
Fig. 5). As well as controlling other functions of the RC 16, which will not be
described herein for purposes of brevity, the processor 64 generates new stimulation
parameter sets in response to the user operation of the button pad 54. These new
stimulation parameter sets would then be transmitted to the IPG 14 via the telemetry
circuitry 68. Further details of the functionality and internal componentry of the RC
16 are disclosed in U.S. Patent No. 6,895,280.
                As briefly discussed above, the CP 18 greatly simplifies the
programming of multiple electrode combinations, allowing the user (e.g., the
physician or clinician) to readily determine the desired stimulation parameters to be
programmed into the IPG 14, as well as the RC 16. Thus, modification of the
stimulation parameters in the programmable memory of the IPG 14 after implantation
is performed by a user using the CP 18, which can directly communicate with the
                                               38

 IPG 14 or indirectly communicate with the IPG 14 via the RC 16. That is, the CP 18
can be used by the user to modify operating parameters of the electrode array 26
near the spinal cord.
                As shown in Fig. 2, the overall appearance of the CP 18 is that of a
laptop personal computer (PC), and in fact, may be implanted using a PC that has
been appropriately configured to include a directional-programming device and
programmed to perform the functions described herein. Alternatively, the CP 18 may
take the form of a mini-computer, personal digital assistant (PDA), smartphone, etc.,
or even a remote control (RC) with expanded functionality. Thus, the programming
methodologies can be performed by executing software instructions contained within
the CP 18. Alternatively, such programming methodologies can be performed using
firmware or hardware. In any event, the CP 18 may actively control the
characteristics of the electrical stimulation generated by the IPG 14 to allow the
optimum stimulation parameters to be determined based on patient response and
feedback and for subsequently programming the IPG 14 with the optimum
stimulation parameters.
                To allow the user to perform these functions, the CP 18 includes a
mouse 72, a keyboard 74, and a programming display screen 76 housed in a case
78. It is to be understood that in addition to, or in lieu of, the mouse 72, other
directional programming devices may be used, such as a trackball, touchpad,
joystick, or directional keys included as part of the keys associated with the keyboard
74.   In the illustrated embodiment, the monitor 76 is a conventional screen.
Alternatively, instead of being conventional, the monitor 76 may be a digitizer screen,
such as touchscreen (not shown), and may be used in conjunction with an active or
passive digitizer stylus/finger touch.
                                              39

                As shown in Fig. 7, the CP 18 further includes a control circuitry 80
(e.g., a central processor unit (CPU)) and memory 82 that stores a stimulation
programming package 84, which can be executed by the control circuitry 80 to allow
the user to program the IPG 14, and RC 16. The CP 18 further includes output
circuitry 86 (e.g., via the telemetry circuitry of the RC 16) for downloading stimulation
parameters to the IPG 14 and RC 16 and for uploading stimulation parameters
already stored in the memory 66 of the RC 16, via the telemetry circuitry 68 of the
RC 16.
                Execution of the programming package 84 by the control circuitry 80
provides a multitude of display screens (not shown) that can be navigated through
via use of the mouse 72. These display screens allow the clinician to, among other
functions, to select or enter patient profile information (e.g., name, birth date, patient
identification, physician, diagnosis, and address), enter procedure information (e.g.,
programming/follow-up, implant trial system, implant IPG, implant IPG and lead(s),
replace IPG, replace IPG and leads, replace or revise leads, explant, etc.), generate
a pain map of the patient, define the configuration and orientation of the leads,
initiate and control the electrical stimulation energy output by the leads 12, and
select and program the IPG 14 with stimulation parameters in both a surgical setting
and a clinical setting. Further details discussing the above-described CP functions
are disclosed in U.S. Patent Publication Nos. 2010/0010566 and 2010/0121409.
                Most pertinent to the present inventions, execution of the programming
package 84 provides a user interface that conveniently allows a user to program the
 IPG 14 in a manner that emulates an ideal multipole, such as a bipole or tripole,
much like in the manner described in U.S. Patent Publication No. 2011/0106215.
However, in this case, the programming package 84 provides a series of different
                                                40

ideal multipole configurations that can be used to steer electrical current relative to
the electrodes 12 in response to directional control signals generated in response to
manipulation of a directional programming device, such as one or more of the
directional programming devices described above.
               With reference first to Fig. 8, a programming screen 100 can be
generated by the CP 16. The programming screen 100 allows a user to perform
stimulation parameter testing. To this end, the programming screen 100 comprises
a stimulation on/off control 102 that can be alternately clicked to turn the stimulation
on or off. The programming screen 100 further includes various stimulation
parameter controls that can be operated by the user to manually adjust stimulation
parameters. In particular, the programming screen 100 includes a pulse width
adjustment control 104 (expressed in microseconds (ps)), a pulse rate adjustment
control 106 (expressed in pulses per second (pps), and a pulse amplitude
adjustment control 108 (expressed in milliamperes (mA)). Each control includes a
first arrow that can be clicked to decrease the value of the respective stimulation
parameter and a second arrow that can be clicked to increase the value of the
respective stimulation parameter. The programming screen 100 also includes
multipolar/monopolar stimulation selection control 110, which includes check boxes
that can be alternately clicked by the user to provide multipolar or monopolar
stimulation. In an optional embodiment, the case 40 of the IPG 14 may be treated as
one of the lead electrodes 26, such that both the case electrode 40 and at least one
of the lead electrodes 26 can be used to convey anodic electrical current at the same
time. Additionally, the case electrode may be configured with all the programmability
of a lead electrode, with full anodic and cathodic fractionalization.
                                               41

               The programming screen 100 also includes an electrode combination
control 112 having arrows that can be clicked by the user to select one of four
different electrode combinations 1-4. Each of the electrode combinations 1-4 can be
created using a variety of control elements.
               The programming screen 100 also includes a set of axial steering
control elements 116 and a set of transverse steering control elements 118. In the
illustrated embodiments, the control elements 116, 118, as well as the other control
elements discussed herein, are implemented as a graphical icon that can be clicked
with a mouse or touched with a finger in the case of a touchscreen. Alternatively, the
control elements described herein may be implemented as a joy stick, touchpad,
button pad, group of keyboard arrow keys, mouse, roller ball tracking device,
horizontal or vertical rocker-type arm switches, etc., that can be pressed or otherwise
moved to actuate the control elements.
               When any of the axial steering control elements 116 is actuated,
control signals are generated in response to which the control circuitry 80 is
configured for generating stimulation parameter sets designed to axially displace the
locus of the electrical stimulation field (and thus, the volume of activation (VOA))
relative to the axis of the lead 12. Likewise, when any of the transverse steering
control elements 118 is actuated, control signals are generated in response to which
the control circuitry 80 is configured for generating stimulation parameter sets
designed to transversely displace the locus of the electrical stimulation field (and
thus, the VOA) relative to the axis of the lead 12.
               The control elements 116, 118 may be continually actuated (i.e., by
continuously actuating one of the control elements 116, 118, e.g., by clicking on one
of the control elements 116, 118 and holding the click (i.e., continuous actuation of
                                               42

the control following the initial "click"), or repeatedly actuating one of the control
elements 116, 118, e.g., by repeatedly clicking and releasing one of the control
elements 116, 118) to generate a series of control signals in response to which the
control circuitry 80 is configured for generating the plurality of stimulation parameter
sets. The output telemetry circuitry 86 is configured for transmitting these stimulation
parameters sets to the IPG 14.
                Preferably, the control signals that are generated in response to the
actuation of the control elements 116, 118 or the alternative control elements are
directional, meaning that the locus of the electrical stimulation field will be displaced
in a defined direction in response to a continual actuation of a single control element
irrespective of the current position of the locus electrical stimulation field locus. As
will be described in further detail below, the control circuitry 80, in response to the
actuation of the control elements 116, 118, first defines a series of ideal multipoles,
and computationally determines the stimulation parameters, including the
fractionalized current values on each of the electrodes, in a manner that emulates
these ideal multipoles.
                Each of the sets of control elements 116, 118 takes the form of a
double arrow (i.e., two oppositely pointing control element arrows) that can be
actuated to modify the electrical stimulation field depending on the mode of
operation. For example, an upper arrow control element 116a can be clicked to
axially displace (i.e., along the axis of the lead 12) the locus of the electrical
stimulation field in the proximal direction; a lower arrow control element 116b can be
clicked to axially displace (i.e., along the axis of the lead 12) the locus of the
electrical stimulation field in the distal direction; a left arrow control element 11 8a can
be clicked to transversely displace (i.e., perpendicular to the axis of the lead 12) the
                                                 43

locus of the electrical stimulation field in the leftward direction; and a right arrow
control element 118b can be clicked to transversely displace (i.e., perpendicular to
the axis of the lead 12) the locus of the electrical stimulation field in the rightward
direction. The control elements 116, 118 also include indicators 11 6c, 11 8c for
displaying an indication of the locus of the electrical stimulation field relative to the
lead 12. In particular, an indicator 11 6c displays a dot representative of the axial
displacement of the electrical stimulation field locus, and an indicator 11 8c displays a
dot representative of the transverse displacement of the electrical stimulation field
locus.
               Although the programming screen 100 illustrates a surgical paddle
lead, it should be appreciated that the programming screen 100 may illustrate one or
more percutaneous to either arrange the electrodes 12 in an axial direction (in the
case of a single neurostimulation lead) and allowing the electrical current to be
steering in an axial direction, or arranging the electrodes 12 in two dimensions (in the
case of multiple neurostimulation leads), thereby arranging the electrodes in two
dimensions and allowing the electrical current to be steered in two dimensions much
like the surgical paddle lead. Of course, the electrodes can be arranged in three
dimensions (e.g., by arranging three neurostimulation leads in three-dimensions or
by using electrodes on a single neurostimulation lead that are arranged in three
dimensions, e.g., the segmented neurostimulation leads described in U.S.
Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61/374,879), in which case, the electrical
current can be steering in three-dimensions.
               The programming screen 100 displays a two-dimensional graphical
rendering of the electrode array 26 relative to a graphical representation of the
anatomical structure 200 that is preferably the stimulation target. Based on the
                                                44

current stimulation parameter set, the control circuitry 80 computes an estimate of a
resulting volume of activation VOA 202, and generates display signals that prompt
the monitor 76 to display a graphical representation of the VOA 202 with the
graphical electrode array 26 and graphical anatomical structure 200. In the preferred
embodiment, the graphical VOA 202 is superimposed over the graphical anatomical
structure 200.
               The programming screen 100 also displays a graphical rendering of an
ideal multipole 250 that is manipulated by the control circuitry 80 relative to the
electrode array 26. In one embodiment, the multipole 250 is a generalized multipole
that defines five imaginary locations for a central ideal pole 252 and four surrounding
ideal poles 254(1)-254(4) (collectively, 254). The generalized multipole 250 is
defined with several sets of variable values that are stored in memory 82. These
sets of variable values include a set of variable values defining the polarities of the
central ideal pole 252 and surrounding ideal poles 254, a set of variable values
defining a spatial relationship between the central ideal pole 252 and the electrode
array 26, a set of variable values defining a spatial relationship between the
surrounding ideal poles 254 and the central ideal pole 252, and a set of variable
values defining relative intensities of the surrounding ideal poles 254.
               Referring further to Fig. 9, in accordance with typical SCS regimens,
which assume that neurons are stimulated by negatively polarized current, the set of
variable values defining the polarities in the illustrated embodiment, defines the
polarity of the central ideal pole 252 as being a cathode ("-") and the polarities of the
surrounding ideal poles 254 as being anodes ("+"). In alternative embodiments, the
central ideal pole 252 may be defined as an anode ("+") and the polarities of the
surrounding ideal poles 254 may be defined as cathodes ("-"). Alternatively, rather
                                               45

than having a set of variable values that define the polarities of the ideal poles, the
polarities of the ideal poles may be pre-defined in a fixed manner, such that they
cannot be varied.
                In the illustrated embodiment, the spatial relationship between the
central ideal pole 252 and the electrode array 26 is a rectilinear position (e.g., an x-y
position in a two-dimensional coordinate system, or an x-y-z position in a three
dimensional coordinate system). In alternative embodiments, the spatial relationship
between the central ideal pole 252 and the electrode array 26 may be a position in a
polar coordinate system, cylindrical coordinate system, or spherical coordinate
system. The spatial relationship between the central ideal pole 252 and the
electrode array 26 may be stored as absolute coordinate positions for both the
central ideal pole 252 and the electrode array 26, or may be stored as a relative
coordinate position between the central ideal pole 252 and the electrode array 26.
The spatial relationship between the central ideal pole 252 and the electrode array
26 may be determined relative to a reference point in the electrode array 26, e.g., a
designated electrode.
                In the illustrated embodiment, the spatial relationship between the
surrounding ideal poles 254 and the central ideal pole 252 comprises an absolute
distance (referred to as "focus") between each of the surrounding ideal poles 254
and the central ideal pole 252. In particular, the spatial relationship between the first
ideal pole 254(1) and the central ideal pole 252 is defined by a vertical focus VF1,
the spatial relationship between the second ideal pole 254(2) and the central ideal
pole 252 is defined by a vertical focus VF2, the spatial relationship between the third
ideal pole 254(3) and the central ideal pole 252 is defined by a horizontal focus HF1,
                                              46

and the spatial relationship between the fourth ideal pole 254(4) and the central ideal
pole 252 is defined by a horizontal focus HF2.
               In the illustrated embodiment, the relative intensities A1-A4 of the
surrounding ideal poles 254 are defined using fractionalized values. For example,
each of the surrounding ideal poles 254 may have an intensity of 25%. Notably, if a
specific ideal pole 254 is turned on (or activated), it will have a non-zero intensity
value, and if a specific ideal pole 254 is turned off (not activated), it will have a zero
intensity value. Thus, if the relative intensities Al, A2 are non-zero (ideal poles
254(1), 254(2) activated), and the relative intensities A3, A4 are zero (ideal poles
254(3), 254(4) not activated), a longitudinal tripole configuration (rostro-caudal in the
case of SCS) can be formed from the generalized ideal multipole 250, as shown in
Fig. 10. In contrast, if the relative intensities A3, A4 are non-zero (ideal poles
254(3), 254(4) activated), and the relative intensities Al, A2 are zero (ideal poles
254(1), 254(2) not activated), a transverse tripole configuration (medio-lateral in the
case of SCS) can be formed from the generalized ideal multipole 250, as shown in
Fig. 11.
               The ideal poles 254(1) and 254(2) and the central ideal pole 252 are
aligned along a first axis 256 along which the absolute distances for the ideal poles
254(1) and 254(2) are defined, and the ideal poles 254(3) and 254(4) and the central
ideal pole 252 are aligned along a second axis 258 along which the absolute
distances for the ideal poles 254(3) and 254(4) are defined. In this case, a set of
variable values defining an angle between one or both of the axes 256, 258 and a
reference axis 260 may be stored in memory 82.
               In the illustrated embodiment, the reference axis 260 is an axis that is
transverse to the longitudinal axis of the lead 12. For example, as shown in Fig. 9,
                                                47

the angle a between the axis 256 and the reference axis 260 is defined to be 90
degrees, essentially aligning the ideal multipole 250 with the electrode array 26. As
shown in Fig. 12, the angle a between the axis 256 and the reference axis 260 is
defined to be 120 degrees, such that the ideal multipole 250 is rotationally offset
from the electrode array 26.
              If the relative angle between the axes 256, 258 is fixed (i.e., the axes
256, 258 cannot be rotated relative to each other), only one angle (e.g., the angle
between the axis 256 and the reference axis 260) needs to be used. This may, e.g.,
be the case when the axes 256, 258 are always assumed to be orthogonal to each
other, as shown in Figs. 9 and 12. However, in alternative embodiments, the axes
256, 258 may be rotated relative to each other, in which case, two angles need to be
defined. For example, as shown in Fig. 13, the angle a between the axis 256 and
the reference axis 260 is defined to be 120 degrees, and the angle P between the
axis 258 and the reference axis 260 is defined to be -15 degrees. In this case, the
axes 256, 258 are non-orthogonal to each other. Alternatively, rather than defining
the angles for both axes 256, 258 relative to the reference axis 260, the angle of one
of the axes 256, 258 can be defined relative to the reference axis 260, and the angle
of the other one of the axes 256, 256 can be defined relative to the one axes. For
example, the angle a between the axis 256 and the reference axis 260 can be
defined to be 120 degrees, and the angle qp between the axes 256, 258 can be
defined to be 135 degrees.
              In the preferred embodiment, the vertical focuses VF1, VF2 for the
respective ideal poles 254(1), 254(2), and the horizontal HF1, HF2 for the respective
ideal poles 254(3), 254(4), are independently defined. For example, although in the
Fig. 9 embodiment, the vertical focuses VF1, VF2 are equal (symmetrical) and the
                                             48

horizontal focuses HF1, HF2 are equal (symmetric), in the Fig. 13 embodiment, the
vertical focuses VF1, VF2 are not equal (VF1 is greater than VF2)(asymmetric), and
the horizontal focuses HF1, HF2 are not equal (HF1 is less than HF2)(asymmetric).
               The control circuitry 80 is configured for modifying at least one of the
sets of values that define the ideal multipole 250 in response to the directional
control signals generated by the user interface. For example, the control circuitry 80
may modify the polarities of the central ideal pole 252 and surrounding ideal poles
254, the rectilinear position of the central ideal pole 252 relative to the electrode
array 26, the vertical focuses VF1, VF2 and horizontal focuses HF1, HF2, the
fractionalized values Al -A4 of the surrounding ideal poles 254, and/or any of the
angles a, P, qp. In an optional embodiment, the control circuitry 80 may modify one of
the sets of values that define the ideal multipole 250 as a function of an automated
sequence (e.g., the sets of values are modified every second), as a function of an
electrode boundary (e.g., the ideal multipole 250 must remain within a certain
electrode region), or as a function of a particular electrode position (e.g., one of the
poles of the ideal multipole 250 must be affixed to a particular electrode).
               The control circuitry 80 is further configured for generating, based on
the modification, stimulation parameter values defining relative amplitude values for
the respective electrodes 12 to emulate the selected poles of the ideal multipole 250,
and instructing the IPG 14 to convey electrical energy to the electrode array 26 in
accordance with the stimulation parameter values. Further details discussing the
computation of relative electrode amplitude values to emulate ideal multipoles are
disclosed in U.S. Patent Publication No. 2011/0106215.
               Significantly, the control circuitry 80 may steer current in a particular
direction by modifying the values defining the generalized ideal multipole 250 in
                                               49

response to the continual generation of the directional control signals, and instructing
the IPG 14 to convey the electrical energy to the electrode array 26 in accordance
with stimulation parameter values generated based on the modified values.
                For example, the control circuitry 80 may be configured for sequentially
defining a plurality of different ideal bipole/tripole configurations relative to electrode
array 26 in response to the directional control signals.
                In one embodiment shown in Fig. 14, the control circuitry 80 utilizes a
longitudinal tripole configuration having a central ideal cathode 252 and two flanking
anodes 254(1) and 254(2) as a basis for defining the different ideal bipole/tripole
configurations. The longitudinal tripole configuration can be derived from the
generalized ideal multipole 250 by defining the polarization of the central ideal pole
252 to be a cathode and the polarizations of the surrounding ideal poles 254 to be
anodes, defining the intensity values for the ideal poles 254(1) and 254(2) to be non
zero values, and defining the intensity values for the ideal poles 254(3) and 254(4)
(not shown in Fig. 14) to be zero values. The characteristics of the basis longitudinal
tripole configuration can be defined by a longitudinal focus (LGF) (equivalent to the
vertical focus (VF1) of the generalized multipole 250), an upper anode percentage
(UAP)(equivalent to the intensity value Al of the generalized multipole 250), and the
cathode position relative to the electrode array 26. The lower anode percentage can
be computed in accordance with the equation A2=100-A1.
               The control circuitry 80 may sequentially define the different ideal
bipole/tripole configurations in accordance with a weaving current steering
technique. For example, a series of ideal bipole/tripole configurations are illustrated
in Fig. 15 over a plurality of dashed lines representing available electrode positions
in the electrode array 26. As shown, the individual poles of the ideal bipole/tripole
                                                50

configurations are generally maintained as much as possible over an available
electrode position in order to emulate the ideal bipole/tripole configurations in the
most energy efficient manner. In the illustrated embodiment, all of the ideal tripole
configurations are symmetrical in that the ideal anodes are equally spaced from the
central ideal cathode. Each illustrated bipole/tripole configuration has a designator
indicating whether it is a tripole or bipole (T for tripole and B for bipole), a subscripted
designator indicating the longitudinal focus (LGF) in terms of electrode separation,
and, in the case of a bipole, a subscripted designator indicating the bipole is an
upper bipole (u), meaning that the anode is above the cathode, or the bipole is a
lower bipole (1), meaning that the anode is below the cathode.
               In the embodiment illustrated in Fig. 15, the different ideal bipole/tripole
configurations are sequentially defined in the following order: a narrow ideal tripole
configuration (T2 ), a narrow upper ideal bipole configuration (B2u), a wide upper ideal
bipole configuration (B3 u), a wide ideal tripole configuration (T2 .5 ), a wide lower ideal
bipole configuration (B31), a narrow lower ideal bipole configuration (B21), and the
narrow ideal tripole configuration (T 2). For purposes of this specification, the terms
"narrow" and "wide," when used together to define an ideal bipole or an ideal tripole,
are relative terms, and simply mean that the narrow bipole and/or narrow tripole
have longitudinal focuses (LGFs) that are less than the longitudinal focuses (LGFs)
of the wide bipole and/or wide tripole.
               The ideal bipole/tripole configurations illustrated in Fig. 15 may be
considered critical points between which the cathode position and longitudinal focus
(LGF) are incrementally changed by mapping the sequences in a "weave space,"
defined by the longitudinal focus (LGF) and the upper anode percentage (UAP). As
best shown in Fig. 16, the sequence of ideal bipole/tripole configurations is defined
                                               51

by a trajectory line sequentially connecting the critical points (representing by circles)
that provides a continuous change in the ideal bipole/tripole configurations.
               As can be seen from Fig. 16, the sequence beginning with the narrow
ideal tripole configuration (T2 ) and ending with the narrow upper ideal bipole
configuration (B2u) incrementally increases the upper anode percentage (UAP) while
maintaining the longitudinal focus (LGF). The sequence beginning with the narrow
upper ideal bipole configuration (B2u) and ending with the wide upper ideal bipole
configuration (B3 u) maintains the upper anode percentage (UAP) while incrementally
increasing the longitudinal focus (LGF). The sequence beginning with the wide
upper ideal bipole configuration (B3 u) and ending with the wide ideal tripole
configuration (T2 .5 ) incrementally decreases the upper anode percentage (UAP)
while incrementally decreasing the longitudinal focus (LGF). The sequence
beginning with the wide ideal tripole configuration (T2 .5 ) and ending with the wide
lower ideal bipole configuration (B3 1) incrementally decreases the upper anode
percentage (UAP) while incrementally increasing the longitudinal focus (LGF). The
sequence beginning with the wide lower ideal bipole configuration (B31) and ending
with the narrow lower ideal bipole configuration (B2 1) maintains the upper anode
percentage (UAP) while incrementally decreasing the longitudinal focus (LGF). The
sequence beginning with the narrow lower ideal bipole configuration (B21) and ending
with the narrow ideal tripole configuration (T 2 ) incrementally increases the upper
anode percentage (UAP) while maintaining the longitudinal focus (LGF).
               Notably, the above-mentioned sequence maintains the same position
of the ideal cathode relative to the electrode array 26 while transitioning through
different types of ideal bipole/tripole configurations between the narrow ideal tripole
configuration (T2 ) and the wide upper ideal bipole configuration (B3 u), incrementally
                                               52

changes the position of the ideal cathode relative to the electrode array 26 in one
direction (in this case, upward) between the wide upper ideal bipole configuration
(B3 u) and the wide lower ideal bipole configuration (B31), and the maintains the same
position of the ideal cathode relative to the electrode array 26 while transitioning
through different types of ideal bipole/tripole configurations between the wide lower
ideal bipole configuration (B31) and the narrow ideal tripole configuration (T2 ).
                 The sequence illustrated in Fig. 15 can be repeatedly cycled through,
with the effect being that the ideal cathode is shifted upward by one electrode per
each cycle. When electrical energy is conveyed to the electrode array 26 in
accordance with stimulation parameter sets computed to emulate the sequence of
bipolar/tripole configurations, a volume of activation (VOA) will be incrementally
displaced along the tissue of the patient in concordance with the incremental
displacement of the ideal cathode. If each ideal bipole/tripole configuration is
generally aligned along the spinal cord of the patient, the VOA will be rostro-caudally
displaced along the spinal cord of the patient.
                 Notably, different step sizes may be used transition between the ideal
bipole/tripole configurations. For example, as shown in Fig. 17, a fine resolution (10
steps per critical point transition) are used to transition between the critical points
where the cathode is not being shifted, and an even finer resolution (20 steps per
critical point transition) are used to transition between the critical points where the
cathode is being shifted. As shown in Fig. 18, a coarse resolution (5 steps per
critical point transition) is used to transition between all of the critical points.
                 It should be appreciated that the different ideal bipole/tripole
configurations may be sequentially defined in a different order and shift the cathode
using different ones of the bipole/tripole configurations as compared to the sequence
                                                 53

illustrated in Fig. 15. For example, as shown in Fig. 19, the different ideal
bipole/tripole configurations may be defined in the following order: a narrow upper
ideal bipole configuration (B2u), a wide upper ideal bipole configuration (B3 u), a wide
ideal tripole configuration (T3 ), a wide lower ideal bipole configuration (B31), a narrow
lower ideal bipole configuration (B21), a narrow ideal tripole configuration (T2 .5 ), and
the narrow upper ideal bipole configuration (B2 u).
               As best shown in Fig. 20, the sequence of ideal bipole/tripole
configurations is defined by a trajectory line sequentially connecting the critical points
(representing by circles). As can be seen, the sequence beginning with the narrow
upper ideal bipole configuration (B2u) and ending with the wide upper ideal bipole
configuration (B3 u) maintains the upper anode percentage (UAP) while incrementally
increasing the longitudinal focus (LGF). The sequence beginning with the wide
upper ideal bipole configuration (B3 u) and ending with the wide ideal tripole
configuration (T3 ) incrementally decreases the upper anode percentage (UAP) while
maintaining the longitudinal focus (LGF). The sequence beginning with the wide
ideal tripole configuration (T3 ) and ending with the wide lower bipole configuration
(B3 1) incrementally decreases the upper anode percentage (UAP) while maintaining
the longitudinal focus (LGF). The sequence beginning with the wide lower ideal
bipole configuration (B31) and ending with the narrow lower ideal bipole configuration
(B2 1) maintains the upper anode percentage (UAP) while incrementally decreasing
the longitudinal focus (LGF). The sequence beginning with the narrow lower ideal
bipole configuration (B21) and ending with the narrow ideal tripole configuration (T 2 .5 )
incrementally increases the upper anode percentage (UAP) while incrementally
increasing the longitudinal focus (LGF). The sequence beginning with the narrow
ideal tripole configuration (T2 .5 ) and ending with the narrow upper ideal bipole
                                                54

configuration (B2u) incrementally increases the upper anode percentage (UAP) while
incrementally decreasing the longitudinal focus (LGF).
               Notably, the above-mentioned sequence maintains the same position
of the ideal cathode relative to the electrode array 26 while transitioning through
different types of ideal bipole/tripole configurations between the narrow upper ideal
bipole configuration (B2u) and the narrow lower ideal bipole configuration (B21), and
incrementally changes the position of the ideal cathode relative to the electrode array
26 in one direction (in this case, upward) between the narrow lower ideal bipole
configuration (B21) and the narrow upper ideal bipole configuration (B2 u).
               The sequence illustrated in Fig. 19 can be repeatedly cycled through,
with the effect being that the ideal cathode is shifted upward by one electrode per
each cycle. As discussed above with respect to Fig. 15, if each of ideal bipole/tripole
configuration is generally aligned along the spinal cord of the patient, when electrical
energy is conveyed to the electrode array 26 in accordance with stimulation
parameter sets computed to emulate the sequence of bipolar/tripole configurations, a
volume of activation (VOA) will be incrementally rostro-caudally displaced along the
spinal cord of the patient in concordance with the incremental displacement of the
ideal cathode.
               Although the cathode and anodes of the tripole configurations are
aligned along an axis, as illustrated in Figs. 15 and 19, it should be appreciated that
the cathode and anodes may be misaligned along the axis. For example, in the
manner illustrated in Fig. 13, the control circuitry 80 may define the angles a and  P in
a manner that the ideal poles 254(1) and 254(2) and central ideal pole 252 are
misaligned along the axis 256.
                                               55

                 Rather than sequentially defining different ideal bipole/tripole
configurations that are aligned in the same direction, in response to the directional
control signals, the control circuitry 80 may be configured for sequentially defining a
plurality of different ideal multipole configurations, some of which may be orthogonal
to each other.
                 In one embodiment shown in Fig. 21, the control circuitry 80 utilizes a
generalized ideal multipole 300 having a central ideal cathode 352 and four
surrounding ideal anodes 354 as a basis for defining the orthogonal multipole
configurations. The generalized ideal multipole 300 can be derived from the
generalized ideal multipole 250 by defining the polarization of the central ideal pole
252 to be a cathode and the polarizations of the surrounding ideal poles 254 to be
anodes. The vertical focuses VF1, VF2 of the generalized ideal multipole 250 have
been respectively replaced with an above anode focus AF and a below anode focus
BF, and the horizontal focuses HE1, HF2 of the generalized ideal multipole 250 have
been respectively replaced with a left anode focus LF and a right anode focus RF.
                With reference to Figs. 22a-22c, a series of active electrode
combinations using the electrode array 26 of Fig. 3 can be generated to shift a
volume of activation (VOA) from a medial to a lateral location. As will be described
in further detail below, the ideal multipoles can be generated to match the actual
sequence of active electrode combinations.
                The sequence of active electrode combinations may begin with a
transverse tripole electrode arrangement S1 created by activating the middle row in
the inner electrode columns 26' (electrodes E9, E14) as cathodes, and activating the
two flanking electrodes in the left outer column 26" (electrodes E3, E4) and the two
flanking electrodes in the right outer column 26" (electrodes E19, E20) as anodes,
                                               56

thereby creating a medial-lateral electrical field that effectively places the VOA in a
medial position relative to the electrode array 26. This transverse tripole
arrangement provides high selectivity for DC nerve fibers over DR nerve fibers.
                Another transverse tripole electrode arrangement S2 is created by
using the same transverse tripole electrode arrangement S1, but deactivating the
electrode in the left inner electrode column 26' (electrode E9), thereby creating a
medial-lateral electrical field that laterally shifts the resulting VOA to the right from
the medial position.
                A narrow longitudinal tripole electrode arrangement S3 is created by
activating the middle electrode in the right inner electrode column 26' (electrode E14)
as a cathode, and activating two flanking electrodes in the right inner electrode
column 26' (electrodes E12, E16) as anodes, thereby creating a rostral-caudal
electrical field that shifts the resulting VOA further to the right.
                A wide longitudinal tripole electrode arrangement S4 is created by
activating the middle two electrodes in the right outer electrode column 26'
(electrodes El 9, E20), and activating two flanking electrodes in the right outer
electrode column 26' (electrodes E17, E22), thereby creating a rostral-caudal
electrical field that shifts the resulting VOA all the way to the right.
                A quadpole electrode arrangement S5 is created by using the
longitudinal tripole electrode arrangement S4, but activating the middle electrode in
the right inner electrode column 26' (electrode E14).
                Notably, although displacement of the resulting VOA is shown to occur
from the medial location to the right, it can be appreciated that the resulting VOA can
be displaced from the medial location to the left
                                                57

               As illustrated in Fig. 22b, the control circuitry 50 may sequentially
define ideal multipole configurations that respectively match the active electrode
arrangements illustrated in Fig. 21a. In particular, the control circuitry 50 may define
the ideal multipole configurations in the following order: a first ideal tripole
configuration S1 oriented in a first direction (transverse), a second ideal tripole
configuration S2 oriented in the first direction (transverse), a third ideal tripole
configuration S3 oriented in a second orthogonal direction (longitudinal), a fourth
ideal tripole configuration S4 oriented in the second direction (longitudinal), and an
ideal quadpole configuration S5.
                Referring further to Fig. 22c, the control circuitry 50 defines the
different multipole configurations in accordance with the anode intensities (A1-A4),
anode focuses (AF, BF, LF, RF), and position of the central ideal cathode relative to
the electrode array 26.
                In particular, the first ideal tripole configuration S1 can be defined as a
narrow, transverse, symmetrical ideal tripole configuration by setting the anode
intensities Al, A2 to zero values, setting the anode intensities A3, A4 to non-zero
values, and setting the left and right anode focuses LF, RF to relatively small equal
values, and defining the relative position between the central ideal cathode and the
electrode array 26, such that the central ideal cathode is transversely aligned
between the two inner electrode columns 26'.
               The second ideal tripole configuration S2 can be defined as a narrow,
transverse, asymmetrical ideal tripole configuration by setting the anode intensities
Al, A2 to zero values, setting the anode intensities A3, A4 to non-zero values,
setting the left anode focus LF to be a relative large value, setting the right anode
focus RF to be a relatively small value, and defining the relative position between the
                                                   58

central ideal cathode and the electrode array 26, such that the central ideal cathode
is transversely aligned with the right inner electrode column 26'.
               The third ideal tripole configuration S3 can be defined as a narrow,
longitudinal, symmetrical ideal tripole configuration by setting the anode intensities
Al, A2 to non-zero values, setting the anode intensities A3, A4 to zero values,
setting the above and below anode focuses AF, BF to relatively small equal values,
and defining the relative position between the central ideal cathode and the electrode
array 26, such that the central ideal cathode is transversely aligned with the right
inner electrode column 26'.
               The fourth ideal tripole configuration S4 can be defined as a wide
symmetrical ideal tripole configuration by setting the anode intensities Al, A2 to non
zero values, setting the anode intensities A3, A4 to zero values, setting the above
and below anode focuses AF, BF to relatively large equal values, and defining the
relative position between the central ideal cathode and the electrode array 26, such
that the central ideal cathode is transversely aligned with the right outer electrode
column 12.
               The ideal quadpole configuration S5 can be defined to have two ideal
anodes that longitudinally flank the central ideal cathode, and a third ideal anode
positioned to the left of the central ideal cathode equidistantly from the two anodes
by setting the anode intensities Al, A2, A3 to non-zero values, setting the anode
intensity A4 to a zero value, setting the above and below anode focuses AF, BF to
relatively large equal values, setting the left anode focus LF to a relatively small
value, and defining the relative position between the central ideal cathode and the
electrode array 26, such that the central ideal cathode is transversely aligned with
the right inner electrode column 26'.
                                               59

               The ideal multipole configurations illustrated in Figs. 22b may be
considered critical points between which the anode intensities (A1-A4), anode
focuses (LF, RF, AF, BF), and the cathode advancement are incrementally changed
to smoothly advance the VOA from a medial position to a lateral position, as best
shown in Fig. 22c.
               In particular, between the first ideal tripole configuration S1 and the
second ideal tripole configuration S2, the above and below anode intensities Al, A2
are maintained at zero values (remain turned off), the left and right anode intensities
A3, A4 are maintained at non-zero values (remain turned on), the left anode focus
LF is incrementally increased to a relatively high value while the right anode focus
RF is incrementally decreased to a relatively low value, and the position of the ideal
central cathode is incrementally shifted to the right.
               Between the second ideal tripole configuration S2 and the third ideal
tripole configuration S3, the above and below anode intensities Al, A2 are
incrementally increased from the zero values (gradually turned on) while the left and
right anode intensities A3, A4 are incrementally decreased to zero values (gradually
turned off), the left and right anode focuses LF, RF are maintained, and the position
of the ideal central cathode is maintained.
               Between the third ideal tripole configuration S3 and the fourth ideal
tripole configuration S4, the non-zero values of the above and below anode
intensities Al, A2 are maintained (remain turned on), the zero values of the left and
right anode intensities A3, A4 are maintained (remain turned off), the left anode
focus LF is incrementally decreased while the right anode focus RF is incrementally
increased, the above and below anode focuses AF, BF are incrementally increased,
and the position of the ideal central cathode is incrementally shifted to the right.
                                               60

               Between the fourth ideal tripole configuration S4 and the ideal
quadpole configuration S5, the above and below anode intensities Al, A2 are
incrementally decreased to lesser non-zero values (gradually turned down, e.g., by
5-50%), the left anode intensity A3 is incrementally increased from the non-zero
value (gradually turned up, e.g., by 10-100%), the zero value of the right anode
intensity A4 is maintained (remained turned off), all the anode focuses AF, BF, LF,
RF are maintained, and the position of the ideal central cathode is maintained.
               When electrical energy is conveyed to the electrode array 26 in
accordance with stimulation parameter sets computed to emulate the sequence of
ideal tripole configurations and quadpole configuration, a volume of activation (VOA)
will be incrementally displaced medio-laterally across the spinal cord of the patient in
concordance with the incremental displacement of the ideal cathode.
               It should be appreciated that it is important that, during the current
steering methodologies described with respect to Figs. 14-22, it is important that
none of the poles of the ideal multipole configurations is outside of the maximum
extent of the electrode array 26.
               For example, if the surgical paddle lead 12 illustrated in Fig. 3 is
conventionally implanted within the patient such that the electrode columns are
aligned with the longitudinal axis of the spinal cord, it is important that an ideal pole
not extend above electrodes El and El 7 (which may occur when current is steered
in the rostral direction), not extend below electrodes E6 and E22 (which may occur
when current is steered in the caudal direction), not extent to the left of the left
electrode column 26" (which may occur when current is steered in the lateral
direction to the left), and not extend to the right of the right electrode column 26"
(which may occur when current is steered in the lateral direction to the right). If the
                                               61

percutaneous leads 12 illustrated in Fig. 4 are implanted with the patient such that
the leads are aligned with the longitudinal axis of the spinal cord and the distal ends
of the leads are pointed in the rostral direction (as shown in Fig. 2), it is important
that an ideal pole not extend above electrodes El and E9 (which may occur when
current is steered in the rostral direction), and not extend below electrodes E8 and
E16 (which may occur when current is steered in the caudal direction). It can be
appreciated from this that, in the case of a linear electrode array (e.g., any of the
electrode columns of the surgical paddle lead or percutaneous leads), the maximum
extent will be coincident with an electrode 26 at the end of the linear electrode array
(e.g., for the surgical paddle lead 12, electrodes El and E6 for the left outer
electrode column 26", electrodes E7 and El 1 for the left inner electrode column 26',
electrodes El2 and El6 for the right inner electrode column 26', and electrodes El7
and E22 for the right outer electrode column 26"; and electrodes El and E8 for the
percutaneous lead 12(1); and electrodes E9 and El6 for the percutaneous lead
 12(2)).
                Referring to Fig. 23, to prevent any ideal pole from extending outside
the maximum extent of the electrode array 26, the control circuitry 50 first
sequentially defines a plurality of ideal multipole configurations relative to the
electrode array 26; e.g., in the manner described above with respect to Fig. 15. The
control circuitry 50 then determines a spatial relationship between at least one of the
defined plurality of ideal multipole configurations and the maximum extent of the
electrode array 26, and
if any pole of a defined ideal multipole configuration will spatially exceed the
maximum extent of the electrode array 26, the control circuitry 50 modifies the
plurality of ideal multipole configurations such that all of the defined ideal multipole
                                               62

configurations that spatially exceeded the maximum extent of the electrode array 26
will spatially be within the maximum extent of the electrode array 26. As can be
seen from Fig. 23, if the defined ideal multipole configurations remain unmodified,
the upper pole (anode) of the wide upper ideal bipole configuration B3        and the upper
pole (anode) of the wide ideal bipole configuration T2 .5 extend above the rostral-most
electrode (i.e., the maximum allowed rostral focus). As shown in Fig. 24, the
sequence of ideal bipole/tripole configurations is defined by the dashed trajectory
line sequentially connecting the critical points (representing by circles).
                The control circuitry 50 corrects this by decreasing the longitudinal
focus LGF of the wide upper ideal bipole configuration B3 (essentially eliminating the
wide upper ideal bipole configuration B3 and replacing it with a narrower upper ideal
bipole configuration B2 .5 u). The control circuitry 50 also delays the initial rostral
displacement of the ideal cathode, which was previously to occur at the wide upper
ideal bipole configuration B3 , until the wide ideal tripole configuration T2 .5. To
provide another step for displacing the ideal cathode before the final displacement at
the wide lower ideal bipole configuration B3 1, the control circuitry 50 adds a lower
ideal bipole configuration B2 .5 1 between the wide ideal tripole configuration T2.s and
the wide lower ideal bipole configuration B3 1.
                As best shown in Fig. 25, the sequence of ideal bipole/tripole
configurations is defined by a trajectory line sequentially connecting the critical points
(representing by circles). As can be seen, the sequence beginning with the narrow
ideal tripole configuration (T2 ) and ending with the narrow upper ideal bipole
configuration (B2u) incrementally increases the upper anode percentage (UAP) while
maintaining the longitudinal focus (LGF). The sequence beginning with the narrow
upper ideal bipole configuration (B2u) and ending with the (adjusted) wide upper ideal
                                               63

bipole configuration (B2 .5 u) maintains the upper anode percentage (UAP) while
incrementally increasing the longitudinal focus (LGF). The sequence beginning with
the wide upper ideal bipole configuration (B2 .5 u) and ending with the wide ideal tripole
configuration (T2 .5 ) incrementally decreases the upper anode percentage (UAP)
while incrementally decreasing the longitudinal focus (LGF). The sequence
beginning with the wide ideal tripole configuration (T2 .5 ) and ending with the
(adjusted) wide lower ideal bipole configuration (B2 .51) incrementally decreases the
upper anode percentage (UAP) while maintaining the longitudinal focus (LGF). The
sequence beginning with the wide lower ideal bipole configuration (B2 .51) and ending
with the wide lower ideal bipole configuration (B 3 1) maintains the upper anode
percentage (UAP) while incrementally increasing the longitudinal focus (LGF). The
sequence beginning with the wide lower ideal bipole configuration (B31) and ending
with the narrow lower ideal bipole configuration (B2 1) maintains the upper anode
percentage (UAP) while incrementally decreasing the longitudinal focus (LGF).
               Notably, the above-mentioned sequence maintains the same position
of the ideal cathode relative to the electrode array 26 while transitioning through
different types of ideal bipole/tripole configurations between the narrow ideal tripole
configuration (T2 ) and the wide ideal tripole configuration (T2 .5 u) and between the
wide lower ideal bipole configuration (B3d) and the narrow lower ideal bipole
configuration (B21), and incrementally changes the position of the ideal cathode
relative to the electrode array 26 in one direction (in this case, upward) between the
wide ideal tripole configuration (T2 .5 u) and the wide lower ideal bipole configuration
(B3 d).
               The sequence illustrated in Fig. 24 can be repeatedly cycled through,
with the effect being that the ideal cathode is shifted upward by one electrode per
                                                64

each cycle. As discussed above with respect to Fig. 15, if each of ideal bipole/tripole
configuration is generally aligned along the spinal cord of the patient, when electrical
energy is conveyed to the electrode array 26 in accordance with stimulation
parameter sets computed to emulate the sequence of bipolar/tripole configurations, a
volume of activation (VOA) will be incrementally rostro-caudally displaced along the
spinal cord of the patient in concordance with the incremental displacement of the
ideal cathode.
                As can be appreciated, by modifying the longitudinal focus (LGF), the
control circuitry 50 displaces the ideal anode(s) and ideal cathode relative to each
other for the respective ideal multipole configurations. In doing this, values defining
a spatial relationship between the ideal anode(s) and ideal cathode (in this case, the
longitudinal focus (LGF)) may be stored in memory. At least some of these values
may be variable, such that the control circuitry 50 may displace the ideal anode(s)
and ideal cathode relative to each other by modifying the variable values.
                For example, as illustrated in Fig. 26, seven critical points (P1-P7)
representing seven ideal bipole/tripole configurations at any given time are shown in
a weave space, defined by the longitudinal focus (LGF) and the upper anode
percentage (UAP), with the sequence of ideal bipole/tripole configurations defined by
a trajectory line sequentially connecting the critical points (representing by circles).
Critical points P1 and P7, which represent narrow ideal bipole/tripole configurations,
cannot be varied, and therefore, can be defined by fixed values stored in memory,
and critical points P2-P6, which represent wide ideal bipole/tripole configurations,
can be varied, and therefore, can be defined by variable values stored in memory.
                In the illustrated embodiment, critical points P1, P7 initially represent a
narrow lower ideal bipole configuration and a narrow upper ideal bipole
                                               65

configuration; critical points P2, P3 initially represent identical wide upper ideal bipole
configurations, critical point P4 initially represents a wide ideal tripole configuration,
and critical points P5, P6 initially represent identical wide lower ideal bipole
configurations. Initially, it is assumed that the maximum longitudinal focus (LGF) in
both the rostral and caudal direction is above a certain limit. The control circuitry 50
may change the variable values associated with critical points P2-P6, such that no
pole of an ideal bipole/tripole configuration exceeds the maximum longitudinal focus
(LGF) (i.e., the maximum extent of the electrode array 26). In the illustrated
embodiment, the variable values associated with critical points.
               For example, if the maximum longitudinal focus at issue is a rostral
longitudinal focus (i.e., the upper poles of the ideal bipole/tripole configurations may
possibly exceed the upper maximum extent of the electrode array 26), critical points
P2, P5 may be displaced horizontally left along the respective P2, P5 moving lines
(thereby decreasing the respective longitudinal focus values (LGFs), and the critical
point P3, P4 may be displaced diagonally left and downward along the respective
P3, P4 moving lines (thereby decreasing the respective longitudinal focus values
(LGFs) and decreasing the upper anode percentages (UAPs), as shown in Fig. 27a.
               When the rostral maximum longitudinal focus (LGF) is less than the
longitudinal focus (LGF) of critical point P2, critical points P2, P5 are concurrently
displaced along the respective P2, P5 moving lines to the same longitudinal focus
(LGF) value (thereby effectively narrowing the wide upper and lower ideal bipole
configurations), and critical point P3 is displaced along the P3 moving line
(effectively changing the upper ideal bipole configuration into a narrower ideal tripole
configuration). If the rostral maximum longitudinal focus (LGF) is less than the
longitudinal focus (LGF) of critical point P4, critical point P4 is displaced along the P4
                                                66

moving line (effectively narrowing the wide ideal tripole configuration). In this case,
the critical points P3, P4 are concurrently displaced along the respective P3, P4
moving lines to the same longitudinal focus (LGF) value and the same upper anode
percentage (UAP) value. In effect, the critical points P3, P4 will represent the
identical ideal tripole configuration.
                As shown in Fig. 27b, critical points P2, P3, P5 are displaced in
accordance with three different rostral maximum longitudinal focuses (LGFs)
(represented by vertical solid lines) that are between the longitudinal focuses (LGFs)
of critical points P2, P4. As shown in Fig. 27c, critical points P2, P3, P4, P5 are
displaced in accordance with two different rostral maximum longitudinal focuses
(LGFs) (represented by vertical solid lines) that are less than the longitudinal focus
(LGF) of critical point P4. Shifting of the ideal cathode may be applied between
critical points P3, P6. A modified weaving trajectory line sequentially connects the
modified critical points P1-P7 shown in Figs. 27b and 27c.
                As another example, if the maximum longitudinal focus at issue is a
caudal longitudinal focus (i.e., the lower poles of the ideal bipole/tripole
configurations may possibly exceed the lower maximum extent of the electrode array
26), critical points P3, P6 may be displaced horizontally left along the respective P3,
P6 moving lines (thereby decreasing the respective longitudinal focus values (LGFs)
and decreasing the respective upper anode percentages (UAPs), and the critical
point P4, P5 may be displaced diagonally left and upward along the respective P4,
P5 moving lines (thereby decreasing the respective longitudinal focus values (LGFs)
and increasing the respective upper anode percentages (UAPs), as shown in Fig.
28a.
                                               67

                When the caudal maximum longitudinal focus (LGF) is less than the
longitudinal focus (LGF) of critical point P6, critical points P3, P6 are concurrently
displaced along the respective P3, P6 moving lines to the same longitudinal focus
(LGF) value (thereby effectively narrowing the wide upper and lower ideal bipole
configurations), and critical point P5 is displaced along the P5 moving line
(effectively changing the lower ideal bipole configuration into a narrower ideal tripole
configuration). If the rostral maximum longitudinal focus (LGF) is less than the
longitudinal focus (LGF) of critical point P4, critical point P4 is displaced along the P4
moving line (effectively narrowing the wide ideal tripole configuration). In this case,
the critical points P4, P5 are concurrently displaced along the respective P4, P5
moving lines to the same longitudinal focus (LGF) value and the same upper anode
percentage (UAP) value. In effect, the critical points P4, P5 will represent the
identical ideal tripole configuration.
                As shown in Fig. 28b, critical points P3, P5, P6 are displaced in
accordance with three different rostral maximum longitudinal focuses (LGFs)
(represented by vertical solid lines) that are between the longitudinal focuses (LGFs)
of critical points P4, P6. As shown in Fig. 28c, critical points P2, P3, P4, P5 are
displaced in accordance with two different rostral maximum longitudinal focuses
(LGFs) (represented by vertical solid lines) that are less than the longitudinal focus
(LGF) of critical point P4. Shifting of the ideal cathode may be applied between
critical points P3, P6. A modified weaving trajectory line sequentially connects the
modified critical points P1-P7 shown in Figs. 28b and 28c.
                Notably, there may be times when the anodes of the ideal bipole/tripole
configurations must be eliminated from the sequence, because the ideal cathode is
too close to the maximum extent of the electrode array 26. For example, as shown
                                               68

in Fig. 29, as a result of the ideal cathode being too close to the maximum rostral
extent of the electrode array 26, the upper anode of the ideal bipole/tripole
configurations cannot be used. In this case, the sequence of ideal bipole/tripole
configurations shown in Fig. 24 will be limited to lower ideal bipole configurations
(i.e., the narrow lower ideal bipole configuration (B2 1), (adjusted) wide lower ideal
bipole configuration (B2 .5 1), and wide lower ideal bipole configuration (B3 1).
                 As best shown in Fig. 30, the sequence of ideal lower bipole
configurations is defined by a trajectory line sequentially connecting the critical points
(representing by circles). As can be seen, the sequence beginning with the narrow
lower ideal bipole configuration (B21) and ending with the (adjusted) wide lower ideal
bipole configuration (B2 .5 1) incrementally increases the longitudinal focus (LGF) while
displacing the ideal cathode. The sequence beginning with the wide lower ideal
bipole configuration (B2 .5 1) and ending with the wide lower ideal bipole configuration
(B3 1) further incrementally increases the longitudinal focus (LGF) while further
displacing the ideal cathode. The sequence beginning with the wide lower ideal
bipole configuration (B31) and ending with the narrow lower ideal bipole configuration
(B2 1) incrementally decreases the longitudinal focus (LGF) while maintaining the ideal
cathode.
                 Although the techniques for preventing ideal multipole configurations
from exceeding the maximum extent of the electrode array 26 have been described
above with respect to longitudinal bipole/tripole configurations, it should be
appreciated that techniques for preventing the ideal multipole configurations from
exceeding the maximum extent of the electrode array 26 can be applied to the
transverse multipole configurations illustrated in Fig. 22b.
                                                69

               As previously discussed, it is preferable that the spacings between the
poles of the ideal multiple configurations (i.e., the focuses) match the effective
separation between the electrodes 26. In performing this function, the CP 18 is
capable of estimating an effective electrode separation between the physical
electrodes 26 and estimating an effective electrode separation at an arbitrary point in
space bounded by the physical electrodes 26.
               Referring first to Figs. 31a and 31b, an ideal longitudinal tripole
configuration is shown relative to three percutaneous neurostimulation leads 12(1)
12(3) that are longitudinally staggered relative to each other. As shown,
neurostimulation leads 12(1) and 12(2) carry eight electrodes 26 each, and the
neurostimulation lead 12(3) carries four electrodes 26.
               As shown in Fig. 31a, when the pole axis 290 along which the poles of
the ideal tripole configuration are aligned is parallel to the longitudinal axis of the
center lead 12(2), with the ideal cathode 252 being located on one of the electrodes
26 (center electrode), assuming that a longitudinal focus equal to a two electrode
separation is desired, the effective electrode separation is estimated to simply be the
same as the electrode separation for the center lead 12(2), so that the ideal anodes
254 are located over the second electrodes from the center electrode over which the
ideal cathode 252 is located.
               However, as shown in Fig. 31b, when the pole axis 290 has been
rotated relative to the longitudinal axis of the center lead 12(2), with the ideal
cathode 252 being located on one of the electrodes 26, the effective electrode
separation is estimated based on the available electrodes 26 along the pole axis
290. To obtain a longitudinal focus with a two electrode separation, an initial
effective electrode separation from the center electrode is estimated along the pole
                                               70

axis 290 to obtain an estimation of the first electrode location (represented by the
diamond), and then a second effective electrode separation from the estimated first
electrode location is then estimated to obtain an estimation of the second electrode
location.
              With reference to Fig. 32a, two staggered neurostimulation leads
12(1), 12(2) are shown with a total of six electrodes E1-E6. It is assumed that the
CP 18 will define an ideal multipole configuration relative to the electrodes E1-E6 in
alignment with a pole axis 290. In the illustrated embodiment, the neurostimulation
leads 12(1), 12(2) are parallel to each other and/or the pole axis 290 is parallel to the
neurostimulation leads 12(1), 12(2). However, it should be noted that the
neurostimulation leads 12(1), 12(2) may be non-parallel to each other and/or the
pole axis 290 may be non-parallel to either of the neurostimulation leads 12(1),
12(2).
               In attempting to match the focus of the ideal multiple configuration with
the effective electrode separation along the pole axis 290, the CP 18 designates
each of the electrodes E1-E6 as a reference electrode, estimates an effective
electrode separation at each of the E1-E6, estimates an effective electrode
separation at a point in space (x,y) along the pole axis 290 (presumably, where one
pole of the ideal multiple configuration is located) based on the estimated effective
electrode separation at each of the reference electrodes E1-E6, and defines the
spacing between the poles (i.e., the focus) of the ideal multiple configuration based
on the estimated effective electrode separation at the point in space (x, y) along the
pole axis 290.
               In the illustrated embodiment, the CP 18 estimates the effective
electrode separation at each of the reference electrodes E1-E6 by computing a
                                              71

weighted average of actual separations between each respective reference
electrode and the indexed ones of the electrodes. For each reference electrode, the
CP 18 will select only the electrodes that are located in the direction in which the
effective electrode separation is estimated. In the illustrated embodiment, the CP 18
selects, as the indexed electrodes, only the electrodes located on one side of a line
292 intersecting the respective reference electrode and perpendicular to the pole
axis 290; that is, all of the electrodes above the line 292 if the effective electrode
separation in the rostral direction is estimated, and all of the electrodes below the
line 292 if the effective electrode separation in the caudal direction is estimated. For
example, if the current reference electrode is electrode E5, and the effective
electrode separation is to be estimated in the rostral direction, the CP will determine
the respective spacings between reference electrode E5 and indexed electrodes El,
E2, and E4, which are all above the line 292. If the current reference electrode is
electrode E5, and the effective electrode separation is to be estimated in the caudal
direction, the CP will determine the respective spacings between reference electrode
E5 and indexed electrodes E3 and E6, which are both below the line 292.
               For each reference electrode, weighting values are given to the
indexed electrodes in accordance with the separation between the reference
electrode and the indexed electrode, such that the indexed electrodes that are
relatively close to the reference electrode are given relatively high weighting values,
and the indexed electrodes that are relatively far from the reference electrode are
given relatively low weighting values. Thus, it can be appreciated when the
neurostimulation leads 12 are widely spaced apart, as shown in Fig. 32b, the
indexed electrodes on the right neurostimulation lead 12(2) may be too far from a
reference electrode (in this case, electrode E2 represented by the circle) on the left
                                              72

neurostimulation lead 12(1) to be considered, and thus, the effective electrode
separation will approach the nominal electrode separation on the neurostimulation
leads 12 (e.g., 8 mm).      When the neurostimulation leads 12 are narrowly spaced
apart, as shown in Fig. 32c, the indexed electrodes on the right neurostimulation
lead 12(2) may be close enough to the reference electrode (in this case, electrode
E2 represented by the circle) on the left neurostimulation 12(1) to dominate, and
thus, the effective electrode separation will approach the separation between the
reference electrode E2 and electrode E4 (e.g., 4 mm if electrode E4 is equidistance
between electrodes El and E2).
                Referring to Fig. 33, one method of estimating the effective electrode
separation of electrodes E1-E6 at a point in space (x,y) in the rostral direction will
now be described.
                First, one of the electrodes E1-E6 is currently designated as a
reference electrode j (step 300). Next, it is determined whether there are any
electrodes above the currently designated reference electrode j, and in particular,
above a line that is perpendicular to the pole axis and intersects the currently
designated reference electrode j (step 301). If there are any electrodes above the
currently designated reference electrodes, all of these electrodes are identified as
indexed electrodes to be compared to the currently designated reference electrodes
(step 302). Next, one of the indexed electrodes i is selected (step 303), and the
actual separation between the currently designated reference electrode j and the
currently selected indexed electrode i is computed (step 304).
                In the illustrated embodiment, the actual separation is represented by a
first directional component d, perpendicular to the pole axis 290 and a second
directional component dy perpendicular to the pole axis 290. The first directional
                                              73

component d, can be computed in accordance with the equation: dx        =|x -E40),
where x is the coordinate of the currently designated reference electrode j along an
axis perpendicular to the pole axis 290, and Ex is the coordinate of the currently
selected indexed electrode i along an axis perpendicular to the pole axis 290. The
second directional component dy can be computed in accordance with the equation:
dy =|y - Ey(i)|, where y is the coordinate of the currently designated reference
electrode j along an axis parallel to the pole axis 290, and Ey is the coordinate of the
currently selected indexed electrode i along an axis parallel to the pole axis 290.
                Then, weighting values Wx and Wy for the indexed electrode i are
respectively computed from the first directional separation component dx and second
directional separation component dy (step 305). The weighting value Wx for the
indexed electrode i can be computed in accordance with the equation:
Wx(i) = e
         (- dxX ,  , where Ax is a constant. The weighting value Wy for the indexed
electrode i can be computed in accordance with the equation: W(i)      = e( dy  >iy]
where Ay is a constant. In the illustrated embodiment, Ax is greater than Ay. For
example, Ax may be equal to 5, and Ay may be equal to 1. In this manner, the
component of the actual spacing along the pole axis 202 is weighted greater than the
component of the actual spacing perpendicular to the pole axis 202.
                Notably, because there is a limit to how close ideal poles can be before
electrical performance degrades, it is important that electrodes that are too close to
the reference electrode be eliminated from the effective electrode separation
estimation. To this end, it is determined whether the separation, and in particular the
second directional component dy of the actual separation, between the selected
indexed electrode i and the currently designated reference electrode j is less than a
                                              74

minimum threshold value (e.g., 3.8mm) (step 306). If the second directional
component dy is less than the minimum threshold value, the currently selected
indexed electrode i is eliminated from the effective electrode separation estimation
by designating a discrete weighting value wc(i)=O (step 307). If the second
directional component dy is not less than the minimum threshold value, the currently
selected indexed electrode i is considered in the effective electrode separation
estimation by designating a discrete weighting value wc(i)=1 (step 308).
               Next, it is determined whether all of the indexed electrodes i have been
selected for comparison with the currently designated reference electrode j (step
309). If not, steps 303-308 are repeated for the next indexed electrode i. If so, it is
determined whether any of the selected indexed electrodes i has been selected to be
considered in the electrode separation estimation (i.e., whether any indexed
electrode i has a non-zero discrete weighting wc(i)) (step 310). If at least one
selected indexed electrode i has a non-zero discrete weighting wc(i), the effective
electrode separation at the currently designated reference electrode j is estimated by
computing a weighted average of actual separations between the currently
designated reference electrode j and indexed electrodes i in accordance with the
                             N
equation (step 311): Se            N
                                    yW(i -jeWi)
               If there are no electrodes above the currently designated reference
electrodes, as determined in step 301, or if no indexed electrode i has a non-zero
discrete weighting wc(i), as determined in step 310, the effective electrode separation
at the currently designated reference electrodes is set to a maximum value (e.g., 12
mm) (step 312).
                                             75

                Next, it is determined whether all the electrodes have been designated
as reference electrodes j (step 313). If not, steps 300-312 are repeated for the next
reference electrodes. If so, an effective electrode separation at a point in space (x,
y) along the pole axis 290 is determined by computing a weighted average of the
estimated effective electrode separations at all of the reference electrodes in
                                        N
                                          Wx
                                          Oj)e-   Wy'j - Se( j)
accordance with the equation: S      =     N                     , where S, is the effective
                                          ZWx(j)   eW(j)
electrode separation at the point in space, j is the index for one of the reference
electrodes, N is the total number of the reference electrodes, W, is a weighting value
as a function of the first directional component of the distance between the point in
space and the reference electrodes, Wy is a weighting value as a function of the
second directional component of the distance between the point in space and the
reference electrode j, and Se is the estimated effective electrode separation at the
reference electrodes.
                In the illustrated embodiment, the weighting values W, and Wy are
computed in accordance with the equations: W(j)          e      x   Ex(j .  ] and
Wy(j)= e    y),               where A, and Ay are constants, x is the coordinate of the
point in space along an axis perpendicular to the pole axis 290, y is the coordinate of
the point in space along the pole axis 290, Ex is the coordinate of the position of the
reference electrode j along an axis perpendicular to the pole axis 290, and Ey is the
coordinate of the position of the reference electrodes along the pole axis 290.
                To prevent the effective electrode separation at a point in space from
exceeding a maximum value, maximum electrode separations at a plurality of
                                                76

 imaginary reference electrodes (El'-E6') surrounding the actual reference electrodes
j can be assumed, as illustrated in Fig. 32a. In the illustrated embodiments the total
 number of imaginary reference electrodes El'-E6' are twice the total number of
 actual reference electrodes. In particular, a pair of imaginary reference electrodes is
 associated with each actual reference electrode. The pair of imaginary reference
 electrodes are aligned with the y-coordinate of the respective actual reference
 electrode, and are respectively located on two lines 294 that are parallel to the pole
 axis 290 and located outside of the actual reference electrodes (e.g., a left line that is
 4 mm to the left of the left-most reference electrode, and a right line that is 4 mm that
 is 4 mm to the right of the right-most reference electrode). The maximum effective
 electrode separation at each respective imaginary reference electrode can be
 selected to be a maximum value (e.g., 12 mm). The imaginary reference electrode
 can be taken into account when estimating the effective electrode separation in
 space by including the imaginary reference electrodes in addition to the actual
 reference electrodes in the estimation.
                Assuming that the point in space (x, y) is coincident with a pole of the
 ideal multipole configuration (e.g., an ideal cathode in an upper anode bipole
 configuration or tripole configuration) to be defined, the location of the other pole
 (e.g., an ideal anode) can be set to be a distance in the rostral direction equal to the
 estimated effective electrode separation at the point in space (x, y). In the case
where it is desirable to define the location of an pole in the caudal direction, the
 effective electrode separation at the point in space (x, y) is performed in the same
 manner discussed with respect to Fig. 32, with the exception that the electrodes
 below each currently designated reference electrode j are selected as the indexed
                                               77

electrodes i, and in particular, below a line that is perpendicular to the pole axis and
intersects the respective designated reference electrode j.
               Although the foregoing techniques have been described as being
implemented in the CP 18, it should be noted that this technique may be alternatively
or additionally implemented in the RC 16, and the processing functions of the
technique can even be performed in the IPG 14.
               Although particular embodiments of the present inventions have been
shown and described, it will be understood that it is not intended to limit the present
inventions to the preferred embodiments, and it will be obvious to those skilled in the
art that various changes and modifications may be made without departing from the
spirit and scope of the present inventions. Thus, the present inventions are intended
to cover alternatives, modifications, and equivalents, which may be included within
the spirit and scope of the present inventions as defined by the claims.
                                              78

                                                   79
CLAIMS:
1.     A system for an electrical neurostimulator coupled to a plurality of electrodes,
comprising:
       a user-controlled input device configured for generating directional control signals; and
       control circuitry configured for sequentially defining a plurality of different ideal
multipole configurations that includes two orthogonal ideal tripole configurations relative to
the plurality of electrodes in response to the directional control signals, generating a plurality
of stimulation parameter sets respectively corresponding to the plurality of different ideal
multipole configuration, each stimulation parameter set defining relative amplitude values
for the plurality of electrodes that emulate the respective multipole configuration, and
instructing the electrical neurostimulator to convey electrical energy to the plurality of
electrodes in accordance with the plurality of stimulation parameter sets.
2.     The system of claim 1, wherein the control circuitry is configured for sequentially
defining the different multipole configurations in the following order: a first ideal tripole
configuration oriented in a first direction, a second ideal tripole configuration oriented in the
first direction, a third ideal tripole configuration oriented in a second direction orthogonal to
the first direction, and a fourth ideal tripole configuration oriented in the second direction.
3.     The system of claim 2, wherein the first ideal tripole configuration is a narrow
symmetrical ideal tripole configuration, the second ideal tripole configuration is a narrow
asymmetrical ideal tripole configuration, the third ideal tripole configuration is a narrow
symmetrical ideal tripole configuration, and the fourth ideal tripole configuration is a wide
symmetrical ideal tripole configuration.
4.     The system of claim 2, wherein the control circuitry is configured for incrementally
changing a position of a central ideal cathode relative to the plurality of electrodes between
the first ideal tripole configuration and the second ideal tripole configuration.
5.     The system of claim 2, wherein the control circuitry is configured for maintaining the
same position of a central ideal cathode relative to the plurality of electrodes between the
second ideal tripole configuration and the third ideal tripole configuration.

                                                 80
6.     The system of claim 2, wherein the control circuitry is configured for incrementally
changing a position of a central ideal cathode relative to the plurality of electrodes between
the third ideal tripole configuration and the fourth ideal tripole configuration.
7.     The system of claim 2, wherein the control circuitry is configured for incrementally
changing a position of a central ideal cathode in one direction relative to the plurality of
electrodes between the first ideal tripole configuration and the second ideal tripole
configuration, and incrementally changing the position of the central ideal cathode in the one
direction relative to the plurality of electrodes between the third ideal tripole configuration
and the fourth ideal tripole configuration.
8.     The system of claim 7, wherein the control circuitry is configured for maintaining the
same position of a central ideal cathode relative to the plurality of electrodes between the
second ideal tripole configuration and the third ideal tripole configuration.
9.     The system of claim 2, wherein the control circuitry is configured for defining a
quadpole configuration after the fourth ideal tripole configuration in response to the control
signals.
10.    The system of claim 9, wherein the control circuitry is configured for maintaining the
same positions of a central cathode and two anodes relative to the plurality of electrodes
between the fourth ideal tripole configuration and the ideal quadpole configuration.
11.    The system of claim 10, wherein the quadpole configuration includes an anode
positioned equidistant between the two anodes.
12.    The system of claim 1, wherein the user-control input device includes a control
element, a continual actuation of which generates the directional control signals.
13.    The system of claim 1, wherein the user-controlled input device comprises one or
more of a graphical arrow, a joystick, a touchpad, a button pad, a group of keyboard arrow
keys, a mouse, a roller ball tracking device, and horizontal and vertical rocker-type arm
switches for generating the directional control signals.

                                                  81
14.    The system of claim 1, further comprising telemetry circuitry, wherein the control
circuitry is configured for transmitting the plurality of stimulation parameter sets to the
neurostimulation device via the telemetry circuitry.
15.    The system of claim 1, further comprising a housing containing the user input device
and the control circuitry.
16.    A method of providing therapy to a patient using a plurality of electrodes implanted
adjacent a spinal cord of the patient, comprising:
       generating directional control signals;
       sequentially defining a plurality of different ideal multipole configurations relative to
the plurality of electrodes in response to the directional control signals, wherein the plurality
of different ideal multipole configurations includes a first ideal tripole configuration media
laterally oriented relative to the spinal cord and a second ideal tripole configuration rostra
caudally oriented relative to the spinal cord;
       generating a plurality of stimulation parameter sets respectively corresponding to the
plurality of ideal multipole configurations; and
       instructing the electrical neurostimulator to convey electrical energy to the plurality of
electrodes in accordance with the plurality of stimulation parameter sets, thereby emulating
the respective ideal multipole configurations.
17.    The method of claim 16, further comprising sequentially defining the different
multipole configurations in the following order: a first ideal tripole configuration oriented
media-laterally relative to the spinal cord, a second ideal tripole configuration oriented
media-laterally relative to the spinal cord, a third ideal tripole configuration oriented rostra
caudally relative to the spinal cord, and a fourth ideal tripole configuration oriented rostra
caudally relative to the spinal cord.
18.    The method of claim 17, wherein the first ideal tripole configuration is a narrow
symmetrical ideal tripole configuration, the second ideal tripole configuration is a narrow
asymmetrical ideal tripole configuration, the third ideal tripole configuration is a narrow
symmetrical ideal tripole configuration, and the fourth ideal tripole configuration is a wide
symmetrical ideal tripole configuration.

                                                 82
19.    The method of claim 17, further comprising incrementally changing a position of a
central ideal cathode relative to the plurality of electrodes between the first ideal tripole
configuration and the second ideal tripole configuration.
20.    The method of claim 17, further comprising maintaining the same position of a central
ideal cathode relative to the plurality of electrodes between the second ideal tripole
configuration and the third ideal tripole configuration.
21.    The method of claim 17, further comprising incrementally changing a position of a
central ideal cathode relative to the plurality of electrodes between the third ideal tripole
configuration and the fourth ideal tripole configuration.
22.    The method of claim 17, further comprising:
       incrementally changing a position of a central ideal cathode in a media-lateral direction
between the first ideal tripole configuration and the second ideal tripole configuration; and
       incrementally changing the position of the central ideal cathode in rostro-caudal
direction between the third ideal tripole configuration and the fourth ideal tripole
configuration.
23.    The method of claim 22, further comprising maintaining the same position of a central
ideal cathode relative to the plurality of electrodes between the second ideal tripole
configuration and the third ideal tripole configuration.
24.    The method of claim 17, further comprising defining a quadpole configuration after
the fourth ideal tripole configuration in response to the control signals.
25.    The method of claim 24, further comprising maintaining the same positions of a
central cathode and two anodes relative to the plurality of electrodes between the fourth ideal
tripole configuration and the ideal quadpole configuration.
26.    The method of claim 25, wherein the quadpole configuration includes an anode
positioned equidistant between the two anodes.
27.    The method of claim 16, further comprising continually actuating a control element to
generate the directional control signals.

                                                 83
28.    The method of claim 16, wherein the conveyance of the electrical energy to the
plurality of electrodes in accordance with the plurality of stimulation parameter sets
incrementally media-laterally displaces a volume of activation (VOA) across a spinal cord of
the patient.
29.    A system for an electrical neurostimulator coupled to an array of electrodes having a
maximum extent, comprising:
       a user-controlled input device configured for generating directional control signals;
       memory storing a plurality of ideal multipole configurations; and control circuitry
configured for defining the plurality of ideal multipole configurations relative to the
electrode array in response to the directional control signals, determining a spatial
relationship between at least one of the defined plurality of ideal multipole configurations
and the maximum extent of the electrode array, modifying the defined plurality of the ideal
multipole configurations based on the determined
       spatial relationship, such that the modified plurality of the ideal multipole
configurations is spatially within the maximum extent of the electrode array, generating a
plurality of stimulation parameter sets respectively corresponding to the modified plurality
of ideal multipole configurations, each stimulation parameter set defining relative amplitude
values for the electrode array that emulate the respective modified ideal multipole
configuration, and instructing the electrical neurostimulator to convey electrical energy to
the electrode array in accordance with the plurality of stimulation parameter sets.
30.    The system of claim 29, wherein the electrode array is a linear electrode array, and the
maximum extent is coincident with an electrode at the end of the linear electrode array.
31.    The system of claim 29, wherein the ideal multipole configurations comprises at least
one ideal bipole configuration and at least one ideal tripole configuration.
32.    The system of claim 29, wherein the at least one defined ideal multipole configuration
comprises more than one defined ideal multipole configuration.
33.    The system of claim 29, wherein the control circuitry is configured for modifying the
defined plurality of ideal multipole configurations by eliminating one or more of the at least
one defined ideal multipole configuration.

                                                 84
34.    The system of claim 29, wherein the control circuitry is configured for modifying the
defined plurality of ideal multipole configurations by modifying when a pole of the same
polarity is initially displaced during the at least one defined ideal multipole configuration.
35.    The system of claim 29, wherein the control circuitry is configured for modifying the
defined plurality of ideal multipole configurations by displacing a pole for one or more of
the at least one defined ideal multipole configuration.
36.    The system of claim 29, wherein the control circuitry is configured for modifying the
defined plurality of ideal multipole configurations by displacing poles of different polarities
relative to each other for one or more of the at least one defined ideal multipole
configuration.
37.    The system of claim 36, wherein the memory, for each of the at least one defined ideal
multipole configuration, stores a variable value defining a spatial relationship between the
poles of the different polarities, and the control circuitry is configured for displacing the
poles of different polarities relative to each other for the at least one ideal multipole
configuration by modifying the respective at least one variable value.
38.    The system of claim 37, wherein the control circuitry is configured for modifying the
respective one or more variable values by decreasing the one or more variable values.
39.    The system of claim 37, wherein the variable value for each of the at least one defined
ideal multipole configuration defines an absolute distance between the poles of the different
polarities.
40.    The system of claim 37, wherein the defined plurality of ideal multipole configurations
includes a defined plurality of wide ideal bipole/tripole configurations and a defined plurality
of narrow ideal bipole/tripole configurations, the at least one defined ideal multipole
configuration includes the defined plurality of wide ideal bipole/tripole configurations, and
the control circuitry is configured for displacing the poles of different polarities relative to
each other for the at least one ideal multipole configuration by decreasing the respective at
least one variable value.

                                                85
41.    The system of claim 40, wherein the defined plurality of narrow ideal bipole/tripole
configurations initially comprises a narrow upper ideal bipole configuration and a narrow
lower ideal bipole configuration, and the defined plurality of wide ideal bipole/tripole
configurations initially comprises two identical wide upper ideal bipole configurations, a first
wide ideal tripole configuration, and two identical wide lower ideal bipole configurations.
42.    The system of claim 4 1, wherein the control circuitry is configured for decreasing the
variable values associated with a first one of the two identical wide upper ideal bipole
configurations and a first one of the two identical wide lower ideal bipole configurations to a
first identical value.
43.    The system of claim 42, wherein the control circuitry is configured for changing one of
a second one of the two identical wide upper ideal bipole configurations and a second one of
the two identical wide lower ideal bipole configurations to a second wide ideal tripole
configuration, and modifying a relative intensity between the poles of different polarities of
the second wide ideal tripole configuration.
44.    The system of claim 43, wherein the control circuitry is configured for decreasing the
variable value associated with the second wide ideal tripole configuration.
45.    The system of claim 44, wherein the control circuitry is configured for decreasing the
variable value associated with the second wide ideal tripole configuration to the first
identical value.
46.    The system of claim 29, wherein the user-control input device includes a control
element, a continual actuation of which generates the directional control signals.
47.    The system of claim 29, wherein the user-controlled input device comprises one or
more of a graphical arrow, a joystick, a touchpad, a button pad, a group of keyboard arrow
keys, a mouse, a roller ball tracking device, and horizontal and vertical rocker-type arm
switches for generating the directional control signals.
48.    The system of claim 29, further comprising telemetry circuitry, wherein the control
circuitry is configured for transmitting the plurality of stimulation parameter sets to the
neurostimulation device via the telemetry circuitry.

                                                 86
49.    The system of claim 29, further comprising a housing containing the user input device
and the control circuitry.
50.    A system for an electrical neurostimulator coupled to a plurality of electrodes,
comprising:
       a user-controlled input device configured for generating control signals; and
       control circuitry configured for defining at least one ideal multipole configuration
relative to the plurality of electrodes in response to the control signals, each of the at least
one ideal multipole configuration having at least two poles aligned along a pole axis, the
control circuitry, for each of the at least one ideal multipole configuration, being further
configured for, designating at least one of the electrodes as a reference electrode, estimating
an effective electrode separation at each of the at least one reference electrode, defining a
spacing between the at least two poles based on the estimated effective electrode separation
at each of the at least one reference electrode, generating at least one stimulation parameter
set respectively corresponding to the at least one ideal multipole configuration, each of the at
least one stimulation parameter set defining relative amplitude values for the plurality of
electrodes that emulate the respective ideal multipole configuration, and instructing the
electrical neurostimulator to convey electrical energy to the plurality of electrodes in
accordance with the at least one stimulation parameter set.
51.    The system of claim 50, wherein the ideal multipole configuration is one of an ideal
bipole configuration and an ideal tripole configuration.
52.    The system of claim 50, wherein the two poles have different polarities.
53.    The system of claim 50, wherein the plurality of electrodes have non-uniform
spacings.
54.    The system of claim 50, wherein the control circuitry is configured for estimating the
effective electrode separation at each of the at least one reference electrode by computing a
weighted average of actual separations between the respective reference electrode and
indexed ones of the electrodes.

                                                   87
55.     The system of claim 54, wherein the control circuitry is configured for only selecting
as the indexed electrodes, the electrodes located on one side of a line intersecting the
respective reference electrode.
56.     The system of claim 55, wherein the line is perpendicular to the pole axis.
57.     The system of claim 56, wherein the effective electrode separation at any of the at least
one reference electrode is estimated to be a maximum value if at least one of the following
conditions is satisfied: no electrodes are located on the one side of the line intersecting the
respective reference electrode or the actual separations between the respective reference
electrode and all electrodes located on the one side of the line intersecting the respective
reference electrode are below a minimum value.
58.      The system of claim 54, wherein each of the actual separations between the respective
reference electrode and the indexed electrodes has a first directional component
perpendicular to the pole axis and a second directional component parallel to the pole axis,
and wherein the control circuitry is configured for estimating the effective electrode
separation at each of the at least one reference electrode in accordance with the equation:
       N
      JW(i)eW,(i)ed,(i)
          N
         EW- i)-W(i
                        where Se is the effective electrode separation at the reference electrode,
i is the index for one of the indexed electrodes, Nis the total number of the indexed
electrodes, W is a weighting value as a function of the first directional component of the
actual separation between the reference electrode and the indexed electrode i, W is a
weighting value as a function of the second directional component of the actual separation
between the reference electrode and the indexed electrode i, and dy is the second directional
component of the actual separation between the reference electrode and the indexed
electrode i.
59.     The system of claim 58, wherein      wk)      e    (    and W)=       edy(i)          , were
Xx and Xy are constants, and dx is the first directional component of the actual separation between
the reference electrode and the indexed electrode i.

                                                 88
60.    The system of claim 59, wherein kx is greater than ky.
61.    The system of claim 50, wherein the control circuitry is configured for estimating an
effective electrode separation at a point in space along the pole axis based on the estimated
effective electrode separation at each of the at least one reference electrode, and defining the
spacing between the at least two poles based on the estimated effective electrode separation
at the point in space along the pole axis.
62.    The system of claim 61, wherein the control circuitry is configured for defining the
spacing between the at least two poles to be a multiple of the estimated effective electrode
separation at the point in space along the pole axis.
63.    The system of claim 62, wherein the control circuitry is configured for determining the
spacing between the two poles to be equal to the estimated effective electrode separation at
the point in space along the pole axis.
64.    The system of claim 62, wherein the at least one reference electrode comprises a
plurality of reference electrodes, and the control circuitry is configured for estimating an
effective electrode separation at a point in space along the pole axis by computing a
weighted average of the estimated effective electrode separations at the plurality of reference
electrodes.
65.    The system of claim 64, wherein the estimated effective electrode separations at the
plurality of reference electrodes are weighted based on a distance between the point in space
and the reference electrodes.
66.    The system of claim 65, wherein each of the distances between the point in space and
the reference electrodes has a first directional component perpendicular to the pole axis and
a second directional component parallel to the pole axis, and wherein the control circuitry is
configured for estimating the effective electrode separation at the point in space along the
pole axis in accordance with the equation:

                                                   89
     ZW4j)a  w'(j). s'j)
                          where Ss is the effective electrode separation at the point in space, j is
the index for one of the reference electrodes, N is the total number of the reference
electrodes, W is a weighting value as a function of the first directional component of the
distance between the point in space and the reference electrode       j, W is a weighting value as
a function of the second directional component of the distance between the point in space
and the reference electrode   j, and Se is the estimated effective electrode separation at the
reference electrode   j.
67.    The system of claim 66, wherein wx4)        = e(    - E'.         and
W(j)= e(                 A, where Xx and Xy are constants, x is the coordinate of the point in
space along an axis perpendicular to the pole axis, y is the coordinate of the point in space
along the pole axis, E, is the coordinate of the position of the reference electrodes along an
axis perpendicular to the pole axis, and Ey is the coordinate of the position of the reference
electrode j along the pole axis.
68.    The system of claim 67, wherein Xx is greater than X.
69.    The system of claim 62, wherein the control circuitry is configured for estimating an
effective electrode separation at a point in space along the pole axis by computing a
weighted average of the estimated effective electrode separations at the plurality of reference
electrodes and maximum electrode separations at a plurality of imaginary electrodes
surrounding the plurality of reference electrodes.
70.    The system of claim 69, wherein the plurality of imaginary electrodes comprises two
imaginary electrodes for each of the reference electrodes respectively located on two lines
that are parallel to the pole axis.
71.    The system of claim 50, wherein the at least one ideal multiple configuration comprises
a plurality of ideal multipole configurations.
72.    The system of claim 71, wherein the control signals are directional control signals.

                                                 90
73.    The system of claim 72, wherein the user-controlled input device comprises one or
more of a graphical arrow, a joystick, a touchpad, a button pad, a group of keyboard arrow
keys, a mouse, a roller ball tracking device, and horizontal and vertical rocker-type arm
switches for generating the directional control signals.
74.    The system of claim 50, further comprising telemetry circuitry, wherein the control
circuitry is configured for transmitting the at least one stimulation parameter set to the
neurostimulation device via the telemetry circuitry.
75.    The system of claim 50, further comprising a housing containing the user input device
and the control circuitry.
                     Boston Scientific Neuromodulation Corporation
                  Patent Attorneys for the Applicant/Nominated Person
                                  SPRUSON & FERGUSON

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
