   ABSTRACT
            A mobile communication system includes a plurality of eNBs that
   perform radio communication with an UE and an MCE that controls the
   eNBs. The MCE indicates an MBSFN subframe (MCE) serving as radio
 5 resources that transmit a reference signal for power measurement to the UE
   less frequently than normal to the eNB, the eNB, in addition to the MBSFN
   subframe (MCE) indicated by the MCE, designates the MBSFN subframe
   (eNB) serving as the radio resources that transmit a reference signal to the
   UE less frequently than normal, and in the MBSFN subframe (MCE) and the
10 MBSFN subframe (eNB) the reference signal is transmitted to the UE. In
   this manner, the reference signal for measuring a power can be transmitted
   less frequently than normal, and a power consumption of the infrastructure
   can be reduced.

                                           1
   DESCRIPTION
   TITLE OF THE INVENTION: MOBILE COMMUNICATION SYSTEM
   TECHNICAL FIELD
   [0001]   The present invention relates to a mobile communication system in
 5 which a base station performs radio communication with a plurality of user
   equipments.
   BACKGROUND ART
   [0002]   Commercial service of W-CDMA (Wideband Code division Multiple
   Access) system among so-called third-generation communication systems has
10 been offered in Japan since 2001.         In addition, HSDPA (High Speed
   Downlink    Packet    Access)   service   for achieving    higher-speed   data
   transmission using a downlink has been offered by adding a channel for
   packet transmission (HS-DSCH: High Speed-Downlink Shared Channel) to
   the downlink (dedicated data channel, dedicated control channel).     Further,
15 in order to increase the speed of data transmission in an uplink direction,
   service of an HSUPA (High Speed Uplink Packet Access) system has been
   offered.  W-CDMA is a communication system defined by the 3GPP (3rd
   Generation Partnership Project) that is the standards organization regarding
   the mobile communication system, where the specifications of Release 8
20 version are produced.
   [0003]   Further, 3GPP is studying new communication systems referred to
   as   "long term   evolution   (LTE)" regarding    radio  areas   and   "system
   architecture evolution (SAE)" regarding the overall system configuration
   including a core network (merely referred to as network as well) as
25 communication systems independent of W-CDMA.           In the LTE, an access

                                           2
   scheme, a radio channel configuration and a protocol are totally different
   from those of the current W-CDMA (HSDPA/HSUPA).             For example, as to
   the access scheme, code division multiple access is used in the W-CDMA,
   whereas in the LTE, OFDM (Orthogonal Frequency Division Multiplexing) is
 5 used in a downlink direction and SC-FDMA            (Single Career Frequency
   Division Multiple Access) is used in an uplink direction.      In addition, the
   bandwidth is 5 MHz in the W-CDMA, while in the LTE, the bandwidth can
   be selected from 1.4 MHz, 3 MHz, 5 MHz, 10 MHz, 15 MHz and 20 MHz for
   each base station.   Further, differently from the W-CDMA, circuit switching
10 is not provided but a packet communication system is only provided in the
   LTE.
   [0004]   The LTE is defined as a radio access network independent of the
   W-CDMA network because its communication system is configured with a
   new core network different from a core network (GPRS) of the W-CDMA.
15 Therefore, for differentiation from the W-CDMA communication system, a
   base station that communicates with a user equipment (UE) and a radio
   network controller that transmits/receives control data and user data to/from
   a plurality of base stations are referred to as an eNB (E-UTRAN NodeB) and
   an EPC (Evolved Packet Core) (also referred to as access gateway (aGW:
20 Access Gateway)), respectively, in the LTE communication system.        Unicast
   service and E-MBMS        service (Evolved Multimedia Broadcast Multicast
   Service) are provided in this LTE communication system.          The E-MBMS
   service is broadcast multimedia service, which is merely referred to as
   MBMS in some cases.         Bulk broadcast contents such as news, weather

                                            3
   forecast and mobile broadcast are transmitted to a plurality of user
   equipments.    This is also referred to as point to multipoint service.
   [0005]   Non-Patent Document 1 describes the current decisions by 3GPP
   regarding   an overall architecture      in the    LTE system.       The overall
 5 architecture (Chapter 4.6.1 of Non-Patent Document 1) is described with
   reference to FIG. 1.   FIG. 1 is a diagram illustrating the configuration of the
   LTE communication system.          With reference to FIG. 1, the E-UTRAN
   (Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access) is composed of one or a plurality
   of base stations 102, provided that a control protocol (for example, RRC
10 (Radio Resource Management)) and a user plane (for example, PDCP: Packet
   Data Convergence Protocol, RLC: Radio Link Control, MAC: Medium Access
   Control, and PHY: Physical Layer) for a user equipment 101 are terminated
   in the base station 102.      The base stations 102 perform scheduling and
   transmission of paging signal (also referred to as paging messages) notified
15 from an MME 103 (Mobility Management Entity).         The base stations 102 are
   connected to each other by means of an X2 interface.       In addition, the base
   stations 102 are connected to an EPC (Evolved Packet Core) by means of an
   S1 interface, more specifically, connected to the MME              103 (Mobility
   Management Entity) by means of an S1_MME interface and connected to an
20 S-GW 104 (Serving Gateway) by means of an S1_U interface.          The MME 103
   distributes the paging signaling to multiple or a single base station 102.    In
   addition, the MME 103 performs mobility control of an idle state.       When the
   user equipment is in the idle state and an active state, the MME 103
   manages a list of tracking areas.       The S-GW 104 transmits/receives user
25 data to/from one or a plurality of base stations 102.   The S-GW 104 serves as

                                             4
   a local mobility anchor point in handover between base stations.           Moreover,
   there is provided a P-GW(PDN Gateway), which performs per-user packet
   filtering and UE-ID address allocation.
   [0006]    The control protocol RRC between the user equipment 101 and the
 5 base station 102 performs broadcast, paging, RRC connection management
   and the like.     The states of the base station and the user equipment in RRC
   are classified into RRC_Idle and RRCCONNECTED.                       In RRC_IDLE,
   PLMN (Public Land Mobile Network) selection, system information (SI)
   broadcast, paging, cell reselection, mobility and the like are performed.         In
10 RRCCONNECTED, the user equipment has RRC connection, is capable of
   transmitting/receiving data to/from a network, and performs, for example,
   handover (HO) and measurement of a neighbor cell.                RRC_IDLE is also
   merely referred to as IDLE or an idle state.           RRCCONNECTED is also
   merely referred to as CONNECTED.
15 [0007]    The current decisions by 3GPP regarding the frame configuration in
   the LTE system are described in Non-Patent Document 1 (Chapter 5).
   Description is given with reference to FIG. 2.              FIG. 2 is a diagram
   illustrating    the  configuration    of  a  radio    frame    used    in  the  LTE
   communication system.        With reference to FIG. 2, one radio frame is 10 ins.
20 The radio frame is divided into ten equally sized subframes.           The subframe
   is divided into two equally sized slots.    The first and sixth subframes contain
   a   downlink     synchronization   signal (SS)   per each      radio   frame.    The
   synchronization signals are classified into a primary synchronization signal
   (P-SS) and a secondary synchronization signal (S-SS).                Multiplexing of
25 channels    for   multimedia    broadcast   multicast    service   single frequency

                                           5
   network (MBSFN) and for non-MBSFN is performed on a per-subframe basis.
   MBSFN Transmission is a simulcast transmission technique realized by
   simultaneous transmission of the same waveforms from a plurality of cells.
   MBSFN transmission from a plurality of cells in an MBSFN area appears as
 5 one transmission by a user equipment.      MBSFN is a network that supports
   the    MBSFN     transmission.     Hereinafter,    a   subframe    for  MBSFN
   transmission is referred to as an MBSFN subframe.         Non-Patent Document
   2 describes a signaling example when MBSFN subframes are allocated.         FIG.
   3 is a diagram illustrating the configuration of the MBSFN frame.         With
10 reference to FIG. 3, the MBSFN subframes are allocated for each MBSFN
   frame.    The MBSFN frame is repeated in a radio Frame Allocation Period.
   An MBSFN subframe is a subframe allocated for MBSFN in a radio frame
   defined by the radio frame allocation period and a radio Frame Allocation
   Offset, and is a subframe to transmit multimedia data.       A radio frame that
15 satisfies the following equation (1) is a radio frame including the MBSFN
   subframe.
   [0008]   Equation      (1)   SFN     Mod      radioFrameAllocationPeriod
   radioFrameAllocationOffset
   Allocation of the MBSFN subframe is performed by 6 bits.        The leftmost bit
20 defines MBSFN allocation of a second (#1) subframe.        A second bit defines
   MBSFN allocation of a third subframe (#2), a third bit defines MBSFN
   allocation of a fourth subframe (#3), a fourth bit defines MBSFN allocation of
   a seventh subframe (#6), a fifth bit defines MBSFN allocation of an eighth
   subframe (#7), and a sixth bit defines MBSFN allocation of an ninth

                                           6
   subframe (#8).    When the bit shows "1", it is shown that a corresponding
   subframe is allocated for MBSFN.
   [0009]  Non-Patent Document 1 describes the current decisions by 3GPP
   regarding the channel configuration in the LTE system.       It is assumed that
 5 the same channel configuration is used in a CSG cell (Closed Subscriber
   Group cell) as that of a non-CSG cell.      A physical channel (Chapter 5 of
   Non-Patent Document 1) is described with reference to FIG. 4.        FIG. 4 is a
   diagram illustrating physical channels used in the LTE communication
   system.   With reference to FIG. 4, a physical broadcast channel (PBCH) 401
10 is a downlink channel transmitted from the base station 102 to the user
   equipment 101.    A BCH transport block is mapped to four subframes within
   a 40 ms interval.   There is no explicit signaling indicating 40 ms timing.    A
   physical control format indicator channel (PCFICH) 402 is transmitted from
   the base station 102 to the user equipment 101.       The PCFICH notifies the
15 number of OFDM symbols used for PDCCHs from the base station 102 to the
   user equipment 101.     The PCFICH is transmitted in each subframe.            A
   physical downlink control channel (PDCCH) 403 is a downlink channel
   transmitted from the base station 102 to the user equipment 101.            The
   PDCCH notifies the resource allocation, HARQ information related to
20 DL-SCH (downlink shared channel that is one of the transport channels
   shown in FIG. 5) and the PCH (paging channel that is one of the transport
   channels shown in FIG. 5).    The PDCCH carries an uplink scheduling grant.
   The PDCCH carries ACK/Nack that is a response                 signal to uplink
   transmission.   The PDCCH is also referred to as an L1/L2 control signal as
25 well.  A physical downlink shared channel (PDSCH) 404 is a downlink

                                          7
   channel transmitted from the base station 102 to the user equipment 101.     A
   DL-SCH (downlink shared channel) that is a transport channel and a PCH
   that is a transport channel are mapped to the PDSCH.      A physical multicast
   channel (PMCH) 405 is a downlink channel transmitted from the base station
 5 102 to the user equipment 101.        A multicast channel (MCH) that is a
   transport channel is mapped to the PMCH.
   [0010]   A physical uplink control channel (PUCCH) 406 is an uplink channel
   transmitted from the user equipment 101 to the base station 102.          The
   PUCCH carries ACK/Nack that is a response signal to downlink transmission.
10 The PUCCH carries a channel quality indicator (CQI) report.        The CQI is
   quality information indicating the quality of received data or channel quality.
   In addition, the PUCCH carries a scheduling request (SR).          A physical
   uplink shared channel (PUSCH) 407 is an uplink channel transmitted from
   the user equipment 101 to the base station 102.      A UL-SCH (uplink shared
15 channel that is one of the transport channels shown in FIG. 5) is mapped to
   the PUSCH.      A physical hybrid ARQ indicator channel (PHICH) 408 is a
   downlink channel transmitted from the base station 102 to the user
   equipment 101.     The PHICH carries ACK/Nack that is a response to uplink
   transmission.   A physical random access channel (PRACH) 409 is an uplink
20 channel transmitted from the user equipment 101 to the base station 102.
   The PRACH carries a random access preamble.
   [0011]   A downlink reference signal is a known symbol serving as a mobile
   communication system.     The physical layer measurement objects of a user
   equipment include, for example, reference symbol received power (RSRP).

                                            8
   [0012]   The transport channel (Chapter 5 of Non-Patent Document 1) is
   described with reference to FIG. 5.         FIG. 5 is a diagram illustrating
   transport channels used in the LTE communication system.          Part [A] of FIG.
   5 shows mapping between a downlink transport channel and a downlink
 5 physical channel.     Part [B] of FIG. 5 shows mapping between an uplink
   transport channel and an uplink physical channel.          A broadcast channel
   (BCH) is broadcast to the entire base station (cell) regarding the downlink
   transport channel.     The BCH is mapped to the physical broadcast channel
   (PBCH).    Retransmission control according to a HARQ (Hybrid ARQ) is
10 applied to a downlink shared channel (DL-SCH).          Broadcast to the entire
   base station (cell) is enabled.  The DL-SCH supports dynamic or semi-static
   resource allocation.    The semi-static resource allocation is also referred to as
   persistent   scheduling.      The   DL-SCH     supports    DRX     (Discontinuous
   reception) of a user equipment for enabling the user equipment to save power.
15 The DL-SCH is mapped to the physical downlink shared channel (PDSCH).
   The paging channel (PCH) supports DRX of the user equipment for enabling
   the user equipment to save power.      Broadcast to the entire base station (cell)
   is required.   The PCH is mapped to a physical resource such as the physical
   downlink shared channel (PDSCH) that can be used dynamically for traffic or
20 a physical resource such as the physical downlink control channel (PDCCH)
   of the other control channel.      The multicast channel (MCH) is used for
   broadcast to the entire base station (cell).         The MCH supports SFN
   combining of MBMS service (MTCH and MCCH) in multi-cell transmission.
   The MCH supports semi-static resource allocation.        The MCH is mapped to
25 the PMCH.

                                            9
   [0013]   Retransmission control according to an HARQ (Hybrid ARQ) is
   applied to an uplink shared channel (UL-SCH).           The DL-SCH supports
   dynamic or semi-static resource allocation.     The UL-SCH is mapped to the
   physical uplink shared channel (PUSCH).       A random access channel (RACH)
 5 shown in part [B] of FIG. 5 is limited to control information.        There is a
   collision risk. The RACH is mapped to the physical random access channel
   (PRACH).
   [0014]   The HARQ is described.      The HARQ is the technique for improving
   the communication quality of a channel by combination of automatic repeat
10 request and forward error correction.      The HARQ has an advantage that
   error correction functions effectively by retransmission even for a channel
   whose communication quality changes.        In particular, it is also possible to
   achieve further quality improvement in retransmission through combination
   of the reception results of the first transmission and the reception results of
15 the retransmission.   An example of the retransmission method is described.
   In a case where the receiver fails to successfully decode the received data (in
   a case where a cyclic redundancy check (CRC) error occurs (CRC = NG)), the
   receiver transmits "Nack" to the transmitter.        The transmitter that has
   received "Nack" retransmits the data.          In a case where the receiver
20 successfully decodes the received data (in a case where a CRC error does not
   occur (CRC = OK)), the receiver transmits "AcK" to the transmitter.          The
   transmitter that has received "Ack" transmits the next data.         Examples of
   the HARQ system include "chase combining".        In chase combining, the same
   data sequence is transmitted in the first transmission and retransmission,
25 which is the system for improving gains by combining the data sequence of

                                          10
   the first transmission and the data sequence of the retransmission in
   retransmission.    This is based on the idea that correct data is partially
   included even if the data of the first transmission contains an error, and
   highly accurate data transmission is enabled by combining the correct
 5 portions of the first transmission data and the retransmission           data.
   Another example of the HARQ system is IR (incremental redundancy).         The
   IR is aimed to increase redundancy, where a parity bit is transmitted in
   retransmission    to  increase  the   redundancy    by   combining   the  first
   transmission and retransmission, to thereby improve the quality by an error
10 correction function.
   [0015]   A logical channel (Chapter 6 of Non-Patent Document 1) is described
   with reference to FIG. 6.    FIG. 6 is a diagram illustrating logical channels
   used in an LTE communication system.        Part [A] of FIG. 6 shows mapping
   between a downlink logical channel and a downlink transport channel.      Part
15 [B] of FIG. 6 shows mapping between an uplink logical channel and an uplink
   transport channel.     A broadcast control channel (BCCH) is a downlink
   channel for broadcast system control information.        The BCCH that is a
   logical channel is mapped to the broadcast channel (BCH) or downlink
   shared channel (DL-SCH) that is a transport channel.         A paging control
20 channel (PCCH) is a downlink channel for transmitting paging signals.      The
   PCCH is used when the network does not know the cell location of a user
   equipment.    The PCCH that is a logical channel is mapped to the paging
   channel (PCH) that is a transport channel.        A common control channel
   (CCCH) is a channel for transmission control information between user
25 equipments and a base station.    The CCCH is used in a case where the user

                                          11
   equipments have no RRC connection with the network.          In downlink, the
   CCCH is mapped to the downlink shared channel (DL-SCH) that is a
   transport channel.     In uplink, the CCCH is mapped to the uplink shared
   channel uplink shared channel (UL-SCH) that is a transport channel.
 5 [0016]  A multicast control channel (MCCH) is a downlink channel for
   point-to-multipoint   transmission.    The  MCCH is      a channel   used  for
   transmission of MBMS control information for one or several MTCHs from a
   network to a user equipment.      The MCCH is a channel used only by a user
   equipment during reception of the MBMS.        The MCCH is mapped to the
10 downlink shared channel (DL-SCH) or multicast channel (MCH) that is a
   transport channel.    A dedicated control channel (DCCH) is a channel that
   transmits dedicated control information between a user equipment and a
   network.   The DCCH is mapped to the uplink shared channel (UL-SCH) in
   uplink and mapped to the downlink shared channel (DL-SCH) in downlink.
15 A dedicated    traffic channel   (DTCH) is a point-to-point    communication
   channel for transmission of user information to a dedicated user equipment.
   The DTCH exists in uplink as well as downlink.       The DTCH is mapped to
   the uplink shared channel (UL-SCH) in uplink and mapped to the downlink
   shared channel (DL-SCH) in downlink.      A multicast traffic channel (MTCH)
20 is a downlink channel for traffic data transmission from a network to a user
   equipment.    The MTCH is a channel used only by a user equipment during
   reception of the MBMS.        The MTCH is mapped to the downlink shared
   channel (DL-SCH) or multicast channel (MCH).
   [0017]   GCI represents a global cell identity.     In the LTE and UMTS
25 (Universal Mobile Telecommunication System), a CSG cell (Closed Subscriber

                                            12
   Group cell) is introduced.     The CSG is described below (Chapter 3.1 of
   Non-Patent Document 3).       The CSG (Closed Subscriber Group) is a cell in
   which subscribers who are allowed to use are specified by an operator (cell for
   specific subscribers).  The specific subscribers are allowed to make access
 5 one or more E-UTRAN cells of a PLMN (public land mobile network).            One
   or more E-UTRAN cells in which the specific subscribers are allowed to make
   access are referred to as "CSG cell(s)".      Note that access is limited in the
   PLMN.     The CSG cell is part of the PLMN that broadcasts a specific CSG
   identity (CSG ID, CSG-ID).        The authorized members of the subscriber
10 group who have registered in advance access the CSG cells using the CSG-ID
   that is the access permission information.
   The CSG-ID is broadcast by the CSG cell or cells.        A plurality of CSG-IDs
   exist in a mobile communication system.          The CSG-IDs are used by user
   equipments (UEs) for making access from CSG-related members easier.          The
15 locations of user equipments are traced based on an area composed of one or
   more cells.   The locations are traced for enabling tracing of the locations of
   user equipments and calling (calling of user equipments) even in an idle state.
   An area for tracing locations of user equipments is referred to as a tracking
   area.   A CSG whitelist is a list stored in the USIM (Universal Subscriber
20 Identity Module) in which all CSG IDs of the CSG cells to which the
   subscribers belong are recorded.     The CSG whitelist is also referred to as an
   allowed CSG ID list in some cases.
   [0018]   A "suitable cell" is described below (Chapter 4. 3 of Non-Patent
   Document 3).     The "suitable cell" is a cell on which a UE camps (Camp ON)
25 to obtain normal service.    Such a cell satisfies a condition in which (1) the

                                               13
   cell is part of a selected PLMN, a registered PLMN, or a PLMN of
   "Equivalent PLMN list", (2) the cell further satisfies the following conditions
   by the latest information provided by an NAS (non-access stratum), and (a)
   the cell is not a barred cell. (b) The cell is not part of an "LAs barred for
 5 roaming" list, but part of at least one tracking area (TA).           In this case, the
   cell must fulfill the (1), (c) the cell satisfies a cell selection criteria, (d) the cell,
   that is specified as a CSG cell by system information (SI) is part of a "CSG
   whitelist" of the UE (included in the CSG whitelist of the UE).
   [0019]   An "acceptable cell" is described below (Chapter 4.3 of Non-Patent
10 Document 3).       This is the cell on which a UE camps to obtain limited service
   (emergency calls).      Such a cell shall fulfill all the following requirements.
   That is, the minimum required set for initiating an emergency call in an
   E-UTRAN network are as follows.            (1) the cell is not a barred cell.     (2) the
   cell shall fulfill the cell selection criteria.
15 [0020]   Camping on a cell represents the state where a UE has completed
   the cell selection/reselection process and the UE has selected a cell for
   monitoring the system information and paging information.
   [0021]   3GPP is       studying base      stations   referred    to as    Home-NodeB
   (Home-NB, HNB) and Home-eNodeB (Home-eNB, HeNB).                      HNB/HeNB is a
20 base station for, for example, household, corporation or commercial access
   service in UTRAN/E-UTRAN.               Non-Patent Document 4 discloses three
   different modes of the access to the HeNB and HNB.                 Those are an open
   access mode, a closed access mode and a hybrid access mode.             The respective
   modes have the following characteristics.            In the open access mode, the
25 HeNB and HNB are operated as a normal cell of a normal operator.                   In the

                                            14
   closed access mode, the HeNB and HNB are operated as a CSG cell.            The
   CSG cell is a cell where only CSG members are allowed access.            In the
   hybrid access mode, non-CSG members are allowed to access at the same
   time.    In other words, a cell in the hybrid access mode (also referred to as
 5 hybrid cell) is the cell that supports both the open access mode and the closed
   access mode.
   [0022]     In 3GPP, as Release 10, the standards of "long term evolution
   advanced" (LTE-A) are being established (Non-Patent Document 6 and
   Non-Patent Document 7).
10 [0023]     In the LTE-A system, it is examined that a relay (relay node (RN)) is
   supported to obtain a high communication speed, a high throughput at cell
   edge, a new coverage area and the like.          The relay node is wirelessly
   connected to a radio access network through a donor cell (donor eNB or
   DeNB).       Within the range of the donor cell, a link from an NW to a relay
15 node shares the same frequency band as that of a link from a network to a
   UE.    In this case, the UE of Release 8 can also be connected to the donor cell.
   A link between a donor cell and a relay node is referred to as a backhaul link,
   and a link between a relay node and a UE is referred to as an access link.
   [0024]    As a backhaul link multiplexing method in FDD, transmission from a
20 DeNB      to an RN is      performed   in   a downlink   (DL)  frequency  band,
   transmission from an RN to a DeNB is an uplink (UL) frequency band.        As a
   resource splitting method in a relay, a link from a DeNB to an RN and a link
   from an RN to a UE are time-multiplexed in one frequency band, and a link
   from an RN to a DeNB and a link from a UE to an RN are time-multiplexed

                                         15
   in one frequency band.     In this manner, in the relay, transmission of the
   relay can be prevented from interfering with reception of its own relay.
   Prior Art Documents
   Non-Patent Documents
 5 [0025]   Non-Patent Document 1: 3GPP TS36. 300 V9. 2. 0 Chapter 4. 6. 1,
   Chapter 4. 6. 2, Chapter 5, Chapter 6, and Chapter 10.7
   Non-Patent Document 2: 3GPP TS36.331 V9.1.0
   Non-Patent Document 3: 3GPP TS36. 304 V9.1.0 Chapter 3.1, Chapter 4.3
   and Chapter 5.2.4
10 Non-Patent Document 4: 3GPP S1-083461
   Non-Patent Document 5: 3GPP R2-082899
   Non-Patent Document 6: 3GPP TR 36. 814 V9. 0. 0
   Non-Patent Document 7: 3GPP TR 36. 912 V9. 0. 0
   Non-Patent Document 8: 3GPP R1-095011
15 Non-Patent Document 9: 3GPP TS36.443 V9.0.0
   Non-Patent Document 10: 3GPP R1-100275
   Non-Patent Document 11: 3GPP R1-101620
   SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
   PROBLEM TO BE SOLVED BY THE INVENTION
20 [0026]   In  3GPP,   lower    power  consumption     (energy   saving)   of an
   infrastructure is being discussed.       It is examined that lower power
   consumption of a base station can be achieved by reducing transmission time
   of CRS by using an MBSFN subframe.

                                          16
   [0027]   It is an object of the present invention to provide a mobile
   communication system that can efficiently reduce a power consumption of an
   infrastructure.
   MEANS FOR SOLVING THE PROBLEMS
 5 [0028]   The present invention relates to a mobile communication system
   including a plurality of base stations that perform radio communication with
   user equipments and a radio network controller that controls the plurality of
   base stations, wherein the radio network controller indicates a low-frequency
   resource that is a radio resource for transmitting a reference signal for
10 measuring a power to the user equipments less frequently than normal to the
   base stations, the base station indicates, in addition to the low-frequency
   resource indicated by the radio network controller, a low-frequency resource
   that is a radio resource for transmitting the reference signal to the user
   equipment less frequently than normal, and the base station transmits the
15 reference signal to the user equipment less frequently than normal in the
   low-frequency resource indicated by the radio network controller and the
   low-frequency resource additionally designated by the base station itself.
   EFFECTS OF THE INVENTION
   [0029]   According to the present invention, in addition to the radio resource
20 indicated by the radio network controller, in the radio resource designated by
   the base station itself, the reference signal for measuring a power can be
   transmitted less frequently than normal, and a power consumption of the
   infrastructure can be reduced.
   BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF DRAWINGS

                                          17
   [0030]   FIG. 1 is a diagram illustrating the configuration of an LTE
   communication system.
            FIG. 2 is a diagram illustrating the configuration of a radio frame
   used in the LTE communication system.
 5          FIG. 3 is a diagram illustrating the configuration of the MBSFN
   (Multimedia Broadcast multicast service Single Frequency Network) frame.
            FIG. 4 is a diagram illustrating physical channels used in the LTE
   communication system.
            FIG. 5 is a diagram illustrating transport channels used in the LTE
10 communication system.
            FIG. 6 is a diagram illustrating logical channels used in the LTE
   communication system.
            FIG. 7 is a block diagram showing the overall configuration of a
   mobile communication system currently under discussion of 3GPP.
15          FIG. 8 is a block diagram showing the configuration of a user
   equipment 71 according to the present invention.
            FIG. 9 is a block diagram showing the configuration of a base station
   72 according to the present invention.
            FIG. 10 is a block diagram showing the configuration of an MME
20 according to the present invention.
            FIG. 11 is a block diagram showing the configuration of a HeNBGW
   according to the present invention.
            FIG. 12 is a flowchart showing an outline of cell search performed by
   a user equipment (UE) in the LTE communication system.

                                           18
             FIG. 13 is a diagram illustrating a theoretical architecture of
   E-MBMS currently under discussion of 3GPP.
             FIG.  14   is  a   diagram  illustrating  a  sequence    of a   mobile
   communication system when the solution of the first embodiment is used.
 5           FIG. 15 is a location diagram illustrating a problem of a first
   modification of the first embodiment.
             FIG.  16   is  a   diagram  illustrating  a  sequence    of a   mobile
   communication system when the solution of the first modification of the first
   embodiment is used.
10           FIG.  17   is  a   diagram  illustrating  a  sequence    of a   mobile
   communication system for explaining a problem of a second modification of
   the first embodiment.
             FIG.  18   is  a   diagram  illustrating  a  sequence    of a   mobile
   communication system when a solution of the second modification of the first
15 embodiment is used.
             FIG. 19 is a specific example of information of a priority order when
   a third modification of the first embodiment is used.
             FIG.  20 is    a   diagram  illustrating  a  sequence    of a   mobile
   communication system when a solution of a third modification of the first
20 embodiment is used.
             FIG.  21   is  a   diagram  illustrating  a  sequence    of a   mobile
   communication system when a solution of a fifth modification of the first
   embodiment is used.
             FIG. 22 is a generation pattern of paging occasion currently under
25 discussion of 3GPP.

                                           19
            FIG.   23 is    a   diagram  illustrating  a  sequence  of a   mobile
   communication system when a combination of the third embodiment and the
   first modification of the first embodiment is used.
            FIG.   24 is    a   diagram  illustrating  a  sequence  of a   mobile
 5 communication system when a solution of a first modification of the third
   embodiment is used.
            FIG.   25  is   a   diagram  illustrating  a  sequence  of a   mobile
   communication system when a solution of a second modification of the third
   embodiment is used.
10 EMBODIMENTS FOR CARRYING OUT THE INVENTION
   [0031]   First Embodiment
   FIG. 7 is a block diagram showing an overall configuration of an LTE mobile
   communication system, which is currently under discussion of 3GPP.          In
   current 3GPP, an overall configuration of a system including a CSG (Closed
15 Subscriber Group) cell (Home-eNodeB (Home-eNB, HeNB) of e-UTRAN and
   Home-NB (HNB) of UTRAN) and a non-CSG cell (eNodeB (eNB) of e-UTRAN,
   NodeB (NB) of UTRAN and BSS of GERAN) is examined.           For the e-UTRAN,
   the configuration shown in FIG. 7 is proposed (Chapter 4.6.1. of Non-Patent
   Document 1).
20 [0032]   FIG.   7 is    described.   A user equipment      (UE)   71 performs
   transmission/reception to/from a base station 72.     The base stations 72 are
   classified into an eNB 72-1 and Home-eNBs 72-2.             The eNB 72-1 is
   connected to MMEs 73 through S1 interfaces, and control information is
   communicated between the eNB and the MMEs.            A plurality of MMEs 73
25 may be connected to one eNB 72-1.      The eNBs are connected to each other by

                                         20
   means of an X2 interface, and control information is communicated between
   the eNBs.
   [0033]   The Home-eNB 72-2 is connected to the MME 73 by means of the S1
   interface, and control information is communicated between the Home-eNB
 5 and the MME.       A plurality of Home-eNBs are connected to one MME.
   Alternatively, the Home-eNBs 72-2 are connected to the MMEs 73 through a
   HeNBGW (Home-eNB Gateway) 74.          The Home-eNBs 72-2 are connected to
   the HeNBGW 74 by means of the S1 interfaces, and the HeNBGW 74 is
   connected to the MMEs 73 through an S1 interface.      One or a plurality of
10 Home-eNBs 72-2 are connected to one HeNBGW 74, and information is
   communicated therebetween through the S1 interface.      The HeNBGW 74 is
   connected to one or a plurality of MMEs 73, and information is communicated
   therebetween through the S1 interface.
   [0034]   Further, 3GPP is currently studying the configuration below.   The
15 X2 interface between the Home-eNBs 72-2 is not supported.      The HeNBGW
   74 appears to the MME 73 as the eNB 72-1.       The HeNBGW 74 appears to
   the Home-eNB 72-2 as the MME 73.             The S1 interface between the
   Home-eNB 72-2 and the EPC is the same irrespective of whether or not the
   Home-eNB 72-2 is connected to the EPC through the HeNBGW 74.            The
20 mobility to the Home-eNB 72-2 or the mobility from the Home-eNB 72-2 that
   spans the MMEs 73 is not supported.      The Home-eNB 72-2 supports a single
   cell.
   [0035]   FIG. 8 is a block diagram showing the configuration of the user
   equipment (equipment 71 of FIG. 7) according to the present invention.  The
25 transmission process of the user equipment shown in FIG. 8 is described.

                                          21
   First, a transmission data buffer unit 803 stores the control data from a
   protocol processing unit 801 and the user data from an application unit 802.
   The data stored in the transmission data buffer unit 803 is transmitted to an
   encoding unit 804 and is subjected to encoding process such as error
 5 correction.   There may exist the data output from the transmission data
   buffer unit 803 directly to a modulating unit 805 without encoding process.
   The data encoded by the encoding unit 804 is modulated by the modulating
   unit 805.   The modulated data is output to a frequency converting unit 806
   after being converted into a baseband signal, and then is converted into a
10 radio   transmission   frequency.    After   that, a   transmission   signal  is
   transmitted from an antenna 807 to a base station 72.      A user equipment 71
   executes the reception process as follows.      The antenna 807 receives the
   radio signal from the base station 72.    The received signal is converted from
   a radio reception frequency to a baseband signal by the frequency converting
15 unit 806 and is then demodulated by a demodulating unit 808.                The
   demodulated data is transmitted to a decoding unit 809 and is subjected to
   decoding process such as error correction.    Among the pieces of decoded data,
   the control data is transmitted to the protocol processing unit 801, while the
   user data is transmitted to the application unit 802.     A series of process of
20 the user equipment is controlled by a control unit 810.       This means that,
   though not shown, the control unit 810 is connected to the respective units
   (801 to 809).
   [0036]    FIG. 9 is a block diagram showing the configuration of the base
   station (base station 72 of FIG. 7) according to the present invention.     The
25 transmission process of the base station shown in FIG. 9 is described.       An

                                          22
   EPC communication unit 901 performs data transmission/reception between
   the base station 72 and the EPCs (such as MME 73 and HeNBGW 74).              A
   communication     with  another    base   station  unit   902   performs   data
   transmission/reception   to/from another base station.       The X2 interface
 5 between   the  Home-eNBs      72-2  is not   intended to   be   supported,  and
   accordingly, it is conceivable that the communication with another base
   station unit   902 may     not  exist in   the  Home-eNB     72-2.    The  EPC
   communication unit 901 and the communication with another base station
   unit 902 respectively    transmit/receive   information to/from    the protocol
10 processing unit 903.   The control data from the protocol processing unit 903,
   and the user data and control data from the EPC communication unit 901
   and the communication with another base station unit 902 are stored in the
   transmission data buffer unit 904.    The data stored in the transmission data
   buffer unit 904 is transmitted to an encoding unit 905 and is then subjected
15 to encoding process such as error correction.       There may exist the data
   output from the transmission data buffer unit 904 directly to a modulating
   unit 906 without encoding process.     The encoded data is modulated by the
   modulating unit 906.       The modulated      data is output to a frequency
   converting unit 907 after being converted into a baseband signal, and is then
20 converted into a radio transmission frequency.      After that, a transmission
   signal is transmitted from an antenna 908 to one or a plurality of user
   equipments 71.     While, the reception process of the base station 72 is
   executed as follows.     A radio signal from one or a plurality of user
   equipments 71 is received by the antenna 908.          The received signal is
25 converted from a radio reception frequency into a baseband signal by the

                                          23
   frequency converting unit 907, and is then demodulated by a demodulating
   unit 909.   The demodulated data is transmitted to a decoding unit 910 and is
   then subjected to decoding process such as error correction.         Among the
   pieces of decoded data, the control data is transmitted to the protocol
 5 processing unit 903, EPC communication unit 901, or communication with
   another base station unit 902, while the user data is transmitted to the EPC
   communication unit 901 and communication with another base station unit
   902.   A series of process by the base station 72 is controlled by a control unit
   911.   This means that, though not shown, the control unit 911 is connected
10 to the respective units (901 to 910).
   [0037]   The functions of the Home-eNB 72-2 currently under discussion of
   3GPP are described below (Chapter 4.6.2 of Non-Patent Document 1).           The
   Home-eNBs 72-2 has the same function as that of the eNB 72-1.         In addition,
   when the Home-eNB 72-2 is connected to the HeNBGW 74, the Home-eNB
15 72-2 has the following function.      The Home-eNB 72-2 has a function of
   discovering a suitable serving HeNBGW 74.       In a case where the Home-eNB
   72-2 is connected to one HeNBGW 74 only, that is, in a case of connection to
   the HeNBGW 74, the Home-eNB 72-2 does not use the Flex function of the S1
   interface.  When the Home-eNB 72-2 is connected to the HeNBGW 74, it is
20 not simultaneously connected to another HeNBGW 74 or another MME 73.
   The TAC and PLMN ID used by the Home-eNB 72-2 are supported by the
   HeNBGW 74.       When the Home-eNB 72-2 is connected to the HeNBGW 74,
   selection of the MME 73 at "UE attachment" is performed by the HeNBGW
   74 instead of the Home-eNB 72-2.       The Home-eNB 72-2 may be deployed
25 without network planning.      Accordingly, the Home-eNB 72-2 may be moved

                                         24
   from one geographical area to another geographical area.       Accordingly, the
   Home-eNB 72-2 may be required to be connected to a different HeNBGW 74
   depending on its location.
   [0038]   FIG. 10 is a block diagram showing the configuration of an MME
 5 (Mobility Management Entity) according to the present invention.        A PDN
   GW communication unit 1001 performs data transmission/reception between
   an MME 73 and a PDN GW.            A base station communication unit 1002
   performs data transmission/reception between the MME 73 and the base
   station 72 by means of the S1 interface.   In the case where the data received
10 from the PDN GW is user data, the user data is transmitted from the PDN
   GW communication unit 1001 to the base station communication unit 1002
   through a user plane processing unit 1003 and is then transmitted to one or a
   plurality of base stations 72.  In the case where the data received from the
   base station 72 is user data, the user data is transmitted from the base
15 station communication unit 1002 to the PDN GW communication unit 1001
   through the user plane processing unit 1003 and is then transmitted to the
   PDN GW.
   [0039] In the case where the data received from the PDN GW is control data,
   the control data is transmitted from the PDN GW communication unit 1001
20 to a control plane control unit 1005.    In the case where the data received
   from the base station 72 is control data, the control data is transmitted from
   the base station communication unit 1002 to the control plane control unit
   1005.   A HeNBGW communication unit 1004 is provided in the case where
   the HeNBGW 74 is provided, which performs data transmission/reception by
25 means of the interface (IF) between the MME 73 and the HeNBGW 74

                                           25
   according to an information type.         The control data received from the
   HeNBGW communication unit 1004 is transmitted from the HeNBGW
   communication unit 1004 to the control plane control unit 1005.              The
   processing results of the control plane control unit 1005 are transmitted to
 5 the PDN GW through the PDN GW communication unit                    1001.    The
   processing results of the control plane control unit 1005 are transmitted to
   one or a plurality of base stations 72 by means of the S1 interface through the
   base station communication unit 1002, and are transmitted to one or a
   plurality of HeNBGWs 74 through the HeNBGW communication unit 1004.
10 [0040]   The control plane control unit 1005 includes an NAS security unit
   1005-1, an SAE bearer control unit 1005-2 and an idle state mobility
   managing unit 1005-3, and performs overall process for the control plane.
   The NAS security unit 1005-1 provides security or the like of an NAS
   (Non-Access    Stratum) message.       The   SAE bearer   control unit    1005-2
15 manages, for example, an SAE (System Architecture Evolution) bearer.         The
   idle state mobility managing unit 1005-3 performs, for example, mobility
   management of an idle state (LTE-IDLE state, which is merely referred to as
   idle as well), generation and control of paging signaling in an idle state,
   addition, deletion, update and search of a tracking area (TA) of one or a
20 plurality of user equipments 71 being served thereby, and tracking area list
   (TA List) management.      The MME begins a paging protocol by transmitting
   a paging message to the cell belonging to a tracking area (TA) in which the
   UE is registered.   The idle state mobility managing unit 1005-3 may manage
   the CSG of the Home-eNBs 72-2 to be connected to the MME, CSG-IDs and a
25 whitelist.   In the CSG-ID management, the relationship between a user

                                          26
   equipment corresponding to the CSG-ID and the CSG cell is managed (added,
   deleted, updated or searched).     For example, it may be the relationship
   between one or a plurality of user equipments whose user access registration
   has been performed with a CSG-ID and the CSG cells belonging to this
 5 CSG-ID.    In the whitelist management, the relationship between the user
   equipment and the CSG-ID is managed (added, deleted, updated or searched).
   For example, one or a plurality of CSG-IDs with which user registration has
   been performed by a user equipment may be stored in the whitelist.         The
   above-mentioned management related to the CSG may be performed by
10 another part of the MME 73.     A series of process by an MME 73 is controlled
   by a control unit 1006.  This means that, though not shown, the control unit
   1006 is connected to the respective units (1001 to 1005).
   [0041]   The function of the MME 73 currently under discussion of 3GPP is
   described below (Chapter 4.6.2 of Non-Patent Document 1).        The MME 73
15 performs access control for one or a plurality of user equipments being
   members of CSGs (Closed Subscriber Groups).           The execution of paging
   optimization is recognized as an option.
   [0042]   FIG. 11 is a block diagram        showing the configuration    of the
   HeNBGW according to the present invention.        An EPC communication unit
20 1101 performs data transmission/reception between the HeNBGW 74 and the
   MME 73 by means of the S1 interface.        A base station communication unit
   1102 performs data transmission/reception between the HeNBGW 74 and the
   Home-eNB 72-2 by means of the S1 interface.         A location processing unit
   1103 performs the process of transmitting, to a plurality of Home-eNBs, the
25 registration information or the like among the data transmitted from the

                                         27
   MME 73 through the EPC communication unit 1101.         The data processed by
   the location processing     unit 1103 is transmitted to the      base    station
   communication unit 1102 and is transmitted to one or a plurality of
   Home-eNBs 72-2 through the S1 interface.       The data only caused to pass
 5 through (to be transparent) without requiring the process by the location
   processing unit 1103 is passed from the EPC communication unit 1101 to the
   base station communication unit 1102, and is transmitted to one or a
   plurality of Home-eNBs 72-2 through the S1 interface.      A series of process
   by the HeNBGW 74 is controlled by a control unit 1104.       This means that,
10 though not shown, the control unit 1104 is connected to the respective units
   (1101 to 1103).
   [0043]   The function of the HeNBGW 74 currently under discussion of 3GPP
   is described    below (Chapter 4.6.2    of Non-Patent Document      1).     The
   HeNBGW 74 relays an S1 application.       The HeNBGW 74 terminates the S1
15 application that is not associated with the user equipment 71 though it is a
   part of the procedures of the MME 73 toward the Home-eNB 72-2.            When
   the HeNBGW 74 is deployed, the procedure that is not associated with the
   user equipment 71 is communicated between the Home-eNB 72-2 and the
   HeNBGW 74 and between the HeNBGW 74 and the MME 73.                     The X2
20 interface is not set between the HeNBGW 74 and another node.                The
   execution of paging optimization is recognized as an option.
   [0044]   Next, an example of a typical cell search method in a mobile
   communication system is described.       FIG. 12 is a flowchart showing an
   outline from cell search to an idle state operation performed by a user
25 equipment (UE) in the LTE communication system.        When the cell search is

                                           28
   started by the user equipment, in Step ST1201, the slot timing and frame
   timing are synchronized by a primary synchronization signal (P-SS) and a
   secondary synchronization signal (S-SS) transmitted from a neighbor base
   station.    Synchronization codes, which correspond to PCIs (Physical Cell
 5 Identities) assigned per cell one by one, are assigned to the synchronization
   signals (SS) including the P-SS and S-SS.      The number of PCIs is currently
   studied in 504 ways, and these 504 ways of PCIs are used for synchronization,
   and the PCIs of the synchronized cells are detected (specified).   Next, in Step
   ST1202, a reference signal RS (cell-specific Reference Signal: CRS), which is
10 transmitted from the base station per cell, is detected and the received power
   (also referred to as an RSRP) is measured.       The code corresponding to the
   PCI one by one is used for the reference signal RS, and separation from the
   other cells is enabled by correlation using the code.    The code for RS of the
   cell is derived from the PCI specified in Step ST1201, which makes it possible
15 to detect the RS and measure the RS received power.       Next, in Step ST1203,
   the cell having the best RS reception quality (for example, cell having the
   highest RS received power; best cell) is selected from one or more cells that
   have been detected up to Step ST1202.       In Step ST1204, next, the PBCH of
   the best cell is received, and the BCCH that is the broadcast information is
20 obtained.      An   MIB   (Master   Information   Block)   containing   the  cell
   configuration    information  is mapped      on the  BCCH     over  the   PBCH.
   Examples of the MIB information include the DL (down link) system
   bandwidth     (also referred  to  as  transmission   bandwidth configuration:
   dl-bandwidth),    transmission antenna number and SFN (System Frame
25 Number).

                                          29
   [0045]    In Step ST1205, next, the DL-SCH of the cell is received based on the
   cell configuration information of the MIB, to thereby obtain an SIB (System
   Information     Block) 1 of the broadcast information BCCH.          The SIB1
   contains the information regarding access to the cell, information related to
 5 cell selection and scheduling information of other SIB (SIBk; k is an integer
   that satisfies k > 2).  In addition, the SIB1 contains a TAC (Tracking Area
   Code).     In  Step ST1206, next, the user equipment compares the TAC
   received in Step ST1205 with the TAC that has been already possessed in a
   TA (Tracking Area) list by the user equipment.        In a case where the TAC
10 received in Step ST 1205 is identical to the TAC included in the TA list as a
   result of comparison, the user equipment enters an idle state operation in the
   cell.   In the comparison, when the TAC received in Step ST1205 is not
   included in the TA list, the user equipment requests a core network (EPC)
   (including the MME or the like) to change the TA through the cell to perform
15 TAU (Tracking Area Update).        The core network updates the TA list based
   on an identification number (such as a UE-ID) of the user equipment
   transmitted from the user equipment together with a TAU request signal.
   The core network transmits the updated TA list to the user equipment.      The
   user equipment rewrites (updates) the TAC list possessed by the user
20 equipment with the received TA list.     After that, the user equipment enters
   the idle state operation in the cell.
   [0046]    In  the  LTE and     UMTS    (Universal Mobile Telecommunication
   System), the introduction of a CSG (Closed Subscriber Group) cell is studied.
   As described above, access is allowed for only one or a plurality of user
25 equipments registered with the CSG cell.         The CSG cell and one or a

                                            30
   plurality of user equipments registered with the CSG cell constitute one CSG.
   A specific identification number referred to as CSG-ID is added to the thus
   constituted CSG.      Note that one CSG may contain a plurality of CSG cells.
   After being registered with any one of the CSG cells, the user equipment can
 5 access the other CSG cells of the CSG to which the registered CSG cell
   belongs.   The Home-eNB in the LTE or the Home-NB in the UMTS is used
   as the CSG cell in some cases.      The user equipment registered with the CSG
   cell has a whitelist.    Specifically, the whitelist is stored in the SIM/USIM.
   The CSG information of the CSG cell with which the user equipment has
10 been registered is listed in the whitelist.       Specific examples of the CSG
   information include CSG-ID, TAI (Tracking Area Identity), TAC and the like.
   Any one of the CSG-ID and TAC is adequate as long as they are associated
   with each other.     GCI is adequate as long as the CSG-ID, the TAC and GCI
   (global cell identity) are associated with each other.    As can be seen from the
15 above, the user equipment which does not have a whitelist (including a case
   where the whitelist is empty in the present invention) is not allowed that
   makes access the CSG cell but is allowed that makes access only the
   non-CSG cell.     On the other hand, the user equipment which has a whitelist
   is allowed that makes access the CSG cell of the CSG-ID with which
20 registration has been performed as well as the non-CSG cell.
   [0047]   3GPP discusses that all PCI (Physical Cell Identities) are split
   (referred to as PCI-split) into ones reserved for CSG cells and the others
   reserved for non-CSG cells (Non-Patent Document 5).               Further, 3GPP
   discusses that the PCI split information is broadcast in the system
25 information from the base station to the user equipments being served

                                           31
   thereby.   Disclosed here is the basic operation of a user equipment by PCI
   split.  The user equipment that does not have the PCI split information
   needs to perform cell search using all PCIs (for example, using all 504 codes).
   On the other hand, the user equipment that has the PCI split information is
 5 capable of performing cell search using the PCI split information.
   [0048]   Further, 3GPP has determined that the PCIs for hybrid cells are not
   contained in the PCI range for CSG cells (Chapter 10.7 of Non-Patent
   Document 1).
   [0049]   The HeNB and HNB are required to support various types of service.
10 For example, an operator causes the predetermined HeNB and HNB to
   register user equipments therein and permits only the registered user
   equipments to make access the cells of the HeNB and HNB, so that the user
   equipments increase the available radio resource for performing high-speed
   communication.     In such service, the operator correspondingly sets a higher
15 accounting fee compared with normal service.       This is a service. In order to
   achieve the above-mentioned service, the CSG cell (Closed Subscriber Group
   cell) which the registered (subscribed or member) user equipments can access
   is introduced.   It is required to install a large number of CSG cells (Closed
   Subscriber Group cells) in shopping malls, apartment buildings, schools,
20 companies and the like.       For example, the CSG cells are required to be
   installed for each store in shopping malls, for each room in apartment
   buildings, for each classroom in schools, and for each section in companies in
   such a manner that only the users who have registered the respective CSG
   cells are permitted to use those CSG cells.     The HeNB/HNB is required not
25 only to complement the communication outside the coverage of the macro cell

                                           32
   but also to support various types of service as described above.  This leads to
   a case where the HeNB/HNB is installed within the coverage of the macro
   cell.
   [0050]   As one technique studied by the LTE-A, heterogeneous networks
 5 (HetNets) are added.     3GPP handles a pico eNB (pico cell), a node for hot
   zone cell, an HeNB/HNB/CSG cell, a relay node, and a network node (local
   area range node, a local area node, and a local node) in a local-area range
   having a low-output power such as a remote radio head (RRH).           Thus, a
   network in which such one or more local area range nodes are incorporated in
10 a normal eNB (macro cell) is requested to be operated.         The network in
   which one or more local area range nodes are incorporated in the normal eNB
   (macro cell) is referred to as a heterogeneous network, and an interference
   reducing method, a capacity improving method and the like are studied.
   [0051]   In   3GPP,   lower   power    consumption    (energy  saving)   of an
15 infrastructure is being discussed.
   [0052]   The following is disclosed in      Non-Patent Document 8.      During
   downlink transmission, a base station must turn on a power supply of a
   transmitter power amplifier      (PA).     Thus, when a time     for downlink
   transmission is shortened, the power         supply of the transmitter power
20 amplifier can be turned off, and lower power consumption of the base station
   can be provided.   Signals required in a downlink for no-active UE are a CRS,
   a P-SS, an S-SS and a BCH.      Among the signals or channels, a signal that
   maximally influences a downlink transmission time is the CRS.           This is
   because the CRSs are transmitted in all subframes.          Although the CRS
25 normally has four symbols in a subframe except for the MBSFN subframe,

                                           33
   the CRS in the MBSFN subframe has one symbol.          The MBSFN subframe is
   a subframe that supports transmission using MBSFN.            Thus, by using the
   MBSFN subframe, a CRS transmission time can be reduced.                   In this
   manner,lower power consumption of the base station can be provided.
 5 [0053]  As the MBSFN subframes, a maximum of six subframes can be
   configured in one radio frame (Non-Patent Document 2).
   [0054]   On the other hand, for lower power consumption, a new method
   called an extended cell DTX is proposed without using the MBSFN subframe.
   In the extended cell DTX, a CRS is transmitted in a first subframe (#0) per
10 each radio frame, and no CRS is transmitted in the other subframes.         In the
   user equipment, in order to measure cell reception quality (RSRP), it is
   proposed that the S-SS is used instead of using the CRS.
   [0055]  A problem to be solved by a first embodiment is described below.
   [0056]  A logical architecture of an E-MBMS discussed in 3GPP is as shown
15 in FIG. 13.    The same reference numerals as those of FIG. 1 denote the
   corresponding     portions,   which     are    not   described.       An     MCE
   (Multi-cell/multicast Coordination Entity) 1301 is a logical element, or may
   be part of another network element.        The MCE controls one or more base
   stations deployed under the control of the MCE.                More specifically,
20 admission control is performed and radio resources are allocated.      The radio
   resources are radio resources used by all the base stations in an MBSFN area
   for multi-cell MBMS transmission used by an MBSFN operation.           The MCE
   determines not only allocation of the radio resource of time and frequencies
   but also details of a radio configuration.   The details of a radio configuration
25 is a configuration related to, for example, a modulating scheme, a coding

                                           34
   method or the like.    The MCE executes signaling to a base station, and does
   not execute signaling to a user equipment.
   [0057]   An MBMS GW (E-MBMS Gateway) 1302 is a logical element, or may
   be part of another network element.       The MBMS GW is present between a
 5 BMSC (Broadcast Multicast Service Center) 1306 and a base station.
   [0058]   The BMSC 1306 carries the function of user service of the MBMS.
   Specific   examples    of  the   function   include    a  security   function,   a
   synchronization protocol function and the like.     The synchronization protocol
   is a method to carry additional information that enables the base station to
10 perform radio frame transmission and a packet loss detection.         The MBMS
   GW transmits or broadcasts an MBMS packet to each base station that
   transmits a service.
   [0059]   An M3 interface 1303 is defined as an interface between the MME
   103 and an MCE 1301.      The interface is an interface of a control plane.    The
15 M3 interface 1303 is for MBMS session control signaling on an E-RAB level.
   The M3 interface 1303 is not used to transmit radio configuration data.
   [0060]   An M2 interface 1304 is defined as an interface between the MCE
   1301 and an eNB 102.      The interface is an interface of a control plane.    The
   M2 interface 1304 is used to transmit radio configuration data for session
20 control signaling to a base station in a multi-cell transmission mode.
   [0061]   An M1 interface 1305 is defined as an interface between the MBMS
   GW 1302 and an eNB 102.        The M1 interface 1305 is an interface of a user
   plane.   The M1 interface 1305 is to transmit user data.
   [0062]   A configuring method of an MBMS subframe discussed in 3GPP is as
25 follows.

                                          35
   [0063]   An MCE notifies a base station being served thereby, by using
   MBMS scheduling information, of an MBSFN subframe configuration.               A
   base station notifies a user equipment of the MBSFN subframe configuration
   by using system information (SIB2) (Non-Patent Document 2 and Non-Patent
 5 Document 9).
   [0064]   Thus,    in  the conventional    technique,  the  MBSFN       subframe
   configuration is notified from the MCE to the base station, also to the user
   equipment through the base station, and commonly used by the base stations
   and the user equipments that are served by the MCE.
10 [0065]   On the other hand, loading states of the base stations differ
   depending on the base stations.   That is, a low-load state (to also be referred
   to as low-load (Non-Patent Document 10)) or a no-load state (to also be
   referred to as a no-load (Non-Patent Document 10)) in which the base station
   desires to shift to an lower power consumption (energy saving) operation is a
15 state that is independently generated in each of the base stations.
   [0066]   Thus, in the conventional technique, when lower power consumption
   of the base stations is realized by using the MBSFN subframe, there arise
   problems that MBSFN subframe cannot be configured depending on the
   states of the base stations, and an efficient energy saving operation is
20 impossible.    Lower power consumption of the base station by using the
   MBSFN subframe is described below.       When the base station performs lower
   power consumption, by using an MBSFN subframe in which less frequent
   transmission of CRSs is performed than that of a normal subframe (a
   subframe except for the MBSFN subframe), a period of the power supply of
25 the transmitter power amplifier is shortened.

                                          36
   [0067]   Non-Patent Document 11 discloses that making CRS transmission
   less frequent to save a network power makes it possible to configure a larger
   number of MBSFN subframes.          However, more specifically, what a main
   subject of the configuration is, whether or not a larger number of MBSFN
 5 subframes can be configured, and a concrete method of enabling a large
   number of MBSFN subframes to be configured are not disclosed.
   [0068]   A solution in the first embodiment is described below.
   [0069]   The MCE indicates a number of a subframe to be used as an MBSFN
   subframe to a base station.      The MBSFN subframe indicated by the MCE
10 may be referred to as an MBSFN subframe (MCE) hereinafter.            A user
   equipment is notified of a number of the subframe to be used as the MBSFN
   subframe (MCE) through a base station.
   [0070]   The base station designates, in addition to the MBSFN subframe
   (MCE), a number of a subframe to be used as an MBSFN subframe by the
15 base station itself. The MBSFN subframe additionally designated by the
   base station itself may be referred to as an MBSFN subframe (eNB)
   hereinafter.   The number of subframe to be used as the MBSFN subframe
   (eNB) is selected from subframe numbers except for the number of the
   subframe to be used as the MBSFN subframe (MCE).          A user equipment is
20 notified of the number of the subframe to be used as the MBSFN subframe
   (eNB) from a base station.
   [0071]   As a result, the base station can use the MBSFN subframe (eNB)
   besides the MBSFN subframe (MCE).         In particular, by using the MBSFN
   subframe (MCE) and the MBSFN subframe (eNB), a CRS can be transmitted
25 to a user equipment.    In the MBSFN subframes, the CRS is transmitted less

                                           37
   frequently than normal, and transmissions of the CRS performed in the
   infrastructure can be less frequent, and a power consumption of the
   infrastructure can be reduced.
   [0072]   When the MBSFN subframe (eNB) is used in energy saving, the
 5 MBSFN subframe (eNB) may also be referred to as a subframe for energy
   saving.    In addtion, only when the base station performs the energy saving
   operation, MBSFN subframe (eNB) may be additionally designated.
   [0073]   For descriptive convenience, subsequently, a subframe recognized by
   a user equipment as a subframe using an MBSFN subframe configuration
10 may also be referred to as an MBSFN subframe (UE).                  Two specific
   examples of a method of configuring an MBSFN subframe of a base station
   are disclosed below.
   [0074]   (1) The base station notifies the user equipment of a configuration of
   an MBSFN subframe which includes the MBSFN subframe (MCE) and the
15 MBSFN subframe (eNB).         That is, the base station notifies of an MBSFN
   subframe     (UE) configuration.      Broadcast   information    is used   at a
   notification   of the configuration.      Accordingly, an effect     of enabling
   notification of the MBSFN subframe configuration can be obtained to not
   only a user equipment that is being connected (CONNECTED) but also a
20 user equipment that is idling (Idle).   More specifically, SIB2 in the broadcast
   information is used.     In this manner, the same configuring method as a
   conventional    method for an MBSFN subframe            is obtained,   a mobile
   communication system that is good in downward compatibility can be
   advantageously established.

                                          38
   [0075]   (2) The base station notifies the user equipment of an MBSFN
   subframe (eNB) configuration independently of an MBSFN subframe (MCE)
   configuration.   Independently of the MBSFN subframe configuration in SIB2
   of the conventional technique, the base station newly sets a configuration of a
 5 subframe    for  the  MBSFN      subframe   (eNB)   to the   user equipment.
   Alternatively, in the MBSFN subframe configuration in the SIB2 in the
   conventional technique, an indicator that indicates whether or not the
   configuration is for energy saving may be newly set.        That is, the user
   equipment recognizes the subframe configured as the MBSFN subframe
10 (MCE) and the MBSFN subframe (eNB) as the MBSFN subframe (UE).
   [0076]   A specific example of a method of selecting an MBSFN subframe
   (eNB) of the base station is disclosed below.
   [0077]   The base station configures a subframe different from the MBSFN
   subframe (MCE) as the MBSFN subframe (eNB).            The base station may
15 transmit MBMS data by a resource except for the CRS in the MBSFN
   subframe (MCE).      Thus, even though the MBSFN subframe (MCE) is used
   for energy saving, in the resource except for the CRS, the base station must
   turn on the power supply of the transmitter power amplifier, and a less
   energy saving effect is obtained.    Thus, by using this method, a subframe
20 different from the MBSFN subframe (MCE) is configured as a subframe for
   energy saving to make it possible to establish a mobile communication
   system having a great effect for lower power consumption.
   [0078]   A specific operation example using the first embodiment is described
   with reference to FIG. 14.

                                           39
    [0079]  In this operation example, a case where the specific example (2) is
   used in a method of configuring an MBSFN subframe of a base station is
   disclosed.   A case where the specific example (2) is used in a method of
   selecting an MBSFN subframe (eNB) of a base station is disclosed.
 5  [0080]  In Step ST1401, the MCE notifies a base station (eNB1) being served
   thereby of the MBSFN subframe (MCE).
    [0081]  In Step ST1402, the MCE notifies a base station (eNB2) being served
   thereby of the MBSFN subframe (MCE).             The MCE notifies all the base
   stations that perform the same MBMS transmission and are served thereby
10 of the same MBSFN subframe (MCE).                It is to support the MBSFN
   transmission.    In this operation example, for example, it is assumed that a
   second subframe (#1) and a third subframe (#2) are configured as MBSFN
   subframes (MCE).
    [0082]  In Step ST1403, the base station (eNB1) judges whether or not to
15 configure the MBSFN subframe (eNB).            In the case of judging that the
   MBSFN subframe is configured, the flow shifts to Step ST1404.         In the case
   of judging that the MBSFN subframe is not configured, the judgment in Step
   ST1403 is repeated.       When the MBSFN subframe is used in an energy
   saving operation, in Step ST1403, it may be judged whether or not the energy
20 saving operation is executed.    In this case, when it is judged that the energy
   saving operation is executed, the flow shifts to Step ST1404.         When it is
   judged that the energy saving operation is not executed, the judgment in Step
   ST1403 is repeated.
    [0083]  In Step ST1404, the base station (eNB1) selects the MBSFN
25 subframe (eNB).      In this operation example, a subframe different from #1

                                           40
   and #2 serving as the MBSFN subframes (MCE) is selected as the MBSFN
   subframe (eNB).     In this operation example, for example, it is assumed that
   a seventh subframe (#6) and an eighth subframe (#7) are configured as
   MBSFN subframes (eNB).
 5 [0084]   In Step ST1405, the base station (eNB1) notifies a user equipment
   being served thereby of an MBSFN subframe (MCE) configuration.          In this
   operation example, #1     and #2 are notified as subframes reserved for the
   MBSFN in a downlink.
   [0085]   In Step ST1406, the base station (eNB1) notifies a user equipment
10 being served thereby of an MBSFN subframe (eNB) configuration.          In this
   operation example, #6 and #7 are notified as subframes reserved for the
   MBSFN in a downlink.
   [0086]   In Step ST1407, the user equipment operates using the MBSFN
   subframe (MCE) received in Step ST1405 and the MBSFN subframe (eNB)
15 received in Step ST1406 as subframes reserved for the MBSFN in a downlink.
   In this operation example, the user equipment operates using #1, #2,    #6 and
   #7 as subframes reserved for the MBSFN in a downlink.      The MBSFN frame
   configuration is the same as that in the conceptual diagram shown in FIG. 3.
   [0087]   The first embodiment can achieve the effects below.
20 [0088]   Other than the configuration notified by the MCE to the base station,
   the base station can configure the MBSFN subframe by itself for a user
   equipment being served thereby.      In this manner, the MBSFN subframe can
   be configured according to operation states which differ depending on base
   stations, and frequency of transmitting a CRS can be adjusted.      An efficient
25 energy saving operation that is suitable for each base station can be

                                            41
   performed.       The   above    operations  can   contribute  to   lower   power
   consumption on the network side.
   [0089]  Although, in the above description, "the number of a subframe to be
   used as the MBSFN subframe (eNB) is selected from subframe numbers
 5 except for the number of a subframe to be used as the MBSFN subframe
   (MCE)".    However, " the number of a subfame to be used as the MBSFN
   subframe (eNB) may be selected to be completely equal to the number of the
   MBSFN subframe (MCE) or to partially overlap the number of the MBSFN
   subframe (MCE)".
10 [0090]   In this case, a specific example of a method of configuring an MBSFN
   subframe of a base station may be as follows.        When the number of the
   subframe to be used as the MBSFN subframe (MCE) is completely equal to
   the number of the subframe to be used as the MBSFN subframe (eNB), (1)
   the base station notifies a user equipment of the MBSFN subframe (MCE)
15 configuration.    (2) The base station notifies the user equipment of an
   MBSFN subframe (eNB) configuration.
   [0091]   In this case, the following portion may be referred to as a subframe
   for energy saving.    (1) An MBSFN subframe (eNB) including an overlapping
   portion between a number of a subframe to be used as the MBSFN subframe
20 (eNB) and a number of the MBSFN subframe (MCE) may be referred to as a
   subframe for energy saving.        (2) Among the subframes configured as the
   MBSFN subframe (eNB), a subframe that does not overlap the number of the
   MBSFN subframe (MCE) may be referred to as a subframe for energy saving.
   [0092]  Also, the MBSFN subframe (MCE) may be included in the subframes
25 for energy saving or configured as a subframe for energy saving.     In this case,

                                           42
   even when the base station receives MBMS data (control data and user data)
   to perform transmission in the MBSFN subframe (MCE), the base station
   may perform an energy saving operation.        The base station may turn off
   transmission at a transmission timing except for the timing of the CRS in a
 5 subframe configured as the subframe for energy saving.         Even when the
   base station receives MBMS data from the MBMS GW, the BMSC or the
   MCE to transmit a subframe for energy saving, the power supply of the
   transmitter power amplifier may be turned off in a radio resource for
   transmitting the MBMS data.       In this manner, even though the base station
10 cannot configure the MBSFN subframe for a user equipment being served
   thereby by itself, energy      saving using the MBSFN       subframe  can be
   performed according to operation states which differ depending on base
   stations.
   [0093]    In addition, information representing whether or not the MBSFN
15 subframe (MCE) can be used for energy saving may be configured, and the
   MCE may notify a base station of the information.         On the basis of the
   information,   the   MBSFN     subframes   used  for energy   saving  may be
   determined.
   [0094]    The case where the MBSFN subframe (eNB) is configured when the
20 base station is in an energy saving operation state has been described above.
   However, the present invention is not limited to the case, and an MBSFN
   subframe (eNB) is configured depending on an operation state of a base
   station to make it possible to reduce a power consumption.
   [0095]    The case where the MBSFN subframe having a CRS transmission
25 performed less frequent than that of a normal subframe having a CRS

                                          43
   transmission performed      frequently has been described.        However, the
   present invention is not limited to the case, by using a radio resource having
   a CRS transmission performed less frequently than normal, it becomes
   possible to reduce a power consumption.
 5 [0096]   First Modification of First Embodiment
   In a case where the first embodiment is used, the following problem occurs.
   [0097]   In the conventional technique, neighbor cell information includes
   information    representing   whether    or  not  the    MBSFN     is supported
   (Non-Patent Document 2).      The information is referred to as a neighbor cell
10 configuration (Neigh Cell Config), and is included in the SIB3 and SIB5 of
   broadcast   information   or a measurement       object.   The information     is
   expressed by two bits.     The meanings of combinations of the bits are as
   follows.   A combination "00" represents that the same MBSFN subframe
   configuration as that in a serving cell is not present in all the neighbor cells.
15 In other words, the neighbor cells include a cell having an MBSFN subframe
   configuration different from that of a serving cell.       A combination "10"
   represents that each of all the neighbor cells has the same MBSFN subframe
   configuration as that of a serving cell or the MBSFN subframe configuration
   included in the MBSFN subframe configuration of the serving cell.              A
20 combination "01" represents that the MBSFN subframe is not configured in
   each of all the neighbor cells.    A combination "11" represents that uplink
   allocation or downlink allocation different from that in the serving cell is
   present in the neighbor cell in a TDD (Time Division Duplex) system.
   [0098]   When the base station can configure a subframe except for the
25 MBSFN subframe (MCE) as the MBSFN subframe (eNB) by using the first

                                          44
   embodiment, the MBSFN subframe actually used by the base station may be
   mismatched with information that is notified as neighbor cell information by
   the neighbor cell of the base station to a user equipment being served
   thereby.
 5 [0099]    In the   conventional  technique,   the user   equipment    measures
   reception quality (RSRP) of a cell by using the CRS.     The CRS resources of
   the MBSFN subframes are different from the CRS resources of a subframe
   except for the MBSFN subframe.
   [0100]    Thus, when the MBSFN subframe actually used by the base station
10 is mismatched with the information that notified as neighbor cell information
   by a neighbor cell of the base station to the user equipment, an error occurs
   in a measurement result of the neighbor cell obtained by the user equipment.
   This is because the user equipment may measure an RSRP as a CRS for a
   symbol for which the CRS is not actually transmitted.     Furthermore, this is
15 because the user equipment may not perform RSRP measurement to the CRS
   for a symbol for which the CRS is actually transmitted.     Due to the error of
   the measurement result, the user equipment may hand over a cell different
   from an original best cell or may reselect a cell.   In this manner, effective
   utilization of a radio resource cannot be provided, or a uselessly high uplink
20 transmission     power    is used   to   disadvantageously    increase  uplink
   interference.
   [0101]   A specific example that causes problems is described with reference
   to FIG. 15.   The same reference numerals as those of FIGS. 1 and 13 denote
   the corresponding portions, which are not described.

                                           45
   [0102]   Location is described first.    There are an eNB1 (102-1), an eNB2
   (102-2) and eNB3 (102-3) that are served by the MCE 1301.       The MCE 1301
   and the eNB1 (102-1) are connected by an M2 interface 1304-1, the MCE
   1301 and the eNB2 (102-2) are connected by an M2 interface 1304-2, and the
 5 MCE 1301 and the eNB3 (102-3) are connected by an M2 interface 1304-3.
   There is a user equipment 1 (101-1) being served by the eNB1 (102-1), there
   is a user equipment 2 (101-2) being served by the eNB2 (102-2), and there is
   a user equipment 3 (101-3) being served by the eNB3 (102-3).     It is assumed
   that there are the eNB2 (101-2) and the eNB3 (101-3) as neighbor cells of the
10 eNB1 (101-1).    It is assumed that there are the eNB1 (101-1) and the eNB3
   (101-3) as neighbor cells of the eNB2 (101-2).    It is assumed that there are
   the eNB1 (101-1) and the eNB2 (101-2) as neighbor cells of the eNB3 (101-3).
   [0103]   A specific example that causes problems is described with reference
   to FIGS. 14 and 15.       It is assumed that the eNB3 (101-3) in FIG. 15 is
15 omitted in FIG. 14.      The MCE 1301 notifies the eNB1 (102-1), the eNB2
   (102-2) and the eNB3 (102-3) serving as base stations being served thereby of
   the MBSFN subframe (MCE) (corresponding to Step ST1401 and Step
   ST1402 in FIG. 14).     For example, it is assumed that a second subframe (#1)
   and a third subframe (#2) are configured as MBSFN subframes (MCE).         It is
20 assumed that the eNB1 (102-1) executes an energy saving operation to
   configure the MBSFN subframe (eNB) (corresponding to Step ST1404 in FIG.
   14).   In this case, a subframe different from #1       and #2 serving as the
   MBSFN subframes (MCE) are configured as the MBSFN subframe (eNB).
   For example, it is assumed that a seventh subframe (#6) and an eighth
25 subframe (#7) are configured as MBSFN subframes (eNB).

                                           46
   [0104]    On the other hand, the eNB2 (102-2) having the eNB1 (102-1) as a
   neighbor cell has no way of knowing the MBSFN subframe (eNB) of the eNB1
   (102-1).   Thus, the eNB2 (102-2) may notify the user equipment 2 (101-2)
   being served thereby of signaling bits "10" as information (a type of neighbor
 5 cell information) representing whether or not the MBSFN is supported.      The
   signaling bits "10" represents that each of all the neighbor cells (eNB1 and
   eNB3) has the same MBSFN subframe configuration as that of own cell
   (eNB2) or the MBSFN subframe configuration included in the MBSFN
   subframe configuration of own cell.        The user equipment 2 (101-2) that
10 receives the information (a type of neighbor cell information) representing
   whether or not the MBSFN is supported measures a reference symbol
   received power (RSRP) on the assumption that the eNB1 (101-1) and the
   eNB3     (101-3)  have,  as  neighbor    cells, the  same   MBSFN    subframe
   configuration as that of a serving cell or an MBSFN subframe configuration
15 included in the MBSFN subframe configuration of the serving cell.         More
   specifically, the user equipment 2 measures RSRPs for #1 and #2 serving as
   the MBSFN subframes (MCE) notified from theMCE by using one symbol of
   CRS, and measures an RSRP for a subframe except for the MBSFN subframe
   (MCE) by using, for example, four symbols of CRS.       On the other hand, the
20 eNB1 (101-1) performs an operation for #1,#2,#6 and #7 by using the MBSFN
   subframe configuration.     That is, the eNB1 (101-1) transmits one symbol of
   CRS for #1,#2,#6     and #7,   and transmits four symbols of CRS to other
   subframes.
   [0105]    As described above, the following error occurs in measurement of the
25 eNB1 in neighbor cell measurement performed by the user equipment 2.

                                            47
   With respect to the subframes #6 and #7, the user equipment 2 includes
   three symbols for which the eNB1 does not actually transmit a CRS in
   measurement objects of the RSRP.        Thus, the RSRP value of the eNB1 in the
   user equipment 2 may be lower than a real value.        In this manner, even in a
 5 circumstance in which the best cell is the eNB1 for the user equipment 2, a
   cell other than the eNB1 may be reselected or handed over.       In this manner,
   effective utilization of a radio resource cannot be provided, or a uselessly high
   uplink transmission power is used to disadvantageously increase uplink
   interference.
10 [0106]   A solution in     the first modification of the first embodiment is
   described below.     Parts different from the solution of the first embodiment
   are mainly described below.      Undescribed parts are the same as those in the
   first embodiment.
   [0107]   The base station notifies neighbor cells of an MBSFN subframe
15 configuration of own cell.     Neighbor cell information is updated on the basis
   of the information and the updated information is notified to the user
   equipment being served by the base station the configuration notified.        The
   user equipment executes neighbor cell measurement by using the neighbor
   cell information.
20 [0108]   Notification to neighbor cells may be executed only when the MBSFN
   subframe (eNB) is configured.       The notification may be performed only when
   a subframe different from the MBSFN subframe (MCE) is configured as the
   MBSFN subframe (eNB).
   [0109]   Six specific examples of the MBSFN subframe configuration of which
25 the neighbor cells are notified are disclosed below.     (1) An MBSFN subframe

                                             48
   (UE) obtained when the specific example (1) of a method of configuring an
   MBSFN subframe of a base station is used in the first embodiment.           (2) An
   MBSFN subframe (eNB) obtained when the specific example (2) of a method
   of configuring an MBSFN subframe of a base station is used in the first
 5 embodiment.       The MBSFN subframe (MCE) may also be notified.                (3)
   Among the MBSFN subframes (eNB), a subframe different from the MBSFN
   subframe (MCE).      (4) information representing whether or not the MBSFN
   subframe is configured independently of a notification of the MCE.         That is,
   information representing whether or not a subframe different from that of a
10 notification of the MCE is configured as the MBSFN subframe (eNB).              (5)
   Information     representing    that   the   MBSFN      subframe    is  configured
   independently     of a   notification   of the   MCE.      That   is,  information
   representing that the MBSFN subframe (eNB) is configured independently of
   a notification of the MCE.       (6) Information representing that the MBSFN
15 subframe is not configured independently of a notification of the MCE.        That
   is, information representing       that a subframe     different from that of a
   notification of the MCE is not configured as the MBSFN subframe (eNB).
   [0110]   Three specific examples of an interface used for notification to the
   neighbor cells are disclosed below.     (1) The base station performs notification
20 to the neighbor cells by using the X2 interface.            (2) The base station
   performs notification to the MME by using the S1 interface.             The MME
   performs notification to the neighbor cells of the base station by using the S1
   interface.   (3) The base station performs notification to the MCE by using
   the M2 interface.    The MCE performs notification to the MME by using the

                                           49
   M3 interface.     The MME performs notification to the neighbor cells of the
   base station by using the S1 interface.
   [0111]   Five specific examples of a method of selecting a neighbor cell are
   disclosed below.     (1) A determination is made based on a measurement
 5 result of a neighbor radio environment of the base station.         As a specific
   example of the neighbor radio environment, a measurement result of a
   neighbor cell is given.    As specific examples of a measurement result of a
   neighbor cell, reception quality, a received power, a path loss and the like are
   given.   When, in the measurement result of the neighbor radio environment,
10 reception quality or a received power of a certain base station is a certain
   threshold value or more (or larger than the threshold value), the base station
   selects the certain base station as neighbor cell that performs notification of
   the MBSFN subframe configuration of own cell.        When, in the measurement
   result of the neighbor radio environment, a path loss of a certain base station
15 is smaller than a certain threshold value (or equal to the threshold value or
   less), the base station selects the certain base station as neighbor cell that
   performs notification of the MBSFN subframe configuration of own cell.          (2)
   A judgment is made by a measurement report from a user equipment being
   served by the base station.      For example, according to the measurement
20 report, a cell reported to be good in reception quality by own cell is selected as
   a   neighbor    cell that  performs    notification of the   MBSFN      subframe
   configuration of own cell.    The good reception quality includes, for example,
   a case where a received power is higher than that of own cell, a case where a
   path loss is smaller than that of own cell, and the like.    (3) A cell that has
25 been selected by a handover target (to be also referred to as a target cell) is

                                            50
   selected as a neighbor cell that performs notification of the MBSFN subframe
   configuration of own cell.    (4) A cell that has been selected by a cell reselect
   target is selected as a neighbor cell that performs notification of the MBSFN
   subframe configuration of own cell.           (5) A base station including the
 5 corresponding base station in a neighbor cell is selected.
   [0112]    Two specific examples of a main body that updates neighbor cell
   information are disclosed below.        (1) The base station that receives the
   notification updates the neighbor cell information.     This example has a high
   affinity to the specific example (1) of the interface used for notification to the
10 neighbor cell.    This is because the notification is directly given to the base
   station without through the MME.              (2) The MME that receives the
   notification updates neighbor cell information of a base station having the
   base station that transmits the notification as a neighbor cell.    This example
   has a high affinity to the specific examples (2) and (3) of the interface used
15 for notification to the neighbor cell.      This is because the notification is
   performed through the MME.
   [0113]   A specific operation example using the first modification of the first
   embodiment is described with reference to FIG. 16.          The same reference
   numerals as those of FIG. 14 denote the corresponding portions, which are
20 not described.    Location is the same as the location described with reference
   to FIG. 15, which are not described.
   [0114]    In this operation example, a case where the specific example (3) is
   used in the MBSFN subframe configuration of which neighbor cells are
   notified is disclosed.   A case where the specific example (2) is used in an
25 interface used in notification to the neighbor cells are disclosed below.        A

                                           51
   case where a specific example (5) is used in the method of selecting a
   neighbor cell is disclosed below.     A case where the specific example (2) is
   used in a main body that updates neighbor cell information is disclosed
   below.
 5 [0115]   In Step ST1601, the base station (eNB1) notifies the MME of a
   subframe different from the MBSFN subframe (MCE) of the MBSFN
   subframes (eNB) as information of the MBSFN subframe configuration.           In
   this operation example, the MBSFN subframe (MCE) are #1 and #2.             The
   MBSFN subframes (eNB) are #6 and #7.            Thus, pieces of information of
10 which the base station (eNB1) notifies the MME become #6 and #7.        The S1
   interface is used for the notification.
   [0116]   In Step ST1602, the MME selects a neighbor cell that performs
   notification of the MBSFN subframe configuration of the base station (eNB1).
   A base station including the base station (eNB1) in a neighbor cell is selected.
15 In this operation example, the eNB1 (101-1) and the eNB3 (101-3) are
   present as neighbor cells of the eNB2 (101-2), and the eNB1 (101-1) and the
   eNB2 (101-2) are present as neighbor cells of the eNB3 (101-3).        Thus, in
   Step ST1602, the MME selects the eNB2 (101-2) and the eNB3 (101-3).
   Subsequently, the eNB3 (101-3) is considered to be equal to the eNB2 (101-2),
20 which is not described.
   [0117]   In Step ST1603, the MME updates the neighbor cell information of
   the base station selected in Step ST1602.    Information representing whether
   or not the MBSFN serving as the neighbor cell information is supported is
   updated.    The MME may perform determination based on the information
25 received in Step ST1601.       In Step ST1601, the MME can judge that the

                                            52
   eNB1 configures a subframe different from the MBSFN subframe (MCE) as
   the MBSFN subframe configuration.         In this operation example, the MBSFN
   subframe configuration of the eNB2 (101-2) is the MBSFN subframe (MCE)
   received in Step ST1401.      Thus, the subframes become #1 and #2.          Thus,
 5 the information (neighbor cell information of the eNB2) representing whether
   or not the MBSFN is supported is changed (updated) by the MME into
   information representing that the same MBSFN subframe configuration as
   that of the serving cell (eNB2) is not included in all the neighbor cells.     If a
   conventional   technique   is used    as    the neighbor    cell information,  the
10 information is changed (updated) into signaling bits "00".
   [0118]   In Step ST1604, the MME notifies the base station selected in Step
   ST1602 of the neighbor cell information updated in Step ST1603.             The S1
   interface may be used for the notification.
   [0119]   In Step ST1605, the eNB2 (103-2) that receives the updated neighbor
15 cell information notifies the user equipment 2 being served thereby of the
   updated neighbor cell information.
   [0120]   In Step ST1607, the user equipment 2 that receives the updated
   neighbor cell information performs neighbor cell measurement by using the
   updated neighbor     cell information.        As a  specific   example,   the user
20 equipment 2 performs the neighbor cell measurement on the assumption that
   a base station that performs an MBSFN subframe configuration different
   from that of the serving cell (eNB2) is included in the neighbor cells.
   [0121]   The first modification of the first embodiment can achieve the effects
   below in addition to those of the first embodiment.             In addition to the
25 configuration notified by the MCE to the base station, even when the base

                                          53
   station can configure the MBSFN subframe for a user equipment being
   served thereby by itself, neighbor cell information notified from the neighbor
   cell of the base station can be updated.     Thus, in a user equipment being
   served by a neighbor cell of the base station that configures the MBSFN
 5 subframe by itself, in neighbor cell measurement that targets the base
   station   that  configures   the  MBSFN      subframe    by  itself, an   RSRP
   measurement error caused by configuring the MBSFN subframe by itself
   does not occur.   In this manner, the user equipment can be prevented from
   being handed over to or reselecting a cell different from the original best cell.
10 Thus, a useless radio resource can be prevented from occurring, and a
   uselessly high uplink transmission power can be prevented from being used.
   [0122]   Second Modification of First Embodiment
   In a case where the first embodiment is used, a new problem occurs as
   follows.
15 [0123]   Since data that must be transmitted per unit time and is related to
   an MBMS increases, it is discussed that the MCE changes configurations to
   increase the MBSFN subframe (MCE).
   [0124]   By increasing MBMS data, configurations are changed to increase
   the MBSFN subframe (MCE) configured in the MCE.             Accordingly, if any
20 device is not used, MBSFN subframe configuration that is notified from the
   base station being served by the MCE to the user equipment being served by
   the base station must be changed.        In this manner, a change of system
   information occurs.   Thus, the base station notifies the user equipment of a
   system information change (systemInfoModification) by paging (Non-Patent
25 Document 2).     The user equipment that receives the system information

                                          54
   change by paging must receive the updated system information even though
   the user equipment is being in, for example, an idle state (Non-Patent
   Document 2).      Lower power consumption is provided such that the user
   equipment being in an idle state performs intermittent reception.           By
 5 interrupting the intermittent reception for receiving system information, an
   increase in power consumption of the user equipment occurs.
   [0125]   A specific example that causes problems is described with reference
   to FIG. 17.    The same reference numerals as those of FIG. 14 denote the
   corresponding portions, which are not described.
10 [0126]   In this specific example, as a method of configuring an MBSFN
   subframe of a base station in the first embodiment, an MBSFN subframe
   including the MBSFN subframe (MCE) and the MBSFN subframe (eNB) are
   configured for the user equipment.     That is, a case where the base station
   employs the specific example (1) that configures the MBSFN subframe (UE)
15 is described below.
   [0127]   In Step ST1701, the base station (eNB1) notifies the user equipment
   being served thereby of the MBSFN subframe (MCE) received in Step
   ST1402 and the MBSFN subframe (UE) including the MBSFN subframe
   (eNB) selected in Step ST1404.     In this specific example, #1, #2, #6 and #7
20 are notified as subframes reserved for the MBSFN in a downlink.
   [0128]   In Step ST1702, the user equipment operates using the MBSFN
   subframe (UE) received in Step ST1701 as a subframe reserved for the
   MBSFN in      a downlink.     In  this specific example,the user equipment
   operates using #1, #2,   #6 and #7 as subframes reserved for the MBSFN in a

                                         55
   downlink.    The MBSFN frame is configured like the MBSFN frame in the
   conceptual diagram shown in FIG. 3.
    [0129] In Step ST1703, the MCE judges whether or not the configuration of
   the MBSFN subframe (MCE) must be changed.                 When the change is
 5 required, the flow shifts to Step ST1704.   When the change is not required,
   the judgment in Step ST1703 is repeated.        In addition to this, it may be
   judged whether or not the MBSFN subframe (MCE) must be increased.            In
   this case, when the increase is required, the flow shifts to Step ST1704.
   When the increase is not required, the judgment in Step ST1703 is repeated.
10  [0130] In Step ST1704, the MCE updates the MBSFN subframe (MCE).            In
   this specific example, it is assumed that #1, #2 and #8 are selected as the
   MBSFN subframes (MCE).        More specifically, it is assumed that #8 is added
   as the MBSFN subframe (MCE).
    [0131] In Step ST1705, the MCE notifies the base station (eNB2) being
15 served thereby of the updated MBSFN subframe (MCE) updated in Step
   ST1704.
    [0132] In Step ST1706, the MCE notifies the base station (eNB1) being
   served thereby of the updated MBSFN subframe (MCE) updated in Step
   ST1704.    Subsequently, the eNB2 is considered to be equal to the eNB1,
20 which is not described.
    [0133] In Step ST1707, the base station (eNB1) judges whether or not the
   MBSFN subframe (UE) must be updated.           When the updating is required,
   the flow shifts to Step ST1708.     When the updating is not required, the
   judgment in Step ST1707 is repeated.      In this specific example, subframes
25 that are notified to the user equipment being served by the base station in

                                          56
   Step ST1701 and are reserved for the MBSFN in a downlink are #1, #2, #6
   and #7.    On the other hand, in Step ST1706, #1, #2 and #8 are received as
   the MBSFN subframe (MCE) by the MCE.           Thus, as the MBSFN subframe
   (MCE) and the MBSFN subframe (UE) including the MBSFN subframe
 5 (eNB) selected in Step ST1404, #1, #2, #6, #7 and "#8" are given.       Thus, in
   this specific example, in Step ST1707, the base station (eNB1) judges that the
   MBSFN subframe (UE) must be updated.
    [0134]  In Step ST1708, the base station (eNB1), by using paging for the user
   equipment being served thereby, performs system information change
10 notification to the user equipment being served thereby.
    [0135]  In Step ST1709, the user equipment judges whether or not the
   system information change notification is received.         When the system
   information change notification is received, the flow shifts to Step ST1711.
   When the system information change notification is not received, the
15 judgment in Step ST1709 is repeated.       In this specific example, since the
   system information change notification is performed in Step ST1708, it is
   judged in Step ST1709 that the system information change notification is
   received, the flow shifts to Step ST1711.
    [0136]  In Step ST1710, the base station (eNB1) notifies the user equipment
20 being served thereby of the MBSFN subframe (MCE) received in Step
   ST1706 and the MBSFN subframe (UE) including the MBSFN subframe
   (eNB) selected in Step ST1404.     In this specific example, #1, #2, #6, #7 and
   "#8"are notified as subframes reserved for the MBSFN in a downlink.

                                          57
   [0137]   The user equipment in Step ST1711 receives system information.
   This reception is executed even though the user equipment is being in, for
   example, an idle state.
   [0138]   As described above, if any device is not used, a system information
 5 change of the base station is performed each time an amount of data of
   MBMS varies, and intermittent reception performed by the user equipment
   to receive the updated system information is interrupted.      In this manner,
   an increase in power consumption of the user equipment occurs.
   [0139]   A solution in the second modification of the first embodiment is
10 described below.    Parts different from the solution of the first embodiment
   are mainly described below.    Undescribed parts are the same as those in the
   first embodiment.
   [0140]   The base    station notifies   the MCE of an MBSFN           subframe
   configuration of own cell.    When the MCE updates the MBSFN subframe
15 configuration, the MCE performs adjustment by using the information.
   [0141]   Notification to the MCE may be executed only when the MBSFN
   subframe (eNB) is configured.     The notification may be performed only when
   a subframe different from the MBSFN subframe (MCE) is configured as the
   MBSFN subframe (eNB).
20 [0142]   Three specific examples of the MBSFN subframe configuration of
   which the MCE notifies are disclosed below.      (1) An MBSFN subframe (UE)
   obtained when the specific example (1) of a method of configuring an MBSFN
   subframe of a base station is used in the first embodiment.     (2) An MBSFN
   subframe (eNB) obtained when the specific example (2) of a method of
25 configuring an MBSFN subframe of a base station is used in the first

                                            58
   embodiment.      The MBSFN subframe (MCE) may also be notified.                (3)
   Among the MBSFN subframes (eNB), a subframe different from the MBSFN
   subframe (MCE).
   [0143]    Two specific examples of adjustment performed by the MCE are
 5 disclosed below.   (1) When the MCE increases the MBSFN subframe (MCE),
   it is judged whether or not, in the MBSFN subframe configuration of the base
   station that receives notification from the base station, a subframe except for
   a subframe currently used as the MBSFN subframe (MCE) is present.
   When the subframe is present, the subframe is selected as an MBSFN
10 subframe (MCE) that increases the subframe.          (2) When the MCE reduces
   the MBSFN subframe (MCE), it is judged whether or not, in the MBSFN
   subframe (eNB) that receives notification from the base station, a subframe
   currently used as the MBSFN subframe (MCE) is present.                 When the
   subframe is present, the subframe is selected as an MBSFN subframe (MCE)
15 that reduces the subframe.       The adjustment may be similarly performed
   between a plurality of base stations being served by the MCE.
   [0144]    Three specific examples of a notification timing from the base station
   to the MCE are disclosed below.       (1) Notification is periodically performed.
   (2) When the MBSFN subframe configuration in the base station is changed,
20 the notification is performed.     Alternatively, when the MBSFN subframe
   (eNB) is changed, the notification is performed.
   [0145]    As an example of an interface used for notification from the base
   station to the MCE, an M2 interface between the base station and the MCE is
   given.    (3) When an MBSFN subframe (eNB) notification request is received
25 from the MCE, the notification is performed.      In order to recognize a specific

                                          59
   subframe that is configured by the base station being served by the MCE as
   the MBSFN subframe (eNB), the MCE may notify the base station of the
   MBSFN subframe (eNB) notification request prior to the change of the
   MBSFN subframe (MCE).          The base station that receives the MBSFN
 5 subframe (eNB) notification request from the MCE notifies the MCE of the
   MBSFN subframe (eNB).
   [0146]   A specific operation example using the second modification of the
   first embodiment is described with reference to FIG. 18.   The same reference
   numerals as those of FIG. 14 and FIG. 17 denote the corresponding portions,
10 which are not described.
   [0147]   In this operation example, a case where the specific example (2) is
   used in the MBSFN subframe configuration of which the MCE is notified is
   disclosed.   A case where the base station (2) is used at a notification timing
   from the base station to the MCE is disclosed below.
15 [0148]   In Step ST1801, the base station (eNB1) notifies the MCE of the
   MBSFN      subframe    (eNB)  as   information    of the   MBSFN       subframe
   configuration.    In this operation example, the MBSFN subframe (MCE)
   notified in Step ST1401 and Step ST1402 are defined as #1 and #2.            The
   MBSFN subframes (eNB) selected in Step ST1404 are defined as #2, #6 and
20 #7.   Thus, pieces of information given from the base station (eNB1) to the
   MCE in Step ST1801 are #2, #6 and #7.           The notification uses the M2
   interface.
   [0149]   In Step ST1802, the MCE judges whether or not the MBSFN
   subframe (MCE) must be added.        When the addition is required, the flow

                                          60
   shifts to Step ST1803.   When the addition is not required, the flow shifts to
   Step ST1805.
   [0150]   Subsequently,   a case where     the MCE increases the       MBSFN
   subframe (MCE) is described first.    More specifically, in Step ST1802, since
 5 the MCE judges that the MBSFN subframe (MCE) must be added, the flow
   shifts to Step ST1803.
   [0151]   In Step ST1803, the MCE judges whether or not, in the MBSFN
   subframe (eNB) of a base station that receives the notification from the base
   station, a subframe except for the subframe currently used as the MBSFN
10 subframe (MCE) is present.      When the subframe is present, the flow shifts
   to Step ST1804.    When the subframe is not present, the flow shifts to Step
   ST1704.    In Step ST1704, the MCE updates the MBSFN subframe (MCE).
   In this operation example, as subframes except for the subframe currently
   used as the MBSFN subframe (MCE) in the MBSFN subframe (eNB), #6 and
15 #7 are present.    Thus, in Step ST1803, it is judged that the subframe is
   present, and the flow shifts to Step ST1804.
   [0152]   In Step ST1804, the MCE selects, as a subframe added to the
   MBSFN subframe (MCE), a subframe except for the subframe currently used
   as the MBSFN subframe (MCE) in the MBSFN subframe (eNB).               In this
20 operation example, it is assumed that #6 is selected.
   [0153]   Even though the MBSFN subframe (MCE) is updated by performing
   the process, the MBSFN subframe (UE) need not be updated in the base
   station (eNB1).     Thus, in Step ST1707, it is judged that the MBSFN
   subframe (UE) need not be updated.      In this manner, a system information
25 change does not occur.

                                           61
   [0154]   In Step ST1706, the MCE notifies the base station (eNB1) being
   served thereby of the updated MBSFN subframe (MCE) updated in Step
   ST1704 or in Step ST1804.        In this operation example, as the MBSFN
   subframes (MCE), notification of #1, #2 and #6 is performed.
 5 [0155]   In Step ST1707, the base station (eNB1) judges whether or not the
   MBSFN subframe (UE) must be updated.              In this operation example,
   subframes that are notified to the user equipment being served by the base
   station in Step ST1701 and are reserved for the MBSFN in a downlink are #1,
   #2, #6 and #7.      On the other hand, in Step ST1706, #1, #2 and #6 are
10 received as the MBSFN subframe (MCE) by the MCE.          Thus, as the MBSFN
   subframe (MCE) and the MBSFN subframe (UE) including the MBSFN
   subframe (eNB) (#2, #6 and #7) selected in Step ST1404, #1, #2, #6 and #7
   are given.   Thus, it is judged that the MBSFN subframe (UE) need not be
   updated.    In this manner, a system information change does not occur, and
15 shift to Step ST1708 does not occur.
   [0156]   A case where the MCE reduces the MBSFN subframe (MCE) is
   described below.    More specifically, in Step ST1802, since the MCE judges
   that the MBSFN subframe (MCE) need not be added, the flow shifts to Step
   ST1805.
20 [0157]   In Step ST1805, the MCE judges whether or not, in the MBSFN
   subframe (eNB) of a base station that receives the notification from the base
   station, a subframe currently used as the MBSFN subframe (MCE) is present.
   When the subframe is present, the flow shifts to Step ST1806.        When the
   subframe is not present, the flow shifts to Step ST1704.    In Step ST1704, the
25 MCE updates the MBSFN subframe (MCE).           In this operation example, as a

                                          62
   subframe currently used as the MBSFN subframe (MCE) in the MBSFN
   subframe (eNB), #2 is present.     Thus, in Step ST1805, it is judged that the
   subframe is present, and the flow shifts to Step ST1806.
   [0158]    In Step ST1806, the MCE selects, as a subframe deleted from the
 5 MBSFN       subframe  (MCE),   a subframe    currently   used as the    MBSFN
   subframe (MCE) in the MBSFN subframe (eNB).          In this operation example,
   it is assumed that #2 is selected.  Even though the MBSFN subframe (MCE)
   is updated by performing the process, the MBSFN subframe (UE) need not be
   updated in the base station (eNB1).     Thus, in Step ST1707, it is judged that
10 the MBSFN subframe (UE) need not be updated.          In this manner, a system
   information change does not occur.
   [0159]    In Step ST1706, the MCE notifies the base station (eNB1) being
   served thereby of the updated MBSFN subframe (MCE) updated in Step
   ST1704 or in Step ST1806.        In this operation example, as the MBSFN
15 subframes (MCE), notification of #1 and #6 is performed.
   [0160]    In Step ST1707, the base station (eNB1) judges whether or not the
   MBSFN subframe (UE) must be updated.              In   this operation example,
   subframes that are notified to the user equipment being served by the base
   station in Step ST1701 and are reserved for the MBSFN in a downlink are #1,
20 #2, #6 and #7.    On the other hand, in Step ST1706, #1 and #6 are received as
   the MBSFN subframe (MCE) by the MCE.            Thus, as the MBSFN subframe
   (MCE) and the MBSFN subframe (UE) including the MBSFN subframe
   (eNB) (#2, #6 and #7) selected in Step ST1404, #1, #2, #6 and #7 are given.
   Thus, it is judged that the MBSFN subframe (UE) need not be updated.         In

                                           63
   this manner, a system information change does not occur, and shift to Step
   ST1708 does not occur.
   [0161]   Note that the number of MBSFN subframes to be updated is not
   limited to one and may be two or more.
 5 [0162]   In the modification, an example obtained by combining the first
   embodiment     to  the   modification    is  mainly  described.     However,  a
   combination between the first modification of the first embodiment and the
   modification can be used.
   [0163]   The second modification of the first embodiment can achieve the
10 effects below in addition to those of the first embodiment.
   [0164]   Even when addition of the MBSFN subframe (MCE) is required by
   increasing data of the MBMS, the MCE performs adjustment to make it
   possible to minimize a change of definition (MBSFN subframe Configuration)
   of a subframe reserved for the MBSFN using broadcast information from a
15 base station being served by the MCE to a user equipment.       In this manner,
   a change of system information can be suppressed.        Thus, reception of the
   system information with discontinuous reception interruption of the user
   equipment can be suppressed.          In this manner, an increase in power
   consumption of the user equipment can be prevented.
20 Third Modification of First Embodiment
   In a case where the second modification of the first embodiment is used, the
   following problem occurs.
   [0165]   The MBSFN subframe configuration notified from the base station to
   the MCE may not include a subframe except for the subframe currently used
25 in the MBSFN subframe (MCE).              In this case, adjustment cannot be

                                           64
   performed by the MCE disclosed in the second modification of the first
   embodiment,     and  a   problem   of the   second  modification  of the  first
   embodiment occurs again.
   [0166]   When the MBSFN subframe (eNB) is configured for each base
 5 stations, and a plurality of base stations are served by the MCE, the problem
   more dominantly appears.      This is because, when a large number of MBSFN
   subframe configurations notified from a large number of base stations being
   served by the MCE to the MCE do not include a subframe except for a
   subframe currently used as the MBSFN subframe (MCE), the effects of
10 adjustment obtained by the MCE disclosed in the second modification of the
   first embodiment do not influence all the base stations.
   [0167]   A solution in the third modification of the first embodiment is
   described below.    Parts different from the solution of the first embodiment
   are mainly described below.    Undescribed parts are the same as those in the
15 first embodiment.
   [0168]   The MCE notifies a base station being served thereby of information
   of a priority order of a subframe configured as the MBSFN subframe (MCE).
   When the base station that receives the information executes or changes a
   configuration of the MBSFN subframe (eNB), adjustment is performed by
20 using the information of the priority order.         The adjustment may be
   commonly performed by a plurality of base stations being served by the MCE.
   [0169]   In the conventional technique, a maximum of six MBSFN subframes
   can be configured in one radio frame.      Subframes that can be configured as
   MBSFN subframes are a second subframe (#1), a third subframe (#2), a
25 fourth subframe (#3), a seventh subframe (#6), an eighth subframe (#7) and a

                                          65
   ninth subframe (#8) (Non-Patent Document 2).             A specific example of
   information of a priority order when the third modification of the first
   embodiment in the conventional technique is shown in FIG. 19.
   [0170]   FIG. 19 shows a correspondence between a subframe configured as
 5 the MBSFN subframe (MCE) and a priority order.         As the MBSFN subframe
   (MCE), a subframe configured to have the first priority order is the second
   subframe (#1).    As the MBSFN subframe (MCE), a subframe set to have the
   second priority order is the third subframe (#2).      As the MBSFN subframe
   (MCE), a subframe set to have the third priority order is the seventh
10 subframe (#6).    As the MBSFN subframe (MCE), a subframe set to have the
   fourth priority order is the eighth subframe (#7).     As the MBSFN subframe
   (MCE), a subframe set to have the fifth priority order is the fourth subframe
   (#3).  As the MBSFN subframe (MCE), a subframe set to have the sixth
   priority order is the ninth subframe (#8).   A plurality of subframes may have
15 the same priority order.
   [0171]   The priority order may be         statically  determined or may be
   semi-statically determined on the network side.       For example, two notifying
   methods to a base station being served by the MCE when the priority order is
   semi-statically determined in the MCE are disclosed below.         (1) The MCE
20 performs notification to the base station being served thereby by using the
   M2 interface.    (2) The MCE notifies the MME of the priority order by using
   an M3 interface, and the MME notifies the base station of the priority order
   by using the S1 interface.
   [0172]   Two specific examples of adjustment performed by the base station
25 are disclosed below.      (1) When the base station increases the MBSFN

                                          66
   subframe (eNB), in a subframe except for a subframe currently used in the
   MBSFN subframe (eNB), a subframe having the highest priority order
   received from the MCE is preferentially configured.      When the base station
   is free from a load, or when the base station is in a low-loading state, the
 5 MBSFN subframe (eNB) may be increased.             (2) When the base station
   reduces the MBSFN subframe (eNB), in the subframe currently used as the
   MBSFN subframe (eNB), a subframe having the lowest priority order
   received from the MCE is preferentially configured.           When a load is
   generated in a state in which the base station is free from a load, or when the
10 base station is in a high-load state, the MBSFN subframe (eNB) may be
   reduced.
   [0173]   A specific operation example using the third modification of the first
   embodiment is described with reference to FIG. 20.         The same reference
   numerals as those of FIG. 14, FIG. 17 and FIG. 18 denote the corresponding
15 portions, which are not described.
   [0174]   In this operation example, a priority order of a subframe set as the
   MBSFN subframe (MCE) is semi-statically determined, and a case where the
   MCE performs notification to the base station being served thereby by using
   the M2 interface is disclosed below.
20 [0175]   In Step ST2001, the MCE notifies a base station (eNB1) being served
   thereby of a priority order of a subframe set as the MBSFN subframe (MCE).
   In this operation example, it is assumed that notification of a priority order
   shown in FIG. 19 is performed.
   [0176]   In Step ST2002, the MCE notifies a base station (eNB2) being served
25 thereby of a priority order of a subframe set as the MBSFN subframe (MCE).

                                         67
   The MCE may notify all the base stations that perform the same MBMS
   transmission and are served thereby of the priority order of the subframes
   set as the same MBSFN subframe (MCE).
   [0177]   In this operation example, the MBSFN subframe (MCE) notified in
 5 Step ST1401 and Step ST1402 are defined as #1 and #2.    By the base station
   (eNB1), it is assumed that #1 and #2 have been already selected as the
   MBSFN subframes (eNB).       More specifically, the MBSFN subframes (UE)
   given from the base station (eNB1) to the user equipment being served
   thereby are #1 and #2.
10 [0178]   In Step ST2003, the base station (eNB1) judges whether or not the
   MBSFN subframe (eNB) must be added.        When the addition is required, the
   flow shifts to Step ST2004.    When the addition is not required, the flow
   shifts to Step ST2005.
   [0179]   Subsequently, a case where the base station (eNB1) increases the
15 MBSFN subframe (eNB) is described first.          More specifically, in Step
   ST2003, since the base station (eNB1) judges that the MBSFN subframe
   (eNB) must be added, the flow shifts to Step ST2004.
   [0180]   In Step ST2004, the base station (eNB1) selects, from subframes
   except for the subframe currently used as the MBSFN subframe (eNB), a
20 subframe that is configured as the MBSFN subframe (MCE) received in Step
   ST2002 and has the highest priority order of the subframes as the MBSFN
   subframe    (eNB).    In this operation example,    the MBSFN      subframes
   currently used as the MBSFN subframes (eNB) are #1 and #2.           Thus, of
   subframes except for the subframe currently used as the MBSFN subframe

                                           68
   (eNB), a subframe that is configured as the MBSFN subframe (MCE) and has
   the highest priority order of the subframes is "#6" (see FIG. 19).
   [0181]   In this manner, the MBSFN subframes (UE) "#1 and #2" are updated
   to "#1, #2 and #6".    Thus, in Step ST1707, the base station (eNB1) judges
 5 that the MBSFN subframe (UE) must be updated, and processes subsequent
   to Step ST1708 occur.
   [0182]   On the other hand, in Step ST1802, the MCE judges whether or not
   the MBSFN subframe (MCE) must be added.          When the addition is required,
   the flow shifts to Step ST2006.    When the addition is not required, the flow
10 shifts to Step ST2007.     In this case, it is assumed that, for example, the
   MCE judges that the MBSFN subframe (MCE) must be added.
   [0183]   In Step ST2006, the MCE selects, from subframes except for the
   subframe currently used as the MBSFN subframe (MCE), a subframe that is
   configured as the MBSFN subframe (MCE) and has the highest priority order
15 of the subframes as the MBSFN subframe (MCE).         In this operation example,
   the MBSFN subframes currently used as the MBSFN subframes (MCE) are
   #1 and #2.    Thus, of subframes except for the subframe currently used as the
   MBSFN subframe (MCE), a subframe that is configured as the MBSFN
   subframe (MCE) and has the highest priority order of the subframes is "#6"
20 (see FIG. 19).
   [0184]   In this manner, in Step ST1705, the MCE notifies the base station
   (eNB2) being served thereby of the updated MBSFN subframe (MCE)
   updated in Step ST2006.      In Step ST1706, the MCE notifies the base station
   (eNB1) being served thereby of the updated MBSFN subframe (MCE)
25 updated in Step ST2006.

                                          69
   [0185]   In Step ST1707, the base station (eNB1) judges whether or not the
   MBSFN subframe (UE) must be updated.         At this time, since the MBSFN
   subframes (UE) have been already "#1, #2 and #6", it is judged that the
   updating need not be performed, and a system information change does not
 5 occur.
   [0186]   In this manner, the MCE and the base station being served by the
   MCE perform adjustment depending on the same priority order to make it
   possible to suppress the repetition-number of system information change of
   the base station being served thereby.
10 [0187]   Furthermore, for example, in Step ST1802, it is assumed that the
   MCE judges that the MBSFN subframe (MCE) need not be added.
   [0188]   In Step ST2007, the MCE selects, from subframes currently used as
   the MBSFN subframes (MCE), a subframe that is configured as the MBSFN
   subframe (MCE) and has the lowest priority order of the subframes as the
15 subframe that is deleted from the MBSFN subframes (MCE).             In this
   operation example, the subframes currently used as the MBSFN subframes
   (MCE) are #1 and #2.    Thus, of the subframes currently used as the MBSFN
   subframes (MCE), a subframe that is configured as the MBSFN subframe
   (MCE) and has the lowest priority order of the subframes is "#2" (see FIG.
20 19).
   [0189]   In this manner, in Step ST1705, the MCE notifies the base station
   (eNB2) being served thereby of the updated MBSFN subframe (MCE)
   updated in Step ST2007.    In Step ST1706, the MCE notifies the base station
   (eNB1) being served thereby of the updated MBSFN subframe (MCE)
25 updated in Step ST2007.

                                           70
   [0190]   In Step ST1707, the base station (eNB1) judges whether or not the
   MBSFN subframe (UE) must be updated.           At this time, since the MBSFN
   subframes (UE) have been already "#1, #2 and #6", it is judged that the
   updating need not be performed, and a system information change does not
 5 occur.
   [0191]   In this manner, the MCE and the base station being served by the
   MCE perform adjustment depending on the same priority order to make it
   possible to suppress the repetition-number of system information change of
   the base station being served thereby.
10 [0192]   A case where the base station (eNB1) reduces the MBSFN subframe
   (eNB) is described below.    More specifically, in Step ST2003, since the base
   station (eNB1) judges that the MBSFN subframe (eNB) need not be added,
   the flow shifts to Step ST2005.
   [0193]   In Step ST2005, the base station (eNB1) selects, from subframes
15 used as the MBSFN subframes (eNB), a subframe that is configured as the
   MBSFN subframe (MCE) received in Step ST2002 and has the lowest priority
   order of the subframes as the subframe deleted from the MBSFN subframes
   (eNB).   In this operation example, the MBSFN subframes currently used as
   the MBSFN subframes (eNB) are #1 and #2.              Thus, of the subframes
20 currently used as the MBSFN subframes (eNB), a subframe that is
   configured as the MBSFN subframe (MCE) and has the lowest priority order
   of the subframes is "#2" (see FIG. 19).
   [0194] The MBSFN subframes (MCE) are still "#1 and #2".         In this manner,
   the MBSFN subframes (UE) are "#1 and #2", and are not updated.          Thus, in

                                           71
   Step ST1707, the base station (eNB1) judges that the MBSFN subframe (UE)
   need not be updated, and a system information change does not occur.
   [0195]   In this manner, the MCE and the base station being served by the
   MCE perform adjustment depending on the same priority order to make it
 5 possible to suppress the repetition-number of system information change of
   the base station being served thereby.
   [0196]   Note that the number of MBSFN subframes to be updated is not
   limited to one and may be two or more.
   [0197]   In the modification, an example obtained by combining the first
10 embodiment     to  the   modification    is  mainly  described.    However,   a
   combination between the first modification of the first embodiment and the
   modification can be used.
   [0198]   The third modification of the first embodiment can achieve the
   effects below in addition to those of the first embodiment.
15 [0199]   When a plurality of base stations are served by the MCE, even
   though the numbers of configured MBSFN subframes (eNB) of the respective
   base stations are different from each other, the MCE and the base station
   being served by the MCE perform adjustment depending on the same priority
   order to make it possible to minimize a change of an MBSFN subframe
20 configuration given from the base station to a user equipment.          In this
   manner, a change of system information can be suppressed.       Thus, reception
   of the system information with intermittent reception interruption of the
   user equipment can be suppressed.         In this manner, an increase in power
   consumption of the user equipment can be prevented.
25 Fourth Modification of First Embodiment

                                          72
   In a case where the first embodiment is used, the following problem occurs.
   [0200]   Since data that must be transmitted per unit time and is related to
   an MBMS increases, it is discussed that the MCE changes configurations to
   increase the MBSFN subframe (MCE).
 5 [0201]   By increasing MBMS data, configurations are changed to increase
   the MBSFN subframe (MCE) configured in the MCE.            Accordingly, if any
   device is not used, the MCE may select, as an additional MBSFN subframe
   (MCE), the MBSFN subframe (eNB) configured by the base station being
   served thereby to realize energy saving.      In this case, even an MBSFN
10 subframe (eNB) configured by the base station to realize energy saving, when
   the subframe is selected as the MBSFN subframe (MCE), the base station
   must perform transmission of an MCH transport channel using the MBSFN.
   Thus, even in the MBSFN subframe (eNB) configured to realize energy
   saving, transmission except for the transmission of one symbol of CRS occurs.
15 In this manner, even in the MBSFN subframe (eNB) configured to realize
   energy saving, the power supply of the transmitter power amplifier cannot be
   turned off.  A problem in which the base station cannot realize lower power
   consumption is posed.
   [0202]   A specific example that causes problems is described with reference
20 to FIG. 21.
   [0203]   In Step ST1401, the MCE notifies a base station (eNB2) being served
   thereby of the MBSFN subframe (MCE).
   [0204]   In Step ST1402, the MCE notifies a base station (eNB1) being served
   thereby of the MBSFN subframe (MCE).           In this specific example, it is

                                          73
   assumed that a second subframe (#1) and a third subframe (#2) are
   configured as MBSFN subframes (MCE).
    [0205] In Step ST2101, the base station (eNB1) judges whether or not an
   energy saving operation is executed.      When it is judged that the energy
 5 saving operation is executed, the flow shifts to Step ST1403.       When it is
   judged that the energy saving operation is not executed, the judgment in Step
   ST2101 is repeated.
    [0206] In Step ST1404, the base station (eNB1) selects the MBSFN
   subframe (eNB).    In this specific example, a subframe different from #1 and
10 #2 serving as the MBSFN subframes (MCE) is selected as the MBSFN
   subframe (eNB).    In this operation example, for example, it is assumed that
   a seventh subframe (#6) and an eighth subframe (#7) are configured as
   MBSFN subframes (eNB).
    [0207] That is, in Step ST2102, the base station (eNB1), in the subframes #1
15 and #2, executes transmission of an MCH transport channel using the
   MBSFN.     In Step ST2103, the base station (eNB1), in the subframes #6 and
   #7, executes only transmission of one symbol of CRS for lower power
   consumption and does not execute a transmitting operation in other radio
   resources.   More specifically, the power supply of the transmitter power
20 amplifier or the like is turned off for except the transmission of the one
   symbol of in the MBSFN subframe (eNB).
    [0208] In Step ST1703, the MCE judges whether or not the configuration of
   the MBSFN subframe (MCE) must be changed.                When the change is
   required, the flow shifts to Step ST1704.    When the change is not required,
25 the judgment in Step ST1703 is repeated.        In addition to this, it may be

                                          74
   judged whether or not the MBSFN subframe (MCE) must be increased.            In
   this case, when the increase is required, the flow shifts to Step ST1704.
   When the increase is not required, the judgment in Step ST1703 is repeated.
    [0209]  In Step ST1704, the MCE updates the MBSFN subframe (MCE).           In
 5 the specific example, it is assumed that #1, #2 and #7 are selected as the
   MBSFN subframes (MCE).        More specifically, it is assumed that #7 is added
   as the MBSFN subframe (MCE).
    [0210]  In Step ST1705, the MCE notifies the base station (eNB2) being
   served thereby of the updated MBSFN subframe (MCE) updated in Step
10 ST1704.
    [0211]  In Step ST1706, the MCE notifies the base station (eNB1) being
   served thereby of the updated MBSFN subframe (MCE) updated in Step
   ST1704.    Subsequently, the eNB2 is considered to be equal to the eNB1,
   which is not described.
15  [0212] That is, in Step ST2104, the base station (eNB1), in the subframes #1,
   #2 and #7, must execute transmission of an MCH transport channel using
   the MBSFN.      In Step ST2105, the base station (eNB1), in the subframes #6,
   executes   only   transmission  of one    symbol    of CRS   for  lower   power
   consumption and does not execute a transmitting operation in other radio
20 resources.   An operation for lower power consumption is executed for only
   the subframe #6.     In this manner, the base station (eNB1) is due to execute
   an energy saving operation for two subframes.          However, the number of
   subframes for energy saving disadvantageously reduces against the intension
   of the base station (eNB1).

                                            75
   [0213]   As described above, if any device is not used, an effect of lower power
   consumption of the base station varies each time an amount of data of the
   MBMS varies.
   [0214]   A solution in the fourth modification of the first embodiment is
 5 described below.      Parts different from the solution of the first embodiment
   are mainly described below.      Undescribed parts are the same as those in the
   first embodiment.
   [0215]    The base      station notifies  the MCE of an MBSFN           subframe
   configuration of own cell.      When the MCE updates the MBSFN subframe
10 configuration, the MCE performs adjustment by using the information.
   [0216]    Notification to the MCE may be executed only when the MBSFN
   subframe (eNB) is configured.       The notification may be performed only when
   a subframe different from the MBSFN subframe (MCE) is configured as the
   MBSFN subframe (eNB).
15 [0217]   A specific example of the MBSFN subframe configuration of which
   the MCE is notified are similar to that of the second modification of the first
   embodiment, which is not described.
   [0218]    Two specific examples of adjustment performed by the MCE are
   disclosed below.     (1) When the MCE increases the MBSFN subframe (MCE),
20 it is judged whether or not a subframe except for a subframe currently used
   as the MBSFN subframe (MCE) is present in except for the MBSFN
   subframe (eNB) that receives the notification from the base station.       When
   the subframe is present, the subframe is selected as an MBSFN subframe
   (MCE) that increases the subframe.       (2) When the MCE reduces the MBSFN
25 subframe (MCE), it is judged whether or not a subframe currently used as

                                          76
   the MBSFN subframe (MCE) is present in the MBSFN subframe (eNB) that
   receives notification from the base station.   When the subframe is present,
   the subframe is selected as an MBSFN subframe (MCE) that reduces the
   subframe.    The adjustment may be commonly performed by a plurality of
 5 base stations being served by the MCE.
    [0219]  A specific example of a notification timing from the base station to
   the MCE is similar to that of the second modification of the first embodiment,
   which is not described.
    [0220]  A specific example of an interface used for notification from the base
10 station to the MCE is similar to that of the second modification of the first
   embodiment, which is not described.
    [0221]  A specific operation example using the fourth modification of the first
   embodiment is described with reference to FIG. 18.
    [0222]  In Step ST1401, the MCE notifies a base station (eNB1) being served
15 thereby of the MBSFN subframe (MCE).
    [0223]  In Step ST1402, the MCE notifies a base station (eNB2) being served
   thereby of the MBSFN subframe (MCE).           In this operation example, for
   example, it is assumed that a second subframe (#1) and a third subframe (#2)
   are configured as MBSFN subframes (MCE).
20  [0224]  In Step ST1403, the base station (eNB1) judges whether or not an
   energy saving operation is executed.      When it is judged that the energy
   saving operation is executed, the flow shifts to Step ST1404.        When it is
   judged that the energy saving operation is not executed, the judgment in Step
   ST1403 is repeated.

                                            77
   [0225]   In Step ST1404, the base station (eNB1) selects the MBSFN
   subframe (eNB).      In this operation example, for example, it is assumed that
   the third subframe (#2), the seventh subframe (#6) and an eighth subframe
   (#7) are configured as MBSFN subframes (eNB).
 5 [0226]   That is, the base station (eNB1), in the subframes #1 and #2,
   executes transmission of an MCH transport channel using the MBSFN.              In
   the subframes #6 and #7, the base station executes only transmission of one
   symbol of CRS and does not execute a transmitting operation in other radio
   resources.    More specifically, the power supply of the transmitter power
10 amplifier or the like is turned off for except the transmission of the one
   symbol of CRS.
   [0227]   In Step ST1801, the base station (eNB1) notifies the MCE of the
   MBSFN       subframe     (eNB)   as  information   of the    MBSFN      subframe
   configuration.    In this operation example, the MBSFN subframes are #2, #6
15 and #7.    The notification uses the M2 interface.
   [0228]   Subsequently,     a case where     the MCE increases the        MBSFN
   subframe (MCE) is described first.      More specifically, in Step ST1802, since
   the MCE judges that the MBSFN subframe (MCE) must be added, the flow
   shifts to Step ST1803.
20 [0229]   In Step ST1803, the MCE judges whether or not a subframe except
   for the subframe currently used as the MBSFN subframe (MCE) is present in
   except the MBSFN subframe (eNB) that receives the notification from the
   base station.   When the subframe is present, the flow shifts to Step ST1804.
   When the subframe is not present, the flow shifts to Step ST1704.         In Step
25 ST1704, the MCE updates the MBSFN subframe (MCE).               In this operation

                                           78
   example, as subframes except for the subframe currently used as the MBSFN
   subframe (MCE) in except        the MBSFN subframe (eNB), #3 and #8 are
   present.   Thus, in Step ST1803, it is judged that the subframe is present,
   and the flow shifts to Step ST1804.
 5 [0230]   In Step ST1804, the MCE selects, as a subframe added to the
   MBSFN subframe (MCE), a subframe except for the subframe currently used
   as the MBSFN subframe (MCE) in except the MBSFN subframe (eNB).              In
   this operation example, it is assumed that #8 is selected.
   [0231]   Even though the MBSFN subframe (MCE) is updated, by performing
10 the process, the MBSFN subframe (eNB) that configured by the base station
   (eNB1) for energy saving is not selected as the MBSFN subframe (MCE).
   Thus, transmission of the MCH transport channel need not be executed in
   the MBSFN subframe (eNB) configured for energy saving.
   [0232]   A case where the MCE reduces the MBSFN subframe (MCE) is
15 described below.    More specifically, in Step ST1802, since the MCE judges
   that the MBSFN subframe (MCE) need not be added, the MCE shifts to Step
   ST1805.
   [0233]   In Step ST1805, the MCE judges whether or not, in the MBSFN
   subframe (eNB) of a base station that receives the notification from the base
20 station, a subframe currently used as the MBSFN subframe (MCE) is present.
   When the subframe is present, the flow shifts to Step ST1806.        When the
   subframe is not present, the flow shifts to Step ST1704.    In Step ST1704, the
   MCE updates the MBSFN subframe (MCE).           In this operation example, as a
   subframe currently used as the MBSFN subframe (MCE) in the MBSFN

                                           79
   subframe (eNB), #2 is present.     Thus, in Step ST1805, it is judged that the
   subframe is present, and the flow shifts to Step ST1806.
   [0234]   In Step ST1806, the MCE selects, as a subframe deleted from the
   MBSFN subframe (MCE), a subframe currently used as the MBSFN
 5 subframe (MCE) in the MBSFN subframe (eNB).           In this operation example,
   it is assumed that #2 is selected.      When the MBSFN subframe (MCE) is
   updated, by performing the above process, the MBSFN subframe (eNB)
   configured for energy saving in the base station (eNB1) need not execute
   transmission of the MCH transport channel without changing the MBSFN
10 subframe (eNB).
   [0235]   Note that the number of MBSFN subframes to be updated is not
   limited to one and may be two or more.
   [0236]   In the modification, an example obtained by combining the first
   embodiment     to  the   modification    is   mainly  described.     However,  a
15 combination between the first modification of the first embodiment and the
   modification can be used.
   [0237]   The fourth modification of the first embodiment can achieve the
   effects below in addition to those of the first embodiment.
   [0238]   Even though addition of the MBSFN subframe (MCE) is required by
20 increasing data of the MBMS, the MCE performs adjustment to make it
   possible to minimize selection of the MBSFN subframe (eNB) configured by
   the base station being served by the MCE to realize energy saving as an
   additional MBSFN subframe (MCE).            In this manner, transmission of the
   MCH transport channel can be executed in the MBSFN subframe (eNB)

                                          80
   configured to realize energy saving, and lower power consumption of the base
   station can be achieved as an effect.
   Fifth Modification of First Embodiment
   In a case where the fourth modification of the first embodiment is used, a
 5 new problem occurs as follows.
   [0239]   A case where the MBSFN subframes (eNB) are independently
   configured for the base stations being served by the MCE, respectively.   In a
   subframe except for a plurality of MBSFN subframes (eNB) designated by a
   plurality of base stations being served by the MCE, the possibility that a
10 subframe except for the subframe currently used as the MBSFN subframe
   (MCE) is not present increases.     In this manner, the problem of the fourth
   modification of the first embodiment is posed again.
   [0240]   A solution in the fifth modification of the first embodiment is
   described below.    Parts different from the solution of the first embodiment
15 are mainly described below.    Undescribed parts are the same as those in the
   first embodiment.
   [0241]   The MCE notifies a base station being served thereby of information
   of a priority order of a subframe configured as the MBSFN subframe (MCE).
   When the base station that receives the information executes or changes a
20 configuration of the MBSFN subframe (eNB), adjustment is performed by
   using the information of the priority order.        The adjustment may be
   commonly performed by a plurality of base stations being served by the MCE.
   [0242]   A specific example of information of a priority order when the fifth
   modification of the first embodiment in the conventional technique is shown

                                         81
   in FIG. 19.     The description in FIG. 19 is similar to that of the third
   modification of the first embodiment, which is not described.
   [0243]   The priority order may be       statically   determined or may be
   semi-statically determined on the network side.      For example, the notifying
 5 method to a base station being served by the MCE when the priority order is
   semi-statically determined in the MCE is similar to that of the third
   modification of the first embodiment, which is not described.
   [0244]   Two specific examples of adjustment performed by the base station
   are disclosed below.      (1) When the base station increases the MBSFN
10 subframe (eNB), in a subframe except for a subframe currently used in the
   MBSFN subframe (eNB), a subframe having the lowest priority order
   received from the MCE is preferentially configured.      When the base station
   is free from a load, or when the base station is in a low-loading state, the
   MBSFN subframe (eNB) may be increased.             (2) When the base station
15 reduces the MBSFN subframe (eNB), in the subframe currently used as the
   MBSFN subframe (eNB), a subframe having the highest priority order
   received from the MCE is preferentially configured.           When a load is
   generated in a state in which the base station is free from a load, or when the
   base station is in a high-load state, the MBSFN subframe (eNB) may be
20 reduced.
   [0245]   A specific operation example using the fifth modification of the first
   embodiment is described with reference to FIG. 20.
   [0246]   In this operation example, a priority order of a subframe configured
   as the MBSFN subframe (MCE) is semi-statically determined, and a case

                                           82
   where the MCE performs notification to the base station being served thereby
   by using the M2 interface is disclosed below.
   [0247]    In Step ST2001, the MCE notifies a base station (eNB1) being served
   thereby of a priority order of a subframe configured as the MBSFN subframe
 5 (MCE).      In this operation example, it is assumed that notification of a
   priority order shown in FIG. 19 is performed.
   [0248]    In Step ST2002, the MCE notifies a base station (eNB2) being served
   thereby of a priority order of a subframe configured as the MBSFN subframe
   (MCE).     The MCE may notify all the base stations that perform the same
10 MBMS transmission and are served thereby of the priority order of the
   subframes configured as the same MBSFN subframe (MCE).
   [0249]    In this operation example, the MBSFN subframe (MCE) notified in
   Step ST1401 and Step ST1402 are defined as #1 and #2.        By the base station
   (eNB1), it is assumed that #3 and #8 have been already selected as the
15 MBSFN subframes (eNB).          More specifically, the MBSFN subframes (UE)
   designated from the base station (eNB1) to the user equipment being served
   thereby are #1,    #2, #3 and #8.     That is, the base station (eNB1), in the
   subframes #1 and #2, executes transmission of an MCH transport channel
   using the MBSFN.         In order to achieve lower power consumption in the
20 subframes #3 and #8, only transmission of one symbol of CRS is performed,
   and a transmission operation is not performed in other radio resources.
   More specifically, the power supply of the transmitter power amplifier or the
   like is turned off for except the transmission of the one symbol of CRS.
   [0250]    In Step ST2003, the base station (eNB1) judges whether or not the
25 MBSFN subframe (eNB) must be added.           When the addition is required, the

                                          83
   flow shifts to Step ST2004.      When the addition is not required, the flow
   shifts to Step ST2005.
   [0251]   Subsequently, a case wherein the base station (eNB1) increases the
   MBSFN subframe (eNB) is described first.           More specifically, in Step
 5 ST2003, since the base station (eNB1) judges that the MBSFN subframe
   (eNB) must be added, the flow shifts to Step ST2004.
   [0252]   In Step ST2004, the base station (eNB1) selects, from subframes
   except for the subframe currently used as the MBSFN subframe (eNB), a
   subframe that has the lowest priority order of the subframes configured as
10 the MBSFN subframe (MCE) received in Step ST2002 as the MBSFN
   subframe (eNB).    In this operation example, the subframes currently used as
   the MBSFN subframes (eNB) are #3 and #8.         Thus, of subframes except for
   the subframe currently used as the MBSFN subframe (eNB), a subframe that
   has the lowest priority order of the subframes configured as the MBSFN
15 subframe (MCE) is "#7" (see FIG. 19).     According to the process, a subframe
   slightly selected as the MBSFN subframe (MCE) by the MCE can be made
   the MBSFN subframe (eNB) selected for energy saving.          In this manner,
   against the intension of the base station (eNB1), reducing the number of
   subframes for energy saving can be performed less frequently.
20 [0253]   On the other hand, in Step ST1802, the MCE judges whether or not
   the MBSFN subframe (MCE) must be added.          When the addition is required,
   the flow shifts to Step ST2006.    When the addition is not required, the flow
   shifts to Step ST2007.     In this case, it is assumed that, for example, the
   MCE judges that the MBSFN subframe (MCE) must be added.

                                          84
   [0254]   In Step ST2006, the MCE selects, from subframes except for the
   subframe currently used as the MBSFN subframe (MCE), a subframe that is
   configured as the MBSFN subframe (MCE) and has the highest priority order
   of the subframes as the MBSFN subframe (MCE).      In this operation example,
 5 the subframes currently used as the MBSFN subframes (MCE) are #1 and #2.
   Thus, of subframes except for the subframe currently used as the MBSFN
   subframe (MCE), a subframe that is configured as the MBSFN subframe
   (MCE) and has the highest priority order of the subframes is "#6" (see FIG.
   19).
10 [0255]   In this manner, in Step ST1705, the MCE notifies the base station
   (eNB2) being served thereby of the updated MBSFN subframe              (MCE)
   updated in Step ST2006.     In Step ST1706, the MCE notifies the base station
   (eNB1) being served thereby of the updated MBSFN subframe              (MCE)
   updated in Step ST2006.
15 [0256]   The base station (eNB1) executes transmission of an MCH transport
   channel about not only #1 and #2 but also #6.   However, thus, the subframes
   do not overlap #7,     #3  and #8   that are the MBSFN subframes (eNB)
   configured to realize energy saving.
   [0257]   In this manner, the MCE and the base station being served by the
20 MCE perform adjustment depending on the same priority order to make it
   possible to realize designed lower power consumption of the base station
   being served thereby.
   [0258]   Furthermore, for example, in Step ST1802, it is assumed that the
   MCE judges that the MBSFN subframe (MCE) need not be added.

                                          85
   [0259]   In Step ST2007, the MCE selects, from subframes currently used as
   the MBSFN subframes (MCE), a subframe that is configured as the MBSFN
   subframe (MCE) and has the lowest priority order of the subframes as the
   subframe that is deleted from the MBSFN subframes (MCE).               In this
 5 operation example, the subframes currently used as the MBSFN subframes
   (MCE) are #1 and #2.     Thus, of the subframes currently used as the MBSFN
   subframes (MCE), a subframe that is configured as the MBSFN subframe
   (MCE) and has the lowest priority order of the subframes is "#2" (see FIG.
   19).
10 [0260]   In this manner, in Step ST1705, the MCE notifies the base station
   (eNB2) being served thereby of the updated MBSFN subframe (MCE)
   updated in Step ST2007.     In Step ST1706, the MCE notifies the base station
   (eNB1) being served thereby of the updated MBSFN subframe (MCE)
   updated in Step ST2007.
15 [0261]   The base station (eNB1) executes transmission of an MCH transport
   channel in #1.    However, thus, #7, #3 and #8 that are the MBSFN subframes
   (eNB) configured to realize energy saving are not influenced.
   [0262]   In this manner, the MCE and the base station being served by the
   MCE perform adjustment depending on the same priority order to make it
20 possible to realize designed lower power consumption of the base station
   being served thereby.
   [0263]  A case where the base station (eNB1) reduces the MBSFN subframe
   (eNB) is described below.    More specifically, in Step ST2003, since the base
   station (eNB1) judges that the MBSFN subframe (eNB) need not be added,
25 the flow shifts to Step ST2005.

                                          86
   [0264]   In Step ST2005, the base station (eNB1) selects, from subframes
   currently used as the MBSFN subframes (eNB), a subframe that is
   configured as the MBSFN subframe (MCE) received in Step ST2002 and has
   the highest priority order of the subframes as the subframe deleted from the
 5 MBSFN subframes (eNB).           In this operation example, the subframes
   currently used as the MBSFN subframes (eNB) are #3 and #8.       Thus, of the
   subframes currently used as the MBSFN subframes (eNB), a subframe that
   is configured as the MBSFN subframe (MCE) and has the highest priority
   order of the subframes is "#3"(see FIG. 19).
10 [0265]   Subframes that are configured as the MBSFN subframes (MCE) and
   have higher priority orders are deleted from the MBSFN subframes for
   energy saving, more stable lower power consumption of a base station that is
   not easily influenced by the addition of the MBSFN subframe (MCE) by an
   increase of MBMS data can be realized.
15 [0266]   In this manner, the MCE and the base station being served by the
   MCE perform adjustment depending on the same priority order to make it
   possible to realize designed lower power consumption of the base station
   being served thereby.
   Note that the number of MBSFN subframes to be updated is not limited to
20 one and may be two or more.
   In the modification, an example obtained by combining the first embodiment
   to the modification is mainly described.     However, a combination between
   the first modification of the first embodiment and the modification can be
   used.

                                            87
   [0267]   The fifth modification of the first embodiment can achieve the effects
   below in addition to those of the first embodiment.
   [0268]   When a plurality of base stations are served by the MCE, even
   though the numbers of configured MBSFN subframes (eNB) of the respective
 5 base stations are different from each other, the MCE and the base station
   being served by the MCE perform adjustment depending on the same priority
   order to make it possible to minimize selection of the MBSFN subframe
   (eNB) configured to realize energy saving by the base station as the added
   MBSFN subframe (MCE).           In this manner, transmission of the MCH
10 transport channel can be executed in the MBSFN subframe (eNB) configured
   to realize energy saving, and lower power consumption of the base station
   can be achieved as an effect.
   [0269]   It may be statically or semi-statically determined as a mobile
   communication system whether adjustment (the second modification of the
15 first embodiment and the third modification of the first embodiment) that
   reduces the change of the system information or adjustment (the fourth
   modification of the first embodiment and the fifth modification of the first
   embodiment) that can easily obtain the effect of energy saving should be
   performed.
20 [0270]   When the      determination    is semi-statically   made, two specific
   examples of a main body that determines whether or not one of the adjusting
   methods should be selected are disclosed below.          (1) The MCE makes a
   determination.    (2) The MME makes a determination.
   [0271]   A base station being served by the MCE is notified of the adjusting
25 method used when the MCE makes a determination by using the M2

                                          88
   interface.   Alternatively, the MME is notified of the adjusting method by
   using the M3 interface, and the base station being served thereby is notified
   of the adjusting method by using the S1 interface.
   [0272]   A base station being served by the MCE is notified of the adjusting
 5 method used when the MME makes a determination by using the S1
   interface.
   Second Embodiment
   A problem to be solved by a second embodiment is described below.
   [0273]   Non-Patent Document 11 discloses that CRS transmission is made
10 less frequent to save a network power to make it possible to configure a
   larger number of MBSFN subframes.         However, a concrete main subject of
   the configuration, whether or not a larger number of MBSFN subframes can
   be configured, and a concrete method of increasing the number of MBSFN
   subframes are not disclosed.
15 [0274]   In the embodiment, a concrete method that can configure a larger
   number of MBSFN subframes is disclosed below.
   [0275]   A solution in the second embodiment is described below.
   [0276]   In the    conventional  technique,  as the   MBSFN    subframes,   a
   maximum of six subframes can be configured in one radio frame (Non-Patent
20 Document 2).
   [0277]   In the second embodiment, MBSFN subframes the number of which
   is larger than that in the conventional technique can be configured in one
   radio frame.    More specifically, subframes the number of which is larger
   than 6 can be configured in one radio frame as MBSFN subframes.             A
25 subframe except for a subframe that can transmits the P-SS, the S-SS and

                                         89
   the BCH can be configured as an MBSFN subframe.        In this manner, lower
   power consumption can be enhanced while maintaining transmission of the
   P-SS, the S-SS and the BCH serving as signals used in cell-search.         A
   subframe except for the first subframe (#0) and the sixth subframe (#5) can
 5 be configured as the MBSFN subframe.       In the conventional technique, #0
   and #5 are radio resources to which the P-SS, the S-SS and the BCH are
   mapped.     Thus, in this manner, lower power consumption can be enhanced
   while maintaining transmission of the P-SS, the S-SS and the BCH serving
   as signals used in cell-search.
10 [0278]   As the MBSFN subframes, a maximum of eight subframes can be
   configured in one radio frame.    A maximum of eight subframes except for
   the first subframe (#0) and the sixth subframe (#5) can be configured as the
   MBSFN subframes.
   [0279]   The second embodiment can be used in combination with the first
15 embodiment, the first modification of the first embodiment, the second
   modification of the first embodiment, the third modification of the first
   embodiment, the fourth modification of the first embodiment and the fifth
   modification of the first embodiment.
   [0280]   The second embodiment can achieve effects below.
20 [0281]   Effective lower power consumption achieved by a base station can be
   realized while maintaining transmission of the CRS, the P-SS/S-SS and the
   BCH serving as necessary signals in a downlink for an inactive user
   equipment (no-active UE).
   First Modification of Second Embodiment

                                          90
   In a case where the second embodiment is used, a new problem occurs as
   follows.
   [0282]   In a PDCCH that schedules a paging message, a subframe in which a
   P-RNTI (Paging Radio Network Temporary Identifier) may be present is
 5 referred to as paging occasion (PO) (Non-Patent Document               3).   An
   occurrence pattern of paging occasion is as shown in FIG. 22 (Non-Patent
   Document 3).     Parameters in FIG. 22 are described below with reference to
   Equations (1), (2) and (3).
   [0283]   Equation (1) Ns = max(1, nB/T)
10 Equation (2) UEID = IMSI mod 1024
   Equation (3) N = min(T, nB)
   Equation (4) is = floor (UEID/N) mod Ns
   The "T" included in Equation (1) is DRX (Discontinuous Reception) cycle of a
   user equipment.      The "T" is determined by a DRX value unique to the
15 shortest user equipment if allocation is performed by a higher layer, and an
   initial DRX value is broadcasted in the system information.         If the DRX
   unique to the user equipment is set by the higher-level layer, the initial value
   is applied.   The "nB" included in Equation (1) is broadcasted in the system
   information.   As the "nB", 4T,2T,T,T/2,T/4,T/8,T/16 and T/32 are given.    The
20 "Ns" is given as the large one of 1 and nB/T according to Equation (1).
   [0284]   The "IMSI" included in Equation (2) is an international mobile
   subscriber identity.   The "UE-ID" is given as a remainder obtained when the
   IMSI is divided by "1024" according to Equation (2).
   [0285]   The "N" is given as the small one of T and nB according to Equation
25 (3).

                                           91
   [0286]   The "is" is given as a remainder obtained when a value obtained by
   dividing UE-ID by N (rounded value) is divided by Ns according to Equation
   (4).
   [0287]   More specifically, when the second embodiment is executed without
 5 any device, for example, when a paging occasion is a subframe number #9 or
   #4, the base station cannot notify the user equipment of paging because the
   base station is in a lower power consumption state.
   [0288]   A solution in the first modification of the second embodiment is
   described below.
10 [0289]   When the base station receives a paging message from the MME, the
   base station releases the energy saving operation.      Alternatively, when the
   base station receives the paging message from the MME, the base station
   may set the number of subframes that can be set in one radio frame to a
   number of the conventional technique.      Alternatively, when the base station
15 receives the paging message from the MME, the base station may set the
   number of subframes that can be set in one radio frame to six as in the
   conventional technique.
   [0290]   In the first modification of the second embodiment, a combination to
   the second embodiment is mainly described.       However, combinations to the
20 first embodiment, the first modification of the first embodiment, the second
   modification of the first embodiment, the third modification of the first
   embodiment, the fourth modification of the first embodiment and the fifth
   modification of the first embodiment can be used.
   [0291]   The first modification of the second embodiment can achieve the
25 effects below in addition to those of the second embodiment.      Effective lower

                                           92
   power consumption achieved by the base station can be realized while solving
   a problem in which notification of the paging to the user equipment cannot be
   performed.
   Second Modification of Second Embodiment
 5 In the second modification of the second embodiment, the same problem as
   that in the first modification of the second embodiment is solved by a method
   different from that in the first modification of the second embodiment.
   [0292]   A solution in the second modification of the second embodiment is
   described below.
10 [0293]   The base station can use a subframe except for the paging occasion
   as   the  MBSFN      subframe.      A   subframe    except  for the   subframes
   corresponding to the P-SS, the S-SS, and the paging occasion can also be used
   as the MBSFN subframe.
   [0294]   A specific example of a method of selecting a subframe except for the
15 paging occasion is described below.         It is assumed that the technique
   disclosed in the second modification of the second embodiment is applied to
   the conventional technique.      As described in the first modification of the
   second embodiment, "Ns" is determined by the parameters "T" and "nB".
   The base station broadcasts the parameters "T" and "nB" to the user
20 equipment being served thereby using the system information.          Thus, the
   base station can know the values of "T" and "nB".      From the values, the base
   station can also know the value of "Ns".      By the value of Ns, an occurrence
   pattern of the paging occasion in FIG. 22 is confirmed.      For example, when
   "Ns" is "1", the paging occasion is only the subframe number #9.     When "Ns"
25 is "2", the paging occasions are the subframe numbers #4 and #9.           When

                                           93
   "Ns" is "4", the paging occasions are subframe numbers #0 and #4, #5 and #9.
   As described above, the base station confirms the parameters "T" and "nB" of
   own cell to calculate "Ns", confirms the subframe number of the paging
   occasion, and selects a subframe except for the paging occasion.
 5 [0295]   As the MBSFN subframes, a maximum of seven subframes can be
   configured in one radio frame.     A maximum of seven subframes except for
   the first subframe (#0), the sixth subframe (#5) and the tenth subframe (#9)
   can be configured as the MBSFN subframes.        This is because, even though
   "Ns" has any value, the subframe number #9 corresponds to the paging
10 occasion (see FIG. 22).    The base station can use a subframe except for the
   paging occasion as the MBSFN subframe.
   [0296]   In the second modification of the second embodiment, a combination
   to the second embodiment is mainly described.       However, combinations to
   the first embodiment, the first modification of the first embodiment, the
15 second modification of the first embodiment, the third modification of the
   first embodiment, the fourth modification of the first embodiment and the
   fifth modification of the first embodiment can be used.
   [0297]   The second modification of the second embodiment can achieve the
   effects below in addition to those of the second embodiment.   Effective lower
20 power consumption in which an energy saving operation is not executed
   uselessly can be realized while solving a problem in which notification of the
   paging to the user equipment cannot be performed.
   Third Embodiment
   A problem to be solved by a third embodiment is described below.

                                            94
   [0298]   In the conventional technique, an MBSFN (Multimedia Broadcast
   multicast service Single Frequency Network) is supported for the MCH
   transport channel (Non-Patent Document 1).        In an MBSFN synchronization
   area, all base station belonging to the area are synchronized with each other,
 5 and MBSFN transmission           can be   executed   (Non-Patent Document      1).
   Transmission using the MBSFN is transmitted in the MBSFN subframe.
   The MBSFN       synchronization area is semi-statically configured by, for
   example, an operator (Non-Patent Document 1).
   [0299]   More specifically, in the conventional technique, in order to cause the
10 base station to configure the MBSFN subframe, the base station must belong
   to the MBSFN synchronization area.        A problem in which a base station that
   does not belong to the MBSFN synchronization area cannot execute an
   energy saving operation using the MBSFN subframe is posed.
   [0300]   A solution in the third embodiment is described below.
15 [0301]   Even   the   base   station that    does  not belong   to  the  MBSFN
   synchronization    area   can   configure   the  MBSFN     subframe   to  a  user
   equipment being served thereby.       Alternatively, even the base station that is
   not connected to the MCE can configure the MBSFN subframe to a user
   equipment being served thereby.       Alternatively, even the base station that
20 does not receive a configuration related to the MBSFN subframe from the
   MCE can configure the MBSFN subframe to a user equipment being served
   thereby.
   [0302]   The third embodiment can be used in combination with the first
   embodiment, the first modification of the first embodiment, the second
25 modification of the first embodiment, the third modification of the first

                                           95
   embodiment, the fourth modification of the first embodiment, the fifth
   modification of the first embodiment, the second embodiment, the first
   modification of the second embodiment and the second modification of the
   second embodiment.
 5 [0303]   Cases where the third embodiment is combined to the second
   modification of the first embodiment and the fourth modification of the first
   embodiment are described below.        In the second modification of the first
   embodiment and the fourth modification of the first embodiment, the base
   station notifies the MCE of the MBSFN subframe configuration of own cell by
10 using the M2 interface.    In the combination with the third embodiment, the
   M2 interface is not present.    Thus, the base station notifies the MME of the
   MBSFN subframe configuration of own cell by using the S1 interface.        The
   MME notifies the MCE of the MBSFN subframe configuration of the cell by
   using an M3 interface.
15 [0304]  A specific operation example using a combination between the third
   embodiment and the first modification of the first embodiment is described
   with reference to FIG. 23.   The same reference numerals as those of FIG. 14
   and FIG. 16 denote the corresponding portions, which are not described.
   Location is the same as the location described with reference to FIG. 15,
20 which are not described.    A neighbor cell is notified of the MBSFN subframe
   configuration of own cell.       In this operation example, a case where
   information representing whether or not a subframe different from a
   subframe indicated by the MCE of the specific example (4) is configured as
   an MBSFN subframe         configuration is used in the MBSFN subframe
25 configuration of which the neighbor cell is notified is disclosed.     A case

                                           96
   where, in an interface used for notification to the neighbor cells, the base
   station of the specific example (2) uses the S1 interface to the MME, and the
   MME uses the S1 interface to the neighbor cells of the base station is
   disclosed.   A case where a base station including the base station of the
 5 specific example (5) as a neighbor cell is selected by a method of selecting a
   neighbor cell is disclosed.  A case where the MME of the specific example (2)
   is used as a main subject that updates neighbor cell information is disclosed.
   [0305]   In Step ST2301, the base station (eNB1) selects the MBSFN
   subframe (eNB).     In this operation example, for example, it is assumed that
10 the seventh subframe (#6) and the eighth subframe (#7) are configured as
   MBSFN subframes (eNB).
   [0306]   In Step ST2302, the user equipment operates using the MBSFN
   subframe (eNB) received in Step ST1406 as a subframe reserved for the
   MBSFN in a downlink.         In this operation example, the user equipment
15 operates using #6 and #7 as subframes reserved for the MBSFN in a
   downlink.
   [0307]   In the Step ST2303, the base station (eNB1) notifies the MME of
   information representing whether or not a subframe different from a
   subframe indicated by the MCE is configured as an MBSFN subframe
20 configuration as information of the MBSFN subframe configuration.        In this
   operation example, a subframe different from a subframe indicated by the
   MCE is configured as the MBSFN subframe configuration is notified.          The
   S1 interface is used for the notification.
   [0308]   In Step ST2304, the MME updates the neighbor cell information of
25 the base station selected in Step ST1602.    Information representing whether

                                          97
   or not the MBSFN serving as the neighbor cell information is supported is
   updated.    The MME may perform determination of the update based on the
   information received in Step ST2303.      In Step ST2303, the MME can judge
   that the eNB1 has configured a subframe different from a subframe indicated
 5 by the MCE as an MBSFN subframe configuration.         Thus, the MME changes
   (updates) the information representing whether or not the MBSFN serving as
   the neighbor cell information of the eNB2 is supported into information
   representing that the same MBSFN subframe configuration as that of the
   serving cell (eNB2) is not included in all the neighbor cells.            If a
10 conventional technique is used as the neighbor cell information, the
   information is changed (updated) into "00".
   [0309]   In Step ST1604, the MME notifies the base station selected in Step
   ST1602 of the neighbor cell information updated in Step ST2304.         The S1
   interface may be used for the notification.
15 [0310]   In Step ST1605, the eNB2 (103-2) that receives the updated neighbor
   cell information notifies the user equipment 2 being served thereby of the
   updated neighbor cell information.
   [0311]   In Step ST1607, the user equipment 2 that receives the updated
   neighbor cell information performs neighbor cell measurement by using the
20 updated neighbor cell information.          As a specific example, the user
   equipment 2 performs the neighbor cell measurement on the assumption that
   a base station that performs an MBSFN subframe configuration different
   from that of the serving cell (eNB2) is included in the neighbor cells.
   [0312]   The third embodiment can achieve the effects below.

                                           98
   [0313]   Even   a  base   station that     does  not belong to   the  MBSFN
   synchronization area can execute an energy saving operation using the
   MBSFN subframe.
   [0314]   In addition, in discussion of a current 3GPP, it is determined that
 5 the HeNB does not support the MBMS (Non-Patent Document 1).          Thus, in
   the mobile communication system, the HeNB does not belong to the MBSFN
   synchronization area and the HeNB is not connected to the MCE.        Even in
   the system, according to the third embodiment, the HeNB can also configure
   the MBSFN subframe.       Thus, the HeNB can also realize energy saving using
10 the MBSFN subframe.
   [0315]   In this manner, an effect that an energy saving operation performed
   by a base station like the HeNB that does not belong to the MBSFN
   synchronization area can be realized while obtaining an effect of maintaining
   downward compatibility using the MBSFN subframe can be obtained.          It is
15 assumed that the HeNBs the number of which is larger than the number of
   macro cells are installed.   The feasibility of the energy saving operation of
   the HeNB considerably contributes to lower power consumption on the
   network side.
   First Modification of Third Embodiment
20 A problem to be solved by a first modification of the third embodiment is
   described below.
   [0316]   In a case where the third embodiment is executed, a problem occurs
   as follows.
   [0317]   In particular, when the third embodiment is used in combination
25 with the first modification of the first embodiment, even though information

                                            99
   representing whether or not the MBSFN is supported as the neighbor cell
   information is "00", a case where the neighbor cell belongs to the MBSFN
   synchronization area or a case where the neighbor cell does not belong to the
   MBSFN synchronization area is conceivable.
 5 [0318]   When all cells included in the neighbor cell information belong to the
   same MBSFN synchronization area as that of own cell, a user equipment that
   receives the neighbor cell information can omit a synchronization procedure
   with the neighbor cells.     For example, a description is performed by using a
   flow chart showing an outline from cell search to an idle state operation
10 performed by a user equipment (UE) in the LTE communication system
   shown in FIG. 12.     If all the cells included in the neighbor cell information
   belong to the same MBSFN synchronization area as that of own cell, all the
   cells included in the neighbor cell information may be synchronized with own
   cell.  That is, the Step ST1201 in which a slot timing and a frame timing are
15 synchronized respectively can be omitted.
   [0319]   When all cells included in the neighbor cell information belong to the
   same MBSFN synchronization area as that of own cell, a user equipment that
   receives the neighbor cell information can not omit a synchronization
   procedure with the neighbor cells in neighbor cell measurement.
20 [0320]   However, when notification of the information "00" representing
   whether or not the MBSFN is supported as neighbor cell information is
   performed, a user equipment being served by the cell cannot have the way of
   knowing whether or not a cell that does not belong to the MBSFN
   synchronization area is included in the cells included in the neighbor cell
25 information.

                                          100
   [0321]    Thus, when the information "00" representing whether or not the
   MBSFN is supported as neighbor cell information is received, the user
   equipment cannot omit the synchronization procedure with a neighbor cell.
   In this manner, even in a state in which the synchronization procedure can
 5 be originally omitted, more specifically, even though all the cells included in
   the neighbor cell information belong to the same MBSFN synchronization
   area   as   that  of own cell,    the   user  equipment     must perform    the
   synchronization procedure with the neighbor cell.
   [0322]    As described above, an useless operation occurs in cell search of a
10 user equipment or neighbor cell measurement.
   [0323]    A solution in the first modification of the third embodiment is
   described below.
   [0324]    Information of an MBSFN synchronization area of a neighbor cell is
   newly set.     The base station notifies neighbor cells of information of an
15 MBSFN synchronization area of own cell.       Notification to the neighbor cells
   may be executed only when the MBSFN subframe (eNB) is configured.            On
   the basis of the information, the information of the MBSFN synchronization
   area of the neighbor cell is updated, and the updated information is notified
   to the user equipment being served by the base station the configuration
20 notified.   The user equipment that receives the broadcast information judges
   whether or not a synchronization procedure with the neighbor cell is executed
   on the basis of the broadcast information.
   [0325]    Three specific examples of information of an MBSFN synchronization
   area of the neighbor cell are disclosed below.    (1) Information representing
25 whether or not the neighbor cell includes a cell that does not belong to the

                                         101
   MBSFN synchronization area.          (2) Information representing that the
   neighbor cell includes      a cell that    does not   belong to the    MBSFN
   synchronization area.    (3) Information representing that the neighbor cell
   does not include a cell that does not belong to the MBSFN synchronization
 5 area.
   [0326]   The user equipment may be notified of information of the MBSFN
   synchronization area of the neighbor cell by using the broadcast information.
   The information may be newly set in SIB3 in the broadcast information, SIB5
   in the broadcast information or a measurement object.      The user equipment
10 may be notified of the information.    The information may be newly set in a
   neighbor cell configuration (NeighCellConfig).      The user equipment can
   receive parameters used in the neighbor cell measurement or the like at once,
   and effects such as a reduction in processing load or prevention of control
   delay of the user equipment can be obtained.
15 [0327]   Three specific examples of information of an MBSFN synchronization
   area of own cell are disclosed below.    (1) Information representing whether
   or not own cell belongs to the MBSFN synchronization area.     (2) Information
   representing that own cell does not belong to the MBSFN synchronization
   area.   (3) Information representing that own cell belongs to the MBSFN
20 synchronization area.
   [0328]   A specific example of judgment based on the information of the
   MBSFN synchronization area of a neighbor cell of a user equipment is
   disclosed below.   When the neighbor cell includes a cell that does not belong
   to the MBSFN synchronization area, a synchronization procedure with the
25 neighbor cell is performed.    When the neighbor cell does not include a cell

                                          102
   that does not belong to the MBSFN synchronization area, a synchronization
   procedure with the neighbor cell is omitted.
   [0329]   A specific example of an interface used for notification to a neighbor
   cell is the same as that in the first modification of the first embodiment,
 5 which is not described.
   [0330]   A specific example of a method of selecting a neighbor cell is the
   same as that in the first modification of the first embodiment, which is not
   described.
   [0331]   A specific example of a main subject that updates neighbor cell
10 information is the same as that in the first modification of the first
   embodiment, which is not described.
   [0332]   A specific operation example using the first modification of the third
   embodiment is described with reference to FIG. 24.
   [0333]   The same reference numerals as those of FIG. 14, FIG. 16 and FIG.
15 23 denote the corresponding portions, which are not described.        Location is
   the same as the location described with reference to FIG. 15, which are not
   described.   In this operation example, a case where, in an interface used for
   notification to the neighbor cells, the base station of the specific example (2)
   uses the S1 interface to the MME, and the MME uses the S1 interface to the
20 neighbor cells of the base station is disclosed.   A case where a base station
   including the base station of the specific example (5) as the neighbor cell is
   selected by a method of selecting a neighbor cell is disclosed.
   [0334]   In Step ST2401, the base station (eNB1) notifies the MME of the
   information of the MBSFN synchronization area.       In this operation example,
25 it is assumed that the base station (eNB1) does not belong to the MBSFN

                                         103
   synchronization area.    In Step ST2401, the base station (eNB1) notifies the
   MME of the information representing that the base station does not belong to
   the MBSFN       synchronization area.     The  S1 interface   is used for the
   notification.
 5 [0335]   In Step ST2304, the MME updates the neighbor cell information of
   the base station selected in Step ST1602.     Furthermore, the information of
   the MBSFN synchronization area of a neighbor cell of the base station
   selected in    Step ST1602    is updated.    For example,   the neighbor cell
   configuration    (NeighCellConfig) is  updated.     The  MME     may   perform
10 determination of the update based on the information received in Step
   ST2401.     In Step ST2401, the MME receives the information representing
   that the base station does not belong to the MBSFN synchronization area
   from the eNB1.      Thus, the MME changes (updates) the information of the
   MBSFN      synchronization area   of the neighbor cells of the eNB2 into
15 information representing that the neighbor cells include a cell that does not
   belong to the MBSFN synchronization area.
   [0336]   In Step ST2402, the user equipment 2 that receives the updated
   neighbor cell information judges whether or not the neighbor cells include a
   cell that does not belong to the MBSFN synchronization area by using the
20 updated neighbor cell information.    When it is judged that the neighbor cells
   include a cell that does not belong to the MBSFN synchronization area, the
   flow shifts to Step ST2403.    When it is judged that the neighbor cells do not
   include a cell that does not belong to the MBSFN synchronization area, the
   flow shifts to Step ST2404.

                                           104
   [0337]   In Step ST2403, the user equipment 2 executes a synchronization
   procedure with a neighbor cell in neighbor cell measurement.
   [0338]   In Step ST2404, the user equipment 2 omits the synchronization
   procedure in neighbor cell measurement.
 5 [0339]   In the first modification of the third embodiment, a combination to
   the third embodiment is mainly described.        However, combinations to the
   first embodiment, the first modification of the first embodiment, the second
   modification of the first embodiment, the third modification of the first
   embodiment, the fourth modification of the first embodiment, the fifth
10 modification of the first embodiment, the second embodiment, the first
   modification of the second embodiment and the second modification of the
   second embodiment can be used.
   [0340]   The first modification of the third embodiment can achieve the
   effects below in addition to those of the third embodiment.
15 [0341]   Information of the MBSFN synchronization area of the neighbor cell
   is newly set to make it possible to cause the user equipment to recognize the
   information of the MBSFN synchronization area of the neighbor cell.      In this
   manner, on the basis of the information of the MBSFN synchronization area
   of the neighbor cell, the user equipment can judge whether or not the
20 synchronization procedure with the neighbor cell is executed in neighbor cell
   measurement or the like.     An useless operation can be omitted in cell search
   or neighbor cell measurement of the user equipment.      Effects such as lower
   power consumption of a user equipment and a reduction in control delay can
   be obtained.
25 Second Modification of Third Embodiment

                                         105
   A problem to be solved by a second modification of the third embodiment is
   described below.
   [0342]   In a case where the first modification of the third embodiment is
   executed, a problem occurs as follows.
 5 [0343]   When own cell does not belong to the MBSFN synchronization area,
   even though a user equipment being served thereby receives the information
   of the MBSFN synchronization area of the neighbor cell as broadcast
   information, a problem occurs as follows.
   [0344]   A case where, when the information of the MBSFN synchronization
10 area of the neighbor cell represents that the neighbor cells do not include a
   cell that does not belong to the MBSFN synchronization area, by using the
   first modification of the third embodiment, a user equipment being served by
   own cell omits a synchronization procedure with the neighbor cell is
   considered.    In this case, since own cell does not belong to the MBSFN
15 synchronization area, own cell is not synchronized with the neighbor cell.
   Thus, on the assumption that synchronization is executed, the user
   equipment fails in search for a neighbor cell in neighbor cell measurement of
   the user equipment that omits the synchronization process.     In this manner,
   a power consumption of the user equipment increases, and a problem of an
20 increase in control delay occurs.
   [0345]   A solution in the second modification of the third embodiment is
   described below.
   [0346]   Information of the MBSFN synchronization area of own cell is newly
   set.

                                           106
   [0347]   A user equipment that receives the information of the MBSFN
   synchronization     area of own cell and the information of the           MBSFN
   synchronization area of the neighbor cell disclosed in the first modification of
   the third embodiment judges whether or not a synchronization procedure
 5 with the neighbor cell is performed on the basis of the two pieces of
   information.       Alternatively,  the   user   equipment   that    receives   the
   information of the MBSFN synchronization area of own cell may judge
   whether or not the synchronization procedure with the neighbor cell on the
   basis of the information.
10 [0348]   Three    specific  examples    of the   information  of    the   MBSFN
   synchronization area of own cell are disclosed below.           (1)   Information
   representing whether or not own cell belongs to the MBSFN synchronization
   area.   (2) Information representing that own cell does not belong to the
   MBSFN synchronization area.         (3) Information representing that own cell
15 belongs to the MBSFN synchronization area.
   The base station may notify information of the MBSFN synchronization area
   of own cell of the user equipment being served thereby by using the broadcast
   information.
   [0349]   The information may be newly set in the SIB2 in the broadcast
20 information.      In   the   conventional   technique, an    MBSFN       subframe
   configuration is mapped to the SIB2 (Non-Patent Document 2).            Thus, the
   user equipment can acquire information related to the MBSFN subframe by
   performing a receiving process once, and an effect of preventing control delay
   of the user equipment can be obtained.

                                          107
   [0350]   The information may be newly set in the SIB3, the SIB4 or the SIB5
   in the broadcast information.     In the conventional technique, information
   related to cell reselect is mapped to the SIB3, the SIB4 and the SIB5
   (Non-Patent Document 2).      The information of the MBSFN synchronization
 5 area of own cell in the second modification of the third embodiment is used
   when it is judged whether or not the synchronization procedure with the
   neighbor cell is performed in the user equipment.         More specifically, the
   information of the MBSFN synchronization area of own cell may also be
   information related to measurement of a neighbor cell in a user equipment.
10 Thus,   the   user   equipment   can    acquire   information    related  to  the
   measurement of the neighbor cell by performing a receiving process once, and
   an effect of preventing control delay of the user equipment can be obtained.
   [0351]   Alternatively, another piece of information may mean "information of
   an MBSFN area of own cell" without newly setting the information of the
15 MBSFN area of own cell.       In this manner, new information need not be
   added, and a mobile communication system having excellent downward
   compatibility can be structured.    Effective utilization of a radio resource can
   be advantageously obtained.
   [0352]   Two specific examples of the other piece of information are disclosed
20 below.   (1) In the conventional technique, information required to acquire
   MBMS control information is mapped to SIB13 (Non-Patent Document 2).
   In the conventional technique, in order to cause the base station to configure
   the MBSFN subframe, the base station must belong to the MBSFN
   synchronization area.    Thus, when the SIB13 is broadcasted, it is assumed
25 that the base station represents that the base station "belongs to the MBSFN

                                          108
   synchronization     area".   On the    other  hand, when the    SIB13 is not
   broadcasted, it is assumed that the base station represents that the base
   station "does not belong to the MBSFN synchronization area".         (2) In the
   conventional technique, the name of HeNB is mapped to SIB9 (Non-Patent
 5 Document 2).     It is determined that the HeNB does not support the MBMS
   (Non-Patent Document 1).       Thus, the HeNB does not have the configuration
   of   the   mobile     communication     system   belonging  to   the    MBSFN
   synchronization area.      Thus, when the SIB9 is broadcasted, it is assumed
   that the base station represents that the base station "does not belong to the
10 MBSFN synchronization area".
   [0353]   A specific operation example using the second modification of the
   third embodiment is described with reference to FIG. 25.
   [0354]   The same reference numerals as those of FIG. 14, FIG. 16, FIG. 23
   and FIG. 24 denote the corresponding portions, which are not described.
15 Location is the same as the location described with reference to FIG. 15,
   which are not described.      In this operation example, a case where, in an
   interface used for notification to the neighbor cells, the base station of the
   specific example (2) uses the S1 interface to the MME, and the MME uses the
   S1 interface to the neighbor cells of the base station is disclosed.     A case
20 where a base station including the base station of the specific example (5) as
   a neighbor cell is selected by a method of selecting a neighbor cell is
   disclosed.
   [0355]   In Step ST2501, the base station (eNB2) judges whether or not own
   cell belongs to the MBSFN synchronization area.

                                           109
   [0356]   In Step ST2502, the eNB2 (103-2) notifies the user equipment 2
   being served thereby of the information of the MBSFN synchronization area
   of own cell judged in Step ST2501.
   [0357]   In Step ST2503, the user equipment 2 that receives information of an
 5 MBSFN synchronization        area of a serving cell in    Step ST2502 judges
   whether or not the serving cell belongs to the MBSFN synchronization area
   by using the information.     When it is judged that the serving cell belongs to
   the MBSFN synchronization area, the flow shifts to Step ST2402.         When it
   is judged that the serving cell does not belong to the MBSFN synchronization
10 area, the flow shifts to Step ST2404.     The judgment in Step ST2402 may be
   omitted.
   [0358]   In the second modification of the third embodiment, a combination to
   the third embodiment and the first modification of the third embodiment is
   mainly described.    However, combinations to the first embodiment, the first
15 modification of the first embodiment, the second modification of the first
   embodiment, the third modification of the first embodiment, the fourth
   modification of the first embodiment, the fifth modification of the first
   embodiment, the second embodiment, the first modification of the second
   embodiment and the second modification of the second embodiment can be
20 used.
   [0359]   The second modification of the third embodiment can achieve the
   effects below in addition to those of the third embodiment.
   [0360]   Information of the MBSFN synchronization area of own cell is newly
   set to make it possible to cause the user equipment to recognize the
25 information of the MBSFN synchronization area of the serving cell.       In this

                                           110
   manner, on the basis of the information of the MBSFN synchronization area
   of own cell, the user equipment can judge whether or not the synchronization
   procedure with the neighbor cell is executed in neighbor cell measurement or
   the like.   An useless operation can be omitted in cell search or neighbor cell
 5 measurement of the user equipment.             Effects such as lower power
   consumption of a user equipment and a reduction in control delay can be
   obtained.
   [0361]    One or more MBSFN resources can be used for one or more purposes.
   As a specific example of a purpose using the MBSFN resource, an MBMS or
10 positioning is known (Non-Patent Document 1).
   [0362]    For example, it is discussed that the MBSFN resource is used for a
   backhaul link which is set between a donor cell and a relay node.      Even in a
   case where the MBSFN subframe is used as the backhaul link, the first
   embodiment to the third embodiment including modifications can be applied.
15 The number of relay nodes being served by a donor cell and the number of
   user equipments being served by a relay node vary.     That is, a radio resource
   required for the backhaul link may change depending on donor cells.           By
   using the present invention, the radio resource required for the backhaul link
   can be set by the donor cells, respectively.
20 [0363]    Fourth Embodiment
   Up to the second modification of the third embodiment, the case using the
   MBSFN subframe for energy saving is disclosed mainly, the present
   invention can be applied to a case using the MBSFN subframe to avoid
   downlink interference occurring between cells.        As described above, the
25 resource of the MBSFN subframe can be used for one or more purposes.          As

                                         111
   a purpose except for energy saving, the MBSFN subframe may also be used
   to avoid downlink interference between the cells.   The present invention can
   be applied to the case.
   For example, in addition to the MBSFN subframe (MBSFN subframe (MCE))
 5 configured by the MCE for multi-cell transmission disclosed in the first
   embodiment, an MBSFN subframe is configured by a base station.              More
   specifically, the base station has a function of configuring an MBSFN
   subframe therein.      The MBSFN subframe (eNB) configured by the base
   station is used to avoid downlink interference between the cells.    As another
10 example, even a base station that is disclosed in the third embodiment and
   does not have a configuration related to the MBSFN subframe from the MCE
   for   multi-cell  transmission  configures   an  MBSFN      subframe.       More
   specifically, the base station has a function of configuring an MBSFN
   subframe therein.      The MBSFN subframe (eNB) configured by the base
15 station is used to avoid downlink interference between the cells.
   For example, in a state in which downlink interference occurs between a
   normal eNB (macro cell) and a low-output-power local node, e.g., a pico cell,
   in order to avoid inter-cell downlink interference, the normal eNB (macro
   cell) configures an MBSFN subframe.      In the macro cell, only the first one or
20 two symbols in the configured MBSFN subframe are used for a uni-cast, and
   transmission of a PMCH is not carried out in symbols except for the symbols
   used in the uni-cast.    On the other hand, as for a pico cell, the MBSFN
   subframe configured by the normal eNB is a normal subframe, and normal
   uni-cast   communication    is performed    to a  user   equipment     to  which
25 interference occurs as a problem.    In this manner, in an MBSFN subframe

                                          112
   that a normal base station (macro cell) has configured, since PMCH
   transmission from the macro cell is not performed in symbols except for the
   symbols for uni-cast, interference to the pico cell can be reduced.
   [0364]   Since   the   low-output-power      local   node    performs    uni-cast
 5 communication to a user equipment to which interference occurs as a
   problem in the MBSFN subframe configured by the normal eNB (macro cell),
   the configuration of the MBSFN subframe must be recognized.          As a method
   for the purpose, the method to which a base station notifies a neighbor cell of
   an MBSFN subframe configuration of own cell as disclosed in the present
10 invention can be applied.     For example, the method disclosed in the first
   modification   of the first embodiment can be applied.              In the first
   modification   of the   first embodiment,     the case having neighbor cell
   measurement of a user equipment as an object is disclosed.       However, to not
   only the object, the present invention can also be applied to cause a base
15 station that configures an MBSFN subframe to notify a neighbor base station
   of the MBSFN subframe configuration in order to avoid inter-cell interference.
   A normal eNB (macro cell) that configures an MBSFN subframe notifies a
   neighbor cell of the MBSFN subframe configuration.              A neighbor cell
   (low-output-power local node in the example) that receives the notification of
20 the MBSFN subframe configuration from the normal eNB (macro cell)
   performs scheduling the resource of the MBSFN subframe for normal
   uni-cast communication to a user equipment to which interference from the
   macro cell occurs as a problem.     In this manner, the interference from the
   macro cell can be avoided.

                                          113
   [0365]   In the above description, although a pico cell is used as a cell notified
   of the MBSFN subframe configuration, not only the pico cell, but also another
   low-power local node such as a normal base station or an HeNB may be used.
   Similarly, the present invention can be applied, and inter-cell downlink
 5 interference can be avoided.
   [0366]   As a method of selecting a neighbor base station that performs
   notification of an MBSFN subframe configuration, the method disclosed in
   the present invention can be applied.      For example, the method in the first
   modification of the first embodiment can be applied.     In addition to this, the
10 MME may determine an MBSFN subframe and notifies a base station that
   configures the MBSFN subframe of the MBSFN subframe configuration.
   The MME may receive a neighbor cell measurement result from a base
   station (normal eNB or low-power local node) being served thereby in
   advance to determine a neighbor base station which a predetermined base
15 station should notify of the MBSFN subframe configuration.             The base
   station being served by the MME may notify the MME of the neighbor cell
   measurement result.
   For example, an HeNB is served by the MME, the HeNB performs the
   neighbor cell measurement and notifies the MME of the measurement result.
20 The neighbor cell measurement and the notification of the result thereof by
   the HeNB may be performed in registration of the HeNB or may be regularly
   or periodically performed.
   A report of a neighbor cell measurement obtained by a user equipment being
   served by the base station may be used without causing the base station
25 being served by the MME to perform neighbor cell measurement.

                                         114
   In this manner, when the method disclosed in the present invention is
   applied when location of a cell is performed flexibly, inter-cell downlink
   interference can be avoided.
   [0367]   As a case where an MBSFN subframe is used to avoid downlink
 5 interference occurring between cells, a case where the method disclosed in
   the first embodiment is applied is disclosed.    However, not only the first
   embodiment, but also the embodiments and the modifications of the present
   invention can be applied.
   In this manner, by using the method of causing a base station to configure an
10 MBSFN subframe as disclosed in the present invention, inter-cell downlink
   interference can be avoided by using the MBSFN subframe.
   [0368]   In the embodiment, as a base station that configures an MBSFN
   subframe, not only the eNB/NB but also another local node such as an HeNB,
   HNB, or a pico eNB can be applied.        When any one of the local nodes is
15 applied, the same effects obtained by applying the eNB/NB can be obtained.
   [0369]   Fifth Embodiment
   When an MBSFN subframe is used to avoid downlink interference between
   the cells, a base station to which interference occurs as a problem may
   request a neighbor base station of configuration of an MBSFN subframes for
20 avoiding downlink interference.
   The base station has received the request configures an MBSFN subframe in
   own base station and notifies the neighbor base station of the MBSFN
   subframe configuration.    As the method, the method disclosed above can be
   applied.

                                            115
   As a specific example of judgment whether or not a base station requests a
   neighbor base station of configuration of an MBSFN subframe and a method
   of selecting the neighbor base station, for example, the methods disclosed in
   the specific examples (1) and (2) of the method of selecting a neighbor cell in
 5 the first modification of the first embodiment can be applied.         As another
   method, when a base station wants to preferentially reserve a subframe with
   which the base station performs scheduling to a user equipment being served
   thereby, the base station may judge that the base station requests a neighbor
   base station of configuration of an MBSFN subframe.           In this case, as the
10 method of selecting a neighbor base station, the methods disclosed in the
   specific examples (1) to (5) of the method of selecting a neighbor cell in the
   first modification of the first embodiment can be applied.
   As a specific example of an interface used to notify a neighbor base station of
   an    MBSFN      subframe     configuration  request    for   avoiding    downlink
15 interference, the methods disclosed in the specific examples (1) to (3) of the
   interface used for notification to a neighbor cell in the first modification of the
   first embodiment can be applied.        The request is included in a signaling
   message used on each interface or a signaling message for the request is
   newly set to perform notification by using the interfaces.      In addition to the
20 notification of the request, notification of an identifier (cell identifier) of a
   base station serving as a destination of the request, a cell identifier of own
   cell, or a requested resource may be performed.      Notification of combinations
   of the identifiers and the resource may be performed.          As the identifier of
   the base station serving as a destination or a cell identifier of own cell, a CGI,
25 a PCI or the like may be used.         As a specific example of the requested

                                          116
   resource, the number of MBSFN subframes may be used.            A base station
   that receives notification of the requested resource can use the notification as
   information for judgment used when the number of MBSFN subframes is
   configured.
 5 [0370]   As an example, a concrete operation performed when a base station
   to which interference occurs as a problem is an HeNB is shown.      The HeNB,
   for example, by a measurement report of a user equipment being served
   thereby, recognizes that reception quality from a certain base station exceeds
   a predetermined threshold value.     In this manner, the HeNB judges that the
10 HeNB should request the base station of an MBSFN subframe configuration.
   The HeNB notifies the MME of the request message by using the S1 interface.
   When an MCE may not be connected to the HeNB because an MBMS is not
   supported for the HeNB, an X2 interface is not supported for the HeNB.        In
   such a case, notification to a base station can be performed through an MME
15 by using the S1 interface.
   The HeNB may perform, in addition to the notification of the request
   message, notification of the identifier of a base station serving as a
   destination.   The MME that receives the request message from the HeNB
   and the identifier of the base station serving as a destination can selectively
20 notify the base station of the request message from the HeNB on the basis of
   the identifier of the base station.   The notification of the message uses the
   S1 interface.
   The base station that receives the request message from the HeNB through
   the MME configures an MBSFN subframe for avoiding inter-cell downlink
25 interference.   The base station that configures the MBSFN subframe notifies

                                           117
   neighbor cells of the MBSFN subframe configuration.             As a method of
   selecting   a   neighbor base     station that performs      notification  of the
   configuration, a method disclosed above may be used.           Alternatively, the
   neighbor base station that is performed notification of the configuration may
 5 be a base station (HeNB in the example) that requests an MBSFN subframe
   configuration.    This is possible when notification of a request message and a
   cell identifier of own base station is performed.   The HeNB that receives the
   MBSFN subframe configuration performs scheduling a resource of the
   MBSFN subframe for normal uni-cast communication to the user equipment
10 to which interference from the base station occurs as a problem.       As the user
   equipment to which interference from the base station occurs as a problem, a
   user equipment       that performs notification     of a measurement        report
   representing    that reception    quality from the base station exceeds          a
   predetermined      threshold value     may be used.       In this manner,      the
15 interference from the base station can be avoided.
   [0371]   The example shows the case where the base station to which
   interference occurs as a problem is HeNB.      However, not only the HeNB, but
   also a normal base station or another low-power local node such as a pico cell
   may be used.      The present invention can be similarly applied to any one of
20 low-power local nodes, and inter-cell downlink interference can be avoided.
   A base station serving as a destination of an MBSFN subframe configuration
   request is not limited to a normal base station, and a low-power local node
   may be used.        A base station serving as a destination of an MBSFN
   subframe configuration request may be a base station having an MBSFN
25 subframe configuration function.       The base station broadcasts information

                                         118
   representing that whether or not own cell has the MBSFN subframe
   configuration function as the system information.   The base station to which
   an interference problem occurs may judge whether or not the cell has the
   MBSFN subframe configuration function by receiving system information of
 5 each cell in radio-wave environment measurement of a neighbor cell in own
   base station.   The judgment may be added to the method of selecting a
   neighbor base station.   Own base station does not perform measurement to
   receive system information, and a user equipment being served thereby may
   receive   system   information   of each   cell  in radio-wave   environment
10 measurement of neighbor cells to acquire information representing whether
   or not each of the cells has the MBSFN subframe configuration function.
   The user equipment notifies a base station by which the user equipment is
   served of the information together with a report of measurement, and then
   the base station judges whether or not the neighbor base station has the
15 MBSFN subframe configuration function.       The user equipment may judge a
   base station having the MBSFN subframe configuration function on the basis
   of the information to notify the base station of a measurement report for an
   MBSFN subframe configuration request that is limited to the base station
   having the MBSFN subframe configuration function.          The base station
20 needs not to judge whether or not the base station has the MBSFN subframe
   configuration function, and an amount of information of signaling of a
   measurement report from a user equipment being served thereby or a
   signaling amount can be reduced.
   [0372]   Since the method disclosed in the embodiment is applied to make it
25 possible to notify a base station that causes interference of an MBSFN

                                           119
   subframe configuration request from a base station that is interfered,
   judgment of the MBSFN subframe configuration in the base station can be
   more     dynamically    executed.     Thus,   inter-cell  downlink    interference
   avoidance using the MBSFN subframe can be more dynamically realized.
 5  [0373]   In the base station that receives a request notification of the MBSFN
   subframe configuration, if an MBSFN subframe is configured in response to
   the request, a radio resource allocated to a user equipment being served by
   own cell may come short.      Although the radio resource allocated to the user
   equipment being served by own cell come short, when the MBSFN subframe
10 is configured, communication with the user equipment being served by own
   cell cannot be performed to make it impossible to provide a service.      In order
   to solve the problem, a base station that receives the request notification of
   the MBSFN subframe configuration may judge that the MBSFN subframe is
   not    configured  to the    request notification    of the MBSFN        subframe
15 configuration and perform notification representing that MBSFN subframe
   configuration is rejected to the base station serving as a request source.      In
   this manner, communication with the user equipment being served by own
   cell is secured to make it possible to provide a service.
   The shortage of the radio resource may not be the shortage of a radio
20 resource allocated to a user equipment being served by own cell but the
   shortage of the radio resource allocated to a user equipment that performs
   communication for a service having a high priority order or performs
   communication requiring high QoS.        In this manner, the MBSFN subframe
   configuration can be more preferential than radio resource allocation to a

                                           120
   user equipment having a low priority order or a low QoS, and interference to
   another cell can be reduced.
   The base station to which interference occurs as a problem may perform
   notification of information related to a priority order of a service of a
 5 interfered user equipment being served thereby or information related to the
   QoS together with a request message of the MBSFN subframe configuration.
   The base station that receives a request notification of the MBSFN subframe
   configuration can judge whether or not the MBSFN subframe configuration is
   performed on the basis of the information.
10 As a specific example of an interface used to perform notification of rejection
   of the MBSFN subframe configuration, the methods disclosed in the specific
   examples (1) to (3) of the interface used for notification to a neighbor cell in
   the first modification of the first embodiment described above can be applied.
   The information representing that the MBSFN subframe configurations is
15 rejected is included in a signaling message used on each interface or a
   signaling message to perform notification of the rejection is newly set to
   perform notification by using the interfaces.
   [0374]   The base station that receives a request notification of the MBSFN
   subframe configuration cannot recognize time until the base station serving
20 as a request source requires the MBSFN subframe configuration.           In this
   case, when the base station configures the MBSFN subframe on the basis of
   the configuration request of the MBSFN subframe, the base station cannot
   determine the time until the configuration of the MBSFN subframe need to
   be   maintained.     Even    when    the  MBSFN    subframe    configuration   is
25 unnecessary in such a case where the user equipment that is interfered by

                                          121
   the base station serving as a request source ends communication, the base
   station that receives the request consequently continues the MBSFN
   subframe configuration.       This wastes resources to cause a reduction in
   capacity of a cell or a decrease in communication speed.    In order to solve the
 5 problem, a base station that performs notification of a request of an MBSFN
   subframe configuration may perform notification representing that the
   request is ended.
   The base station that performs notification of the request of the MBSFN
   subframe configuration judges whether or not the base station requests a
10 neighbor base station of the MBSFN subframe configuration as above
   described.    When the base station judges that the MBSFN subframe
   configuration is not requested, notification representing the request is ended
   is performed.    The notification representing that the request is ended may
   be performed to the base station that performs notification of a request of an
15 MBSFN subframe configuration.        The base station that performs notification
   of a request of an MBSFN subframe configuration may judge whether or not
   a neighbor base station is requested of an MBSFN subframe configuration,
   regularly, periodically, or by using as a trigger a report of a measurement
   result from a user equipment being served thereby.
20 The base station that receives a request end notification of the MBSFN
   subframe configuration      inactivates the MBSFN subframe configuration
   configured on the basis of the request end notification.     More specifically, a
   subframe configured as an MBSFN subframe is configured to be used in
   normal uni-cast communication.

                                            122
   In this manner, the base station can improve efficiency of using a resource to
   make it possible to increase a capacity of a cell or increase a communication
   speed.
   [0375]   The base station that receives a request of an MBSFN subframe
 5 configuration or a notification representing that the request is ended may
   notify a base station serving as a request source that the request or the
   request end notification is received.     Alternatively, notification representing
   that an MBSFN subframe is configured based on the request notification or
   notification   representing  that    the   MBSFN     subframe     configuration   is
10 inactivated on the basis of the request end notification may be performed.
   In this manner, the base station serving as the request source can clearly
   recognize a configuration state of an MBSFN subframe of a base station
   serving as a request destination and can correctly judge whether or not the
   base station serving as the request source performs notification of a request
15 of an MBSFN subframe configuration or notification of a request end.            For
   this reason, the system can be prevented from being erroneously operated,
   and a stable communication system can be provided.
   [0376]   In the above description, the base station that receives a request end
   notification of the MBSFN subframe configuration inactivates the MBSFN
20 subframe configuration configured on the basis of the request end notification.
   Unless the base station that configures an MBSFN subframe receives the
   request end notification, the MBSFN subframe configuration cannot be
   inactivated.    In this case, since resource allocation cannot be performed
   when communication with a user equipment being served by own cell is
25 required    to   be   preferentially   performed,     a   problem    that    makes

                                           123
   communication impossible is posed.        In order to solve the problem, a base
   station that configures MBSFN subframe may determine to end the MBSFN
   subframe configuration.      The base station that has determined to end the
   MBSFN        subframe    configuration   inactivates   the   MBSFN     subframe
 5 configuration.     The base station that inactivates the MBSFN subframe
   configuration may notify a base station serving as a request source of the
   MBSFN subframe configuration that the MBSFN subframe configuration is
   inactivated.
   As a judgment condition for inactivating the MBSFN subframe configuration,
10 whether or not a radio resource allocated to a user equipment being served by
   own cell comes short may be used.        The shortage of the radio resource, as
   described above, may not be the shortage of a radio resource allocated to a
   user equipment being served by own cell but the shortage of the radio
   resource allocated to a user equipment that performs communication for a
15 service having a high priority order or performs communication reguiring
   high QoS.
   In this manner, the base station that configures the MBSFN subframe can
   allocate a resource when communication with a user equipment being served
   by own cell is required to be preferentially performed, and a service can be
20 provided to the user equipment being served by own cell.
   [0377]    When the base station that receives the request notification of the
   MBSFN       subframe   configuration   continuously   uselessly  configures  the
   MBSFN subframe, a useless resource, consequently, a reduction in capacity
   of a cell or a decrease in communication speed is caused.     Another method of
25 solving the problem is disclosed.    A period in which an MBSFN subframe is

                                          124
   configured is limited.   The base station inactivates the MBSFN subframe
   configuration   a  predetermined    period    after  the   MBSFN     subframe   is
   configured.    The predetermined period may be used as a timer.               The
   predetermined     period   may     be    statically   determined    in   advance,
 5 semi-statically determined or dynamically determined.
   When the predetermined period is statically determined, the predetermined
   period may be determined as a specification.       The predetermined period can
   be recognized by all the base stations.       Since signaling to notify the base
   station of the predetermined period is not required, an amount of signaling
10 can be reduced.
   When     the   predetermined    period    is   semi-statically  determined,   the
   predetermined period may be determined by the MME.               The MME may
   notify each of the base station of the predetermined period.      The MME may
   notify the base station of the predetermined period by the S1 message
15 through the S1 interface.   When the MME notifies the HeNB, the MME may
   perform notification in registration of the HeNB.
   The predetermined period is semi-statically determined, the predetermined
   period may be determined by the base station.        The base station broadcasts
   it as system information.   A base station that requests an MBSFN subframe
20 configuration must recognize an MBSFN subframe configuration period of
   the base station that configures the MBSFN subframe.           As this method, a
   method in which the base station that requests the MBSFN subframe
   configuration receives system information to be broadcasted from a base
   station that causes interference, i.e., a base station serving as a request
25 destination of the MBSFN subframe configuration or a method of receiving

                                          125
   the system information from a user equipment being served by the base
   station that requests the MBSFN subframe configuration is used.          In the
   method of receiving from the user equipment, the user equipment may
   receive the system information broadcasted from a base station that causes
 5 interference to acquire the predetermined period and notify a serving cell of
   the predetermined period together with a measurement report.           In this
   manner, the predetermined period in          which the MBSFN      subframe    is
   configured can be determined depending on a status of use of a radio resource
   of each base station.
10 When the predetermined period is dynamically determined, a base station
   that receives request notification of the MBSFN subframe configuration may
   perform the notification to a base station serving as a request source.    As a
   response to the request notification of the MBSFN subframe configuration,
   the notification of the predetermined period may be performed.         In this
15 manner, the base station can determine the predetermined period in which
   the MBSFN subframe is configured depending on a status of use of the radio
   resource at a time when the base station receives the MBSFN subframe
   configuration request.
   [0378]   The base station that configures the MBSFN subframe inactivates
20 the MBSFN subframe after the predetermined period has elapsed.        However,
   in the predetermined period, when the MBSFN subframe configuration
   request is received,   the MBSFN        subframe  may be configured     in  the
   predetermined period from the time.        When the predetermined period is
   used as    a timer, a base     station that receives   an MBSFN      subframe
25 configuration request starts the timer by using, as start time, time when the

                                         126
   MBSFN subframe is configured.       When the time for the timer runs out, the
   MBSFN subframe configuration is inactivated to reset the timer.      When the
   MBSFN subframe configuration request is received before the time for the
   timer runs out, the timer may be restarted from the time.
 5 The base     station that performs notification    of the   MBSFN    subframe
   configuration request may perform processing based on the predetermined
   period.    For example, from time when the notification of the MBSFN
   subframe configuration request is performed or from time when a notification
   representing that the MBSFN subframe is configured based on the request
10 notification is received, after the predetermined      period has elapsed, a
   configuration request is performed if the configuration request is necessary
   again.    The configuration request may be performed again before the
   predetermined period has elapsed.     When the predetermined period is used
   as a timer, the timer may be started by using, as start time, time when the
15 notification of the MBSFN subframe configuration request is performed or
   time when      a notification  representing  that the MBSFN       subframe    is
   configured based on the request notification is received.   When the time for
   the timer runs out, the timer is reset and a configuration request is
   performed if the configuration request is necessary again.   The configuration
20 request may be performed again before the time for the timer runs out.       In
   this case, the timer may be restarted by using, as start time, time when
   notification of the configuration request is performed again or time when a
   notification representing that the MBSFN subframe is configured again
   based on the configuration request is received.      When notification of an
25 MBSFN subframe configuration request end is performed before the time for

                                         127
   the timer runs out, the timer may be reset when the notification of the
   request end is performed or when notification representing that the MBSFN
   subframe configuration is inactivated on the basis of the request notification.
   [0379]   When the time management is performed as described above, even in
 5 the base    station that performs     notification of the MBSFN       subframe
   configuration request or the base station that receives the MBSFN subframe
   configuration request, efficiency of using a resource can be improved, a
   capacity of each cell and a communication speed can be increased.
   [0380]   The method disclosed in the embodiment can also be applied to a
10 case where an MME configures an MBSFN subframe (will be described later).
   Processing performed by a base station that configures an MBSFN subframe
   and signaling performed with a base station that configures an MBSFN
   subframe may be alternatively performed by the MME.
   [0381]   Sixth Embodiment
15 The embodiments and the modifications described above disclose the method
   of causing a base station to configure an MBSFN subframe.      The MME may
   configure the MBSFN subframe without causing the base station to configure
   the MBSFN subframe.        In other words, the MME may have a function of
   configuring an MBSFN subframe.        The MME notifies one or a plurality of
20 base stations of the MBSFN subframe configuration.      A base station serving
   as a notification object may be a base station being served by another MME.
   In this case, notification of the MBSFN subframe configuration is performed
   through the other MME.          The base station that receives the MBSFN
   subframe configuration configures an MBSFN subframe according to the
25 MBSFN subframe configuration.         All the base stations that receive the

                                          128
   MBSFN subframe        configuration need not configure MBSFN         subframes
   according to the MBSFN         subframe configuration.      When the MBSFN
   subframe configuration is recognized, the MBSFN subframe may be used in
   other applications.
 5 For example, when the MBSFN             subframe  is used to avoid downlink
   interference between cells, the MME notifies a normal eNB (macro cell) that
   gives interference and a low transmission power local node that receives
   interference of an MBSFN subframe configuration.         A normal eNB (macro
   cell) that gives interference configures an MBSFN subframe, and a low
10 transmission power local node that is interfered by the eNB uses the MBSFN
   subframe in uni-cast communication.       The resource of the MBSFN subframe
   is scheduled for a user equipment to which interference occurs as a problem
   to make it possible to reduce inter-cell downlink interference.
   The example described above shows the case where interference between the
15 macro cell and the low transmission power local node occurs.      However, the
   present invention can be similarly applied to not only the interference but
   also interference between normal base stations or interference between
   low-power local nodes.    The inter-cell downlink interference can be avoided.
   In this manner, in place of the base station, the MME configures the MBSFN
20 subframe to make it easy to configure the same MBSFN subframes in a
   plurality of base stations.
   Each of the number of base stations that give interference and the number of
   base stations that are interfered may be one or more.
   [0382]   As a method of notifying a plurality of base stations of an MBSFN
25 subframe configuration, a technique (conventional technique) that causes an

                                         129
   MCE to configure an MBSFN subframe to notify the plurality of base stations
   of the MBSFN subframe is used.
   However, in this case, the plurality of base stations serving as notification
   targets  are  all base   stations that are present     in  one MBSFN      area.
 5 Consequently, the MBSFN subframes are configured to all the base stations
   that are present in one MBSFN area managed by the MCE.         Thus, when the
   MCE configures an MBSFN subframe for not only multi-cell transmission but
   also avoiding inter-cell downlink interference, regardless of a base station to
   which interference occurs as a problem, all the base stations that are present
10 in the MBSFN area are notified of the MBSFN subframe configuration.
   This cause useless signaling.   When interference avoidance is required to be
   performed with a base station that is not present in the MBSFN area, in
   order to prevent the base station that is not present in the MBSFN area is
   not notified of the MBSFN subframe configuration, and thus interference
15 avoidance with the base station becomes impossible.          Furthermore, the
   HeNB may not be connected to the MCE.           In this case, when the MCE
   configures an MBSFN subframe, the HeNB cannot be directly notified of the
   MBSFN subframe configuration.
   As a method of solving the problem, the MCE may notify the HeNB of the
20 MBSFN subframe configuration through the MME.            The MCE notifies the
   MME of the MBSFN subframe configuration by using the M3 interface, and
   the MME notifies the HeNB of the MBSFN subframe configuration by using
   the S1 interface.   In this manner, the HeNB that does not have a direct
   interface with the MCE can be notified of the MBSFN subframe configured
25 by the MCE.

                                          130
   However, according to the method, signaling the notification of which is
   temporarily performed through the MME increases.
   [0383]   When the method in which the MME configures an MBSFN
   subframe is used, the problems can be solved.      More specifically, when the
 5 MME configures the MBSFN subframe, regardless of a base station in the
   MBSFN area, a base station to which interference occurs as a problem can be
   notified of the MBSFN subframe configuration.     A base station that does not
   belong to the MBSFN area can also be notified of the MBSFN subframe
   configuration.   Furthermore, the MCE needs not to notify the MME of the
10 MBSFN subframe configuration, a signaling amount is not increased.
   Thus, when a base station except for a base station belonging to one MBSFN
   area needs to be notified of an MBSFN subframe, the MME advantageously
   configures MBSFN subframe.
   As described above, since a cell using the MBSFN subframe or a cell that
15 performs notification of the MBSFN subframe configuration can be flexibly
   configured, the MBSFN         subframe is advantageously     used in another
   application except for multi-cell MBMS transmission.
   [0384]   As a method of selecting a neighbor cell that performs notification of
   an MBSFN subframe configured by the MME, a method of selecting a
20 neighbor cell used when a base station configures an MBSFN subframe as
   described above can be applied.
   As a method of adjusting an MBSFN subframe performed in the MCE and a
   method of configuring an MBSFN subframe performed in the MME, the
   methods disclosed in from the second modification of the first embodiment to
25 the fifth modification of the first embodiment can be applied.  In place of the

                                         131
   eNB, the MME may be used.       Notification between the MME and the MCE
   may be performed by using the M3 interface.     In this manner, the MCE can
   adjust the MBSFN subframe         (MCE) by using the MBSFN subframe
   information configured by the MME, and the MME can configure the MBSFN
 5 subframe by using information or the like of the priority order of the MBSFN
   subframes notified from the MCE.
   As the MBSFN subframe configured by the MME, the methods disclosed in
   from the second embodiment to the second modification of the second
   embodiment may be applied.      In this manner, the same effect as described
10 above can be obtained.
   When the MME configures the MBSFN subframe to a base station that does
   not belong to an MBSFN synchronization area, a base station that is not
   connected to the MCE or a base station that does not receive notification of
   the MBSFN subframe configuration from the MCE, the method disclosed in
15 the third embodiment may be applied.      The M3 interface may be used for the
   notification of the MBSFN subframe configuration from the MME to the
   MCE, and the S1 interface may be used for the notification of the MBSFN
   subframe configuration from the MME to the eNB.           In this manner, the
   same effect as described above can be obtained.
20 [0385]   When an MBSFN subframe is used to avoid downlink interference
   between the cells, a base station to which interference occurs as a problem
   may request the MME to configure an MBSFN subframes for avoiding
   downlink interference.    The MME that receives the request configures an
   MBSFN subframe and notifies the neighbor base station of the MBSFN
25 subframe configuration.    The S1 interface may be used for the notification.

                                           132
   The request is included in a signaling message used on the S1 interface, or a
   signaling message for the request is newly set to perform notification.          In
   addition to the notification of the request, notification of an identifier (cell
   identifier) of a base station serving as a source of the request, a cell identifier
 5 of own cell, or a requested resource may be performed.             Notification of
   combinations of the identifiers and the resource may be performed.          As the
   identifier of the base station serving as a destination or a cell identifier of
   own cell, a CGI, a PCI or the like may be used.      As a specific example of the
   requested resource, the number of MBSFN subframes may be used.                  An
10 MME that receives        notification of the requested resource can use the
   notification as information for judgment used when the number of MBSFN
   subframes is configured.
   As a specific example of a judgment whether or not the base station requests
   a neighbor base station of the MBSFN subframe configuration and a method
15 of selecting a neighbor base station, the above described same methods used
   when a base station to which interference occurs as a problem requests the
   neighbor base station of the MBSFN subframe configuration can be applied.
   The MME       that receives     the request from the base      station to which
   interference occurs as a problem configures an MBSFN subframe for avoiding
20 inter-cell downlink interference.      The MME that configures the MBSFN
   subframe notifies neighbor cells of the configuration.
   [0386]   The MME may discriminate a base station that performs the
   MBSFN subframe configuration from a base station that performs only
   notification without performing the configuration.        The base station that
25 gives interference may perform an MBSFN subframe configuration, and the

                                         133
   base station that receives interference may perform only the notification of
   the MBSFN subframe configuration.
   Information representing whether or not the MBSFN subframe configuration
   is performed may be configured.      The MME may notify the base station of
 5 the information.    In this manner, the MME can discriminate a base station
   that causes the base station that performs a notification of an MBSFN
   subframe configuration to perform the MBSFN subframe configuration from
   other base stations.
   For example, the information representing whether or not the MBSFN
10 subframe configuration is performed is used as an indicator.      For example,
   when 1-bit information is "1", the MBSFN subframe may be configured.
   When the 1-bit information is "0", the MBSFN subframe need not be
   configured.   The base station that gives interference may be notified of an
   indicator set to "1", and the base station that receives interference may be
15 notified of an indicator set to "0".
   The base station that receives the MBSFN subframe configuration and
   information representing that MBSFN subframe configuration is performed
   from the MME configures an MBSFN subframe according to the MBSFN
   subframe configuration.     The base station notifies the user equipment being
20 served thereby of the configuration.       The base station that receives an
   MBSFN subframe configuration and information representing that the
   MBSFN subframe configuration is not performed, on the basis of the MBSFN
   subframe configuration, schedules a resource of an MBSFN subframe for
   uni-cast communication to a user equipment to which interference occurs as
25 a problem.     As the user equipment to which interference from the base

                                          134
   station occurs as a problem, a user equipment that performs notification of a
   measurement report representing        that reception quality from the base
   station exceeds a predetermined threshold value may be used.              In this
   manner, the interference from the base station can be avoided.
 5 [0387]   When a method disclosed in the embodiment is applied, inter-cell
   downlink avoidance using the MBSFN subframe by the MME can be more
   dynamically realized.
   [0388]   While   the  LTE    system    (E-UTRAN)     and   the   LTE    advanced
   (LTE-Advanced) have mainly been described in the present invention, the
10 present invention is applicable to the W-CDMA system (UTRAN, UMTS).
   [0389]   Throughout this specification and the claims which follow, unless the
   context requires otherwise, the word "comprise", and variations such as
   "comprises" and "comprising", will be understood to imply the inclusion of a
15 stated integer or step or group of integers or steps but not the exclusion of
   any other integer or step or group of integers or steps.
   [0390]   The reference to any prior art in this specification is not, and should
   not be taken as, an acknowledgement or any form of suggestion that the prior
   art forms part of the common general knowledge in Australia.

                                         135
                                       CLAIMS
   1.      A communication system including a mobile terminal, a base station
   and a neighboring base station around the base station,
 5         whereinthe base station is configured to transmit to the mobile
   terminal a neighboring base station information related to the neighboring
   base station,
           the base station is configured to transmit to the mobile terminal a
   resource for avoiding downlink interference, the resource having a CRS
10 transmission performed less frequently than normal, and
           the mobile terminal is configured to measure a resource transmitted
   by the neighboring base station corresponding to the resource for avoiding
   downlink interference      transmitted by the base     station, based on the
   neighboring base station information.
15
   2.      The communication system according to claim 1,
           whereinthe resource for avoiding downlink interference is configured
   by the base station itself.
20 3.      The communication system according to claim 1,
           wherein the base station is configured to inform the neighboring base
   station of a number of a subframe to be used as the resource for avoiding
   downlink interference.

                                         136
   4.       A base station used in a communication system including a mobile
   terminal, the base station and a neighboring base station around the base
   station,
            whereinthe base station is configured to transmit to the mobile
 5 terminal a neighboring base station information related to the neighboring
   base station, and
            the base station is configured to transmit to the mobile terminal a
   resource for avoiding downlink interference, the resource having a CRS
   transmission performed less frequently than normal.
10
   5.       The base station according to claim 4,
            wherein the base station is configured to set the resouece for
   avoiding downlink interference itself.
15 6.       The base station according to claim 4,
            wherein the base station is configured to inform the neighboring base
   station of a number of a subframe to be used as the resource for avoiding
   downlink interference.
20 7.       A mobile terminal used in a communication system including the
   mobile terminal, a base station and a neighboring base station around the
   base station,
            wherein the mobile terminal is configured to receive a neighboring
   base station information related to the neighboring base station, transmitted
25 by the base station, and

                                       137
          the mobile terminal is configured to measure a resource transmitted
  by the neighboring base station corresponding to a resource for avoiding
  downlink interference    transmitted by the base    station, based on the
  neighboring base station information.
5

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
