                                   ABSTRACT
My Kana uses an inventive technique developed for measuring the food
consumed - the Hand Measure Estimation (HME) technique. The HME
technique allows users to estimate food portion sizes relative to their fist, palm
or thumb size. Using fist, palm and thumb for estimating serving sizes is a World
Health Organisation (WHO) recommendation but this approach has never been
used in any mobile app or computer programme. Rather than putting focus on
inputting correct food weights and counting calories, My Kana places emphasis
on developing healthy eating habits for its users. The My Kana app was created
with a focus on eating healthy and providing opportunities to record and self
regulate food and water intake. Mainly targeted towards Pacific Islanders, the
My Kana app contains an in-built food database of locally consumed foods that
is accessible without requiring Internet access.

                                     APP DESIGN
                                                        Balanced Meal No
              "y                         My                  Breakfast 7:26 AM
                                        Plate                    Lunch 2:05 PM
                                                 '9
Healthy plate     Your intake                                   Dinner 8:30 PM
portions          portions
          Figure 1                                  Figure 2
                  <-          Add Food to Diary             ADD
                 Cassava, tuber, baked, earth-oven
                 MEASURE BY
                                               b     cup       grams
                 AMOUNT
                                        Figure 3

                                                 AUSTRALIA
                                              Patents Act 1990
                                        COMPLETE SPECIFICATION
                                           INNOVATION PATENT
         MY KANA - A MOBILE APP TO PROMOTE HEALTHY EATING IN THE SOUTH PACIFIC
The following statement is a full description of this invention, including the best method of performing it
Known to me.

                                          1
MY KANA - A MOBILE APP TO PROMOTE HEALTHY EATING IN THE SOUTH PACIFIC
BACKGROUND
The high rate of Non-Communicable Diseases (NCDs) in Fiji is attributed mainly
due to poor eating habits and lifestyle. Fiji is not the only Pacific Island Country to
face this NCD crisis. Marshall Islands and Tuvalu have about 73% of deaths caused
by NCD, after Fiji at 80%, closely followed by Samoa and Vanuatu at 70%. Dietary
risk factors pose the greatest risk factor for NCDs in the Pacific.
There are several calorie counter and diet tracker apps such as My Fitness Pal,
Samsung Health and My Plate Calorie Tracker which have proven to be effective.
However, all of these apps have the main focus of counting calories that requires
users to input weights (or size) of the food consumed. Furthermore, these
applications require an Internet connection to be fully functional.
South Pacific islanders live across many islands, and many live in remote areas
who are disadvantaged in their poor access to good health services and
professional medical advice. There is also a lack of Internet connectivity or the
exorbitant cost of using Internet means islanders cannot use existing apps to help
improve their health.
The majority of existing apps contains foods predominantly from western and
developed countries, and lack many local foods eaten in South Pacific countries.
This makes these apps somewhat inadequate for users in the South Pacific.

                                             2
SUMMARY OF INVENTION
The My Kana mobile app is designed to help South Pacific islanders, particularly
the people of Fiji, practise healthy eating and address the shortcomings of the
existing calorie counter/diet tracker apps. The app is designed to be fully
functional without requiring an Internet connection; thus enabling people in
remote areas to use it without difficulty. In addition, the My Kana app includes a
comprehensive food database sourced from the Pacific Islands Food Composition
Tables (http://www.fao.org/docrep/007/y5432e/y5432e00.htm)               and Fiji Shop
Survey 2010 (C-POND); offering foods that are relevant to people in the South
Pacific countries.
My Kana app is designed to allow users to focus on eating balanced meals and
correct portion sizes rather than worrying about weighing foods and counting
calories. Using standard household measures (such as a cup, glass, and bowl) or
serving sizes are not very effective estimation techniques since these measures
differ from community to community. Based on a pre-testing survey, the concept
of calories was not well understood in the Fiji population.
 My Kana groups the food consumed into the three main food groups and
compares it against the Healthy Plate requirement. Instead of requiring users to
record weights of the food consumed, My Kana enable users to estimate food
portion sizes using the size of their fist, palm or thumb. Using fist, palm and thumb
for   estimating   serving   sizes    is   a World     Health  Organisation     (WHO)
recommendation (http://iris.wpro.who.int/handle/10665.1/12923) but to date
this approach has never been used in any mobile app or computer programme.

                                          3
DESCRIPTION OF INVENTION
The My Kana mobile app is designed to help users, particularly the people from
Fiji, practise healthy eating and address the shortcomings of the existing calorie
counter/diet tracker apps.
My Kana app places emphasis on eating balanced meals and correct portion sizes
rather than worrying about weighing foods and counting calories. My Kana takes
the innovative approach of grouping a user's food consumption into the three
main food groups - Health, Body Building and Energy Giving - and comparing
against the Healthy Plate requirements (Figure 1). Each meal is visually
represented against the Healthy Plate, as well as the overall consumption for the
day (Figure 2). This feature allows users to add foods and visualise what his/her
eating patterns are; which meals are balanced or unbalanced and whether they
have eaten the required nutritional intake for the day.
 My Kana uses an inventive technique developed for measuring the food
consumed - the Hand Measure Estimation (HME) technique. The HME technique
allows users to estimate food portion sizes relative to their fist, palm
or thumb size (Figure 3). As users set up their profile on the My Kana app, they
are required to fill in their height, weight, gender and date of birth as in other
apps. In addition users are also requested to measure and record their fist
circumference and palm length (Figure 4). Recording of the fist circumference and
palm length are unique to the My Kana app and necessary forthe use of the HME
technique. A regression model is used to determine the fist volume from the
user's hand measure. A user's gender, height, weight, fist circumference and

                                          4
 palm length are used as predictors, which are passed into the model to compute
the corresponding fist volume. The app uses the best fit general linear regression
model that includes a polynomial model of the predictor fist circumference. The
fist volume is then translated into the estimated food volume from which the food
weight is computed. Similarly, when using the palm for estimation, a cylindrical
volume is used with the palm length acting as the diameter. For the thumb
measure, the WHO recommendation of 1 thumb tip is equivalent to 1 teaspoon
is used.
Currently, the hand measure estimation technique is available for selected food
items that have enough data to allow the regression model to determine the
corresponding food weight.
Typical workflow of using the My Kana app is shown in Figure 6. After installing
the app, a user will go over the introductory screens that briefly describe the
features of the app. The user proceeds to the User Profile setup screen where the
user fills in his/her personal details such as name, gender, date of birth, height,
weight and activity level. The user can also record their fist circumference and
palm length. Only after the profile setup is complete, the full features of the app
is available to the user.
Once fully set up, the Daily Overview screen (Figure 5) becomes the home screen
of the My Kana app providing users with their current daily food and water
intakes. It also provides users with the option for updating their food or water
intake.

 Editorial Note
   <removed-apn>
There is one page of claims only

The claims defining the invention are as follows:
1. An Android mobile app, named My Kana, uses an innovative Hand Measure
   Estimation (HME) technique which allows using a user's fist, palm and
   thumb as units of measure for estimating food portion sizes.
2. The mobile app as claimed in Claim 1 groups a user's daily food intake into
   the three main food groups - Health, Body Building and Energy Giving
   and represents these foods visually by comparing against the Healthy Plate
   requirements.
3. The mobile app as claimed in Claim 1 uses the user's fist circumference and
   palm length in addition to the user's gender, height and weight when
   computing food weights using the Hand Measure Estimation technique.
4. The mobile app as claimed in Claim 1 is designed to work without
   requiring an Internet connection, making it usable in remote areas and
   areas where Internet access is expensive.

<removed-date>
                         APP DESIGN
<removed-apn>    Figure 1                Figure 2
                           Figure 3

           <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
Figure 4

           <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
Figure 5

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
