  ABSTRACT
           Provided are an auction method and server that enable a seller and bidders to
  determine the price of a product at their own discretion by enabling the bidders to
5 participate in a bid between the lowest price offered by the seller and the highest
  price of the product, and give benefit to both the seller and successful bidders by
  applying the successful bid price of a lowest successful bidder to all the successful
  bidders as a sale price.

                           AUCTION METHOD AND SERVER
   Cross-Reference to Related Application
           The present application is a divisional application of Australian patent
   application No. <removed-apn>, which is a divisional application of Australian patent
 5 application 2012309349, the contents of which are incorporated herein by way of
   reference.    This application claims priority to and the benefit of Korean Patent
   Application No. 10-2011-0023867, filed on March 17, 2011, the disclosure of which
   is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.
   Technical Field
10          The present invention relates to an auction method and server, and more
   particularly, to an auction method and server that enable a seller and bidders to
   determine a price at their own discretion and thereby give benefit to both the seller
   and successful bidders.
   Background of the Invention
15          In social commerce, products are on sale at approximately half the price for
   one day, and a deal is made only when the minimum quantity of the products that a
   company has determined in advance are sold.          Social commerce is also referred to
   as social shopping.       In social commerce, consumers voluntarily spread the
   corresponding information using a social network service (SNS), such as Twitter or
20 Facebook, to satisfy the minimum number of purchases.           In this way, purchasers
   can have the benefit of a discount, and a seller can have wholesale and promotion
   effects simultaneously.
            Advertisers who make contracts with social commerce companies and sell
   their products at approximately half the price expect customers to revisit through the
25 promotion effect.    However, the expectation is not always satisfied.      Due to the
   over-issue of coupons and excessively discounted prices, advertisers become unable
   to provide customers with service of a predetermined quality or more.              Then,
   coupon customers are treated with discrimination in aspects of quantity, quality, and
   service in comparison with general customers, and the advertisers cannot deal well
30 with customers and may close down their shops.           As a result, coupon customers
   frequently have complaints about service, and the corresponding shop frequently
                                               1

   suffers a loss because customers do not revisit the shop.            This is because, in
   particular, social commerce companies do not guarantee appropriate prices for
   products at which advertisers can stably provide customers with service.
            Consequently, an auction system that enables a seller (i.e., advertiser) and
 5 bidders to determine an appropriate price at their own discretion and thereby give
   benefit to all of the seller (i.e., advertiser), a bidder and a service company, is
   required.
   Summary of the Invention
         Aspects of the present invention are directed to an auction method and server
10 that enable a seller and bidders to determine the price of a product at their own
   discretion by enabling the bidders to participate in a bid between the lowest price
   offered by the seller and the highest price of the product, and give benefit to both the
   seller and successful bidders by applying the successful bid price of a lowest
   successful bidder to all the successful bidders as a sale price.
15          According to an aspect of the present invention, there is provided a method
   for conducting auctions over a network, the method comprising: providing, by the
   processor, upper and lower limits of a bidding price range for a specific product and
   a number of available products for the specific product to terminals of bidders being
   connected to the network; receiving, by the processor, bidding information including
20 bidding prices for each product from the terminals of bidders, the received bidding
   prices being within the bidding price range, the terminals of the bidders being
   connected to the network; terminating, by the processor, bidding when a
   predetermined bidding time is elapsed; selecting, by the processor, a group of
   winning bidders such that the winning bidders are selected from the bidders in
25 descending order of the bidding prices and a total number of products bid by the
   winning bidders is equal to the number of available products; applying, by the
   processor, a lowest bidding price among bidding prices of the selected winning
   bidders as a final sale price to all of the winning bidders; requesting, by the processor,
   payment from the winning bidders at the final sale price; settling, by the processor,
30 an auction commission for the seller of the specific product based on an amount
   calculated by subtracting the lower limit of the bidding price range from the final
   sale price; providing, by the processor, each winning bidder with savings information
                                                 2

   calculated by subtracting the final sale price from a bidding price of each winning
   bidder; and controlling, by the processor, bidding prices out of the range between the
   upper limit and the lower limit not to be input.
            According to another aspect of the present invention, there is provided an
 5 auction server for conducting auctions over a network, the auction server comprising:
   a receiver configured to receive bidding information including bidding prices for
   each product from the terminals of bidders, the received bidding prices being within
   the bidding price range, the receiver and the terminals of the bidders being connected
   to the network; a selector configured to select a group of winning bidders such that
10 the winning bidders are selected from the bidders in descending order of the bidding
   prices and a total number of products bid by the winning bidders is equal to the
   number of available products, wherein bidding is terminated when a predetermined
   bidding time is elapsed; a payment requester configured to apply a lowest bidding
   price among bidding prices of the selected winning bidders as a final sale price to all
15 of the winning bidders and to request the payment from the winning bidders at the
   final sale price, the terminals of the winning bidders being connected to the network;
   a settlement unit configured to settle an auction commission for the seller of the
   specific product based on an amount calculated by subtracting the lower limit of the
   bidding price range from the final sale price; and a controller configured to control
20 the storage, the receiver, the selector, and the payment requester, the settlement unit,
   wherein the controller provides upper and lower limits of a bidding price range for
   the specific product and a number of available products for the specific product to
   terminals of bidders being connected to the network and controls bidding prices out
   of the range between the upper limit and the lower limit not to be input, wherein the
25 controller provides each winning bidder with savings information calculated by
   subtracting the final sale price from a bidding price of each winning bidder.
   Brief Description of Drawings
            FIG. 1 is a diagram for describing an auction system according to an
   exemplary embodiment of the present invention;
30          FIG. 2 is a block diagram of an auction server according to an exemplary
   embodiment of the present invention;
                                               3

            FIG. 3 is a flowchart illustrating an auction method according to an
   exemplary embodiment of the present invention;
            FIG. 4 illustrates a first exemplary embodiment of the present invention;
            FIG. 5 illustrates a second exemplary embodiment of the present invention;
 5 and
            FIG. 6 illustrates a third exemplary embodiment of the present invention.
   Detailed Description of Exemplary Embodiments
            Exemplary embodiments of the present invention will be described in detail
   below with reference to the accompanying drawings. While the present invention is
10 shown and described in connection with exemplary embodiments thereof, it will be
   apparent to those skilled in the art that various modifications can be made without
   departing from the scope of the invention.
            FIG. 1 is a diagram for describing an auction system related to an exemplary
   embodiment of the present invention.
15          As illustrated in FIG. 1, in an auction system according to an exemplary
   embodiment of the present invention, a seller can offer the lowest price of a product
   to sell.  Throughout the specification, the lowest price denotes the minimum price at
   which the seller can guarantee stable service (i.e., stable quantity and quality of a
   product) for his/her product.
20          In an exemplary embodiment of the present invention, bidders participate in
   a bid between the highest price and the lowest price of the specific product.
   Throughout the specification, the highest price denotes the maximum price at which
   a bid for a specific product can be made.        The highest price may include a normal
   price of the specific product.      Also, the highest price may be a price calculated by
25 discounting the normal price of the specific product by a predetermined rate.        The
   highest price can be determined by an auction server or the seller.
            In an exemplary embodiment of the present invention, a lowest successful
   bidder satisfying a specific auction condition can be selected from among the bidders.
   Throughout the specification, the lowest successful bidder denotes a successful
30 bidder who has made a successful bid at the lowest bid price among a plurality of
   successful bidders satisfying the specific auction condition.     For example, assuming
   that there are 50 successful bidders, when the highest bid price is 500 thousand won
                                                 4

   and the lowest bid price is 300 thousand won among bid prices offered by the
   successful bidders, a successful bidder who has made a successful bid at a bid price
   of 300 thousand won is the lowest successful bidder.
            In an exemplary embodiment of the present invention, the lowest successful
 5 bidder may be one person, or may be a plurality of persons when many persons have
   offered the same bid price.
            In an exemplary embodiment of the present invention, the successful bid
   price of the lowest successful bidder may be applied to all successful bidders as a
   sale price.    In other words, the successful bidders can purchase the product at a
10 lower price than their bid prices.
            An amount calculated by subtracting the lowest price from the successful bid
   price (i.e., the sale price) of the lowest successful bidder may be a surplus profit.
   Since a seller can stably provide his/her service as long as the lowest price is
   guaranteed, a surplus profit is obtained when a sale price is set to be higher than the
15 lowest price.     In this case, all or a part of the surplus profit may be an auction
   commission according to an exemplary embodiment of the present invention.            In
   other words, in an exemplary embodiment of the present invention, sellers do not
   need to additionally pay an auction commission at their lowest prices.        Thus, the
   sellers are ensured to have as much basic earning as the lowest price, and can provide
20 stable service to customers.
            Hereinafter, auction server and method which may give benefit to both the
   seller and successful bidders will not be described in further detail with reference to
   FIGS. 2 and 3.
            FIG. 2 is a block diagram of an auction server according to an exemplary
25 embodiment of the present invention.
            As shown in FIG. 2, an auction server 100 may include a storage 110, a
   receiver 120, a selector 130, a payment requester 140, a settlement unit 150, and a
   controller 160.     However, all the shown components are not essential components.
   The auction server 100 may be implemented by a larger or smaller number of
30 components than the shown components.
            The storage 110 may maintain a database of the highest price of a specific
   product, the lowest price offered by a seller, and other auction conditions.
   According to a first exemplary embodiment of the present invention, the auction
                                                5

   conditions may include the limited number of successful products and the limited
   number of successful bidders.      Throughout the specification, the limited number of
   successful bidders denotes the limited number of persons who can be successful
   bidders among bidders. For example, when the limited number of successful bidders
 5 is 50, only 50 persons can be successful bidders even when there are 100 bidders.
   Also, throughout the specification, the limited number of successful bidding products
   denotes the limited number of products that can be successful bidding products
   among bidding products. For example, when the limited number of successful
   bidding products is 50, only 50 products can be successful bidding products
10 regardless of a number of bidders.
            According to a second exemplary embodiment of the present invention, the
   auction conditions may include a successful bid rate.      Throughout the specification,
   the successful bid rate denotes a ratio of the number of persons who can be
   successful bidders to all bidders.    For example, when a successful bid rate is 50%
15 and the total number of bidders is 100, only 50 bidders, that is, 50% of the 100
   bidders, can be successful bidders.
            According to a third exemplary embodiment of the present invention, the
   auction conditions may include the maximum number of bidders, the limited number
   of successful bidding products and the limited number of successful bidders.
20 Throughout the specification, the maximum number of bidders denotes the maximum
   number of persons who can participate in a bid.        For example, when the maximum
   number of bidders is 100 and the number of bidders becomes 100, no more persons
   can participate in the bid, and the auction is closed.
            In an exemplary embodiment of the present invention, the receiver 120
25 receives bidding information including bid prices from bidders.            The bidding
   information may include the bid prices, the quantity of the product, bidder
   information, product information, and so on.         The bidders may offer bid prices
   between the lowest price offered by the seller and the highest price of the specific
   product.    In an exemplary embodiment of the present invention, the bidders may
30 access the auction server 100 using their terminals and thereby offer their bid prices.
            In an exemplary embodiment of the present invention, the selector 130 may
   select a lowest successful bidder among the bidders.        The selector 130 may select
   the lowest successful bidder when a predetermined bidding time elapses, or may
                                                6

   finish the auction and select the lowest successful bidder when the number of bidders
   becomes the maximum number of bidders.
            In an exemplary embodiment of the present invention, the selector 130 may
   select the lowest successful bidder in consideration of the limited number of
 5 successful bidders (or the limited number of successful bidding products) and the
   bidding information.        Also, in another exemplary embodiment of the present
   invention, the selector 130 may select the lowest successful bidder among the bidders
   in consideration of the successful bid rate and the bidding information.
            Meanwhile, when a plurality of successful bidders have offered the same bid
10 price, the selector 130 may select the lowest successful bidder in further
   consideration of bidding time in an exemplary embodiment of the present invention.
   In other words, when a plurality of successful bidders have offered the lowest bid
   price, the selector 130 may select the lowest successful bidder on a first-come-first
   serve basis.    In this case, the lowest successful bidder may be one or more persons.
15          In an exemplary embodiment of the present invention, the payment requester
    140 may request payment from all successful bidders using the successful bid price
   of the lowest successful bidder as a sale price on the basis of bidding information
   about the lowest successful bidder. In this case, the payment requester 140 may
   make a payment request to terminals of the successful bidders.       The terminals may
20 be implemented in various forms.        The terminals may be mobile terminals as well
   as fixed terminals.      For example, the terminals may be a computer, laptop, tablet
   personal computer (PC), cellular phone, smartphone, personal digital assistant (PDA),
   portable multimedia player (PMP), navigator, e-book terminal, and so on.
            Meanwhile, when the successful bidders have paid their bid prices, the
25 payment requester 140 may settle amounts calculated by subtracting the successful
   bid price of the lowest successful bidder from the previously paid bid prices.
            In an exemplary embodiment of the present invention, the settlement unit
    150 may settle an auction commission for the seller on the basis of an amount
   calculated by subtracting the lowest price from the successful bid price of the lowest
30 successful bidder.      The auction commission denotes a predetermined commission
   that the seller needs to pay the auction server 100 (or an auction server management
   company) when the seller puts his/her product for auction through the auction server
    100.   The auction commission may be an advertising fee.             In an exemplary
                                                7

   embodiment of the present invention, the auction commission may be all or a part of
   the amount calculated by subtracting the lowest price from the successful bid price
   (i.e., a common sale price) of the lowest successful bidder.
             The controller 160 controls the storage 110, the receiver 120, the selector
 5  130, the payment requester 140, and the settlement unit 150 overall.           Also, the
   controller 160 may provide a predetermined benefit to the lowest successful bidder.
   The predetermined benefit may be a free product, reserved points, a discount, an
   award (e.g., a specific cyber status), and so on.
             In an exemplary embodiment of the present invention, the controller 160
10 may provide the successful bidders with information about profits calculated by
   subtracting the sale price from the bid prices of the successful bidders.      The profit
   information may include information about profits that the successful bidders
   substantially obtain with respect to their bid prices when the successful bid price of
   the lowest successful bidder is applied to all the successful bidders as the sale price.
15           Meanwhile, the controller 160 may provide bidders with information, such
   as an average bid price, bid rankings, and the total number of bidders, in real time.
   When a bidder becomes the lowest successful bidder, the bidder can be provided
   with the predetermined benefit.      Also, a bidder needs to satisfy a predetermined
   auction condition to be a successful bidder. Thus, the information about the average
20 bid price, the bid rankings, the total number of bidders, etc. may be very useful to
   bidders.
             The controller 160 may provide the information about the average bid price,
   the bid rankings, and the total number of bidders to a specific bidder only.          The
   specific bidder may be a paid member who has purchased an item, etc.
25           Meanwhile, when a bidder offers a bid price out of the range between the
   lowest price and the highest price, the controller 160 may automatically exclude the
   bidder in an exemplary embodiment of the present invention.       In another exemplary
   embodiment of the present invention, the controller 160 may control bid prices out of
   the range between the lowest price and the highest price not to be input.
30           An auction method that gives benefit to both a seller and successful bidders
   using the constitution of the auction server 100 will be described in detail below with
   reference to FIG. 3.
                                                8

            FIG. 3 is a flowchart illustrating an auction method related to an exemplary
   embodiment of the present invention.
            As illustrated in FIG. 3, in an exemplary embodiment of the present
   invention, the auction server 100 may maintain a database of the highest price of a
 5 specific product, the lowest price offered by a seller, and other auction conditions
   (S310).    The auction conditions may include the limited number of successful
   bidders, the limited number of successful bidding products, a successful bid rate, the
   maximum number of bidders, and so on.
            The specific product is a product put up for auction, including an intangible
10 product as well as a tangible product.     For example, the specific product may be a
   group-purchasing product sold at a social commerce site, a keyword used for search
   advertising, a service product such as massage and skin care, and so on.
            In an exemplary embodiment of the present invention, the auction server 100
   may receive bidding information including bid prices of the specific product between
15 the lowest price and the highest price from bidders (S320).         In other words, the
   bidders offer bid prices that they want in consideration of the lowest price, the
   highest price, and the other auction conditions (e.g., the limited number of successful
   bidders, the limited number of successful bidding products, the successful bid rate,
   the maximum number of bidders, etc.).
20          In an exemplary embodiment of the present invention, the auction server 100
   may select a lowest successful bidder among the bidders (S330).              The lowest
   successful bidder may be selected in various ways.              In the first exemplary
   embodiment of the present invention, when a predetermined bidding time elapses,
   the auction server 100 may select the lowest successful bidder from among the
25 bidders in consideration of the limited number of successful bidders (or the limited
   number of successful bidding products) and the bidding information.         For example,
   when the limited number of successful bidders is 500 and 700 persons have
   participated in the bid during the predetermined bidding time, 500 bidders can be
   successful bidders in decreasing order of bid price.     At this time, the auction server
30  100 may select a 500th successful bidder as the lowest successful bidder.
            In the second exemplary embodiment of the present invention, when the
   predetermined bidding time elapses, the auction server 100 may select the lowest
   successful bidder in consideration of the successful bid rate and the bidding
                                               9

   information.    For example, when the successful bid rate is 60% and 1000 persons
   have participated in the bid during the predetermined bidding time, 600 bidders
   (1000 persons x 0.6) can be successful bidders in decreasing order of bid price.         At
   this time, the auction server 100 may select a 600th successful bidder as the lowest
 5 successful bidder.
            In the third exemplary embodiment of the present invention, when the
   number of bidders becomes the maximum number of bidders, the auction server 100
   may end the bidding and select the lowest successful bidder from among the bidders
   in consideration of the limited number of successful bidders (or the limited number
10 of successful bidding products) and the bidding information.           For example, when
   the maximum number of bidders is 1000 and the number of bidders becomes 1000,
   the auction server 100 may end the bidding and select the lowest successful bidder.
   When the limited number of successful bidders is 600, 600 bidders can be successful
   bidders in decreasing order of bid price at the point in time when the bidding ends.
15 At this time, the auction server 100 may select a  6 0 0 th successful bidder as the lowest
   successful bidder.
            In an exemplary embodiment of the present invention, the auction server 100
   may request payment from all successful bidders using the successful bid price of the
   lowest successful bidder as a sale price on the basis of bidding information about the
20 lowest successful bidder (S340).     In other words, the lowest successful bid price can
   be applied to the plurality of successful bidders as a common sale price.       Thus, in an
   exemplary embodiment of the present invention, the successful bidders can purchase
   the product at a lower price than those that they have proposed during the bidding.
            Meanwhile, when the successful bidders have previously paid their bid
25 prices, the auction server 100 may settle amounts calculated by subtracting the
   successful bid price of the lowest successful bidder from the previously paid bid
   prices.
            In an exemplary embodiment of the present invention, the successful bid
   price of the lowest successful bidder is determined by bid prices of the bidders, the
30 limited number of successful bidders, the limited number of successful bidding
   products, the successful bid rate, etc., and thus can aid the seller and the bidders in
   forming the sale price of the product.
                                               10

             Unlike a general auction having only one successful bidder, there can be a
   plurality of successful bidders in an exemplary embodiment of the present invention.
   Thus, many persons can benefit from their successful bids.
             In an exemplary embodiment of the present invention, the auction server 100
 5 may provide a predetermined benefit to the lowest successful bidder (S350).        For
   example, the auction server 100 may request payment from a bidder selected as the
   lowest successful bidder at a sale price of 0 won.   Also, the auction server 100 may
   accumulate specific points for the lowest successful bidder to participate in a bid.
   Alternatively, the auction server 100 may request payment from the lowest
10 successful bidder at a price calculated by discounting the successful bid price of the
   lowest successful bidder by a predetermined rate.            For example, when the
   successful bid price of the lowest successful bidder is 50 thousand won, the auction
   server 100 may request payment from the lowest successful bidder at a sale price of
   25 thousand won discounted by 50% while requesting payment from other successful
15 bidders at a sale price of 50 thousand won.
             Consequently, to obtain such a benefit, bidders may offer bid prices in
   consideration of a bid price whereby they can be selected as the lowest successful
   bidder during the bidding in an exemplary embodiment of the present invention, so
   that the bidders' interest can be piqued.
20           Meanwhile, in an exemplary embodiment of the present invention, several
   persons may have offered the lowest bid price among successful bidders.         In this
   case, in an exemplary embodiment of the present invention, the auction server 100
   may select a lowest successful bidder who can obtain the predetermined benefit on a
   first-come-first-serve basis.     For example, when 500 bidders become successful
25 bidders, 10 of the successful bidders may have offered the lowest successful bid price
   of 30 thousand won.       At this time, the auction server 100 may select the lowest
   successful bidder in further consideration of bidding time (i.e., on the first-come
   first-serve basis).  When A has participated in the bid first among the 10 successful
   bidders who have offered the lowest successful bid price of 30 thousand won, the
30 auction server 100 may provide the predetermined benefit to A.       Also, the auction
   server 100 may request payment from the other nine persons at a sale price of 30
   thousand won without a specific benefit.
                                              11

             In an exemplary embodiment of the present invention, lowest successful
   bidders who can obtain the benefit may be limited to a specific number.              For
   example, when the number of lowest successful bidders is limited to three, the
   auction server 100 may select three persons as the lowest successful bidders from
 5 among successful bidders who have offered the lowest bid price on the first-come
   first-serve basis and provide the predetermined benefit to the three lowest successful
   bidders.
             In an exemplary embodiment of the present invention, the auction server 100
   may settle an auction commission for the seller on the basis of an amount calculated
10 by subtracting the lowest price from the successful bid price (i.e., the sale price) of
   the lowest successful bidder (S360).      For example, when the highest price of the
   specific product is 50 thousand won, the lowest price offered by the seller is 20
   thousand won, and the successful bid price of the lowest successful bidder is 25
   thousand won, the auction server 100 may settle the auction commission on the basis
15 of 5 thousand won calculated by subtracting the lowest price of 20 thousand won
   from the successful bid price of 25 thousand won of the lowest successful bidder.
             Here, the auction server 100 may settle all or only a part of the amount
   calculated by subtracting the lowest price from the successful bid price (i.e., the sale
   price) of the lowest successful bidder as the auction commission.       When there are
20 500 successful bidders, the auction server 100 may settle all of 2.5 million won
   (500x5 thousand won) as the auction commission.        Alternatively, the auction server
    100 may settle 80% of the 2.5 million won (2 million won) as the auction
   commission and give 20% (500 thousand won) back to the seller.
             Thus, in an exemplary embodiment of the present invention, the seller may
25 determine the lowest price without considering the auction commission, etc.           In
   other words, the seller only considers whether quality of the specific product can be
   guaranteed by the lowest price, and thus can provide a stable service to successful
   bidders.    Thus, the seller can receive a favorable evaluation of the product from the
   successful bidders, and may also be able to induce repurchasing and revisiting of the
30 successful bidders.    Meanwhile, the successful bidders can also be ensured to have
   the product of good quality, and it is possible to prevent bad situations.  As a result,
   the reliability of the seller and the auction server 100 can be improved in an
   exemplary embodiment of the present invention.
                                               12

            Also, in an exemplary embodiment of the present invention, the lowest price
   does not include the auction commission, and the seller can offer a relatively low
   price as the lowest price.     Thus, bidders can participate in the bid with relatively
   low prices, and successful bidders also can purchase the product of good quality at a
 5 relatively low price.
            In an exemplary embodiment of the present invention, the auction server 100
   may provide information about profits obtained by subtracting the sale price from the
   bid prices of the successful bidders to the successful bidders (S370).         Since the
   successful bid price of the lowest successful bidder becomes the sale price, the sale
10 price is generally lower than the bid prices of the successful bidders.       Thus, the
   auction server 100 provides information about differences between the bid prices and
   the sale price for which payment requests are made to the successful bidders, thereby
   increasing advertising effects on the seller and the auction server 100.
            FIG. 4 illustrates the first exemplary embodiment of the present invention.
15          As illustrated in FIG. 4, in an exemplary embodiment of the present
   invention, a seller may want to sell cellular phones by auction.    Here, the seller may
   offer the limited number of successful bidders (or the limited number of successful
   bidding products) and the lowest price in consideration of quality of the product, the
   capability of supplying the product, and so on.       When the seller sets the limited
20 number of successful bidders to 100 and offers the lowest price of 300 thousand won
   for a cellular phone whose highest price is 700 thousand won, bidders participate in
   the bid between the lowest price of 300 thousand won and the highest price of 700
   thousand won. Also, the seller may set the limited number of successful bidding
   products to 100 instead of the limited number of successful bidders.
25          When a predetermined bidding time elapses, the auction server 100 selects a
   lowest successful bidder on the basis of the limited number of successful bidders (or
   the limited number of successful bidding products) and bidding information.         Since
   the limited number of successful bidders is 100 (or since the limited number of
   successful bidding products is 100), the auction server 100 selects 100 successful
30 bidders (or 100 successful bidding products) in decreasing order of bid price. Then,
   the auction server 100 selects a successful bidder (ID: angel) who has offered the
   lowest bid price among the 100 successful bidders (or the 100 successful bidding
   products) as the lowest successful bidder, and determines 370 thousand won which is
                                                13

   the successful bid price of the lowest successful bidder (ID: angel) as a sale price for
   all the successful bidders.     Thus, the successful bidders can purchase the cellular
   phones at the lower price than their bid prices.
            Meanwhile, the auction server 100 may further provide an additional benefit
 5 to the lowest successful bidder. For example, the lowest successful bidder (ID:
   angel) is enabled to purchase the cellular phone for free or at a discount price of 200
   thousand won, or obtains reserved points.
            Thus, while participating in the bid, each bidder may consider a bid price
   whereby he/she can be one of the successful bidders and the lowest successful bidder,
10 so that the bidders' interest can be piqued.
            Meanwhile, the auction server 100 may provide profit information to the
   successful bidders.    For example, a successful bidder (ID: banana) who has offered
   the highest bid price earns a profit of 320 thousand won because the sale price is 370
   thousand won while his/her bid price is 690 thousand won.      Thus, the auction server
15  100 may provide profit information such as "Cellular phone A: You have
   successfully bid at 370 thousand won. The profit is 320 thousand won. Do you want
   to make a payment?" to the terminal of the successful bidder (ID: banana).
            In the first exemplary embodiment of the present invention, the 101" and
   following bidders exceeding the limited number of successful bidders of 100( or the
20 limited number of successful bidding products of 100) have not become the
   successful bidders and cannot purchase the cellular phone.
            Meanwhile, in the first exemplary embodiment of the present invention, the
   auction server 100 may provide information about a bidding time in which a bid can
   be made (e.g., 00:03:05) to the bidders.
25          Also, the auction server 100 settles an auction commission for the seller on
   the basis of an amount calculated by subtracting the lowest price of 300 thousand
   won offered by the seller from the successful bid price of 370 thousand won of the
   lowest successful bidder {100 personsx(370 thousand won-300 thousand won)           =  7
   million won}.
30          Meanwhile, when the number of bidders does not become the limited
   number of successful bidders (or the limited number of successful bidding products)
   during the predetermined bidding time, all the bidders may become successful
   bidders in an exemplary embodiment of the present invention, or the auction may be
                                                14

   cancelled and there may be no successful bidder in another exemplary embodiment
   of the present invention.
            FIG. 5 illustrates the second exemplary embodiment of the present invention.
            As illustrated in FIG. 5, the auction method may also be used in social
 5 commerce, etc. according to an exemplary embodiment of the present invention.
   For example, ABC restaurant, that is, a seller, may sell steaks and wine through a
   social commerce site in a group purchasing scheme.          Here, the seller may offer a
   successful bid rate and the lowest price in consideration of quality of the product, the
   capability of supplying the product, and so on.     When the seller sets a successful bid
10 rate to 70% and offers the lowest price of 20 thousand won for a steak and wine
   whose highest price is 50 thousand won, bidders participate in the bid between the
   lowest price of 20 thousand won and the highest price of 50 thousand won.
            In other words, while a social commerce company offers a specific sale price
   and purchasers merely determine whether or not to purchase the corresponding
15 product in general social commerce, the seller and purchasers directly contribute to
   forming of the sale price of the product in an exemplary embodiment of the present
   invention.    Thus, in an exemplary embodiment of the present invention, a price
   satisfying both a seller and purchasers can be formed while quality of the
   corresponding product is guaranteed.
20          When a predetermined bidding time elapses, the auction server 100 selects a
   lowest successful bidder on the basis of the successful bid rate and bidding
   information.     Since the successful bid rate is 70%, 70% of bidders having
   participated in the bid can be successful bidders in decreasing order of bid price.    At
   this time, the auction server 100 may select a successful bidder (ID: angel)
25 corresponding to 70% as the lowest successful bidder, and determine 27 thousand
   won, which is the successful bid price of the lowest successful bidder (ID: angel), as
   a sale price for all the successful bidders.   Thus, the successful bidders can purchase
   a coupon (i.e., the steak and wine) at the lower price than their bid prices.
            Meanwhile, the auction server 100 may further provide an additional benefit
30 to the lowest successful bidder. For example, the lowest successful bidder (ID:
   angel) is enabled to purchase the coupon for free or at a discount price of 10
   thousand won, or obtains reserved points.
                                                15

            Meanwhile, the auction server 100 may provide profit information to the
   successful bidders.     For example, a successful bidder (ID: banana) who has offered
   the highest bid price earns a profit of 22 thousand won because the sale price is 27
   thousand won while his/her bid price is 49 thousand won.         Thus, the auction server
 5  100 may provide profit information such as "ABC restaurant coupon (steak + wine):
   Auctioned off at 27 thousand won!!/ Profit 22 thousand won/ Do you want to make a
   payment?" to the terminal of the successful bidder (ID: banana).
            In the second exemplary embodiment of the present invention, 30% of the
   bidders exceeding the successful bid rate of 70% have not become successful bidders
10 and cannot purchase the coupon.        Meanwhile, in the first exemplary embodiment of
   the present invention, the auction server 100 may provide information about bidding
   time in which a bid can be made (e.g., 00:10:50) to the bidders.
            Also, the auction server 100 settles an auction commission for the seller on
   the basis of an amount calculated by subtracting the lowest price of 20 thousand won
15 offered by the seller from the successful bid price of 27 thousand won of the lowest
   successful bidder.      At this time, in an exemplary embodiment of the present
   invention, the auction server 100 may settle only a portion of the amount calculated
   by subtracting the lowest price from the successful bid price of the lowest successful
   bidder as the auction commission and give the rest of the amount back to ABC
20 restaurant.   In this case, ABC restaurant may take the rest of the amount in addition
   to the 20 thousand won at which a stable service can be basically provided to the
   successful bidders and provides the corresponding service, so that quality of the
   product (service) can be improved.
            FIG. 6 illustrates the third exemplary embodiment of the present invention.
25          As illustrated in FIG. 6, the auction method may also be used in advertising
   bidding, etc. according to an exemplary embodiment of the present invention.          For
   example, a search advertising provider (e.g., a portal site) may sell a specific
   keyword by tender.       Here, the search advertising provider may offer the limited
   number of successful bidders (or the limited number of successful bidding products)
30 and the lowest price in consideration of quality of service, the number of
   advertisements that can be provided per keyword, and so on.         For example, in the
   case of a keyword advertisement provided on a cost per click (CPC; a scheme in
   which an advertiser pays for his/her advertisement only when a user clicks the
                                               16

   advertisement and is directed to a website of the advertiser) basis, when the seller
   sets the limited number of successful bidders to 10 (or the seller may set the limited
   number of successful bidding products to 10) and offers the lowest price of 300 won
   for keyword A and keyword B whose highest price is 2 thousand won, bidders
 5 participate in the bid between the lowest price of 300 won and the highest price of 2
   thousand won.
            In the third exemplary embodiment of the present invention, the maximum
   number of bidders may be set by at least one of the seller and the auction server 100.
   When the number of bidders becomes the maximum number of bidders, the bidding
10 ends.   For example, when the maximum number of bidders is 50 and the number of
   bidders becomes 50, the bidding ends and no more persons can participate in the bid.
            In the third exemplary embodiment of the present invention, when the
   number of bidders becomes 50, the auction server 100 selects a lowest successful
   bidder on the basis of the limited number of successful bidders (or the limited
15 number of successful bidding products) and bidding information.       Since the limited
   number of successful bidders is 10 (or since the limited number of successful bidding
   products is 10), the auction server 100 selects 10 bidders as successful bidders (or 10
   bidding products as successful bidding products) in decreasing order of bid price.
   The auction server 100 selects a successful bidder (ID: angel) who has offered the
20 lowest bid price among the 10 successful bidders (or the 10 successful bidding
   products) as the lowest successful bidder, and determines 500 won, which is the
   successful bid price of the lowest successful bidder (ID: angel), as a sale price for all
   the successful bidders.       Thus, the successful bidders can perform keyword
   advertising at a lower price than their bid prices.
25          Meanwhile, the auction server 100 may further provide an additional benefit
   to the lowest successful bidder. For example, the lowest successful bidder (ID:
   angel) is enabled to purchase the keywords for free, perform keyword advertising at
   a discount price of 200 won, or obtain reserved points.
            Meanwhile, the auction server 100 may provide profit information to the
30 successful bidders.    For example, a successful bidder (ID: banana) who has offered
   the highest bid price earns a profit of 1300 won per click because the sale price is
   500 won while his/her bid price is 1800 won.        Thus, the auction server 100 may
   provide profit information such as "keyword A + keyword B: Auctioned off at 500
                                               17

   won/Profit 1300 won/Make payment?" to the terminal of the successful bidder (ID:
   banana).
            In the third exemplary embodiment of the present invention, the auction
   server 100 may provide information about the current number of bidders (e.g.,
 5 Current number of bidders: 40) to the bidders.      This is to aid a bidder in recognizing
   a bid status and participating in the bid at an appropriate timing because the bidding
   may end when the number of bidders becomes the maximum number of bidders.
            Also, the auction server 100 settles an auction commission for the seller on
   the basis of an amount calculated by subtracting the lowest price of 300 won offered
10 by the seller from the successful bid price of 500 won of the lowest successful bidder.
   Meanwhile, in an exemplary embodiment of the present invention, the auction server
    100 may provide information about bid prices according to bid rankings, an average
   bid price, the number of bidders, etc. to a paid member who has purchased an item,
   etc.
15          The above-described method according to an exemplary embodiment of the
   present invention can also be embodied as computer-readable codes on a computer
   readable recording medium.      The computer-readable recording medium includes all
   kinds of recording devices configured to store data which can be read by computer
   systems.    Examples of computer-readable recording media include a read-only
20 memory     (ROM), random-access        memory     (RAM), compact disc (CD)-ROM,
   magnetic tape, floppy disk, optical data storage, etc. and also include an
   implementation in carrier waves (e.g., transmission over the Internet).
            In an exemplary embodiment of the present invention, a seller is enabled to
   offer the lowest price of a product, so that service for the product can be guaranteed.
25          Also, in an exemplary embodiment of the present invention, bidders can
   participate in a bid between the lowest price offered by a seller and the highest price
   of a product, and thus can purchase the product at a lower price than the highest price.
            Meanwhile, in an exemplary embodiment of the present invention, a lowest
   successful bidder is selected from among bidders according to an auction condition,
30 and the successful bid price of the lowest successful bidder is applied to all
   successful bidders as a sale price.     Thus, the successful bidders can purchase the
   product at a lower price than their bid prices, and it is possible to pique customers'
                                               18

   interest. Also, since there is not one successful bidder but a plurality of successful
   bidders, many bidders benefit from a discount.
            It will be apparent to those skilled in the art that various modifications can be
   made to the above-described exemplary embodiments of the present invention
 5 without departing from the scope of the invention.           Thus, it is intended that the
   present invention covers all such modifications provided they come within the scope
   of the appended claims and their equivalents.
         Throughout the description and claims of this specification, the word
   "comprise" and variations of the word, such as "comprising" and "comprises", is not
10 intended to exclude other additives, components, integers or steps.
         The discussion of documents, acts, materials, devices, articles and the like is
   included in this specification solely for the purpose of providing a context for the
   present invention.    It is not suggested or represented that any or all of these matters
   formed part of the prior art base or were common general knowledge in the field
15 relevant to the present invention as it existed before the priority date of each claim of
   this application.
                                                19

   The claims defining the invention are as follows:
            1.      A method for conducting auctions over a network, the method
   comprising:
 5          providing, by the processor, upper and lower limits of a bidding price range
   for a specific product and a number of available products for the specific product to
   terminals of bidders being connected to the network;
            receiving, by the processor, bidding information including bidding prices for
   each product from the terminals of bidders, the received bidding prices being within
10 the bidding price range, the terminals of the bidders being connected to the network;
            terminating, by the processor, bidding when a predetermined bidding time is
   elapsed;
            selecting, by the processor, a group of winning bidders such that the winning
   bidders are selected from the bidders in descending order of the bidding prices and a
15 total number of products bid by the winning bidders is equal to the number of
   available products;
            applying, by the processor, a lowest bidding price among bidding prices of
   the selected winning bidders as a final sale price to all of the winning bidders;
            requesting, by the processor, payment from the winning bidders at the final
20 sale price;
            settling, by the processor, an auction commission for the seller of the specific
   product based on an amount calculated by subtracting the lower limit of the bidding
   price range from the final sale price;
            providing, by the processor, each winning bidder with savings information
25 calculated by subtracting the final sale price from a bidding price of each winning
   bidder; and
            controlling, by the processor, bidding prices out of the range between the
   upper limit and the lower limit not to be input.
30          2.       The auction method of claim 1, further comprising:
            providing, by the processor, bidding information to the terminals of the
   bidders in real time over a network, such that the bidding information is displayed on
   the terminals of the bidders in real time, wherein the bidding information includes
                                               20

   bidding rankings of the bidders, an average bid price, and a total number of the
   bidders;
            3.       The auction method of claim 1, further comprising:
 5          if at least one of the winning bidders previously paid a corresponding
   bidding price,
            settling, by the processor, a refund amount calculated by subtracting the final
   sale price from the previously paid bidding price.
10          4.       An auction server for conducting auctions over a network, the auction
   server comprising:
            a receiver configured to receive bidding information including bidding prices
   for each product from the terminals of bidders, the received bidding prices being
   within the bidding price range, the receiver and the terminals of the bidders being
15 connected to the network;
            a selector configured to select a group of winning bidders such that the
   winning bidders are selected from the bidders in descending order of the bidding
   prices and a total number of products bid by the winning bidders is equal to the
   number of available products, wherein bidding is terminated when a predetermined
20 bidding time is elapsed;
            a payment requester configured to apply a lowest bidding price among
   bidding prices of the selected winning bidders as a final sale price to all of the
   winning bidders and to request the payment from the winning bidders at the final sale
   price, the terminals of the winning bidders being connected to the network;
25          a settlement unit configured to settle an auction commission for the seller of
   the specific product based on an amount calculated by subtracting the lower limit of
   the bidding price range from the final sale price; and
            a controller configured to control the storage, the receiver, the selector, and
   the payment requester, the settlement unit, wherein the controller provides upper and
30 lower limits of a bidding price range for the specific product and a number of
   available products for the specific product to terminals of bidders being connected to
   the network and controls bidding prices out of the range between the upper limit and
   the lower limit not to be input,
                                               21

            wherein the controller provides each winning bidder with savings
   information calculated by subtracting the final sale price from a bidding price of each
   winning bidder.
 5          5.      The auction server of claim 4, wherein the controller provides
   bidding information to the terminals of the bidders in real time over the network such
   that the bidding information is displayed on the terminals of the bidders in real time,
   and the bidding information includes bidding rankings of the bidders, an average bid
   price, and a total number of the bidders
10
            6.      The auction server of claim 4, wherein if at least one of the winning
   bidders previously paid a corresponding bidding price,         settlement unit settles a
   refund amount calculated by subtracting the final sale price from the previously paid
   bidding price.
15
                                              22

    <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
5
                      FIG. 1
                               1/6

    <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
5
                      FIG. 2
                               2/6

    <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
5
                      FIG. 3
                               3/6

    <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
5
                      FIG. 4
                               4/6

    <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
5
                      FIG. 5
                               5/6

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                  FIG. 6
                           6/6

