ABSTRACT
The present invention is directed to water-soluble membrane proteins, methods for the
preparation thereof and methods of use thereof.

       WO 2012/116203                                                            PCT/US2012/026353
          WATER SOLUBLE MEMBRANE PROTEINS AND METHODS FOR THE
                               PREPARATION AND USE THEREOF
   RELATED APPLICATION(S)
            This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 61/445,740,
 5 filed on February 23, 2011. The entire teachings of the above application(s) are incorporated
   herein by reference.
   BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
            Membrane proteins play vital roles in all living systems. Approximately ~30% of all
   genes in almost all sequenced genomes, code for membrane proteins. However, our detailed
 0 understanding of their structure and function lags far behind that of soluble proteins. As of
   February 2012, there are over 79,500 structures in the Protein Data Bank
   (http://wwvw.rcsb.org/pdb/homIe/home.do), however, there are 952 membrane protein
   structures with 320 unique structures including 8 G-protein coupled receptors. Although
   there are about 400 functional olfactory receptors in human, not a single olfactory receptor
 5 has been determined.
            There are several bottlenecks in elucidating the structure and function of olfactory
   receptors and their recognition and odorant-binding properties although they are of great
   interest. The most critical and challenging task is that it is extremely difficult to produce
   milligrams quantities of soluble and stable receptors. Inexpensive large-scale production
20 methods are desperately needed, and have thus been the focus of extensive research. It is only
   possible to conduct detailed structural studies once these preliminary obstacles have been
   surmounted. Therefore, there is a need in the art for improved methods of studying G-protein
   coupled receptors, including olfactory receptors.
   SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
25          The present invention is directed to water-soluble membrane peptides, compositions
   comprising said peptides, methods for the preparation thereof and methods of use thereof.
            The invention encompasses a water-soluble polypeptide comprising a modified a
   helical domain, wherein the modified a-helical domain comprises an amino acid sequence in

        WO 2012/116203                                                            PCT/US2012/026353
                                                   -2
    which one or more hydrophobic amino acid residues within a a-helical domain of a native
    membrane protein is replaced with one or more hydrophilic amino acid residues. The
    invention also encompasses a method of preparing a water-soluble polypeptide comprising
    replacing one or more hydrophobic amino acid residues within the a-helical domain of a
 5  native membrane protein with one or more hydrophilic amino acid residues. The invention
    additionally encompasses a polypeptide prepared by replacing one or more hydrophobic
    amino acid residues within the a-helical domain of a native membrane protein with one or
    more hydrophilic amino acid residues.
             The invention further encompasses a method of treatment for a disorder or disease
 0  that is mediated by the activity a membrane protein in a subject in need thereof, comprising
    administering to said subject an effective amount of a water-soluble polypeptide comprising a
    modified a-helical domain, wherein the modified a-helical domain comprises an amino acid
    sequence in which one or more hydrophobic amino acid residues within a a-helical domain
    of the membrane protein is replaced with one or more hydrophilic amino acid residues.
 5  In certain aspects, the water-soluble polypeptide retains the ligand-binding activity of the
    membrane protein. Examples of disorders and diseases that can be treated by administering a
    water-soluble peptide of the invention include, but are not limited to, cancer (such as, small
    cell lung cancer, melanoma, triple negative breast cancer), Parkinson's disease,
    cardiovascular disease, hypertension, and bronchial asthma.
 10          The invention also encompasses a pharmaceutical composition comprising a water
    soluble polypeptide of the invention and pharmaceutically acceptable carrier or diluent.
             In some aspects, the a-helical domain is a 7-transmembrane a-helical domain. In an
    additional embodiment, the native membrane protein is a G-protein coupled receptor
    (GPCR). In some aspects of this embodiment, the GPCR is selected from the group
25  comprising purinergic receptors (P2Y 1 , P2Y 2 , P2Y 4 , P2Y 6 ), M1 and M 3 muscarinic
    acetylcholine receptors, receptors for thrombin [protease-activated receptor (PAR)- 1, PAR
    2], thromboxane (TXA 2), sphingosine 1-phosphate (SiP 2 , SiP 3 , SiP 4 and SIP 5 ),
    lysophosphatidic acid (LPA1 , LPA 2, LPA 3 ), angiotensin II (AT1 ), serotonin (5-HT 2e and 5
    HT 4 ), somatostatin (ssts), endothelin (ETA and ETB), cholecystokinin (CCK 1 ), Via
30  vasopressin receptors, D5 dopamine receptors, fMLP formyl peptide receptors, GAL 2 galanin
    receptors, EP 3 prostanoid receptors, A1 adenosine receptors, ai adrenergic receptors, BB 2
    bombesin receptors, B2 bradykinin receptors, calcium-sensing receptors, chemokine

        WO 2012/116203                                                         PCT/US2012/026353
                                                   -3
    receptors, KSHV-ORF74 chemokine receptors, NK1 tachykinin receptors, thyroid-stimulating
    hormone (TSH) receptors, protease-activated receptors, neuropeptide receptors, adenosine
    A2B receptors, P2Y purinoceptors, metabolic glutamate receptors, GRK5, GPCR-30, and
    CXCR4. In yet an additional embodiment, the native membrane protein or membrane protein
 5  is an integral membrane protein. In a further aspect, the native membrane protein is a
    mammalian protein. In yet a further aspect, the native membrane protein is an olfactory
    receptor. In additional embodiments, the olfactory receptor is mOR103-15.
             In some aspects, the hydrophilic residues (which replace one or more hydrophobic
    residues in the a-helical domain of a native membrane protein) are selected from the group
 0  consisting of glutamine (Q), threonine (T), tyrosine (Y) and any combination thereof. In
    additional aspects, one or more hydrophobic residues selected from leucine (L), isoleucine
    (I), valine (V) and phenylalanine (F) are replaced.
             In certain embodiments, one or more phenylalanine residues of the a-helical domain
    of the protein are replaced with tyrosine. In certain additional embodiments, one or more
 5  isoleucine and/or valine residues of the a-helical domain of the protein are replaced with
    threonine. In yet additional aspects, one or more phenylalanine residues of the a-helical
    domain of the protein are replaced with tyrosine and one or more isoleucine and/or valine
    residues of the a-helical domain of the protein are replaced with threonine. In additional
    embodiments, one or more leucine residues of the a-helical domain of the protein are
 '0 replaced with glutamine. In yet additional embodiments, one or more leucine residues of the
    a-helical domain of the protein are replaced with glutamine and one or more isoleucine
    and/or valine residues of the protein are replaced with threonine. In further embodiments,
    one or more leucine residues of the a-helical domain of the protein are replaced with
    glutamine and one or more phenylalanine residues of the a-helical domain of the protein are
25  replaced with tyrosine. In yet additional aspects, one or more leucine residues of the a
    helical domain of the protein are replaced with glutamine, one or more phenylalanine
    residues of the a-helical domain of the protein are replaced with tyrosine, and one or more
    isoleucine and/or valine residues of the a-helical domain of the protein are replaced with
    threonine.
30           In additional embodiments, the water-soluble polypeptide retains at least some of the
    biological activity of the native membrane protein. In an aspect of this embodiment, the
    water-soluble polypeptide retains the ability to bind the ligand which normally binds to the

        WO 2012/116203                                                             PCT/US2012/026353
                                                     -4
    native membrane protein. In another embodiment, one or more amino acids within potential
    ligand binding sites of the native membrane protein are not replaced. In an aspect of this
    embodiment, examples of native membrane proteins with one or more amino acids not
    replaced within potential ligand-binding sites are purinergic receptors (P2Yi, P2Y 2 , P2Y 4 ,
 5  P2Y 6 ), Mi and M3 muscarinic acetylcholine receptors, receptors for thrombin [protease
    activated receptor (PAR)- 1, PAR-2], thromboxane (TXA 2), sphingosine 1-phosphate (Si P2 ,
    SiP 3 , SiP 4 and SIP 5 ), lysophosphatidic acid (LPA 1 , LPA 2 , LPA 3), angiotensin II (AT1 ),
    serotonin (5-HT 2e and 5-HT 4), somatostatin (sst 5 ), endothelin (ETA and ETB), cholecystokinin
    (CCKI), Via vasopressin receptors, D5 dopamine receptors, fMLP formyl peptide receptors,
 0  GAL 2 galanin receptors, EP 3 prostanoid receptors, A1 adenosine receptors, ai adrenergic
    receptors, BB 2 bombesin receptors, B2 bradykinin receptors, calcium-sensing receptors,
    chemokine receptors, KSHV-ORF74 chemokine receptors, NK1 tachykinin receptors,
    thyroid-stimulating hormone (TSH) receptors, protease-activated receptors, neuropeptide
    receptors, adenosine A2B receptors, P2Y purinoceptors, metabolic glutamate receptors,
 5  GRK5, GPCR-30, and CXCR4.
             In another embodiment, one or more amino acids within potential odorant binding
    sites of the native membrane protein are not replaced.
             In one embodiment, water-soluble polypeptide comprising a modified a-helical
    domain comprises the amino acid sequence of MERRNHTGRV SEFVLLGFPA
 '0 PAPQRALQFF QSLQAYVQTL TENIQTITAI RNHPTLHKPM YYFLANMSFYL
    ETWYTTVTTP KMQAGYIGSE ENHGQLISFE ACMTQLYFFQ GLGCTECTLL
    AVMAYDRYVA TCHPLHYPVI VSSRQCVQMA AGSWAGGFGT SMTVKVYQISR
    LSYCGPNTIN HFFCDVSPLL NLSCTDMSTA ELTDFILAIF ILLGPLSVTG
    ASYMAITGAV MRIPSAAGRH KAFSTCASHL TTVITYYAAS IYTYARPKAL
25  SAFDTNKLVS VLYAVIVPLL NPIIYCLRNQ EVKKALRRTL HLAQGDANT
    KKSSRDGGSS GTETSQVAPA (SEQ ID NO: 2). In yet an additional embodiment, the
    water-soluble polypeptide comprising a modified 7-transmembrane a-helical domain
    comprises one or more of the following amino acid sequences:
                  a. PQRALQFFQSLQAYVQTLTENIQTITAI R (SEQ ID NO: 3)
30                b. M YYFLANMSFYLETWYTTVTTPKMQAGYI (SEQ ID NO: 4)
                  c. CMTQLYFFQGLGCTECTLLAVMAYDRYVA TC (SEQ ID NO: 5)
                  d. RQCVQMAAGSWAGGFGTSMTVKVYQ (SEQ ID NO: 6)

        WO 2012/116203                                                            PCT/US2012/026353
                                                     -5
                 e.  LTDFILAIFILLGPLSVTGASYMAITGAV (SEQ ID NO: 7)
                 f. HKAFSTCASHLTTVITYYAAS IYTY (SEQ ID NO: 8)
                 g. TNKLVSVLYAVIVPLLNPIIYCLRN (SEQ ID NO: 9)
             In certain aspects of the invention, the secondary structure of the water-soluble
 5  peptide is determined. In some embodiments, the secondary structure is determined using
    circular dichroism.
             In certain embodiments, ligand binding to the water-soluble polypeptide is measured.
    In some aspects, ligand binding affinity of the water-soluble polypeptide is compared to that
    of the native protein. In additional aspects, ligand binding is measured using microscale
 0  thermophoresis, calcium influx assay or any combination thereof.
             In yet an additional embodiment, the invention encompasses a cell transfected with a
    water-soluble peptide comprising a modified a-helical domain. In certain embodiments, the
    cell is a mammalian cell. One example of a mammalian cell that can be transfected is a
    HEK293 cell.
 5  BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
             The foregoing and other objects, features and advantages of the invention will be
    apparent from the following more particular description of preferred embodiments of the
    invention, as illustrated in the accompanying drawings in which like reference characters
    refer to the same parts throughout the different views. The drawings are not necessarily to
 '0 scale, emphasis instead being placed upon illustrating the principles of the invention.
             FIG. 1 shows the amino acid sequences of native mOR103-15 and mutated mOR103
    15 using glutamine, threonine and tyrosine (QTY) replacements. Use of QTY replacements to
    systematically mutate key residues on the 7-transmembrane a-helices to convert a water
    insoluble olfactory receptor into a water-soluble one. We only change the positions of b, c, f
25  with the more water-soluble residues     Q, T, Y.   These positions are on the hydrophilic face of
    the helices. We maintain the positions a, d, e, g that are on the hydrophobic face. It is likely
    that these changes will maintain the individual a -helices. The mutations are labeled in
    capital blue letters on top of the receptor sequence. The small letters, abcdefg, are helical
    wheel positions. The underlines are the locations of 7-transmembrane a -helices. The
30  numbers (8, 7, 3, 5, 4, 5, 4) are mutations in each a -helix. There are 36-residue changes,
    -10. 5 % of the  total 340 residues.

        WO 2012/116203                                                          PCT/US2012/026353
                                                    -6
             FIG. 2 shows molecular models of a QTY Replacement olfactory receptor mOR103
    15. A total 36 mutations have been made (~10.5%) in the 7-transmembrane helical segments.
    These mutations do not change the charged residues, so the variant receptor mass and pI
    remain largely unchanged. The molecular shapes and sizes of amino acids,       Q, T, and Y are
 5  very similar to L, V/I and Y, so there are minimal overall local shape changes. A segment of
    20 amino acids at the C-terminus are not modeled for clarity.
             FIGs. 3A-3C   A) Top view of the QTY replacements and B) side view of the QTY
    replacements. Note the mutations are only on one side of the helices. The native receptor
    without mutations has a folded structure similar to a   adrenergic  receptor, whereas after
 0  mutation, the structure is similar to the P 2adrenergic receptor. C) Simulated structures of
    superimposed native mOR103-15 (red) and designed QTY mutation of mOR103-15 (blue).
    The overall structural difference is ~0.8A average.
             FIG. 4 Circular dichroism spectrum of CXCR4 and designed QTY mutation of
    CXCR4-QTY.
 5           FIG. 5 SDS Gel showing comparison of molecular weight between native CXCR4
    and CXCR4 with QTY mutations (SEQID NO:10: CXCR4 QTY).
             FIG. 6 Use of QTY replacements to systematically mutate key residues on the 7
    transmembrane alpha-helices and few other hydrophobic residues to convert the water
    insoluble membrane form CXCR4 into a water-soluble form. A) We have changed positions
 '0 b, c, f with the more water-soluble residues   Q, T, Y. We  do not change the positions a, d, e, g.
    These positions are believed to maintain the specific clustering of individual alpha-helices.
    B). The superimpositions of membrane form CXCR4 (red) and QTY water-soluble CRCR4
    (blue). C) The native residues are labeled in red letters and D) mutations are labeled in blue
    letters in the sequence. A total of 29 QTY mutations among 352 residues have been made
25  (about8.2%) in the seven transmembrane helical segments. These mutations do not change
    the charged residues, so the variant receptor mass and pI remain largely unchanged.           The
    molecular shapes and sizes of amino acids,      Q, T  and Y are very similar to L, V/I and Y, so
    there are minimal overall, local shape changes.

        WO 2012/116203                                                              PCT/US2012/026353
                                                      -7
    DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION
             A description of preferred embodiments of the invention follows.
             The words "a" or "an" are meant to encompass one or more, unless otherwise
    specified.
 5           In some aspects, the invention is directed to the use of the QTY (Glutamine, threonine
    and tyrosine) replacement method to systematically change the 7-transmembrane a-helix
    hydrophobic residues leucine (L), isoleucine (I), valine (V), and phenylalanine (F) of a native
    protein to the hydrophilic residues glutamine (Q), threonine (T) and tyrosine (Y). This
    invention will convert the native membrane protein from a water-insoluble one to a water
 0  soluble counterpart.
             Another innovation of the invention is to convert the water-insoluble olfactory
    receptor mOR103-15 into a water-soluble one with about 10.5% specific residues changes
    (36aa/340aa). This will be accomplished by systematically and selectively changing key
    residues at the a-helical positions b, c, fthat usually face the hydrophilic surface, while
 5  maintaining the hydrophobic residues at a-helical positions a, d, e, g. The synthetic biology
    design method is general and broadly applicable to the study of other olfactory receptors and
    G-protein coupled receptors. This strategy has the potential to overcome the bottleneck of
    crystallizing olfactory receptors, as well as additional GPCRs and other membrane proteins.
             We used synthetic biology methods to convert a water-insoluble olfactory receptor
 '0 into a water-soluble one with ~10.5% of the residues changes (36aa/340aa) (FIG. 1 and 2).
    We have systematically and selectively changed key residues at the a-helical positions b, c,f
    (which usually form the hydrophilic surface), but maintained the hydrophobic residues at a
    helical positions a, d, e, g (FIG. 1). Our synthetic biology design method is general in nature,
    thus it is broadly applicable to the study other olfactory receptors, chemokine CXCR4 as well
25  as other G-protein coupled receptors (GPCRs) and other membrane proteins. This simple
    strategy may partly overcome the bottleneck of structural studies of olfactory receptors,
    GPCRs, and other membrane proteins if the converted water-soluble membrane proteins
    remain biologically functional.
             In order to facilitate the study of the structural aspects of olfactory receptors and their
30  binding properties, we will use the QTY replacement method to design a water-soluble 7
    bundle helical olfactory receptor mOR103-15 (FIGs. 1-3). It is known that seven amino acids
    have a-helical forming tendencies (32): leucine (L) (1.30), glutamine (Q) (1.27),

        WO 2012/116203                                                          PCT/US2012/026353
    phenylalanine (F) (1.07), tyrosine (Y) (0.72), isoleucine (I) (0.97), valine (V) (0.91) and
    threonine (T) (0.82). We also know that side chains of Q, Y and T can all form hydrogen
    bonds with water:    Q can  form 4 H-bonds (2 H-donors from -NH 2 , 2 H-acceptors from C=O),
    and T and Y can form 3 H-bonds each (-OH, 1-H donor from -H and 2 acceptors from -0).
 5  The   Q, T, Y residues are more water-soluble than L, F, I, or V, which cannot form any
    hydrogen bonds with their side chains. The proposed substitutions will not have any positive
    or negative-charges changes. Furthermore, the molecular shapes and sizes are very similar for
    the pairs: leucine/glutamine, phenylalanine/tyrosine, valine/threonine, and
    isoleucine/threonine (33-34). The proposed changes should thus increase the solubility of 7
 0  transmembrane a--helices while maintaining the overall helical structure (FIG. 3C).
             In this soluble olfactory receptor design, we have performed the following
    substitutions: phenylalanine to tyrosine (F->Y), isoleucine/valine to threonine (I/V->T), and
    leucine to glutamine (L->Q). The secondary structure of the water-soluble olfactory receptor,
    as well as measure its odorant-binding capabilities can be examined. If odorant-binding is
 5  detected with the QTY replacements, then it is likely that we have preserved important
    components of the original structure. The secondary structure and binding of the designed
    water-soluble olfactory receptor with the native olfactory receptor can be prepared. Milligram
    quantities of the water-soluble receptor can be produced and crystal screens can be set up
    with and without odorants.
 10          In one embodiment, the native membrane protein is a G-protein coupled receptor
    (GPCR). In yet another embodiment, the native membrane protein is an olfactory receptor.
    In some embodiments, the olfactory receptor is a mammalian receptor. In yet another
    embodiment, the olfactory receptor is mOR103-15. In certain aspects, the water-soluble
    polypeptide retains at least some of the biological activity of the native membrane protein. In
25  yet another aspect, the membrane protein is a membrane receptor that mediates a disease or
    condition.
             In a further embodiment, the native membrane protein is a GPCR selected from the
    group comprising purinergic receptors (P2Yi, P2Y 2 , P2Y 4 , P2Y 6 ), Mi and M 3 muscarinic
    acetylcholine receptors, receptors for thrombin [protease-activated receptor (PAR)- 1, PAR
30  2], thromboxane (TXA 2), sphingosine 1-phosphate (SIP 2 , SIP 3 , S1P 4 and SIP 5 ),
    lysophosphatidic acid (LPA1 , LPA 2, LPA 3 ), angiotensin II (AT1 ), serotonin (5-HT 2e and 5
    HT 4 ), somatostatin (ssts), endothelin (ETA and ETB), cholecystokinin (CCK 1 ), Via

        WO 2012/116203                                                            PCT/US2012/026353
                                                     -9
    vasopressin receptors, D5 dopamine receptors, fMLP formyl peptide receptors, GAL 2 galanin
    receptors, EP 3 prostanoid receptors, A 1 adenosine receptors, ai adrenergic receptors, BB 2
    bombesin receptors, B 2 bradykinin receptors, calcium-sensing receptors, chemokine
    receptors, KSHV-ORF74 chemokine receptors, NK 1 tachykinin receptors, thyroid-stimulating
 5  hormone (TSH) receptors, protease-activated receptors, neuropeptide receptors, adenosine
    A2B receptors, P2Y purinoceptors, metabolic glutamate receptors, GRK5, GPCR-30, and
    CXCR4. In a further embodiment, the invention is directed to a pharmaceutical composition
    or method of treatment described herein wherein the native membrane protein is a GPCR
    selected from the group comprising purinergic receptors (P2Yi, P2Y 2 , P2Y 4 , P2Y6 ), MI and
 0  M 3 muscarinic acetylcholine receptors, receptors for thrombin [protease-activated receptor
    (PAR)-1, PAR-2], thromboxane (TXA 2), sphingosine 1-phosphate (SIP 2 , SIP 3 , SIP 4 and
    SiP 5 ), lysophosphatidic acid (LPA 1 , LPA 2 , LPA 3), angiotensin II (AT1), serotonin (5-HT 2e
    and 5-HT 4), somatostatin (ssts), endothelin (ETA and ETB), cholecystokinin (CCK1 ), Via
    vasopressin receptors, D5 dopamine receptors, fMLP formyl peptide receptors, GAL 2 galanin
 5  receptors, EP 3 prostanoid receptors, A 1 adenosine receptors, ai adrenergic receptors, BB 2
    bombesin receptors, B 2 bradykinin receptors, calcium-sensing receptors, chemokine
    receptors, KSHV-ORF74 chemokine receptors, NK 1 tachykinin receptors, thyroid-stimulating
    hormone (TSH) receptors, protease-activated receptors, neuropeptide receptors, adenosine
    A2B receptors, P2Y purinoceptors, metabolic glutamate receptors, GRK5, GPCR-30, and
 '0 CXCR4
              In another embodiment, the water-soluble polypeptide retains the at least some of the
    ligand-binding activity of the membrane protein. In some embodiments, the GPCRs are
    mammalian receptors.
              In a further embodiment, one or more amino acids within potential ligand binding
25  sites of the native membrane protein are not replaced. In an aspect of this embodiment,
    examples of native membrane proteins with potential ligand-binding sites having one or more
    amino acids not replaced include purinergic receptors (P2Yi, P2Y 2 , P2Y 4 , P2Y6 ), Mi and M 3
    muscarinic acetylcholine receptors, receptors for thrombin [protease-activated receptor
    (PAR)-1, PAR-2], thromboxane (TXA 2), sphingosine 1-phosphate (SIP 2 , SIP 3 , SIP 4 and
30  SiP5 ), lysophosphatidic acid (LPA 1 , LPA 2 , LPA 3), angiotensin II (AT1 ), serotonin (5-HT 2e
    and 5-HT 4), somatostatin (ssts), endothelin (ETA and ETB), cholecystokinin (CCK1 ), Via
    vasopressin receptors, D5 dopamine receptors, fMLP formyl peptide receptors, GAL 2 galanin

        WO 2012/116203                                                         PCT/US2012/026353
                                                  - 10
    receptors, EP 3 prostanoid receptors, A 1 adenosine receptors, ai adrenergic receptors, BB 2
    bombesin receptors, B 2 bradykinin receptors, calcium-sensing receptors, chemokine
    receptors, KSHV-ORF74 chemokine receptors, NK 1 tachykinin receptors, thyroid-stimulating
    hormone (TSH) receptors, protease-activated receptors, neuropeptide receptors, adenosine
 5  A2B receptors, P2Y purinoceptors, metabolic glutamate receptors, GRK5, GPCR-30, and
    CXCR4.
            The invention further encompasses a method of treatment for a disorder or disease
    that is mediated by the activity of a membrane protein, comprising the use of a water-soluble
    polypeptide to treat said disorders and diseases, wherein said water-soluble polypeptide
 0  comprises a modified a-helical domain, and wherein said water-soluble polypeptide retains
    the ligand-binding activity of the native membrane protein. Examples of such disorders and
    diseases include, but are not limited to, cancer, small cell lung cancer, melanoma, breast
    cancer, Parkinson's disease, cardiovascular disease, hypertension, and asthma.
            As described herein, the water-soluble peptides described herein can be used for the
 5  treatment of conditions or diseases mediated by the activity of a membrane protein. In
    certain aspects, the water-soluble peptides can act as "decoys" for the membrane receptor and
    bind to the ligand that activates the membrane receptor. As such, the water-soluble peptides
    described herein can be used to reduce the activity of a membrane protein. These water
    soluble peptides can remain in the circulation and bind to specific ligands, thereby reducing
 '0 the activity of membrane bound receptors. For example, the GPCR CXCR4 is over-expressed
    in small cell lung cancer and facilitates metastasis of tumor cells. Binding of this ligand by a
    water-soluble peptide such as that described herein may significantly reduce metastasis.
            The chemokine receptor, CXCR4, is known in viral research as a major coreceptor for
    the entry of T cell line-tropic HIV (Feng, et al. (1996) Science 272: 872-877; Davis, et al.
25  (1997) JExp Med 186: 1793-1798; Zaitseva, et al. (1997) Nat Med 3: 1369-1375; Sanchez, et
    al. (1997) JBiol Chem 272: 27529-2753 1). T Stromal cell derived factor 1 (SDF-1) is a
    chemokine that interacts specifically with CXCR4. When SDF-1 binds to CXCR4, CXCR4
    activates Gai protein-mediated signaling (pertussis toxin-sensitive) (Chen, et al. (1998) Mol
    Pharmacol53: 177-18 1), including downstream kinase pathways such as Ras/MAP Kinases
30  and phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase (PI3K)/Akt in lymphocyte, megakaryocytes, and
    hematopoietic stem cells (Bleul, et al. (1996) Nature 382: 829-833; Deng, et al. (1997)
    Nature 388: 296-300; Kijowski, et al. (2001) Stem Cells 19: 453-466; Majka, et al. (2001)

        WO 2012/116203                                                             PCT/US2012/026353
                                                    - 11
    Folia.Histochem. Cytobiol. 39: 235-244; Sotsios, et al. (1999) J. Immunol. 163: 5954-5963;
    Vlahakis, et al. (2002) J. Immunol. 169: 5546-5554). In mice transplanted with human lymph
    nodes, SDF-1 induces CXCR4-positive cell migration into the transplanted lymph node
    (Blades, et al. (2002) J. Immunol. 168: 4308-4317).
 5          Recently, studies have shown that CXCR4 interactions may regulate the migration of
    metastatic cells. Hypoxia, a reduction in partial oxygen pressure, is a microenvironmental
    change that occurs in most solid tumors and is a major inducer of tumor angiogenesis and
    therapeutic resistance. Hypoxia increases CXCR4 levels (Staller, et al. (2003) Nature 425:
    307-311). Microarray analysis on a sub-population of cells from a bone metastatic model
 0  with elevated metastatic activity showed that one of the genes increased in the metastatic
    phenotype was CXCR4. Furthermore, overexpression CXCR4 in isolated cells significantly
    increased the metastatic activity (Kang, et al. (2003) Cancer Cell 3: 537-549). In samples
    collected from various breast cancer patients, Muller et al. (Muller, et al. (2001) Nature 410:
    50-56) found that CXCR4 expression level is higher in primary tumors relative to normal
 5  mammary gland or epithelial cells. Moreover, CXCR4 antibody treatment has been shown to
    inhibit metastasis to regional lymph nodes when compared to control isotypes that all
    metastasized to lymph nodes and lungs (Muller, et al. (2001)). As such a decoy therapy
    model is suitable for treating CXCR4 mediated diseases and disorders.
            In another embodiment of the invention relates to the treatment of a disease or
 '0 disorder involving CXCR4-dependent chemotaxis, wherein the disease is associated with
    aberrant leukocyte recruitment or activation. The disease is selected from the group
    consisting of arthritis, psoriasis, multiple sclerosis, ulcerative colitis, Crohn's disease, allergy,
    asthma, AIDS associated encephalitis, AIDS related maculopapular skin eruption, AIDS
    related interstitial pneumonia, AIDS related enteropathy, AIDS related periportal hepatic
25  inflammation and AIDS related glomerulo nephritis.
            In another aspect, the invention relates to the treatment of a disease or disorder
    selected from arthritis, lymphoma, non-small lung cancer, lung cancer, breast cancer, prostate
    cancer, multiple sclerosis, central nervous system developmental disease, dementia,
    Parkinson's disease, Alzheimer's disease, tumor, fibroma, astrocytoma, myeloma,
30  glioblastoma, an inflammatory disease, an organ transplantation rejection, AIDS, HIV
    infection or angiogenesis.

        WO 2012/116203                                                          PCT/US2012/026353
                                                  - 12
             The invention also encompasses a pharmaceutical composition comprising said water
    soluble polypeptide and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier or diluent.
             The compositions can also include, depending on the formulation desired,
    pharmaceutically-acceptable, non-toxic carriers or diluents, which are defined as vehicles
 5  commonly used to formulate pharmaceutical compositions for animal or human
    administration. The diluent is selected so as not to affect the biological activity of the
    pharmacologic agent or composition. Examples of such diluents are distilled water,
    physiological phosphate-buffered saline, Ringer's solutions, dextrose solution, and Hank's
    solution. In addition, the pharmaceutical composition or formulation may also include other
 0  carriers, adjuvants, or nontoxic, nontherapeutic, nonimmunogenic stabilizers and the like.
    Pharmaceutical compositions can also include large, slowly metabolized macromolecules
    such as proteins, polysaccharides such as chitosan, polylactic acids, polyglycolic acids and
    copolymers (such as latex functionalized SEPHAROSETM, agarose, cellulose, and the like),
    polymeric amino acids, amino acid copolymers, and lipid aggregates (such as oil droplets or
 5  liposomes).
             The compositions can be administered parenterally such as, for example, by
    intravenous, intramuscular, intrathecal or subcutaneous injection. Parenteral administration
    can be accomplished by incorporating a composition into a solution or suspension. Such
    solutions or suspensions may also include sterile diluents such as water for injection, saline
 '0 solution, fixed oils, polyethylene glycols, glycerine, propylene glycol or other synthetic
    solvents. Parenteral formulations may also include antibacterial agents such as, for example,
    benzyl alcohol or methyl parabens, antioxidants such as, for example, ascorbic acid or
    sodium bisulfite and chelating agents such as EDTA. Buffers such as acetates, citrates or
    phosphates and agents for the adjustment of tonicity such as sodium chloride or dextrose may
25  also be added. The parenteral preparation can be enclosed in ampules, disposable syringes or
    multiple dose vials made of glass or plastic.
             Additionally, auxiliary substances, such as wetting or emulsifying agents, surfactants,
    pH buffering substances and the like can be present in compositions. Other components of
    pharmaceutical compositions are those of petroleum, animal, vegetable, or synthetic origin,
30  for example, peanut oil, soybean oil, and mineral oil. In general, glycols such as propylene
    glycol or polyethylene glycol are preferred liquid carriers, particularly for injectable
    solutions.

        WO 2012/116203                                                           PCT/US2012/026353
                                                   - 13
            Injectable formulations can be prepared either as liquid solutions or suspensions; solid
    forms suitable for solution in, or suspension in, liquid vehicles prior to injection can also be
    prepared. The preparation also can also be emulsified or encapsulated in liposomes or micro
    particles such as polylactide, polyglycolide, or copolymer for enhanced adjuvant effect, as
 5  discussed above. Langer, Science 249: 1527, 1990 and Hanes, Advanced DrugDelivery
    Reviews 28: 97-119, 1997. The compositions and pharmacologic agents described herein can
    be administered in the form of a depot injection or implant preparation which can be
    formulated in such a manner as to permit a sustained or pulsatile release of the active
    ingredient.
 0          Transdermal administration includes percutaneous absorption of the composition
    through the skin. Transdermal formulations include patches, ointments, creams, gels, salves
    and the like. Transdermal delivery can be achieved using a skin patch or using
    transferosomes. [Paul et al., Eur. J. Immunol. 25: 3521-24, 1995; Cevc et al., Biochem.
    Biophys. Acta 1368: 201-15, 1998].
 5          "Treating" or "treatment" includes preventing or delaying the onset of the symptoms,
    complications, or biochemical indicia of a disease, alleviating or ameliorating the symptoms
    or arresting or inhibiting further development of the disease, condition, or disorder. A
    "patient" is a human subject in need of treatment.
            An "effective amount" refers to that amount of the therapeutic agent that is sufficient
 '0 to ameliorate of one or more symptoms of a disorder and/or prevent advancement of a
    disorder, cause regression of the disorder and/or to achieve a desired effect.
            The invention will be better understood in connection with the following example,
    which is intended as an illustration only and not limiting of the scope of the invention.
    Various changes and modifications to the disclosed embodiments will be apparent to those
25  skilled in the art and such changes and may be made without departing from the spirit of the
    invention and the scope of the appended claims.
                                              EXAMPLES
    Example 1: Systematic analyses of the ligand-binding properties of olfactory receptors
30          The  Q (Glutamine)   T (Threonine) Y (Tyrosine) QTY replacement are used to convert
    a water-insoluble olfactory receptor to a water-soluble one for biochemical, biophysical and
    structural analyses. Our specific aims are to:

        WO 2012/116203                                                          PCT/US2012/026353
                                                    - 14
             1) Use the QTY (Glutamine, threonine and tyrosine) replacement method to
    systematically change the 7-transmembrane a-helix hydrophobic residues leucine (L),
    isoleucine (I), valine (V), and phenylalanine (F) to the hydrophilic residues glutamine (Q),
    threonine (T) and tyrosine (Y). This method converts the protein from a water-insoluble
 5  olfactory receptor to a water-soluble one.
             2) Produce and purify milligram quantities of native and bioengineered olfactory
    receptors using commercial cell-free in vitro translation systems (Invitrogen and Qiagen).
             3) Determine the secondary structure of the purified olfactory receptors using circular
    dichroism (CD).
 0           4) Determine the binding affinity of the native and bioengineered olfactory receptor
    variants using microscale thermophoresis.
             5) Transfect the native and variant OR genes into HEK293 cells, and use calcium
    influx assays to measure odorant activation of the native and mutant olfactory receptors.
    These measurements will correlate the microscale thermophoresis binding data to functional
 5  responses within cells.
             6) Systematically screen the native and bioengineered olfactory receptors for
    crystallizing conditions in the presence and absence of odorants and the presence and absence
    of detergent.
 '0 RESEARCH STRATEGY
             Use QTY replacement to design a soluble 7-helical bundle olfactory receptor
    mOR103-15. An innovation of our study is to convert the water-insoluble olfactory receptor
    mORIO3-15 into a water soluble one with about 10.5% specific residues changes
25  (36aa/340aa). We have systematically and selectively changed key residues at the a-helical
    positions b, c, f that usually face the hydrophilic surface, while maintaining the hydrophobic
    residues at a-helical positions a, d, e, g. Our synthetic biology design method is general and
    broadly applicable to the study of other olfactory receptors and G-protein coupled receptors.
    This strategy has the potential to overcome the bottleneck of crystallizing olfactory receptors,
30  as well as additional GPCRs and other membrane proteins. While our design to change the
    solubility of the sequence is focused on the b,cf positions of the helical wheel, some further
    changes to other parts of the sequence can be made without significantly affecting the
    function or structure of the peptide, polypeptide or protein. For example conservative

        WO 2012/116203                                                              PCT/US2012/026353
                                                     - 15
    mutations can be made.
    The experimental approach
             1)      Use of QTY replacements to design a water-soluble 7-helical bundle olfactory
 5  receptor mOR103-15. We used synthetic biology methods to convert a water-insoluble
    olfactory receptor into a water-soluble one with ~10.5% of the residues changes (36aa/340aa)
    (FIGs. 1-3). We have systematically and selectively changed key residues at the a-helical
    positions b, c,f (which usually form the hydrophilic surface), but maintained the hydrophobic
    residues at a-helical positions a, d, e, g (FIG. 1). Our synthetic biology design method is
 0  general in nature, thus it is broadly applicable to the study other olfactory receptors as well as
    other G-protein coupled receptors (GPCRs). This simple strategy may partly overcome the
    bottleneck of structural studies of olfactory receptors, GPCRs, and other membrane proteins
    if the converted water-soluble membrane proteins remain biologically functional.
             In order to facilitate the study of the structural aspects of olfactory receptors and their
 5  binding properties, we can use the QTY replacement method to design a water-soluble 7
    bundle helical olfactory receptor mORIO3-15 (FIGs. 1-3). It is known that seven amino acids
    have a-helical forming tendencies (32): leucine (L) (1.30), glutamine (Q) (1.27),
    phenylalanine (F) (1.07), tyrosine (Y) (0.72), isoleucine (I) (0.97), valine (V) (0.91) and
    threonine (T) (0.82). We also know that side chains of Q, Y and T can all form hydrogen
 '0 bonds with water:    Q can form 4 H-bonds (2 H-donors       from -NH 2 , 2 H-acceptors from C=O),
    and T and Y can form 3 H-bonds each (-OH, I-H donor from -H and 2 acceptors from -0).
    The   Q, T, Y residues are more water-soluble than L, F, I, or V, which cannot form any
    hydrogen bonds with their side chains. The substitutions will not have any positive- or
    negative-charges changes. Furthermore, the molecular shapes and sizes are very similar for
25  the pairs: leucine/glutamine, phenylalaine/tyrosine, valine/threonine, and
    isoleucine/threonine. The changes increase the solubility of 7-transmembrane a-helices while
    maintaining the overall helical structure.
             In this soluble olfactory receptor design, we have performed the following
    substitutions: leucine -> glutamine (L->Q), isoleucine/valine -> threonine (IN->T) and
30  phenylalanine -> tyrosine (F->Y). In the study, we can examine the secondary structure of the
    water-soluble olfactory receptor, as well as measure its odorant-binding capabilities. If
    odorant-binding is measured with the QTY replacements, then it is likely that we have

       WO 2012/116203                                                          PCT/US2012/026353
                                                 -  16
   preserved important components of the original structure. We can compare the secondary
   structure and binding of native olfactory receptor with the designed water-soluble olfactory
   receptor. We can also produce milligram quantities of the water-soluble receptor, and set up
   crystal screens with and without odorants.
      MRNHTGRV SEFVLLGFPA PAPQPALQFT QSLQAYVQTL        TENXQT1TA1  RNUPTLHKPM YYFLAhMSYL ETWYTTVTTP
                                 abcdefga bcdefgabcd   efgabcdefg  a         a bcdefgabcd efgabcdefg
      KMQAGYIGSE ENKGQLISFE ACMTqLYFGL5TECTLL          AVNAYDRYVA  TCHPLHYPVW VSSRQCVMA AGSWAGGFGT
      abcdefg                   abcdefgab cdefgabcde   tgabcdetga  be              abcdefq abcdefgabc
      SMTMKQISR LSYCGPNTIN HYWCDVSPTL NtSCTDMSTA ELTDFiQATY TLLGPLSTTG ASYMAITGAV           MRTPSAAGRH
      defgabcd                                          abodefgab cdefgabcde    fqabcdefga           a
      MAFSTCASHL TTVITYYAAS    IYTYARPKAL SAEIJTNRLVS  VLYAVTPLQ NPITYCQRNQ EVKKALRRTL HLAQGQDANT
      bcdefgabcd efgabcdefg abcd               abcdef gabcdefgab cdefgabc
                                (36aa mutatiors/340aa,    ~1O 5% mutations)
 5    KKSSRDGGSS GTETSQVAPA.
            2)      Produce and purify milligram quantities of native and bioengineered variants
   of olfactory receptors. We can use commercial cell-free systems to produce milligrams of
   native and water-soluble mORI03-15. We can use the optimized protocols we have
   developed in our lab: this is the key advancement and innovation we have accomplished in
 0 the last few years. We can produce and purify the native and variant olfactory receptors in
   one day using immunoaffinity purification. Gel filtration can then be used to separate the
   monomeric and dimeric receptor forms.
            3) Determine secondary structure using circular dichroism. We can use circular
   dichroism (CD) spectral analysis to measure the secondary structures of the purified
 5 receptors. CD is a very sensitive technique that is be able to detect any small structural
   changes between the native and mutant receptors. Specifically, CD analysis can be used to
   calculate the percentage of a-helices and p-sheets in a protein. If a proteins' structure is
   altered, it can be revealed in the CD analysis. In addition to determining whether specific
   mutations alter receptor structure, CD can also be used to measure any odorant-induced
20 structural changes. See FIG. 4
            4)      Assay ligand-binding of olfactory receptors. Microscale thermophoresis are
   used to measure the binding affinity of the native and bioengineered proteins and their
   odorant ligands. The key advantages of this technique over SPR or other ligand binding
   technologies are that they are totally surface-free and label free. Thus, the receptors do not
25 need to be modified. The measurements can be performed in solution using native tryptophan
   as a signal source. Additionally, small ligands (MW ~200 Daltons) can be reliably measured.
   Furthermore, each measurement needs 0.5J.tl (lJlg/J.tl) of sample thus, save the precious
   receptor samples. These results show whether the mutant olfactory receptors are capable of

        WO 2012/116203                                                          PCT/US2012/026353
                                                    - 17
    binding odorants as efficiently as the native protein.
            5) Use calcium influx activation assay to measure olfactory receptor activation. We
    can use calcium influx assays to examine odorant-induced activation of the native and variant
    olfactory receptors in HEK293 cells. This data is be correlated to the microscale
 5  thermophoresis measurements. Microscale thermophoresis directly measures ligand binding,
    while calcium influx assays measure activation. Combined, these assays can verify whether
    specific mutations affect binding, activation, or both. Additionally, we can distinguish
    between agonist and antagonist ligands.
            6) Systematic screen for crystallization conditions. We can systematically screen the
 0  native and bioengineered variant olfactory receptors for crystallizing conditions in the
    absence and presence of odorants. The technology for crystallization screening of water
    soluble proteins is well developed. Commercial screens are available which supply a variety
    of precipitants, salts, buffers with fine tuned pH gradients, and a range of cationic and anionic
    substances. All of these variables are well known and will be used in crystallizing membrane
 5  proteins. An additional unique ingredient of membrane protein screens is the presence of one
    of more detergent molecules. However, precipitation techniques involving slow water
    removal from the hanging drop may continue to be effective. Although it is useful to form
    large crystals, the results of a crystal screen may yield smaller crystals.
    Surface Plasmon Resonance analysis of CXCR4 QTY
 10         Human CXCR4 and our CXCR4 QTY proteins obtained from cell-free production
    and purified with affinity beads were captured in different flow cells on a Biacore CM5 chip
    with immobilized 1D4 Antibody (Ab) in a Biacore 2000 instrument. Different concentrations
    of SDF la, the native ligand for hCXCR4 receptor, were injected over the surface to allow
    interaction with the receptors.
25
    HUMAN CXCR4 OTY (SEO ID NO:10)
    MEGISIYTSDNYTEEMGSGDYDSMKEPCFREENANY 7NKIFLPTIYSIIYQTGTVGNGL
    VI
    LVMGYQKKLRSMTDKYRLHLSTADLQFVI TLPY,WATDAT'ANWYFGNFLCKAVHVI
30  YTVNLYSSVLILAFISLDRYLAIVHATNSQRPRKLLAEKVVYVGVWTPAQLLTTrPDY
    TFANVSEADDRYICDRFYPNDLWVVVFQFQHIMVGLILPGIVILSCYCIIISKLSHSKG
    HQKRKALKTTT'TLIQAFFACWQPYYTGISIDSY ILLEIIKQGCEFENTVHKWISI TEAQ

        WO 2012/116203                                                         PCT/US2012/026353
                                                   - 18
    AFYHCCTINPTQ.,YAYLGAKFKTSAQHALTSVSRGSSLKILSKGKRGGHSSVSTESESSS
    SFHS
    Immobilization of 1D4 Antibody
 5  Biacore CM5 chips were activated with 1-Ethyl-3-[3-dimethylaminopropyl]carbodiimide
    hydrochloride and N-hydroxysuccinimide according to the manufacturer's protocol prior to a
    7 minute injection at 5gl/min of 1D4 Ab to flow cells 2-4 at 70gg/ml followed by
    deactivating of the surfaces in all the 4 flow cells with a short Ethanolamine pulse. The
    immobilization level of 1D4 Ab range from 8000-25000 Response units (RU).
 0
    Capture of GPCRs
    CXCR4 and CXCR4 QTY mutant are captured by the 1D4 Ab on the CM5 chip by injecting
    a 0.1mg/ml sample of the protein to a single flow cell at 5gl/min during 15min with both
    sample and running buffer containing 0.2% Fos-Choline-14 detergent. The receptors were
 5  captured to a level of 800-3000 RU.
    Interaction analyzis
     SDF 1a were injected over all flow cells to allow interaction with both the receptors and flow
    cell one is used as a reference cell without any immobilized protein. Injections were made at
 '0 0, 7.8nM, 15.6nM, 31.25nM, 62.5nM, 125nM, 250nM, 500nM, 1gM in triplicates, at
    20ul/min for 2 minutes with 15 min waiting time to allow dissociation. HBST (50mM Hepes,
    pH 7.4, 150mM NaCl, 0.0050% Tween-20) with the addition of 0.2% BSA and 0.2% Fos
    Choline-14 was used as both running buffer and for dilution of the SDF la samples.
    Conclusion: The above described study shows ligand binding by CXCR4 QTY.
25
                                                 References
         1.     Choma C, Gratkowski H, Lear JD & DeGrado WF. (2000) Asparagine-mediated
        self-association of a model transmembrane helix. Nat Struct Biol 7, 161-6.
30      2.       Slovic AM, Kono H, Lear JD, Saven JG & DeGrado WF. (2004) Computational
        design of water-soluble analogues of the potassium channel KcsA. Proc Natl Acad Sci U
        SA 101, 1828-33.
        3.       Walters RF & DeGrado WF. (2006) Helix-packing motifs in membrane proteins.
35      Proc NatlAcad Sci USA 103, 13658-63.

     WO 2012/116203                                                         PCT/US2012/026353
                                               - 19
      4.      Zhang Y, Kulp DW, Lear JD & DeGrado WF. (2009) Experimental and
      computational evaluation of forces directing the association of transmembrane helices. J
      Am Chem Soc 131, 11341-11343.
5
          While this invention has been particularly shown and described with references to
  preferred embodiments thereof, it will be understood by those skilled in the art that various
  changes in form and details may be made therein without departing from the scope of the
  invention encompassed by the appended claims.

     WO 2012/116203                                                          PCT/US2012/026353
                                                 -20
                                               CLAIMS
   What is claimed is:
     1. A water-soluble polypeptide comprising a modified a-helical domain, wherein the
 5        modified a-helical domain comprises an amino acid sequence in which one or more
          hydrophobic amino acid residues within a a-helical domain of a native membrane
          protein is replaced with one or more hydrophilic amino acid residues.
     2. The water-soluble polypeptide of claim 1, wherein the a-helical domain is 7
          transmembrane a-helical domain.
 0   3.   The water-soluble polypeptide of claim 1, wherein the native membrane protein is a
          G-protein coupled receptor (GPCR).
     4. The water-soluble polypeptide of claim 1, wherein the native membrane protein is an
          integral membrane protein.
     5. The water-soluble polypeptide of claim 1, wherein the hydrophilic residues are
 5        selected from the group consisting of glutamine (Q), threonine (T), tyrosine (Y) and
          any combination thereof.
     6. The water-soluble polypeptide of claim 1, wherein one or more of the hydrophobic
          residues leucine (L), isoleucine (I), valine (V) and phenylalanine (F) are replaced.
     7. The water-soluble polypeptide of claim 1, wherein one or more phenylalanine
20        residues of the a-helical domain of the native membrane protein are replaced with
          tyrosine.
     8. The water-soluble polypeptide of any one of claims 1 and 7, wherein one or more
          isoleucine and/or valine residues of the a-helical domain of the protein are replaced
          with threonine.
25   9. The water-soluble polypeptide of any one of claims 1, 7 and 8, wherein one or more
          leucine residues of the a-helical domain of the native membrane protein are replaced
          with glutamine.

   WO 2012/116203                                                      PCT/US2012/026353
                                              -21
   10. The water-soluble polypeptide of claim 1, wherein the native membrane protein is an
       olfactory receptor or chemokine receptor CXCR4.
   11. The water-soluble polypeptide of claim 1, wherein the native membrane protein is a
       mammalian protein
 5 12. The water-soluble polypeptide of claim 10, wherein the native membrane protein is
       mOR103-15 or or chemokine receptor CXCR4.
   13. The water-soluble polypeptide of claim 12, wherein the hydrophobic amino acid
       residues at a-helical positions b, c and f are replaced.
   14. The water-soluble polypeptide of claim 12, wherein the hydrophobic amino acid
 0     residues at a-helical positions a, d, e and g are not replaced.
   15. The water-soluble polypeptide of claim 1, comprising the amino acid sequence of
       MERRNHTGRV SEFVLLGFPA PAPQRALQFF QSLQAYVQTL
       TENIQTITAIRNHPTLHKPM YYFLANMSFYL ETWYTTVTTP KMQAGYIGSE
       ENHGQLISFE ACMTQLYFFQ GLGCTECTLL AVMAYDRYVA TCHPLHYPVI
 5     VSSRQCVQMA AGSWAGGFGT SMTVKVYQISR LSYCGPNTIN
       HFFCDVSPLL NLSCTDMSTA ELTDFILAIF ILLGPLSVTG ASYMAITGAV
       MRIPSAAGRH KAFSTCASHL TTVITYYAAS IYTYARPKAL SAFDTNKLVS
       VLYAVIVPLL NPIIYCLRNQ EVKKALRRTL HLAQGDANT KKSSRDGGSS
       GTETSQVAPA (SEQ ID NO: 2);
20      or
       MEGISIYTSDNYTEEMGSGDYDSMKEPCFREENANYNK'TFLPTIYSIIYQTGTV
       GNGLVILVMGYQKKLRSMTDKYRLHLSTADLQFVTLPYWATDAI ANWYF
       GNFLCKAVHVIYTVNLYSSVLILAFISLDRYLAIVHATNSQRPRKLLAEKVVY
       VGVWTPAQLLTTPDY TFANVSEADDRYICDRFYPNDLWVVVFQFQHIMVGLI
25     LPGIVILSCYCIIISKLSHSKGHQKRKALKTTTT- LIQAFFACWQPYYTGISIDSYI
       LLEIIKQGCEFENTVHKWIS'TEAQAFYHCCINPI QYAY LGAKFKTSAQHALT
       SVSRGSSLKILSKGKRGGHSSVSTESESSSSFHS (SEQ ID NO:10).

   WO 2012/116203                                                        PCT/US2012/026353
                                               - 22
   16. The water-soluble polypeptide of claim 2, wherein the modified 7-transmembrane a
       helical domain comprises one or more of the following amino acid sequences:
           a. PQRALQFFQSLQAYVQTLTENIQTITAI R (SEQ ID NO: 3)
           b. M YYFLANMSFYLETWYTTVTTPKMQAGYI (SEQ ID NO: 4)
 5         c.  CMTQLYFFQGLGCTECTLLAVMAYDRYVA TC (SEQ ID NO: 5)
           d. RQCVQMAAGSWAGGFGTSMTVKVYQ                      (SEQ ID NO: 6)
           e.  LTDFILAIFILLGPLSVTGASYMAITGAV (SEQ ID NO: 7)
           f. HKAFSTCASHLTTVITYYAAS IYTY (SEQ ID NO: 8)
           g. TNKLVSVLYAVIVPLLNPIIYCLRN (SEQ ID NO: 9).
 0
   17. The water-soluble polypeptide of any one of claims 1 to 16, wherein the polypeptide
       retains the biological activity of the native membrane protein.
   18. The water-soluble polypeptide of any one of claims 1 to 16, wherein one or more
       amino acids within potential odorant binding sites are not replaced.
 5 19. A method of preparing a water-soluble polypeptide comprising replacing one or more
       hydrophobic amino acid residues within the a-helical domain of a native membrane
       protein with one or more hydrophilic amino acid residues.
   20. The method of claim 19, wherein the a-helical domain is a 7-transmembrane a
       helical domain.
20 21. The method of claim 19, wherein the native membrane protein is a G-protein coupled
       receptor (GPCR).
   22. The method of claim 19, wherein the hydrophilic residues are selected from the group
       consisting of glutamine (Q), threonine (T), tyrosine (Y) and any combination thereof.
   23. The method of claim 19, wherein the hydrophobic residues leucine (L), isoleucine (I),
25     valine (V) and phenylalanine (F) are replaced.

   WO 2012/116203                                                       PCT/US2012/026353
                                            -23
   24. The method of claim 20, wherein one or more phenylalanine residues of the 7
       transmembrane a-helical domain of the native membrane protein are replaced with
       tyrosine.
   25. The method of any one of claims 19 and 24, wherein one or more isoleucine and/or
 5     valine residues of the a-helical domain of the native membrane protein are replaced
       with threonine.
   26. The method of any one of claims 19, 24 and 25, wherein one or more leucine residues
       of the a-helical domain of the native membrane protein are replaced with glutamine.
   27. The method of claim 19, wherein the native protein is an olfactory receptor.
 0 28. The method of claim 19, wherein the native protein is a mammalian protein.
   29. The method of claim 27, wherein the native protein is mOR103-15, or chemokine
       receptor CXCR4.
   30. The method of claim 19, wherein the polypeptide comprises the amino acid sequence
       MERRNHTGRV SEFVLLGFPA PAPQRALQFF QSLQAYVQTL TENIQTITAI
 5     RNHPTLHKPM YYFLANMSFYL ETWYTTVTTP KMQAGYIGSE
       ENHGQLISFE ACMTQLYFFQ GLGCTECTLL AVMAYDRYVA TCHPLHYPVI
       VSSRQCVQMA AGSWAGGFGT SMTVKVYQISR LSYCGPNTIN
       HFFCDVSPLL NLSCTDMSTA ELTDFILAIF ILLGPLSVTG ASYMAITGAV
       MRIPSAAGRH KAFSTCASHL TTVITYYAAS IYTYARPKAL SAFDTNKLVS
20     VLYAVIVPLL NPIIYCLRNQ EVKKALRRTL HLAQGDANT KKSSRDGGSS
       GTETSQVAPA (SEQ ID NO: 2);
        or
       MEGISIYTSDNYTEEMGSGDYDSMKEPCFREENANYNKTFLPTIYSIIYQTGTV
       GNGLVILVMGYQKKLRSMTDKYRLHLSTADLQFVTTLPYWATDATANWYF
25     GNFLCKAVHVIYTVNLYSSVLILAFISLDRYLAIVHATNSQRPRKLLAEKVVY
       VGVWTPAQLLTTPDYTFANVSEADDRYICDRFYPNDLWVVVFQFQHIMVGLI
       LPGIVILSCYCIIISKLSHSKGHQKRKALKTTTTLIQAFFACWQPYYTGISIDSYI
       LLEIIKQGCEFENTVHKWISTTEAQAFYHCCTNPTQYAYLGAKFKTSAQHALT
       SVSRGSSLKILSKGKRGGHSSVSTESESSSSFHS (SEQ ID NO:10).

   WO 2012/116203                                                       PCT/US2012/026353
                                               - 24
   31. The method of claim 24, wherein the modified 7-transmembrane a-helical domain
       comprises one or more of the following amino acid sequences:
           a. PQRALQFFQSLQAYVQTLTENIQTITAI R (SEQ ID NO: 3)
 5         b. M YYFLANMSFYLETWYTTVTTPKMQAGYI (SEQ ID NO: 4)
           c.   CMTQLYFFQGLGCTECTLLAVMAYDRYVA TC (SEQ ID NO: 5)
           d. RQCVQMAAGSWAGGFGTSMTVKVYQ                      (SEQ ID NO: 6)
           e.   LTDFILAIFILLGPLSVTGASYMAITGAV (SEQ ID NO: 7)
           f. HKAFSTCASHLTTVITYYAAS IYTY (SEQ ID NO: 8)
 0         g. TNKLVSVLYAVIVPLLNPIIYCLRN (SEQ ID NO: 9) SEQ ID NO: 2.
   32. The method of any one of claim 19 to 31, wherein the water-soluble polypeptide
       retains the biological activity of the native membrane protein.
   33. The method of any one of claim 19 to 31, further comprising determining the
 5     secondary structure of the polypeptide.
   34. The method of claim 33, wherein the secondary structure is determined using circular
       dichroism.
   35. The method of any one of claims 19 to 31, further comprising measuring ligand
       binding.
20 36. The method of any one of claims 19 to 31, wherein the polypeptide is prepared using
       a cell-free system.
   37. The method of any one of claim 19 to 31, wherein the protein is an olfactory receptor
       and further comprising measuring odorant binding to the olfactory receptor.
   38. The method of claim 35, wherein the ligand binding affinity of the water-soluble
25     polypeptide is compared to the native membrane protein.
   39. The method of claim 35, wherein ligand binding is measured using microscale
       thermophoresis.

   WO 2012/116203                                                          PCT/US2012/026353
                                             - 25
   40. The method of claim 35, wherein ligand binding is measured using a calcium influx
       assay.
   41. A polypeptide produced according to the method of any one of claims 19 to 31.
   42. A cell transfected with the polypeptide of any one of claims I to 18 and 41.
 5 43. The method of claim 42, wherein the cell is a mammalian cell.
   44. The cell of claim 43, wherein the cell is a HEK293 cell.
   45. A method for treating a mammal suffering from a disorder or disease that is mediated
       by the activity of a native membrane protein, comprising administering to said
       mammal an effective amount of a water-soluble polypeptide comprising a modified
 0     a-helical domain, wherein the modified a-helical domain comprises an amino acid
       sequence in which one or more hydrophobic amino acid residues within a a-helical
       domain of the native membrane protein is replaced with one or more hydrophilic
       amino acid residues.
   46. The method of claim 45, wherein the a-helical domain is 7-transmembrane a-helical
 5     domain.
   47. The method of claim 45, wherein the native membrane protein is a G-protein coupled
       receptor (GPCR).
   48. The method of claim 45, wherein the native membrane protein is an integral
       membrane protein.
20 49. The method of claim 45, wherein the hydrophilic residues are selected from the group
       consisting of glutamine (Q), threonine (T), tyrosine (Y) and any combination thereof.
   50. The method of claim 45, wherein one or more of the hydrophobic residues leucine
       (L), isoleucine (I), valine (V) and phenylalanine (F) are replaced.
   51. The method of claim 45, wherein one or more phenylalanine residues of the a-helical
25     domain of the native membrane protein are replaced with tyrosine.

   WO 2012/116203                                                             PCT/US2012/026353
                                               -26
   52. The method of any one of claims 45 and 50, wherein one or more isoleucine and/or
       valine residues of the a-helical domain of the protein are replaced with threonine.
   53. The method of any one of claims 45 and 50, wherein one or more leucine residues of
       the a-helical domain of the native membrane protein are replaced with glutamine.
 5 54. The method of claim 45, wherein said native membrane protein is abnormally
       activated, up-regulated, or over-expressed in a disorder or disease.
   55. The method of claim 45, wherein the disease is cancer.
   56. The method of claim 55, wherein the cancer is small cell lung cancer.
   57. The method of claim 55, wherein the cancer is melanoma.
 0 58. The method of claim 55, wherein the cancer is breast cancer.
   59. The method of claim 45, wherein the disease is Parkinson's disease.
   60. The method of claim 45, wherein the disease is cardiovascular disease.
   61. The method of claim 45, wherein the disease is hypertension.
   62. The method of claim 45, wherein the disease is asthma.
 5
   63. The method of claim 45, wherein the native membrane protein is selected from the
       group comprising purinergic receptors (P2Yi, P2Y 2 , P2Y 4 , P2Y 6 ), Mi and M 3
       muscarinic acetylcholine receptors, receptors for thrombin [protease-activated
       receptor (PAR)-1, PAR-2], thromboxane (TXA2), sphingosine 1-phosphate (SIP 2 ,
20     S1P 3 , SIP 4 and SIP 5 ), lysophosphatidic acid (LPA 1 , LPA 2 , LPA 3), angiotensin II
       (AT1 ), serotonin (5-HT 2e and 5-HT 4), somatostatin (ssts), endothelin (ETA and ETB),
       cholecystokinin (CCK 1 ), Via vasopressin receptors, D5 dopamine receptors, fMLP
       formyl peptide receptors, GAL 2 galanin receptors, EP 3 prostanoid receptors, A1
       adenosine receptors, ai adrenergic receptors, BB 2 bombesin receptors, B 2 bradykinin
25     receptors, calcium-sensing receptors, chemokine receptors, KSHV-ORF74 chemokine
       receptors, NK 1 tachykinin receptors, thyroid-stimulating hormone (TSH) receptors,

   WO 2012/116203                                                          PCT/US2012/026353
                                               - 27
       protease-activated receptors, neuropeptide receptors, adenosine A2B receptors, P2Y
       purinoceptors, metabolic glutamate receptors, GRK5, GPCR-30, and CXCR4.
   64. The method of any one of claims 45 to 63, wherein said water-soluble polypeptide
       retains the activity of binding the ligand of the native membrane protein.
 5 65. The method of any one of claims 45 to 64, wherein said water-soluble polypeptide
       retains the ability to bind the ligand which normally binds to the native membrane
       protein.
   66. The method of any one of claims 45 to 65, wherein one or more amino acids within
       potential ligand binding sites are not replaced.
 0 67. The method of claim 45 wherein the mammal is a human.
   68. The method according to any of claims 45-67, wherein said hydrophobic amino acid
       is present in the hydrophilic face of the a-helical domain.
   69. The method according to any of claims 45-67, wherein said hydrophobic amino acid
       is present in the b, c or f position on a helical diagram.
 5 70. The method according to any of claims 19-29, wherein about 10% to about 100% of
       the hydrophobic amino acid residues present in the hydrophilic face of a-helical
       domain is replaced.
   71. The method according to claim 70, wherein at least about 15%, or about 25%, or
       about 50, or about 70% of the hydrophobic amino acid residues of the a-helical
20     domain is replaced.
   72. The method according to claim 70 or 71, wherein the helical content of the modified
       helical domain is at least about 30% or about 50% or about 7 5% or about 95% of the
       helical domain of the native protein.
   73. A method for producing a native ligand binding modified polypeptide of a
25     transmembrane protein comprising the step of replacing or mutating at least some of
       the hydrophobic amino acid residues by hydrophilic amino acid residues wherein said

   WO 2012/116203                                                           PCT/US2012/026353
                                              -28
       modified polypeptide retains at least some of the ligand binding properties of said
       transmembrane protein.
   74. A method for treating a disease or disorder mediated by ligand binding of a
       transmembrane protein comprising the step of administering a modified polypeptide
 5     wherein said polypeptide corresponds to a mutated amino acid sequence of said
       protein wherein transmembrane region of the sequence is modified so that at least
       some of the hydrophobic amino acid residues are replaced by hydrophilic amino acid
       residues.
   75. The method according to claim 73 or 74, wherein said transmembrane region is a
 0     helical.
   76. The method according to claim 73 or 74, wherein hydrophobic amino acid residues
       corresponding to at least one of b, c or f positions of the helical wheel is replaced by
       hydrophilic amino acid residues.
   77. The method according to claim 76, wherein said hydrophilic residues are selected
 5     from glutamine (Q), threonine (T), tyrosine (Y) and any combination thereof.
   78. The method according to claims 75 or 76, wherein said hydrophobic residues are
       selected from leucine (L), isoleucine (I), valine (V) and phenylalanine (F).
   79. The method according to any of claims 73-78, wherein said modified polypeptide
       retains ligand binding affinity of said transmembrane protein.
20 80. The method according to claim 79, wherein said ligand binding affinity of said
       polypeptide is substantially similar or better than the ligand binding affinity of said
       transmembrane protein.
   81. The method according to claim 79, wherein said ligand binding affinity of said
       polypeptide is about 10%, or about 20% or about 30% or about 40% or about 50% or
25     about 60% or about 70% or about 80% or about 90% of the ligand binding affinity of
       said transmembrane protein.

   WO 2012/116203                                                           PCT/US2012/026353
                                              -29
   82. The method according to any of claims 73-81, wherein said modified polypeptide is
       water soluble.
   83. The method according to any of claims 73-82, wherein said transmembrane protein is
       a G-protein coupled receptor (GPCR).
 5 84. The method according to any of claims 73-82, wherein said transmembrane protein is
       selected from purinergic receptors (P2Yi, P2Y 2 , P2Y 4 , P2Y 6 ), Mi and M 3 muscarinic
       acetylcholine receptors, receptors for thrombin [protease-activated receptor (PAR)- 1,
       PAR-2], thromboxane (TXA 2 ), sphingosine 1-phosphate (SIP 2, SIP 3 , SIP 4 and SIP 5 ),
       lysophosphatidic acid (LPA1 , LPA 2, LPA 3 ), angiotensin II (AT1 ), serotonin (5-HT 2e
 0     and 5-HT 4), somatostatin (ssts), endothelin (ETA and ETB), cholecystokinin (CCK1 ),
       Via vasopressin receptors, D5 dopamine receptors, fMLP formyl peptide receptors,
       GAL 2 galanin receptors, EP 3 prostanoid receptors, A1 adenosine receptors, ai
       adrenergic receptors, BB 2 bombesin receptors, B2 bradykinin receptors, calcium
       sensing receptors, chemokine receptors, KSHV-ORF74 chemokine receptors, NK 1
 5     tachykinin receptors, thyroid-stimulating hormone (TSH) receptors, protease
       activated receptors, neuropeptide receptors, adenosine A2B receptors, P2Y
       purinoceptors, metabolic glutamate receptors, GRK5, GPCR-30, and CXCR4.
   85. The method according to claim 84, wherein said modified polypeptide binds to the
       corresponding native ligand.
20 86. The method according to claim 84 or 85, wherein said modified polypeptide is
       CXCR4 QTY.
   87. The method according to any of claims 73-86, wherein said modified polypeptide is at
       least about 10% or about 20% or about 30% or about 40% or about 50% or about 60%
       or about 70% or about 80% or about 90% or about 100% or about 125% or about
25     150% or about 175% or about 200% or about 225% or about 250% or about 300%
       more water soluble than said transmembrane protein.
   88. The method according to any of claims 45-54 or 63-87, wherein said disease or
       disorder is selected from arthritis, lymphoma, non-small lung cancer, lung cancer,
       breast cancer, prostate cancer, multiple sclerosis, central nervous system

  WO 2012/116203                                                       PCT/US2012/026353
                                            - 30
      developmental disease, dementia, Parkinson's disease, Alzheimer's disease, tumor,
      fibroma, astrocytoma, myeloma, glioblastoma, an inflammatory disease, an organ
      transplantation rejection, or angiogenesis.
  89. A modified polypeptide produced by the method according to any of claims 83-87.
5 90. A pharmaceutical composition comprising an effective amount of a water-soluble
      polypeptide of any one of claims I to 9, 11 or 88, and a pharmaceutically acceptable
      diluent or carrier.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
