ABSTRACT
There is disclosed a locker for accommodating a bicycle in a secure manner at a
desired location. The locker comprising a plurality of substantially flat panel
members connectable together to form an enclosure into which the bicycle is
received. A door is hingedly mounted to an opening of the enclosure, said door
having a lock incorporated therein for securely retaining the bicycle within said
enclosure. At least one securing member configured to penetrate through an
inner surface of the enclosure and into a fixture at the desired location to secure
the locker to the desired location. A unique identifier code assigned to the locker
and remotely stored in an electronic database against one or more registered users
of the locker

1-60
               BICYCLE STORAGE SYSTEM AND METHOD
   RELATED APPLICATIONS
   The present application claims priority from Australian Provisional Patent
   Application No. <removed-apn> filed on 25 November 2016, the entire contents of
 5 which are incorporated herein by reference.
   FIELD OF INVENTION
   The present invention relates generally to a system and method for storing a
   bicycle in a secure and controlled manner, and in particular, to an industry based
   storage system that securely stores bicycles in a controlled manner that identifies
10 the value of the bicycle as both a personal and community asset.
   BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
   The provision of an efficient and environmentally sustainable transport network
   is a fundamental goal of any society. Governing bodies responsible for cities and
   municipalities spend much time and money in maintaining the infrastructure
1s required to maximise the efficient flow of vehicles, both private and commercial,
   to foster a healthy economy and general wellbeing of the constituents. Grid
   locked roads and failing infrastructure are all signs of an unhealthy economy and
   are to be avoided where possible.
   To avoid road congestion, most governing bodies seek to invest in public
20 transport in the form of buses, rail and light rail. This focusses on movement of
   large volumes of people within a single conveyance to share the traffic load on
   existing infrastructure. Such an investment has proven useful in reducing traffic
   congestion in peak periods of travel, but does little to offer any health benefits to
   the general population.
25 In recent times, much consideration has been given towards the benefits of
   exercise to public health, especially in reducing the strain on healthcare services
   and reducing obesity rates amongst the population. Fundamental to this
   consideration has been the push by governing bodies to look at ways in which
   public health and transportation issues can be addressed together, resulting in
30 many governing bodies investing in bicycle paths and other measures to assist
   people in using bicycles as an alternative mode of transport.
   With better access to roads and infrastructure, bicycle usage has become
   increasingly popular in most areas, as not only an alternative form of transport

   but an important exercise activity.        This popularity has resulted in bicycles
   becoming a popular and valuable asset for many, with the costs of some bicycles
   being significant, based on their design and purpose. In recent times, an
   investment in a bicycle can have a purchase price in the thousands of dollars
 5 range. As such, finance companies and insurance agencies identify the need to
   offer services in the supply of funds for purchasing and/or insuring bicycles.
   Naturally, with an increase in price of such bicycles, the risk of theft and damage
   can be considerable, especially in relation to replacement bicycles and repairs.
   Therefore, the provision of bicycles for use by the general population
10 incorporates a number of interested parties, all with different needs requiring
   attention. Retailers of bicycles see the financial benefit of selling more
   expensive bicycle models and the need for owners of such bicycles to protect the
   bicycle from theft and/or damage. Finance companies offering finance packages
   to purchase such bicycles see a need to protect their investment from theft and
15 damage, as do insurance agencies.           Governing bodies also see a need to
   encourage citizens to use bicycles as an alternative means of transport and
   thereby see the need to provide a secure means for storing the bicycle at or near
   the owner's place of work. Bicycle owners also see a need to provide more
   options to store their bicycle to prevent theft and damage. Most bicycle owners
20 with a valuable bicycle will seek to store their bicycle in their office, apartment
   or the like, rather than in dedicated bicycle storage areas in building basements
   and the like, as they view this as a more secure option. Similarly, building
   owners may wish for tenants or workers to avoid taking their bicycles in lifts or
   public places and see a need to provide a dedicated storage area for bicycles.
25 Whilst mass bicycle storage facilities or areas have been proposed for storing
   bicycles when not in use, most of these facilities have are exposed to weather and
   in open public spaces, resulting in individuals with valuable bicycles being
   reluctant to use such facilities for fear of theft or damage to their valuable
   possessions.
30 With a variety of different user groups seeking access to the same solution,
   namely a secure storage system for storing a bicycle, there is a need to provide
   such a system which is integrated and controlled to ensure that there is a
   consistency in the quality and type of storage system being used to store the
   bicycle to satisfy the needs of all user's.
35 The above references to and descriptions of prior proposals or products are not
   intended to be, and are not to be construed as, statements or admissions of

   common general knowledge in the art.          In particular, the following prior art
   discussion does not relate to what is commonly or well known by the person
   skilled in the art, but assists in the understanding of the inventive step of the
   present invention of which the identification of pertinent prior art proposals is but
 5 one part.
   STATEMENT OF INVENTION
   According to a first aspect, there is provided locker for accommodating a bicycle
   in a secure manner at a desired location comprising:
           a plurality of substantially flat panel members connectable together to
10         form an enclosure into which the bicycle is received;
           a door hingedly mounted to an opening of the enclosure, said door having
           a lock incorporated therein for securely retaining the bicycle within said
           enclosure;
           at least one securing member configured to penetrate through an inner
1s         surface of the enclosure and into a fixture at the desired location to secure
           the locker to the desired location; and
           a unique identifier code assigned to the locker and remotely stored in an
           electronic database against one or more registered users of the locker.
   In one embodiment, the plurality of substantially flat panel members are
20 deliverable to the desired location in a pack form for assembly. The panel
   members may be enclosed panel members such that when the enclosure is
   assembled and the door is closed, the bicycle received therein is concealed from
   view from outside of the locker.
   The lock of the door may be a three point lock activated by a key or combination.
25 The at least one securing member may comprises a bolt or retaining screw that is
   driven through the internal surface of the receptacle and into a wall or floor of
   the desired location.
   In one embodiment the assembled receptacle may store the bicycle in a
   substantially horizontal orientation. In another embodiment, the assembled
30 receptacle stores the bicycle in a substantially vertical orientation.           The
   assembled receptacle may be capable of storing more than one bicycle therein.
   In one embodiment, each of the assembled receptacles may be configured to
   represent a substantially rectangular configuration such that the locker members
   can be arranged in rows at the desired location.

   In another embodiment, each of the assembled receptacles may be configured to
   represent a substantially triangular configuration such that the locker members
   can be arranged in circular groups at the desired location. The substantially
   triangular configuration may comprise a pair of walls tapering together towards a
 5 point from the substantially planar door.
   The unique identifier code assigned to the locker may be stored against the
   registered user of the locker with a remotely accessible electronic database. The
   remotely accessible electronic database may be accessible by way of a distributed
   network. The remotely accessible electronic database may also store the location
10 of the locker member.
   One or more remote user groups may be able to access remotely accessible
   electronic database using the locker. The one or more remote user groups may
   include an insurance user group and a finance user group who access the
   remotely accessible electronic database to assess the registered user of the locker
15 in terms of finance and insurance suitability.
   According to another aspect, there is provided a system for supplying bicycle
   lockers to multiple user groups for facilitating the uptake of bicycle transport
   comprising:
           a supplier for supplying and installing said bicycle lockers for securely
20         housing a bicycle;
           a network based purchase system for purchasing bicycle lockers from the
           supplier and obtaining evidence of purchase; and
           multiple user groups, each group being accessible to the network to order
           one or more bicycle lockers for installation at a predetermined location for
25         securely housing an individual's bicycle.
       According to yet another aspect, there is provided a system for supplying
       bicycle lockers to multiple user groups for facilitating the uptake of bicycle
       transport comprising:
           a supplier for supplying and installing said bicycle lockers for securely
30         housing a bicycle;
           a network based supply system for supplying bicycle lockers from the
           supplier under a rental arrangement; and
           multiple user groups, each group being accessible to the network to order
           one or more bicycle lockers for installation at a predetermined location for
35         securely housing an individual's bicycle and for generating a revenue
           stream therefrom in return for a rental payment to the supplier.

   According to still yet another aspect, there is provided a method of supplying
   bicycle lockers to multiple user groups to facilitate the uptake of bicycle transport
   comprising:
 5        providing a centrally accessible supplier for receiving orders of bicycle
          lockers from a plurality of different user groups;
          supplying said bicycle lockers under a rental arrangement in a flat pack
          form for installation in accordance with the user groups requirements;
          each said user group renting the bicycle lockers to users under agreed
10        rental terms; and
          managing maintenance and upkeep of said bicycle lockers through a
          central IT management system maintained and hosted by the centrally
          accessible supplier.
15 BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
   The invention may be better understood from the following non-limiting
   description of preferred embodiments, in which:
          Fig. 1 is a diagram of a system for facilitating purchase and installation of
          a bicycle locker in accordance with an embodiment of the present
20        invention;
          Fig. 2 is a flow chart depicting a method for purchasing a bicycle using a
          locker as a means for securing insurance in accordance with an
          embodiment of the present invention;
          Fig. 3A - 3D depict various bicycle locker configurations available from
25        the supplier in accordance with a preferred embodiment of the present
          invention;
          Figs. 4A - 4H depict multiple steps for assembling a bicycle storage
          locker of Fig, 3C; and
          Fig. 5 depicts a flow chart showing the manner in which the business
30        model of the present invention can be employed.

   DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
   Preferred features of the present invention will now be described with particular
   reference to the accompanying drawings. However, it is to be understood that
   the features illustrated in and described with reference to the drawings are not to
 5 be construed as limiting on the scope of the invention.
   The system and method of the present invention will be described below in
   relation to its application for use across a variety of different user groups.
   However, it will be appreciated that the system and method of the present
   invention may also be applicable for other user groups not identified or other
1o individual users, as will be appreciated by those skilled in the art.
   Referring to Figure 1, an embodiment of a system 10 in accordance with the
   present invention is depicted. The system 10 will be referred to as a bicycle
   storage management system for purchase and delivery of bicycle storage lockers
   between a supplier and a number of interested user groups.
15 The system 10 generally includes a network 14 that facilitates communication
   between a storage locker supplier 11 and one or more remote user groups,
   namely a Retail user group 15, Government user group 16, Property user group
   17, Finance user group 18, Insurance user group 19, and Individual user group 20.
   The supplier 11 is depicted as comprising one or more host servers 13 that
20 communicate with the network 14 via wired or wireless communication, as will
   be appreciated by those skilled in the art. The one or more host servers 13 are
   configured to store a variety of information collected from the variety of user
   groups 15 - 20 and to take orders and facilitate delivery and ongoing
   management of all storage lockers in use. The supplier is also able to
25 communicate directly with one or more associated deliverers/installers 12, who
   are dedicated to deliver and/or install and maintain the storage lockers, as will be
   discussed in more detail below.
   The host servers 13 are also able to house multiple databases necessary for the
   operation of the methods and systems of the present invention and for the storage
30 of information collected from each of the user groups. The servers 13 may
   comprise any of a number of servers known to those skilled in the art and are
   intended to be operably connected to the network 14 so as to operably link to the
   plurality of remote user groups 15 - 20. The servers 13 typically include a central
   processing unit or CPU that includes one or more microprocessors and memory
35 operably connected to the CPU. The memory can include any combination of

   random access memory (RAM), a storage medium such as a magnetic hard disk
   drive(s) and the like.
   In a preferred embodiment, the distributed computing network 14 is the internet
   or a dedicated mobile or cellular network in combination with the internet, such
 5 as a GSM, CDMA or WCDMA network. Other types of networks such as an
   intranet, an extranet, a virtual private network (VPN) and non-TCP/IP based
   networks are also envisaged.
   Each of the user groups 15 - 20 may communicate with the supplier 11 over the
   network 14 in the form of a smart phone, Personal Digital Assistant (PDA),
10 tablet, computer or the like, having a software application that enables the user
   groups 15 - 20 to order, revise and monitor any bicycle storage lockers under
   their control. The user groups 15 - 20 may also be configured such that they are
   able to communicate with the supplier 11 via a mobile web browser thereby
   obviating the need to download software for this purpose.
15 The deliverer/installer unit 12 is closely associated with the supplier 11 and
   generally comprise individuals carrying hand held devices, such as smart phones,
   having a software application loaded therein to facilitate tracking and monitoring
   of bicycle storage lockers. Each of the hand held devices may communicate with
   a dedicated computer system or server to record the data in real time, which can
20 be accessed by the servers 13 of the supplier to provide regular updates to all user
   groups 15 - 20 of the location of bicycle storage lockers installed by the
   delivery/installer unit 12. The supplier 11 is then able to constantly track the
   location and condition of the bicycle storage lockers and each of the user groups
   15 - 20 are able to monitor their own bicycle storage lockers via the supplier 11.
25 As previously discussed, the memory of the servers 13 of the supplier 11 may be
   used for storing an operating system, databases, software applications and the
   like for execution on the CPU. As will be discussed in more detail below, in a
   preferred embodiment the database stores data relating to each registered user of
   a user group 15 - 20, as well as information relating to purchases/sales made by
30 each member and the status of any deliveries or installations of bicycle lockers.
   In this regard, the host servers 13 of the supplier 11 may be configured to
   facilitate and manage rental arrangements of individual storage lockers for each
   user group and facilitate collection of rental payments as well as reimbursements
   of any incentives to user groups, as determined by the relationship between the
35 supplier and each individual user group.
   As discussed above, each user group 15 - 20, is connected to the network 14 by

   way of an electronic device. In an embodiment, the electronic device stores one
   or more programs that include executable code to facilitate operation of a
   software application or "app", which is configured to provide an interface
   between the user's device and the host supplier 11. Such an arrangement enables
 5 ongoing communication of each user group 15 -20 with the supplier 11.
   Each of the user groups 15 - 20 are able to independently access the supplier 11
   and order bicycle lockers in accordance with their needs. In some embodiments,
   two or more user groups may jointly access the supplier to order and purchase
   bicycle lockers, as will be described in more detail below.
10 User group 15 comprises retail outlets that function to sell bicycles to users via a
   conventional retail model. In recent times, retail outlets have suffered from a
   drop in the number of bicycle sales, due to an increase in the availability of on
   line based retailers. As a result, most bicycle retail stores also provide
   maintenance and repair services for servicing and repairing bicycles. Thus, the
1s ability to sell bicycle lockers as part of their overall stock offers a new revenue
   stream that is welcomed by most retail outlets in the retail user group 15.
   In this regard, a retail outlet may offer a bicycle locker as an additional
   transaction item, or in some instances, may offer a deal for a bicycle and a
   bicycle locker as a combined sale item. For some bicycle sales, particularly those
20 that are expensive, the retailer 15 may offer insurance and finance packages to
   the user as part of the overall transaction. By including a bicycle locker as part of
   this transaction, the insurance agency is able to readily appreciate that the bicycle
   will be stored in a secure locker when not in use and can offer discounts to the
   buyer on that basis, as can any financier providing finance for such a purchase.
25 In this regard, Fig. 2 depicts a method 20 of facilitating a sale transaction at a
   retail outlet in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention.
   In step 21, the buyer makes a purchase decision on a bicycle offered by the
   retailer.
   In step 22, the retailer offers the buyer an option to purchase a locker to store the
30 bicycle when not in use.
   If the buyer wishes to purchase the locker, in step 23 the retailer, via their
   software application, contacts the storage locker supplier 11 and makes an order
   to purchase a locker and provides the supplier with details of the bicycle being
   purchased and the address of the buyer or preferred site of installation. The

   supplier 11 can then contact the installer 12 and deliver a locker to the buyer's
   delivery address and if requested, install the locker for use. As will be discussed
   in more detail below, each of the individual lockers are configured to be sold
   and/or delivered in flat pack form, such that they can be assembled as a Do-It
 5 Yourself (DIY) product by the individual buyer, or can be assembled by a
   support person as part of the retail user group 15.
   Once purchased, in step 24 the supplier 11 provides the retailer with details of the
   locker, typically a unique identification number that the buyer retains for future
   reference.
10 In step 25 the retailer may, depending on the price of the bicycle, offer the buyer
   bicycle insurance to cover any potential theft or damage of the bicycle. If the
   buyer wishes to purchase insurance, in step 26 the retailer will contact the
   insurance agency and provide them with details of the purchase, including the
   details of any locker purchased by the buyer in step 23. If the retailer provides
15 the insurance agency with locker details in 26, the insurance agency may check
   with the supplier 11 to confirm the purchase and offer a discount to the buyer
   based on the purchase of the locker. A quote is then provided to the buyer in step
   27.
   In step 28, the buyer purchases the bicycle and any storage locker or insurance as
20 part of the transaction. Alternatively, the buyer may pay for the insurance quote
   at a later date.
   It will be appreciated that by providing a storage locker facility as part of the
   bicycle purchase, the buyer can be rewarded for taking such a security measure
   through reduced insurance premiums. Furthermore, the buyer is able to leave the
25 retail store with a storage locker suitable for their bicycle and install that locker
   themselves or have the locker installed by an authorised installation team. In
   some instances the retail outlet may store storage lockers for direct purchase. In
   such instances the buyer will need to install the storage locker themselves or the
   retail outlet may provide an installation service as part of their extended service
30 offering.
   For governing bodies 16, storage lockers can be simply purchased from the
   supplier 11 and installed in dedicated public places, in accordance with demand
   and public policy requirements. This can be done after an assessment has been
   made by the governing body of the most suitable site for storing the storage
35 lockers. This could be managed to ensure that bicycle travel is promoted in areas
   where traffic congestion is high to meet the political agendas and to create a

   bicycle friendly area. After purchase, the governing body 16 may assign or rent
   the storage locker out to users through a hire system provided by the supplier 11
   or via the governing bodies own on-line resources. The supplier 11 can continue
   to monitor and service the storage lockers after purchase and correspond with the
 5 governing body in the event of replacement requirements or damage/malfunction.
   Such a system for providing secure bicycle storage facilities enables governing
   bodies to make a commitment to cyclists by offering a convenient and secure
   storage facility whilst generating cost recovery services and outsourcing
   management and maintenance to the supplier.
10 Similarly, a property developer and building owner user group 17, including
   office or residential building owners, are able to order bicycle lockers and have
   them installed through the supplier 11. Building owners 17 are able to respond to
   the needs of their tenants or occupants by providing secure yet accessible bicycle
   storage in basements or other dedicated areas. By providing such a facility,
1s tenancy of the building can be maximised, and underground space can be simply
   and effectively converted to accommodate multiple storage lockers as desired.
   Users may be assigned a key or security pass to access their bicycle lockers to
   store their bicycles, without having to store them in their apartments or in office
   spaces. The ability to purchase bicycle lockers from the supplier and have them
20 installed as required enables building owners the flexibility to add or subtract
   storage space in accordance with demand, and enables employers, who may be
   tenants of the office space, the ability to provide an incentive to their workers to
   use their bicycle to improve their health by providing them with such a secure
   storage facility, without the bicycle requiring storage in offices and the like,
25 which can be untidy, and soil carpets and the like
   The Finance user group 18 can also benefit from the system of the present
   invention through using the system as a means for securing their investment. As
   previously discussed in relation to Fig. 2, as part of providing financial support to
   buyers to purchase a bicycle, a financial institution can provide incentives to the
30 buyer to purchase a bicycle locker as part of the process to reduce payment rates
   or sales price. As with the insurance user group 19, this process can be combined
   with the Retail user group as part of the process for purchasing a bicycle.
   Individual users 20 can also deal directly with the supplier 11 to purchase and
   install bicycle lockers, via the network interface. This enables users with existing
35 bicycles to purchase lockers for their requirements. Often, individual users have
   invested significantly in their bicycle and seek to store their bicycle in a secure
   environment within their house or apartment. Whilst this is understandable, it is

   often the source of household tension as bicycles are rather large items to store
   and their presence in a spare room or the like is not desirable. Therefore, by
   purchasing a storage locker from the supplier 11, this will provide the individual
   with an ability to install the storage locker in a garage or similar location which is
 5 out of sight and securable with a unique identification code for their locker which
   they can use for insurance purposes and which is stored in a remote database to
   maintain a record of the purchase and use of the locker. As the security locker
   comes in a flat pack form, the individual 20 can install the locker at their home or
   at their work place, or at any other location deemed appropriate.
10 It will be appreciated that the bicycle lockers provide an enclosure which not
   only securely retains the bicycle in location, but which also removes the bicycle
   from sight of potential thieves. Therefore, by providing such lockers in
   convenient locations a user is able to use their bicycle more easily without fear of
   theft or damage when not in use.
15 Referring to Figs. 3A - 3D, four different types of storage lockers are depicted.
   Fig. 3A depicts a single vertical locker 30 whereby a bicycle is to be placed into
   the locker in a vertical orientation. Fig. 2B depicts a tapered horizontal locker 32
   which receives the bicycle therein in a horizontal manner but which has angled
   sides that enable multiple lockers 32 to be located side by side in a circular
20 manner. Fig. 3C depicts a single horizontal locker 33 which receives the bicycle
   in a horizontal manner, and Fig. 34 depicts a double horizontal locker that is able
   to accommodate two bicycles in a horizontal manner.
   As previously discussed, each of the lockers 30, 32, 33, 34 are configured to be
   delivered in a flat pack form and assembled for use. The various parts are to be
25 made from a durable metal, preferably steel, and are mounted together by way of
   a set of bolt members receivable within preconfigured holes formed in the metal.
   The bolt members are configured such that the pieces can be simply assembled as
   shown as parts 33a - 33h in Figs. 4A - 4H. When assembled, the lockers 30, 32,
   33 and 34 can be mounted to a fixed structure, such as a wall or floor of a
30 building of the like, by way of screw or bolt members that penetrate the inside
   walls of the lockers and embed within the fixed structure such that they are not
   easily removed once installed. The lockers may each be locked by way of a flush
   mounted three point lock with a key or a combination code.
   It will be appreciated that the system of the present invention offers alignment
35 opportunity with the insurers user group 19, financier user group 18 and Bike
   Store Retail user group 15 to market and secure the luxury investment in the

   bicycle, with the locker as the facilitator. Similarly, for Governments, the present
   invention offers the opportunity to assist infrastructure programs to facilitate
   traffic congestion with population growth concurrently to assist forecast plans
   (eg. Bike lane infrastructure). The lockers can be used as a storage facility to
 5 encourage users to ride their bicycles with the knowledge that their bicycle will
   be safely and securely stored at their destination to provide a 'secure and
   enclosed' storage option with peace of mind. This offers governments a revenue
   opportunity as well as an opportunity to deliver the stimulus of change behaviour
   that is so often pursued by government bodies. This channel will open and
10 encourage this concept to be leveraged as a revenue option to strata's/office
   facilities/privately owned inner city car parks and potentially railway stations to
   deliver similar objectives.
   Figure 5 depicts a rent or purchase method possible with the distribution system
   depicted in Fig. 1. This method is able to focus on each of the user groups such
15 that the supplier 11 is able to have an agreement with each of the groups as
   depicted and facilitate database access to each of the user groups to the IT
   management system stored in the server of the supplier 11.
   For the building owner/real estate agent user group 17, an agreement may be
   established between the members and the supplier 11 to enable the user group 17
20 to rent the lockers from the supplier 11 in return for a rebate or commission from
   the supplier 11. This will enable the members of the building owner user group
   17 to generate a revenue stream from the users of the lockers based on rental of
   the lockers they have installed in their buildings. They are able to manage this
   through the supplier host IP management system which provides a means for
25 management of all the rental payments.
   Similarly, for retail bicycle outlet user groups 15, finance user groups 18 and
   insurance use groups 19, these groups can also facilitate rental or purchase of the
   individual lockers to the users who require this product. Each time they facilitate
   a rental or purchase, the supplier can provide a rebate or commission and
30 provides an ability for those user groups to facilitate management of the rental
   system through the supplier host IT management system served in the server 13.
   The same rebate system can be arranged with the government user group 16,
   whereby the supplier provides a means to facilitate a rebate for each locker
   purchased or rented through the government agency and to enable that
35 government agency to generate a continual revenue stream by managing rental
   payments through the supplier's host IP Management system.

   It will be appreciated that such an arrangement enables each of the user groups to
   set rental rates for their patrons in accordance with their specific circumstances.
   Depending upon the agreement in place, once orders have been made by the user
   groups, the host server 11 is able to facilitate the transaction by arranging
 5 delivery/installation in accordance with the needs of each of the user groups.
   It will be appreciated that by providing a locker that is able to be flat packed and
   self-assembled, various user groups from carpark or apartment owners through to
   local councils are able to access and install the lockers where required and rent
   these spaces to users in return for an annuity payment. This enables the lockers to
10 become a revenue stream for multiple user groups whilst also fulfilling the need
   to provide accessible bicycle lockers for the general population, based on
   demand.
   Throughout the specification and claims the word "comprise" and its derivatives
   are intended to have an inclusive rather than exclusive meaning unless the
15 contrary is expressly stated or the context requires otherwise. That is, the word
   "comprise" and its derivatives will be taken to indicate the inclusion of not only
   the listed components, steps or features that it directly references, but also other
   components, steps or features not specifically listed, unless the contrary is
   expressly stated or the context requires otherwise.
20 It will be appreciated by those skilled in the art that many modifications and
   variations may be made to the methods of the invention described herein without
   departing from the spirit and scope of the invention.

   The Claims defining the invention are as follows:
   1.    A locker for accommodating a bicycle in a secure manner at a desired
         location comprising:
         a plurality of substantially flat panel members connectable together to form
 5       an enclosure into which the bicycle is received;
         a door hingedly mounted to an opening of the enclosure, said door having
         a lock incorporated therein for securely retaining the bicycle within said
         enclosure;
         at least one securing member configured to penetrate through an inner
10       surface of the enclosure and into a fixture at the desired location to secure
         the locker to the desired location; and
         a unique identifier code assigned to the locker and remotely stored in an
         electronic database against one or more registered users of the locker.
   2.    A locker according to claim 1, wherein the plurality of substantially flat
15       panel members are deliverable to the desired location in a pack form for
         assembly.
   3.    A locker member according to claim 2, wherein the panel members are
         enclosed panel members such that when the enclosure is assembled and the
         door is closed, the bicycle received therein is concealed from view from
20       outside of the locker.
   4.    A locker member according to claim 1, wherein the lock of the door is a
         three point lock activated by a key or combination.
   5.    A locker member according to claim 1, wherein the at least one securing
         member comprises a bolt or retaining screw that is driven through the
25       internal surface of the receptacle and into a wall or floor of the desired
         location;
   6.    A locker member according to claim 1, wherein the assembled receptacle
         stores the bicycle in a substantially horizontal orientation.
   7.    A locker member according to claim 1, wherein the assembled receptacle
30       stores the bicycle in a substantially vertical orientation.
   8.    A locker member according to claim 6 or claim 7, wherein the assembled
         receptacle is capable of storing more than one bicycles.
   9.    A locker member according to claim 1, wherein each of the assembled
         receptacles are configured to represent a substantially rectangular

       configuration such that the locker members can be arranged in rows at the
       desired location.
   10. A locker member according to claim 9, wherein each of the assembled
       receptacles are configured to represent a substantially triangular
 5     configuration such that the locker members can be arranged in circular
       groups at the desired location.
   11. A locker member according to claim 10, wherein the substantially
       triangular configuration comprises a pair of walls tapering together towards
       a point from the substantially planar door.
10 12. A locker member according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein the
       unique identifier code assigned to the locker is stored against the registered
       user of the locker with a remotely accessible electronic database.
   13. A locker member according to claim 12, wherein the remotely accessible
       electronic database is accessible by way of a distributed network.
15 14. A locker member according to claim 12, wherein the remotely accessible
       electronic database also stores the location of the locker member.
   15. A locker member according to claim 14, wherein one or more remote user
       groups are able to access remotely accessible electronic database using the
       locker.
20 16. A locker member according to claim 15, wherein the one or more remote
       user groups includes an insurance user group and a finance user group who
       access the remotely accessible electronic database to assess the registered
       user of the locker in terms of finance and insurance suitability.
   17. A system for supplying bicycle lockers to multiple user groups for
25     facilitating the uptake of bicycle transport comprising:
       a supplier for supplying and installing said bicycle lockers for securely
       housing a bicycle;
       a network based purchase system for purchasing bicycle lockers from the
       supplier and obtaining evidence of purchase; and
30     multiple user groups, each group being accessible to the network to order
       one or more bicycle lockers for installation at a predetermined location for
       securely housing an individual's bicycle.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
