                             - 84
   ABSTRACT
        The present invention relates to a method for
   accessing video programs over an Internet link.   The
   method comprises receiving a plurality of video programs
 5 with user television equipment.  The user television
   equipment outputs to a first display device, and the user
   television equipment is located at user site.   The method
   involves providing the user with the opportunity to
   select a video program from the plurality of video
10 programs over the Internet link using a remote access
   device. The remote access device outputs to a second
   display device which is different from the first display
   device. The remote access device is remote from the user
   television equipment. The remote access device
15 communicates with the user television equipment over the
   Internet link. The method also comprises in response to
   receiving, at the user television equipment, a user
   selection of the video program from the remote access
   device over the Internet link, directing the user
20 television equipment to access the video program. The
   method further involves providing, from the user
   television equipment, the selected video program over the
   Internet link to the remote access device for output to
   the second display. Providing the user with the
25 opportunity to select a video program from the plurality
   of video programs over the Internet link using the remote
   access device further comprises receiving a generated

                            -  85
  television guide screen that   identifies at least one
  video program; providing the generated television guide
  screen to the remote access device over the   Internet
  link; and receiving a user selection of the at least one
5 video program from the remote access device.

                                              -  la
                        INTERACTIVE TELEVISION PROGRAM
                              GUIDE WITH REMOTE ACCESS
   Background of the Invention
            Mere   reference         to   background           art     herein        should     not
 5 be    construed      as      an   admission          that     such      art     constitutes
   common general knowledge in relation to the invention.
            This    invention          relates         to    interactive              television
   program      guide     video        systems,        and     more      particularly,           to
   interactive television program guide systems that provide
10 remote access to program guide functionality.
            Cable,    satellite,          and      broadcast         television           systems
   provide       viewers          with     a      large       number          of      television
   channels.          Users        have     traditionally              consulted          printed
   television        program        schedules          to    determine           the    programs
15 being      broadcast        at    a   particular           time.          More      recently,
   interactive         electronic           television            program         guides       have
   been developed           that     allow      television          program         information
   to be displayed on a user's television.
            Interactive         television program guides allow the user
20 to navigate through television program

                                -2
     listings using a remote control.   In a typical program
     guide, various groups  of television program listings
     are displayed in predefined or user-defined categories,
     Listings are typically displayed in a grid or table.
  5            Interactive  television program guides are
     typically implemented on set-top boxes located in
                                                        the
     homes of users.  A typical set-top box is connected to
     the user's television and videocassette recorder.
                                                          The
    program guide system   is therefore not portable.  As a
 10  result, the user cannot use the program guide to adjust
    program reminder settings, to select programs for
     recording, to purchase pay-per-view programs, or
                                                       to
    perform other program guide functions without that user
    being physically located in the same room in the home.
15             On-line program guides allow users to view
    program listings using a web-browser.    However, the on
    line program guides that are available on the Internet
    do not provide the versatility of in-home program
    guides.   For example, on-line program guides do not
20  allow the user to set in-home reminders for
    programming, to adjust parental control settings, or
                                                            to
    select programs for recording on the user's
    videocassette recorder.
               On-line program guides have also been
25  implemented that allow users to order pay-per-view
    programs.   Such systems allow users  to order programs
    via a web server as opposed to via the telephone or
    using impulse ordering.    A third party takes orders via
    the internet, bills the user, and provides ordering
30  information to the headend. The headend authorizes the
    user's set-top to view the ordered program using
    conventional signal denial or signal scrambling systems
    without coordinating the ordering of the pay-per-view

                                -   3
    program with an in-home guide.      Ordering pay-per-view
    programs in this manner (i.e., without coordinating the
    order with an in-home guide),     does not provide users
    with many of the benefits of ordering pay-per-views
  5 through an in-home guide,     such as upcoming program
    reminders   or missed program reminders.     Users are also
    not prevented from attempting to order      a pay-per-view
    program with a guide after the program has been
    ordered.
10              Program guides that run on personal computers
     are also available.    Such programs g-uides are useful
     for users who wish to view program listings
     information,  but who cannot readily access their set
     top-box-based program guide.      For example,   another
15   member of the user's household may be watching
     television and therefore dominating the use of the set
     top box and television.      Because there is no way for
     the user of such a personal computer program guide to
     coordinate the operation of the personal computer
 20  program guide with the operation of the set-top box
     program guide,   the user of a personal    computer program
      guide is not able to use the personal     computer program
      guide to set in-home reminders for programming,       to
      adjust parental control settings,     to select programs
 25   for recording on the user's videocassette recorder,        or
      to purchase pay-per-view programs.
                 PCT Application Publication No.     WO 98/16062,
      published April 16,   1998,  describes a  system in   which a
      remote control having a display provides and electronic
 30   program guide.    PCT Application Publication No.     WO
      98/17064 describes a system that provides Internet data
      by encoding a universal resource locator      (URL)  in  a
      television signal.    PCT Application Publication No.

   WO 97/50251 describes an electronic program guide system
   that provides pop-up hints.
        Presently existing program guide systems therefore
   require that the user be physically present in the home
 5 to access important program guide features such as
   program reminders, parental control, and program
   recording.
                    Summary of the Invention
10      According to one aspect of the present invention,
   there is provided a method for accessing video programs
   over an Internet link, the method comprising:
        receiving a plurality of video programs with user
   television equipment, wherein the user television
15 equipment outputs to a first display device, and the user
   television equipment is located at user site;
        providing the user with the opportunity to select a
   video program from the plurality of video programs over
   the Internet link using a remote access device, wherein:
20      the remote access device outputs to a second display
   device which is different from the first display device;
        the remote access device is remote from the user
   television equipment; and the remote access device
   communicates with the user television equipment over the
25 Internet link;
        in response to receiving, at the user television
   equipment, a user selection of the video program from the
   remote access device over the Internet link, directing

                             -  5
   the user television equipment to access the video
   program; and
        providing, from the user television equipment, the
   selected video program over the Internet link to the
 5 remote access device for output to the second display;
        wherein providing the user with the opportunity to
   select a video program from the plurality of video
   programs over the Internet link using the remote access
   device further comprises:
10      receiving a generated television guide screen that
   identifies at least one video program;
        providing the generated television guide screen to
   the remote access device over the Internet link;  and
        receiving a user selection of the at least one video
15 program from the remote access device.
        According to another aspect of the present
   invention, there is provided a method for accessing a
   video program over an Internet link, the method
20 comprising:
        receiving, at a remote access device, a television
   guide screen generated by a user television equipment
   over the Internet link, wherein:
        the user television equipment outputs to a first
25 display device and the user television equipment  is
   located at user site;

                              - 6
        the remote access device is remote from the user
   television equipment;  and
        the remote access device communicates with the user
   television equipment over the Internet link;
 5      displaying on a second display device of the remote
   access device the television guide screen that is
   received from the user television equipment over the
   Internet link, wherein the second display device is
   different from the first display device;
10      receiving a user selection of a channel for viewing
   with a remote access device based on the television guide
   screen displayed on the  second display device;
        transmitting, from the remote access device, an
   instruction over the Internet link to the user television
15 equipment to tune to the selected channel;
        receiving, at the remote access device, from the
   user television equipment video of the  selected channel
   over the Internet link;  and
        displaying the video of the selected channel
20 received from the user television equipment over the
   Internet link on the second display device of the remote
   access device.
        According to another aspect of the present
25 invention, there is provided a method for providing a
   video program to a remote access device over an  Internet
   link, the method comprising:

                              - 6a
        providing, to a remote access device, a television
   guide screen generated by user television equipment over
   the Internet link, wherein:
        the user television equipment outputs to a first
 5 display device and the user television equipment  is
   located at user site,
        the remote access device is remote from the user
   television equipment;  and the remote access device
   communicates with the user television equipment over the
10 Internet link, wherein the remote access device outputs
   to a second display device which is different from the
   first display device;
        receiving, at the remote access device, a user
   selection of a channel  for viewing from the television
15 guide screen being displayed on the second display
   device;
        receiving, at the user television equipment, the
   user selection of a channel  for viewing from the remote
   access device over the  Internet link;
20      tuning the user television equipment to the  selected
   channel; and
        transmitting, from the user television equipment,
   video corresponding to the selected channel to the remote
   access device over the  Internet link.
25
        According to another aspect of the present
   invention, there is provided a method for accessing a

                              - 6b
         video program over an Internet link, the method
   comprising:
         transmitting, with control circuitry to a remote
   access device over an Internet link a video guide screen;
 5       receiving, with the control circuitry from the
   remote access device over an Internet link, a user
   selection of the video program based on the video guide
   screen being displayed on a second display device,
   wherein:
10       the control circuitry is coupled to a device that
   outputs to a first display device and the remote access
   device outputs to a second display device which is
   different from the  first display device, wherein the
   control circuitry and the device are located at user
15 site;
         the remote access device is remote from the control
   circuitry;  and
         the remote access device communicates with the
   control circuitry over the Internet link;
20       in response to receiving the user selection of the
   video program with the control circuitry, directing the
   device to access the video program;  and
         transmitting the selected video program that is
   accessed to the remote access device over the Internet
25 link for output to the second display device.

                             -  6c
        According to another aspect of the present
   invention, there is provided a method for accessing a
   video program over an Internet link, the method
 5 comprising:
        receiving, at a remote access device over the
   Internet link, a video guide screen generated using
   control circuitry, wherein:
        the control circuitry is coupled to a device that
10 outputs to a first display device, wherein the control
   circuitry and the device are   located at user site;
        the remote access device is remote from the control
   circuitry;  and
        the remote access device communicates with the
15 control circuitry over the Internet link;
        displaying on a second display device of the remote
   access device the video guide screen that is received
   from the control circuitry over the Internet link,
   wherein the second display device is different from the
20 first display device;
        receiving a user selection of a channel for viewing
   with a remote access device based on the video guide
   screen being displayed on the second display device;
        transmitting, from the remote access device, an
25 instruction over the Internet link to the control
   circuitry to tune to the selected channel in response to
   the user selection of a channel for viewing;

                             -  6d
        receiving, at the remote access device from the
   control circuitry, video corresponding to the selected
   channel over the Internet link;  and
 5      displaying the video corresponding to the selected
   channel on the second display device of the remote access
   device.
        According to another aspect of the present
10 invention, there is provided a method for providing a
   video program to a remote access device over an  Internet
   link, the method comprising:
        transmitting, from control circuitry to a remote
   access device over the Internet link, a video guide
15 screen generated by the control circuitry, wherein:
        the control circuitry is coupled to a device that
   outputs to a first display device, wherein the control
   circuitry and the device are  located at user site;
        the remote access device is remote from the control
20 circuitry;
        the remote access device outputs to a second display
   device which is different from the first display device;
   and
        the remote access device communicates with the
25 control circuitry over the Internet link;
        receiving, with the control circuitry over the
   Internet link, a user selection of a channel for viewing

                             - 6e
        from the remote access device based on the video
   guide screen being displayed on the second display
   device;
        using the control circuitry to tune to the selected
 5 channel; and
        transmitting, over the Internet link, video
   corresponding to the selected channel from the control
   circuitry to the remote access device for display on the
   second display device.
10
        According to another aspect of the present
   invention, there is provided a method for accessing an
   interactive program guide over an Internet link, the
   method comprising:
15      generating, with control circuitry, a first
   interactive program guide screen of the interactive
   program guide implemented using the control circuitry,
   for displaying a plurality of program identifiers,
   wherein the control circuitry is located at user site;
20      transmitting, over the Internet link, from the
   control circuitry to a remote access device the  first
   interactive program guide screen for display on the
   remote access device, wherein:
        the control circuitry is coupled to a first display
25 device screen;

                             - 6f
        the remote access device outputs to a second display
   device which is different from the first display device;
   and
 5      the remote access device communicates with the
   control circuitry over the Internet link;
        receiving, with the control circuitry, a user
   command corresponding to a selection of a function of the
   interactive program guide over the Internet link from the
10 remote access device based on the first interactive
   program guide screen;
        in response to receiving the user command with the
   control circuitry from the remote access device,
   directing the control circuitry to generate a second
15 interactive program guide screen corresponding to the
   selected function of the interactive program guide;  and
        transmitting, over the Internet link, from the
   control circuitry to the remote access device the second
   interactive program guide screen for display on the
20 second display device of the remote access device;
        in response to receiving a selection of a video
   program from the second interactive program guide screen,
   instructing the control circuitry to access the selected
   video program; and
25      transmitting the accessed video program over the
   Internet link for display on the second display device.

                              - 6g
         According to another aspect of the present
   invention, there is provided a method for accessing an
   interactive program guide over an Internet link,
 5 comprising:
         receiving, with a remote access device over the
   Internet link, a first interactive program guide screen
   of the interactive program guide implemented using
   control circuitry, wherein:
10       the first interactive program guide screen is
   generated using the control circuitry the control
   circuitry is coupled to a first display device, wherein
   the control circuitry is  located at user site;
         the remote access device communicates with the
15 control circuitry over the Internet link;  and
         the remote access device outputs to a second display
   device which is different from the first display device;
         displaying, on the remote access device, the first
   interactive program guide screen received from the
20 control circuitry over the Internet link;
         receiving a user command over the Internet link
   corresponding to a selection of a function of the
   interactive program guide with the remote access device
   based on the  first interactive program guide screen that
25 is received from the control circuitry over the  Internet
   link;

                             - 6h
        transmitting, from the remote access device, an
   instruction over the Internet link to the control
   circuitry to cause the control circuitry to generate a
 5 second interactive program guide screen of the
   interactive program guide corresponding to the selected
   function of the interactive program guide;
        receiving, over the Internet link, the second
   interactive program guide screen with the remote access
10 device from the control circuitry; and
        displaying, on the second display device of the
   remote access device, the second interactive program
   guide screen that is received from the control circuitry
   over the Internet link;
15      in response to receiving a selection of a video
   program from the second interactive program guide screen,
   instructing the control circuitry to access the selected
   video program; and
        transmitting the accessed video program over the
20 Internet link for display on the second display device.
        According to another aspect of the present
   invention, there is provided a method for providing an
   interactive program guide to a remote access device over
25 an Internet link, the method comprising:
        transmitting, from control circuitry over the
   Internet link to the remote access device, a first

                             - 6i
        interactive program guide screen of the interactive
   program guide implemented using the control circuitry,
   wherein the first interactive program guide screen is
   generated using the control circuitry, the control
 5 circuitry is located at user site, and wherein the remote
   access device communicates with the control circuitry
   over the Internet link;
        receiving, with the control circuitry from the
   remote access device over the Internet link, a user
10 command corresponding to a selection of a function of the
   interactive program guide based on the  first interactive
   program guide screen, wherein the control circuitry is
   coupled to a first display device and the remote access
   device outputs to a second display device which is
15 different from the first display device;  and
        in response to receiving the user command with the
   control circuitry, generating a second interactive
   program guide screen corresponding to the selected
   function of the interactive program guide;  and
20      transmitting, from the control circuitry over the
   Internet link to the remote access device, the second
   interactive program guide screen for display on the
   second display device of the remote access device;
        in response to receiving a selection of a video
25 program from the second interactive program guide screen,
   instructing the control circuitry to access the selected
   video program; and

                             -  6j
        transmitting the accessed video program over the
   Internet link for display on the second display device.
 5      According to another aspect of the present
   invention, there is provided a method for accessing video
   programs over an Internet link, the method comprising:
        receiving a plurality of video programs with
   electronic user equipment, wherein the electronic user
10 equipment outputs to a first electronic display device,
   and wherein the electronic user equipment and the first
   electronic display device are located at a first same
   location within a user home;
        receiving by the electronic user equipment, over the
15 Internet link from processing circuitry, a communication
   indicative of a video program selected by a user, wherein
   the processing circuitry:
        outputs to a second electronic display device which
   is different from the first electronic display device,
20 wherein the processing circuitry and the second
   electronic display device are located at a second same
   location remote from the first same location;
        generates a display of a screen of a guide, wherein
   the screen of the guide comprises a plurality of
25 interactive video program listings that identifies the
   plurality of video programs, wherein the display is
   generated based on guide information from the electronic

                              - 6k
        user equipment and received by the processing
   circuitry over the  Internet link;
        receives the user selection of the video program,
   wherein the user selects the video program by selecting
 5 an interactive video program listing that is displayed,
   by the guide, on the second electronic display device;
   and
        generates the communication based on the user
   selection of the interactive video program listing that
10 is displayed, by the guide, on the second electronic
   display device;
        accessing the video program with the electronic user
   equipment  in response to receiving the communication by
   at least one of tuning to a channel of the video program
15 with the electronic user equipment and retrieving the
   video program previously selected by the user for
   recording;  and
        transmitting, from the electronic user equipment,
   the selected video program over the Internet link to the
20 processing circuitry.
        According to another aspect of the present
   invention, there is provided a method for accessing video
   programs over an Internet link, the method comprising:
25      receiving a plurality of video programs with
   electronic user equipment that outputs to a first
   electronic display device, the electronic user equipment

                              -  61
          and the first electronic display device being
   located at a first same location within a user home;
         receiving by the electronic user equipment, over the
   Internet link from processing circuitry, a communication
 5 indicative of a video program selected by a user, wherein
   the processing circuitry:
         outputs to a second electronic display device,
   wherein the processing circuitry and the second
   electronic display device are located at a second same
10 location remote from the first same location;
         generates a display of a graphical user interface
   screen, wherein the graphical user interface screen
   comprises a plurality of interactive video program
   listings that  identifies the plurality of video programs,
15 wherein the display is generated based on guide
   information from the electronic user equipment and
   received by the processing circuitry over the Internet
   link;
         receives the user selection of the video program,
20 wherein the user selects the video program by selecting
   an interactive video program listing that is displayed,
   by the graphical user interface screen, on the second
   electronic display device;   and
         generates the communication based on the user
25 selection of the interactive video program listing that
   is displayed, by the graphical user interface screen, on
   the second electronic display device;

                              - 6m
        accessing the video program with the electronic user
   equipment  in response to receiving the communication by
   at least one of tuning to a channel of the video program
 5 with the electronic user equipment and retrieving the
   video program previously selected by the user for
   recording;  and
        transmitting, from the electronic user equipment,
   the selected video program over the Internet link to the
10 processing circuitry.
        Optionally, the electronic user equipment is  first
   electronic user equipment, and wherein second electronic
   user equipment comprises the processing circuitry,
15 further comprising generating for display the interactive
   video program listing using the second electronic user
   equipment  for the video program selected by the user.
        The method may further comprise:
20      receiving a user request from the processing
   circuitry to view a different video program;
        in response to receiving the user request, accessing
   the different video program with the electronic user
   equipment;  and
25      transmitting, from the electronic user equipment,
   the different video program over the Internet link to the
   processing circuitry.

                             -  6n
        Optionally, receiving the user request to view a
   different video program comprises receiving a user
   request to view a different video program on a different
   channel;
 5      accessing the different video program with the
   electronic user equipment comprises accessing the
   different video program on the different channel; and
        transmitting, from the electronic user equipment,
   the different video program over the Internet link to the
10 processing circuitry comprises transmitting the video of
   the different channel to the processing circuitry.
        The method may further comprise generating for
   display, at the processing circuitry, at least one on
15 screen option for controlling the electronic user
   equipment over the Internet link, wherein the at least
   one on-screen option comprises at least one of changing
   the selected channel, controlling volume, and recorded
   video program playback options.
20
        According to another aspect of the present
   invention, there is provided a method for providing a
   video program to a remote access device over an  Internet
   link, the method comprising:
25      outputting to a first electronic display device
   using a user equipment device, wherein the user equipment
   device includes processing circuitry, wherein the

                             - 6o
         processing circuitry is coupled to communications
   circuitry, and wherein the communications circuitry, the
   first electronic display device, and the user equipment
   device are located at a same location at a user site,
 5 wherein:
             the remote application is  implemented on a
   remote access device that is remote from the
   communications circuitry, wherein the remote access
   device outputs to a second electronic display device
10 which is different from the first electronic display
   device;
             the remote application communicates with the
   communications circuitry over the  Internet link; and
             the communications circuitry transmits, to the
15 remote application over the Internet link, a video guide
   screen including a plurality of video program listings
   generated by the user equipment device;
             the remote application:
                  generates a display, on the second
20 electronic display device, that includes the video guide
   screen received from the communications circuitry;
                  receives a user input selecting a video
   program listing of the plurality of video program
   listings based on the display that  includes the video
25 guide screen; and

                                 6
                               -   p
                    transmits data associated with the video
   program listing corresponding to the user input to the
   communications circuitry over the   Internet link; and
             the communications circuitry further:
 5                  receives, over the Internet link, the data
   corresponding to the user input from the remote
   application;
                    directs the user equipment device to
   access the video program of the selected video program
10 listing based on the received data corresponding to the
   user input;  and
                    transmits, over the Internet link, the
   video program from the user equipment device to the
   remote application for display on the second electronic
15 display device.
        Optionally, the communications circuitry directs the
   user equipment device to access the video program by
   directing the user equipment device to tune to a channel
20 of the video program.
        Optionally, the user input is a first user input and
   the communications circuitry further:
        receives, over the   Internet link, data corresponding
25 to a second user input   from the remote application;

                             -  6q
        directs the user equipment device to access a
   different video program based on the data corresponding
   to the second user input;  and
        transmits, over the Internet link, the different
 5 video program from the user equipment device to the
   remote application.
        According to another aspect of the present
   invention, there is provided a system comprising:
10      a memory device; and
        a processor configured to perform the method.
        According to another aspect of the present
   invention, there is provided a non-transitory computer
15 readable medium storing computer executable instructions
   which, when executed by a processor, perform the method.
   Brief Description of the Drawings
20
                   [TEXT CONTINUES ON PAGE 7]

                             -7
        FIG. 1 is a schematic block diagram of an
   illustrative system in accordance with an embodiment of
   the present invention.
        FIGS. 2a-2d show illustrative arrangements for the
 5 interactive television program guide equipment and remote
   program guide access device of FIG. 1 in accordance with
   an embodiment of the present invention.
        FIG. 3 is an illustrative schematic block diagram of
   the user television equipment of FIG. 2 in accordance
10 with an embodiment of the present invention.
        FIG. 4 is a generalized schematic block diagram of
   portions of the illustrative television equipment of FIG.
   3 in accordance with an embodiment of the present
   invention.
15      FIG. 5 is a schematic block diagram of an
   illustrative remote program guide access device in
   accordance with an embodiment of the present invention.
        FIGS. 6a, 6b, and 6c are schematic block diagrams of
   illustrative arrangements for supporting communications
20 between a remote program guide access device and
   interactive television program guide equipment over an
   Internet link in accordance with an embodiment of the
   present invention.
        FIGS. 7 and 8 are illustrative remote program guide
25 access device display screens in accordance with an
   embodiment of the present invention.
        FIG. 9 is an illustrative program reminder for

                              -8
   display by interactive television program guide equipment
   or a remote program guide access device in accordance
   with an embodiment of the present invention.
        FIG. 10 is an illustrative favorites screen for
 5 display by a remote program guide access device in
   accordance with an embodiment of the present invention.
        FIG. 11 is an illustrative status display screen for
   display by a remote program guide access device in
   accordance with an embodiment of the present invention.
10      FIGS. 12-23 are illustrative flow charts of steps
   involved in providing remote access to interactive
   television program guide features in accordance with an
   embodiment of the present invention.
        FIG. 24 is an illustrative Internet browser screen
15 for display by a remote access device in accordance with
   an embodiment of the present invention.
        FIG. 25 is an illustrative shopping data entry
   screen for display by a remote access device in
   accordance with an embodiment of the present invention.
20      FIG. 26  is an illustrative stock ticker data entry
   screen for display by a remote access device in
   accordance with an embodiment of the present invention.
   Detailed Description of the Preferred Embodiments
25      An illustrative system 10 in accordance with an
   embodiment of the present invention is shown in FIG. 1.
   Main facility 12 provides interactive television program

                              - 9
   guide data from program guide data source 14 to
   interactive television program guide equipment 17 via
   communications link 18. There are preferably numerous
   pieces or installations of interactive television program
 5 guide equipment 17,  although only one is shown in FIG. 1
   to avoid over-complicating the drawing. Link 18 may be a
   satellite link, a telephone network link, a cable or
   fiber optic link, a microwave link, a combination of such
   links, an Internet link, or any other suitable
10 communications path.
        The interactive television program guide data
   transmitted by main facility 12 to interactive television
   program guide equipment 17 may include television program
   listings data  (e.g., program times, channels, titles, and
15 descriptions) and other program guide data for additional
   services other than television program listings   (e.g.,
   pay-per-view information, weather information, associated
   Internet web links,  computer software, etc.). Interactive
   television program guide equipment 17 may be connected to
20 remote program guide access device 24 via remote access
   link 19.  Interactive television program guide equipment
   may have more than one associated remote program guide
   access device 24,  although only one such device 24  is
   shown in FIG. 1 to avoid overcomplicating the drawing.
25       An interactive television program guide is
   implemented on interactive television program guide
   equipment 17.  Four illustrative arrangements for

                                                  -   10
        interactive television program guide equipment
                                                                                          17 is
        shown in FIGS. 2a-2d.                  As shown in FIGS. 2a-2d
        interactive       television           program guide equipment                    17 may
        include program guide distribution                          equipment         21 located
   5    at television         distribution           facility        16     and user
        television equipment                22.     Television distribution
        facility      16 may be any suitable                  distribution            facility
        (e.g.,     a cable      system headend,              a broadcast          distribution
       facility,       a satellite           television distribution                    facility,
 10    or any other         suitable         type of television               distribution
       facility) .        Television distribution                    facility         16 may
       distribute       program guide data that it                       received         from
       main facility          12    to multiple users via communications
      path 20.
 15                    Program       guide distribution                equipment         21 may
      be any equipment              suitable       for providing program guide
      data       to user television             equipment 22.              Program guide
      distribution         equipment          21 may include,              for example,
      suitable       transmission hardware                  for distributing               program
20    guide data on a            television          channel       sideband,         in     the
      vertical blanking interval of a television channel,
      using an in-band digital channel, using an out-of-band
      digital signal, or by any other suitable data
      transmission technique.                    Video signals              (e.g.,
25    television        programming) may also be provided by program
     guide distribution equipment 21 to user television
     equipment 22 over communications paths
                                                                          20 on multiple
     television channels.
                      FIGS.      2a and 2b show illustrative
30   arrangements          for interactive television program guide
     equipment 17 and remote program guide access
                                                                                     device 24
     in systems in which program guide data is
                                                                               provided to
     user television equipment 22 using a non client-server

                                         -    11
     based approach.       For example, program guide data may be
     provided by television        distribution            facility      16 to user
     television equipment 22          in     a continuous stream or may
    be transmitted at       a suitable           time interval        (e.g.,  once
  5 per hour).      If transmitted continuously, it may not be
    necessary to store data locally at user television
     equipment 22.       Rather, user television equipment 22 may
    extract    data "on the fly" as it is needed.                      If desired,
    television distribution           facility          16 may poll user
10  television equipment 22 periodically                     for certain
    information     (e.g.,   pay program account information                   or
    information regarding programs                 that    have been purchased
    and viewed using locally-generated                    authorization
    techniques).
15               In the system configuration of FIG. 2a,
    remote program guide access device 24 is connected                         to
    user television equipment 22.                  Television distribution
    facility    16 may distribute           program guide data to user
    television equipment 22.               User television equipment 22
20  may transfer     the program guide data to remote program
    guide    access device 24.         User television              equipment  22
    may also transfer additional data that may be necessary
    for allowing remote program guide access device 24 to
    access various       functions of the interactive                  program
25  guide    (e.g.,  reminder information, parental control
    settings, favorite channel settings, user profiles,
    etc.) .    Any suitable distribution scheme may be used.
    For example, user television equipment 22 may provide
    the data to remote program guide access device                         24
30  continuously,      periodically,           using a client-server based
    approach, using a polling scheme, or using any other
    suitable approach. Remote program guide access device

                                             -    12
    24 may store the data              if    suitable    for a particular
    transmission           scheme.
                     In    the system configuration           of FIG.      2b,
   remote program guide access device 24 is                      connected        to
 5 television          distribution        facility     16 via communications
   device       27.      In   this   approach television distribution
   facility         16 may distribute            program guide data        to remote
   program guide             access device 24 directly.            Television
   distribution            facility    16 may also distribute           additional
10 data from user television                   equipment    22 that may be
   necessary         for allowing         remote program guide         access
   device 24         to access various functions of the
   interactive          program guide           (e.g.,  reminder   information,
   parental        control settings,              favorite channel     settings,
15 user profiles, etc.).                  Television distribution facility
   16 may provide the data to remote program guide access
   device 24         continuously,         periodically,      using a client
   server based approach,                 using a polling scheme,            or using
   any other suitable               approach.        Remote program guide
20 access       device may store the data if                suitable     for a
   particular transmission scheme.
                     FIGS.       2c and 2d show illustrative
   arrangements            for interactive television program guide
   equipment         17 and remote program guide access                  device      24
25 in    client-server based interactive program guide
   systems.          As shown in       FIGS.       2c and 2d,  program guide
   distribution equipment 21 may include program guide
   server 25.            Program guide server 25 may be any suitable
   software,         hardware,       or combination thereof for
30 providing a client-server based program guide.                              Program
   guide server 25 may,               for example,        generate program
   guide display screens as digital frames and distribute
   the frames          to user television            equipment 22    for display

                                         -  13
   by an interactive          program guide      client        implemented    on
   user television equipment 22.                In another suitable
   approach,     program guide          server 25 may run a suitable
   database engine,          such a SQL server,           and provide program
 5 guide data in        response to queries          generated by user
   television equipment            22.     If desired, program guide
   server 25 may be located at main facility 12 or at some
   other facility        suitable       for providing program guide
   data via a program guide server                (not shown).
10               Remote program guide access device 24 may,
   for example,        communicate with user            television       equipment
   22 over remote access             link 19 as shown in            FIG.  2c.
   Requests,     commands,        or other suitable           communications
   may be provided by remote program guide access                         device
15 24 to user television             equipment   22     and then forwarded
   by user television            equipment 22 to program guide server
   25.   Program guide data or display screens provided by
   program guide        server 25 may be        forwarded by user
   television equipment 22 to remote program guide access
20 device 24.
                 Alternatively, remote program guide access
   device 24 may,         for example,       communicate with program
   guide server 25 over remote access link 19 via
   communications device             27 as shown in         FIG.    2d.
25 Appropriate       commands,       requests,    or other suitable
   communications        may be transmitted by remote program
   guide access device 24              for processing by program guide
   server 25.        If any changes to program guide settings
   are made     (e.g.,     a change to the parental                control
30 settings),      program guide server may,                 for example,
   update a local program guide client running on user
   television equipment             22 with the necessary information.

                                                -   14
                    In the arrangements illustrated in FIGS. 2b
   and 2d,      television         distribution           facility          16 may have
   communications            device      27    for communicating                with remote
   program guide access device                       24 over remote access
 5 link 19.         Communications device                 27 may be,            for example,
   a communications port                  (e.g.,      a serial        port,      parallel
   port,      universal       serial       bus      (USB)   port,       etc.),       modem
    (e.g.,     any suitable          analog or digital                modem,       cellular
   modem,      or cable modem),              network interface                 card     (e.g.,
10 an Ethernet card,              token ring card,               etc.),        wireless
   transceiver          (e.g.,     an infrared transceiver or other
   suitable       transceiver),            or other       suitable communications
   device.
                    As shown in FIGS. 1 and 2a-2d, interactive
15 television         program guide equipment                    17 communicates             with
   remote program guide access device                            24 via remote access
   link 19.         In practice, remote program guide access
   device      24 may be connected to user television equipment
   22    (as shown        in  FIGS.       2a and 2c),          television
20 distribution facility 16                       (as shown in FIG. 2b),
   connected to both (a.s indicated in                           FIG.     1),     or may
   communicate with remote program guide server 25 (as
   shown in FIG. 2d) via remote access link 19.                                      Remote
   access link 19 may be any suitable wired or wireless
25 communications path or paths over which digital or
   analog communications may take place between
   interactive television program guide equipment 17 and
   remote program guide access device 24.
                    Each user has user television equipment 22
30  for displaying the television program listings
   information and other program guide data using a local
    interactive television program guide.                                There are
   typically multiple pieces of user television equipment

                                         -    15
   22 and multiple associated                communications             paths 20,
   although only one piece of user                     television         equipment      22
   and communications path 20 are shown in                          FIGS.        2a-2d to
   avoid overcomplicating            the drawing.                Television
 5 distribution         facility   16 may distribute                television
   programming to user television equipment 22 via
   communications path 20.               If desired, television
   programming may be provided over separate
   communications paths           (not shown) ,
10                 For clarity,      the present              invention        is
   illustrated,         unless otherwise indicated,                   in     connection
   with a system arrangement               in    which program guide data
   is distributed from a main facility to an interactive
   television program guide implemented on user television
15 equipment via a television                distribution           facility.
   Other suitable systems involve arrangements in which
   data is distributed to a program guide on user
   television equipment using other suitable                             distribution
   schemes, such as schemes involving data transmission
20 over the Internet or the like.                       If desired, the
   interactive        television     program guide application may be
   implemented using a. client-server architecture in which
   the primary processing power for the application is
   provided by a server located at,                       for    example,         the
25 television distribution facility                      or the main facility
    (e.g.,      program guide server 25),                 and user television
   equipment 22 acts as a client processor as illustrated
   by FIGS.       2c and 2d.      Alternatively,                the interactive
   television program guide may obtain program                               guide data
30 from the Internet.            On-line program guides are
   described,        for example,      in     Boyer et al. U.S.                patent
   application Serial No.             08/938,028,             filed September 18,

                                        -   16
    1997,      PCT App.    Publ.  No.     WO 98/26584,      published
    June     18,  1996,    which is     hereby incorporated by
    reference herein in its entirety.
                   An illustrative arrangement for user
  5 television      equipment 22 is shown in FIG. 3.                  User
    television      equipment 22 of FIG.          3 receives video and
    data     from television      distribution      facility       16   (FIG.    1)
    at input 26-         During normal television             viewing,    the
    user tunes set-top box 28 to a desired television
10  channel. The signal for that television
                                                                 channel is
    then provided at video output 30.                 The signal supplied
    at    output 30 is       typically either a radio-frequency                 (RF)
    signal on a predefined channel (e.g.,                    channel 3 or 4),
    or a analog demodulated video signal,                   but may also be a
15  digital      signal provided to television               36 on an
    appropriate digital          bus     (e.g.,  a bus using the
    Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers
     (IEEE) 1394 standard, (not shown)).                   The video signal
    at output 30 is received by optional secondary
                                                                         storage
20  device 32.
                   Secondary storage device 32 can be any
    suitable type of analog or digital program storage
    device or player (e.g., a videocassette recorder,
                                                                              a
    digital      video disc (DVD) player, a hard-disk based
25  storage device, etc.).              Program recording and other
    features may be controlled by set-top box 28
                                                                      using
    control path 34.           If secondary storage device 32 is a
    videocassette recorder, for example, a typical
                                                                         control
    path 34 involves the use of an infrared transmitter
30  coupled to the infrared receiver in the videocassette
    recorder that normally accepts commands from
                                                                      a remote
    control such as remote control 40.                  Remote control 40
     may be used to control set-top box 28,                    secondary
     storage device 32, and television 36.

                           -   17
           The interactive television program guide may
run on set-top box 28, on television 36 (if
television 36 has suitable processing circuitry
                                                            and
memory),  on secondary storage device       32 or on opti-onal
digital storage device 31      (if they have suitable
processing circuitry and memory) or on a suitable
analog or digital receiver connected to television
                                                                36.
  The interactive television program guide may
                                                          also run
cooperatively on both television      36 and set-top box 28.
  Interactive television application systems
                                                       in which a
cooperative interactive television program
                                                     guide
application runs on multiple devices are
                                                 described, for
example, in Ellis U.S. patent application
                                                   Serial No.
09/186,598, filed    November 5, 1998, PCT App. Publ- No.
WO 00/05885, published February 3, 2000, which
                                                           is
hereby incorporated by reference herein in its
entirety.
           If desired, the user may record programs and
program data in digital form on optional digital
storage device 31.     Digital storage device 31 may be a
writable optical storage device (such as a
                                                     DVD player
capable of handling recordable DVD discs), a magnetic
storage device (such as a disk drive or digital
                                                            tape),
or any other digital storage device.          Interactive
television program guide systems that have
                                                     digital
storage devices are described,      for example,       in Hassell
et al. U.S. patent application Serial No. 09/157,256,
filed September 17, 1998, PCT App. Publ. No.
WO 00/16548, published March 23, 2000, which is hereby
incorporated by reference herein in       its   entirety.
           Digital storage device 31 can be contained in
set-top  box 28 or it can be an external device
connected to set-top    box 28 via   an output port and
appropriate interface.      If  necessary,    processing
circuitry in set-top box 28 formats the received video,

                                       -  18
      Preferably,      the file   format is    an open file format such
      as the Motion Pictures Expert Group (MPEG) MPEG-2
      standard. The resulting data is streamed to digital
      storage device 31 via an appropriate bus (e.g., a bus
   5  using the Institute Electrical and Electronics
      Engineers    (IEEE)    1394 standard),     and is stored on
      digital storage device 31.           Digital storage device 31
      and secondary storage device 32 may be integrated into
      a sophisticated set-top box if desired.
 10               Television 36 receives video signals from
      secondary storage device 32 via communications path 38.
      The video signals on communications path 38 may either
     be generated by secondary storage device 32 when
     playing back a prerecorded storage medium (e.g., a
 15  videocassette or a recordable digital video disc), by
     digital storage device 31 when playing back a pre
      recorded digital      medium, may be passed through from
      set-top box 28,      may be provided directly to television
     36 from set-top box 28 if secondary storage device 32
20   is not included in user television equipment 22, or may
     be received directly by television 36. During normal
     television viewing, the video signals provided to
     television 36 correspond to the desired channel to
     which the user has tuned with set-top box 28.             Video
25   signals may also be provided to television 36 by set
     top box 28 when set-top box 28 is used to play back
     information stored on digital storage device 31.
                  Set-top box 28 may have communications device
     37 for communicating with remote program guide access
3'0  device 24 over remote access link 19. Communications
     device 37 may be, for example, a communications port
      (e.g.,  a serial     port,   parallel port,    universal serial
     bus   (USB) port,     etc.),   modem    (e.g., any suitable analog

                               -  19
    or digital modem, cellular modem, or cable modem),
    network interface   card  (e.g.,  an Ethernet card,  token
    ring card, etc.),   wireless transceiver   (e.g., an
    infrared transceiver or other suitable transceiver),       or
 5  other suitable communications device.      Television 36
    may also have such a suitable     communications  device
    connected to remote access link 19 if desired.
               If  desired, there may be multiple
    installations of user television equipment 22 within
10  the home connected via an in-home network-       This may
    provide for coordinating the functionality of multiple
    guides within the home.      Systems in which the
    functionality of multiple guides are coordinated are
    described, for example, in Ellis et al. U.S. patent
15  application Serial No. 09/356,161, filed July 16,       1999,
    PCT App. Publ. No. WO 00/04707, published January 27,
     2000, which is hereby incorporated by reference herein
     in its entirety.    In such systems, remote program guide
     access device 24 may be connected via remote access.
20   link 19 to one of the guides and may provide users with
     the ability to remotely coordinate the functions of all
     of the guides.
                A more generalized embodiment of user
     television equipment 22 of FIG. 3 is shown in FIG. 4.
25   As shown in FIG. 4, program guide data from television
     distribution facility 16 (FIGS. 2a-2d) is received by
     control circuitry 42 of user television equipment 22.
     Control circuitry 42 may also send data and commands or
     requests back to television distribution facility 16.
 30  The functions of control circuitry 42 may be provided
     using the set-top box arrangement of FIGS. 2a and 2b.
     Alternatively, these functions may be integrated into
      an advanced television receiver, personal computer
      television (PC/TV), or any other suitable arrangement.

                                           -  20
   If   desired,    a combination            of such arrangements may be
   used.
                  The user controls             the operation of user
   television equipment            22 with user interface                  46.     User
 5 interface      46 may be a pointing device,                      wireless      remote
   control,      keyboard,      touch-pad,        voice recognition system,
   or any other suitable user input device.                            To watch
   television,      the user       instructs        control circuitry              42 to
   display a desired television channel on display device
10 45.      Display device 45 may be a television, monitor, or
   other suitable         display device.             To access        the features
   of    the program guide,          the user instructs               the program
   guide implemented           on interactive            television        program
   guide equipment          17  to generate         a main menu or other
15 desired program guide display screen                          for display on
   display device 45.
                  User television equipment 22 of FIG. 4 may
   also have communications device 51 for supporting
   communications between user television equipment 22 and
20 remote program guide access device 24                          over remote
   access link 19.           Communications device 51 may be a
   communications         port    (e.g.,      a  serial       port,    parallel
   port, universal serial              bus     (USB)     port,      etc.),      modem
    (e.g.,     any suitable      analog or digital                standard,
25 cellular,      or cable modem),            network interface                card
    (e.g., an Ethernet          card,      Token ring card,             etc.),
   wireless transceiver             (e.g.,      an infrared,          radio,      or
   other suitable analog or digital transceiver),                                or other
   suitable communications device.
30                User television equipment 22 may also have
   secondary storage device 47,                  digital         storage device        49,
   or any suitable combination thereof for recording
   programming.          Secondary        storage device 47             can be any

                                   -  21 ^
     suitable type of analog or digital program storage
     device (e.g., a videocassette recorder, a digital
                                                                 video
     disc  (DVD), etc.).     Program recording and other
     features may be controlled by control circuitry 42.
  5  Digital storage device 49 can be, for example, a
     writable optical storage device        (such as a DVD player
     capable of handling recordable DVD discs), a magnetic
     storage device (such as a disk drive or digital tape),
     or any other digital storage device.
10               An illustrative arrangement       for remote
     program guide access device 24 is shown in FIG.
                                                              5.   As
     shown in FIG. 5, remote program guide access device
                                                                   24
     may be any suitable personal computer (PC), portable
     computer   (e.g.,   a notebook computer),    palmtop computer,
15   handheld personal computer       (H/PC), display remote,
     touch-screen remote, automobile PC, personal digital
     assistant (PDA), or other suitable computer based
     device.   Remote program guide access device 24 may have
    user interface 52, processing circuitry 54, storage 56,
20  and communications device 58.         User interface   52 may be
    any suitable input or output device or system, and may
    include a pointing device,       keyboard,   touch-pad,   touch
    screen,  pen stylus,     voice  recognition system,    mouse,
    trackball,    cathode ray tube (CRT) monitor, liquid
25  crystal display (LCD), voice synthesis processor and
    speaker,   or any other suitable user input or output
    device.    Processing circuitry 54 may include any
    suitable processor, such an Intel 486 or Pentium
    microprocessor.       Remote program   guide access device     24
30  may also have storage 56.        Storage 56 may be any
    suitable memory or other storage device, such as RAM,
    ROM, flash memory, a hard disk drive, etc.

                                                -   22
                    Remote program guide                  access device 24 may
     also have communications                  device      58.       Communications
     device 58 may be any device suitable                            for supporting
     communications         between        remote program access device                     24
  5  and interactive          television           program guide equipment                17
    over link 19,         such as a communications                      port    (e.g.,    a
     serial   port,     parallel         port,       universal        serial     bus   (USB)
    port,    etc.),     modem        (e.g.,       any suitable          analog or
    digital     standard modem or cellular                      modem) ,      network
10   interface card          (e.g.,      an Ethernet          card,      token ring
    card,    etc.),     wireless         transceiver           (e.g.,      an   infrared,
    radio,    or other suitable                analog or digital
    transceiver),         or other suitable                communications device.
                    Remote       access link           19   (FIG.     1)   may include
15  any suitable        transmission medium.                     Link 19 may include,
    for example,        a   serial       or parallel          cable,       a dial-up
    telephone       line,     a computer network or Internet link
     (e.g.,   1OBase2,        lOBase 5,           1OBaseT,       lOOBaseT,       1OBaseF,
    T1, T3,     etc.),      an in-home network link,                     an infrared
20  link,    a radio frequency               link,      a  satellite         link,   any
    other suitable transmission link or suitable
    combination of such links. Any suitable transmission
    or access scheme may be used such as standard serial or
    parallel      communications,              Ethernet,         Token Ring,        Fiber
25  Distributed Data Interface                      (FDDI),      Circuit-Switched
    Cellular       (CSC),     Cellular         Digital       Packet Data          (CDPD),
    RAM mobile data,            Global System for Mobile
    communications           (GSM),      time division multiple access
     (TDMA),    code division            multiple         access       (CDMA),     any other
30  suitable transmission or access scheme,                              or any suitable
    combination thereof.                 Preferably remote access link 19
    is bidirectional.               If   desired,         however,       certain limited
    program guide functions may be accessed using a

                                   - 23
   unidirectional link.        An advantage of using a
   unidirectional   scheme for link 19 is       that such schemes
   are generally less complicated and then less expensive
   than bidirectional links.
 5            Remote program guide access device 24 and
   interactive television program guide equipment 17 may
   communicate over remote access link 19 using any
   suitable network and transport layer protocols, if
   desired.   Remote program guide access device 24 and
10 interactive television program guide equipment 17 may
   communicate,   for example,      using a protocol stack which
   includes Sequenced Packet Exchange/Internetwork Packet
   Exchange (SPX/IPX) layers, Transmission Control
   Protocol/Internet    Protocol     (TCP/IP)  layers,  Appletalk
15 Transaction Protocol/Datagram Delivery Protocol
   (ATP/DDP)  layers,   or any other suitable network and
   transport layer protocols or combination of protocols.
              Remote program guide access device 24 may
   communicate with interactive television program guide
20 equipment 17 using any suitable scheme.           Remote program
   guide access device 24 may,         for example,  connect to
   interactive television program guide equipment 17 using
   a terminal emulation scheme,         such as VT100 terminal
   emulation,   and access the interactive television
25 program guide as if      it  were a "dumb terminal."     Remote
   program guide access device 24 may,         for example,   run a
   standard remote access client such as a Windows Remote
   Access Services    (RAS)    client and may connect to a
   Windows NT Server process running -on interactive
30 television program guide equipment 17.           Any suitable
   combination of hardware and software may be used.            In
   addition to using any of the already mentioned
   protocols,   any number of other access,        data-link,

                                           -   24
   network,    routing or other protocols may be involved in
    supporting communications between remote program guide
    access device 24 and television distribution facility
    16 over remote        access       link 19     (e.g.,     X.25,      Frame Relay,
 5 Asynchronous        Transfer Mode           (ATM),    Serial      Line Interface
    (SLIP),   point-to-point             protocols      (PPP) ,    or any other
    suitable access,         data-link,         network,       routing      or other
    protocol).
                 FIGS. 6a        and 6b show illustrative
10  arrangements       for supporting communications between
    remote program guide access device 24                        and   interactive
    television program guide equipment                     17 over an          Internet
    link.    Television distribution facility 16 may, for
    example,    include      Internet        service     system 61 for
15  providing Internet-based               access     to   the program guide.
    Internet service         system 61 may be any combination of
    hardware and software capable of providing an                              Internet
    connection to the programming guide.                         Remote program
    guide access       device 24 may establish                  an Internet
20  session with Internet               service system 61 and thereby
    obtain program guide data from or set program guide
    settings with (e.g., set reminders or notifications,
   .view listings,         schedule program recording,                   set
    favorites,      set parental control features,                      send
25  messages,    poll interactive television program guide
    equipment 17,        etc.)      the program guide running on
    interactive program guide equipment 17.                           If desired,
    Internet service system 61 may be located at a
    facility that is separate from television distribution
30  facility 16.
                  Program guide server 25 may, in turn,
    interact with the user's client device                         (e.g.,       user
    televison equipment 22).                  If the program guide is

                                         - 25
   implemented on user television equipment 22 of program
   guide equipment 17            as shown in FIG. 6a,          Internet
   service system 61            (or other suitable equipment at
   television distribution facility 16 that is connected
 S to Internet        service     system 61)      may interact     with user
   television        equipment     22 directly      or via program guide
   distribution equipment 21 when supporting
   communications        between the program guide and the remote
   program guide access device.                 If  the program guide
10 implemented on interactive television program guide
   equipment 17 is a client-server guide as shown in FIG.
   6b, Internet        service system 61 may interact              with
   program guide server 25 when supporting communications
   between the program guide and the remote program guide
15 access device 24.             Alternatively,       Internet    service
   system 61 and program guide server 25 may be the same
   device or system.
                  In an illustrative system configuration using
   Internet      service system 61,           remote program guide access
20 device      24 is   a user's     personal computer at          work,
   Internet      service system 61 is           a web server at      a   cable
   system headend,         and user television equipment 22 at the
   user's      home contains       a set-top      box on which the user's
   program guide is         implemented.          Using this arrangement,
25 the user may access features of the program guide such
   as setting reminders or notifications, viewing
   listings, program recording, setting favorites,
   parental control,           sending messages,        polling for status,
   or any other suitable function.                   For example,     if  a
30 child in      the user's home desires permission to watch a
   parentally controlled program while the user is a at
   work,      the user may access a suitable web page provided
   by Internet service system 61 that allows the user to

                              - 26
    enter a password and adjust the program guide parental
    control settings.   The changed settings allowing the
    child access to the desired program are then
    automatically transferred from Internet service system
 5  61 to user television equipment 22, while the user is
    still at work.
               As another example, the user at work may
    interact with the program guide on user television
    equipment 22 via Internet service system 61 to select
10  programs for recording on the user's home videocassette
    recorder, or to schedule program reminders that will
    appear on the user's home television or remote program
    guide access device just before a program is broadcast.
               FIG. 6c shows another illustrative
15  arrangement for remote program guide access using the
    Internet.    In the system arrangement of FIG. 6c, users
    do not directly communicate a local guide via the
     Internet as with the arrangements of FIG. 6a and 6b.
     Instead, users may have personal computer   (PC) 231 as
20   their remote access device on which a web browser is
     implemented for accessing an on-line program guide.
     On-line program guides are described, for example, in
     above-mentioned Boyer et al. U.S. patent application
     Serial No. 08/938,028, filed September 18,   1997, PCT
25   App. Publ. No. WO 98/26584, published June 18, 1998.
                Personal computer 231 may be connected to
     Internet service system 235 via Internet link 233.
     Internet service system 233 may use any suitable
     combination of computer hardware and software capable
 30  of providing an on-line program guide server
     application or web site.    The user may access a
     personal web page and set 'various program guide
     settings and access various program guide functions.
      The user may, for example, set favorite channels, set
      parental control settings.   schedil

                                              -  27
   programs       for play back or recording by the user's
   television equipment.                  After the user has set various
   program      guide settings            or accessed various program
   guide     functions via a web page,                   Internet service          system
 5 235 may provide              the settings        and another program guide
   information to Internet                  service system 61            for
   distribution by program guide server 25 or distribution
   equipment 21           (as shown) to user television equipment
   22.      The   local       guide updates         its   settings,        records
10 programs,        plays back programs,                or performs any other
   suitable       function        accordingly.           The local guide may
   also order pay-per-view programs.
                    A remote       access interactive               television
   program guide may,              for example,          be implemented on
15 remote program guide access device                         24.     The remote
   access     interactive          television         program guide may
   communicate          with the interactive              television        program
   guide that is implemented on interactive television
   program guide equipment                   17,  herein referred to as a
20 "local"      interactive          television         program guide.          The
   remote access and local guide may,                          for example,      be the
   same guide but compiled to run on two different
   platforms and to communicate in                       a manner or manners
   discussed herein.               Alternatively,           the remote access
25 guide may be a client guide that communicates with the
   local guide           (i.e.,    a server guide).               In still     another
   suitable approach,              the two guides may be different
   guides that communicate in                    a manner or manners
   discussed disclosed herein.                       Generally,        although not
30 necessarily           (e.g.,    when remote program guide access
   device 24        is    a personal computer as shown in                     FIG.   6c),
   the remote access interactive television program guide
   may have a reduced or limited functionality when

                                    - 28
     compared to the functionality of the local interactive
     television program guide.        Accordingly, the remote
     access guide may require less processing power and
     memory of remote program guide access device 24 than
  5  the local guide requires of interactive television
     program guide equipment 17.
                  Program guide information (e.g., reminder
     information, listings information, recording
     information, message information, status information,
10  parental control settings, audio and video, status or
    polling information, user information, favorites
    settings, or any other information necessary for
    remotely providing program guide functionality)          may be
    exchanged, and settings set, between the two
15  interactive television program guides over remote
    access link 19 using one or more access communications.
                 Access communications may include, for
    example, commands, requests, messages, remote procedure
    calls (e.g., using a proxy-stub pair), or any other
20  suitable client-server or peer-to-peer         communication.
    Access communications may also involve, for example,
    complex communications between application constructs
    running on remote program guide access device 24 and
    interactive television program guide equipment 17.
25  Objects running in the two versions of the program
    guides,    for example,    may communicate using an Object
    Request Broker      (ORB).   The program guide information
    may,  for example,     be encapsulated as component object
    model   (COM)   objects and persisted to files      that are
30  transmitted over remote access link 19.           In another
    approach, access communications        may include HTML
    formatted markup language documents         (e.g.,  web pages),
    that are exchanged between remote program guide access

                                          - 29
   device 24 and interactive television program guide
   equipment via Internet service system 61.
                 Program guide information may be transferred,
   and program guide settings               set, between remote program
 5 guide access device 24 and interactive television
   program guide equipment 17 using any suitable
   application layer protocol if desired.                     If link 19 is
   an Internet link, for example, program guide
   functionality may be accessed by,                 for example,      using
10 the Hypertext Transfer Protocol                 (HTTP).    Remote program
   guide access device 24 and interactive television
   program guide equipment               17 may,   for example,     transfer
   program guide information as files using the File
   Transfer     Protocol       (FTP)     or Trivial   File Transfer
15 Protocol     (TFTP),     running over a TCP/IP protocol              stack.
   Any suitable      file     transfer      protocol based on any
   suitable protocol          stack may be used.
                 Remote program guide access device 24 and
   interactive     television           program guide equipment 17 may
20 also exchange program guide data and other information
   as messages using any suitable messaging scheme or
   messaging application programming interface                     (API).
   Program guide data and other information may,                      for
   example,     be encapsulated into e-mail messages and
25 transferred using the Simple Mail Transfer Protocol
    (SMTP),    Messaging API           (MAPI),   or other suitable
   messaging protocol or API.
                 Remote program guide access device 24 and the
   interactive television program guide implemented on
30 interactive program guide equipment 17 may exchange
   access communications to provide the user with access
   to program guide functionality as if                    the program guide
   were running locally on remote program guide access

                               -  30
   device 24.    Remote program guide access device 24 may
   provide a user with access to any number of program
   guide functions such as accessing programming
   information, scheduling reminders for programs, setting
 5 and navigating through favorite channels,       setting
   parental control settings, scheduling programming
   recordings,   or any other program guide function to the
   extent allowed by the resources of remote program guide
   access device 24.    If desired, remote program guide
10 access device 24 may allow the user to perform other
   program guide functions, such as determining the status
   of user television equipment 22,      sending messages    to
   user television equipment 22,     interacting with
   peripherals   connected to user television equipment,        and
15 other suitable functions.
              When the user wishes to access the features
   of the program guide via remote program guide access
   device 24,   the user may issue an appropriate command
   using user interface 52 (FIG. 5) .       For example,  if   the
20 user wishes to view programming information,       a "guide"
   key on user interface 52 can be used.        If, for example,
   user interface 52 includes a microphone and uses
   suitable voice recognition software, the user may speak
   a predetermined command into the microphone.         Such an
25 interface is   especially useful in    environments where
   remote program guide access device 24 must be operated
   without the use of one's hands,      as with an automobile
   PC.
               When possible,   remote program guide access
30 device 24 may present program guide data and other
   information to the user as they are normally presented
   by user television equipment 22.        In practice,
   appropriate differences    in presentation may occur

                                -  31
    depending on the interface devices used in user
    television equipment 22 and remote program guide access
    device 24   (e.g., user television equipment 22 may use a
    television to output listings and remote program guide
  5 access device 24 may include a voice recognition and
    synthesis system to output synthesized voice listings)
               When a user indicates a desire to access
    program guide features by issuing an appropriate
    command to remote program guide access device 24,
10  remote program guide access device 24 may, for example,
    access stored program guide information or obtain
    program guide information from interactive television
    program guide equipment 17 via remote access link 19
    using any of the approaches already described, and
15  generate an appropriate display screen for display
    using user interface 52.      Alternatively, the local
    interactive television program guide implemented on
    interactive television program guide equipment 17 may
    receive one or more access communications from remote
20  program guide access device 24 over link 19,      generate
    the appropriate program guide display screen, and send
    the program guide display screen back to remote program
    guide access device 24 for display on user interface
    52.   In another embodiment, a remote access guide may
25  run on remote program guide access     device  24 and issue
    access communications   over remote access    link 19 as if
    it  were running as a client locally on interactive
    television program guide equipment 17.       In another
    embodiment,   remote program guide access device 24 may
30  access a web site   and view web pages that contain
    program guide information.
               The remote access program guide running on
    remote program guide access device 24 may provide a

                                   - 32
   user with an opportunity to remotely access program
   listings.     A person driving an automobile,       for example,
   may issue a suitable vocal command that is          recognized
   by interface 52.        The remote access program guide may
 5 issue one or more access communications to the local
   program guide, which in turn supplies program listings
   information back to remote program guide access device
   24.    User interface 52 may,      for example,   provide the
   listings to the user in synthesized voice outputs.
10              The program listings may also,       for example,
   be displayed in.a program listings screen by a suitable
   display device.        A program listings screen may contain
   one or more lists       of programs organized according to
   one or more organization criteria         (e.g., by program
15 type,   theme,   or any other predefined or user defined
   and selectable criteria) and sorted in various ways
    (e.g.,   alphabetically).      One approach  is  to organize
   program listings into a program listings grid.            As
   shown in    FIG.  7,   program listings display screen 148
20 may contain program listings area 168.           Program
   listings area 168 may display television program
   listings in     any suitable format,     such as any suitable
   list, table, or grid.
                FIG.    2 illustrates the display of program
25 listings in program listings grid 150.           Program
   listings grid 150 may be divided into a number of
   columns 162 which correspond to program broadcast times
   and which may be equally spaced apart          (e.g.,  in thirty
   minute steps).        Program listings may be displayed in
30  the grid in sub-sets according to predefined or
    selectable organization criteria and sorted in various
   ways.     Program listings row 152 contains,        for example,
    selectable program listings for THE DESERTS OF AFRICA

                                    - 33
    and WILDLIFE on channel 46        (Public Television)
    Program listings row 154 contains,         for example,
    selectable program listings        for GHOST and TITANIC on
    channel 47   (HBO).     Program listings row 156 contains,
  5 for example,   selectable program listings for programs
    BLUES BROTHERS on channel 48 (VH-1).          Program listing
    row 158 contains selectable program listings for
    programs, PPV 1, and PPV 2 on channel 49 (ADU).
    Program listings row 160 contains a selectable program
10  listing for COOKING on channel 50 (WPTU).           The programs
    on each channel are typically different.
               Program listings       grid 150 may have movable
    cell highlight region 151,        which highlights the current
    grid cell.    The user may position highlight region 151
15  by entering appropriate       commands with user interface
    52.   For example,   if   user input interface 52 has a
    keypad,  the user can position highlight region 151
    using "up," "down," "left,"        and "right" cursor keys.
    Remote program listings       may also be panned left,      right,
20  up, and down by positioning highlight region 151 using
    the cursor keys on user interface 52.          Alternatively, a
    touch sensitive screen,       trackball,   voice commands,    or
    other suitable device may be used to move highlight
    region 151 or to select program listings without the
25  use of highlight region 151.          In still another
    approach, the user may speak the title of a television
    program listing into a voice request recognition system
    which will issue an appropriate command or request to
    remote program guide access-device 24.          Any other
30  suitable approach may also be used.
               After a user selects a program listing, the
    remote access program guide may provide the user with
    the opportunity to access a number of program guide

                              - 34
   features.   For example, the user may access additional
   information  (typically text or graphics,  but possibly
   video if desired) about the listing, schedule an
   associated program reminder, schedule an associated
 5 program for recording by one or more of digital storage
   device 31  (FIG. 3),  secondary storage device 32
   (FIG. 3),  storage 56 (FIG. 5),  or program guide
   server 25.
              Program listings may also be displayed for
10 the user in a list.    FIG. 8 illustrates a program
   listings display screen having a program listings list
   displayed in accordance with the principles of the
   present invention.    Scrollable program listings lists
   may display program listings in subsets according to
15 predefined or user-selected organization criteria.    Any
   suitable organization criteria and sorting scheme may
   be used.   Scrollable program listings list 170 of
   FIG. 8, for example, organizes program listings
   according to program type and then sorts the listings
20 alphabetically in each subset.    The television program
   listings display screen of FIG. 8 also has movable cell
   highlight region 171 for moving within the list and
   selecting listings.
              The remote access program guide may also
25 provide a user with the opportunity to remotely
   schedule program reminders when the user indicates a
   desire to set a program reminder (e.g., by pressing a
   remindere" button on user interface 52, selecting an on
   screen "reminder" button, issuing an appropriate vocal
30 command, etc.).    The remote access program guide may
   transmit one or more access communications to the local
   interactive television program guide implemented on
   interactive television program guide equipment 17 to

                                 - 35
    schedule the reminder.       Alternatively, the remote
    access program guide may, for example, store a reminder
    locally on storage 56 of remote program guide access
    device 24   (FIG. 5).     Information indicating the user
 5  who set the reminder may also be stored on interactive
    program guide equipment 17 or storage 56.         Reminders
    may also be scheduled by a user with the local guide,
    transmitted to remote program guide access device 24,
    and displayed by the remote access guide on remote
10  program guide access device 24.
                At an appropriate time before the selected
    program is scheduled to air (e.g., a predefined user
    selectable number of minutes, hours or days),         a
    reminder may be issued by the local or remote
15   interactive television program guides, or both.         The
     reminder may be issued on all remote program guide
     access devices 24 available to the user, and may be
     displayed (e.g., in the form of a pop-up window or
     message) on user television equipment 22.         If a
20   reminder for a program is to be displayed on the user's
     home television,     the reminder may be displayed just
     before the beginning of the program.        If  a reminder for
     a program is    to be displayed on remote program guide~
     access device 24,      the reminder may be displayed much
 25  earlier   (e.g.,   several hours before the program).
                  In another approach, reminders may be sent as
      e-mail messages from the interactive television program
      guide to remote program guide access device 24.
      Interactive program guide systems in      which reminders
 30   are sent to users via e-mail are described,        for
      example,  in  Boyer et al.    U.S. patent application Serial
      No.  08/987,740,   filed December 9,   1997,  PCT App.  Publ.
      No.  WO 99/14947,    published March 25,  1999,   which is
        hereby incorporated by reference herein in its
         entirety.    In

                                           -  36
   still        another approach,        user interface     52 may include
   an alphanumeric pager              (among other suitable devices for
   providing bi-directional                communications with the
   program guide via remote                access link 19).       The
 5 interactive program guide implemented on interactive
   television          program guide       equipment   17 may phone an
   automatic paging service                (e.g., by using a suitable
   modem and communications                software),   and issue     a message
   similar to the one contained in notification 177.                        An
10 illustrative           reminder 177       for display on display device
   45     (FIG.    4)   or user interface         52 (FIG.   5) is   shown in
   FIG.       9.
                     The remote access program guide may also
   provide        a user with the opportunity to remotely access
15 and adjust the parental control settings of the local
   interactive          television program guide implemented on
   interactive          television     program guide equipment          17.   The
   remote        access program guide,           for example,   may provide
   users with an opportunity to block potentially
20 objectionable programs or channels using a parental
   control        code     (e.g.,  a personal identification          number
    (PIN)       code) .     Users my also selectively unlock blocked
   channels or programs.                If   desired, 'the user may
   remotely access parental control settings related to
25 blocking the display of potentially objectionable
   program listings.
                      The remote access program guide may obtain
   parental control information (e.g.,                   which channels,
   services,         programs,     genres or types of program listings
30 may be locked,             maximum rating information,          PIN
   information,           etc.),    from the local program guide
   implemented on interactive television program guide
   equipment 17 over remote access link 19 in                      any suitable

                               -  37
    manner.   Remote program guide access device 24 may,       if
    desired, store parental control information on storage
    56.   Information indicating the user who accessed and
    adjusted parental control settings may be stored by the
 5  program guide or remote program guide access device 24.
               Remote program guide access device 24 may
    provide a user with the opportunity to remotely
    parentally control television programming by, for
    example, providing the user with the opportunity to
10  select a television program listing       and issue an
    appropriate command using user interface 52 (e.g., by
    pressing a displayed "lock" button, using a pointing
    device or touch sensitive screen, issuing an
     appropriate vocal command,    etc.) .   Remote program guide
15   access device 24 may indicate to a user that a channel,
     service, program, or genre is locked by, for example,
     generating an appropriate notice,      icon,  synthesized
     voice response,  message,   or any other suitable
     indication.   FIGS. 7 and 8 illustrate the use of lock
20   icon 310 for indicating,    for example,    that television
     service ADU is locked.
                The remote access program guide may also
     provide users with an opportunity to remotely access
     interactive television program guide functionality
 25  related to user preferences or "favorites" settings.
     For example, remo te program guide access device 24 may
     access features for setting-up and navigating through
     favorite channels or programs.       Interactive television
     program guide systems in    which program guide data is
 30  displayed according to preference profiles are
     described, for example, in Ellis et al. U.S. patent
     application Serial No.    09/034,934,    filed March 4,  1998,
    PCT App. Publ. No. WO 99/45701,      published March 25, 1999,

                                  - 38
   which is     hereby incorporated by reference herein in       its
   entirety.
                 The remote access program guide may obtain
   information on the user's preferences        (e.g.,  which
 5 channels     or programs are favorites,    favorite themes,
   likes and dislikes etc.)       from the local interactive
   television program guide implemented on interactive
   television program guide equipment 17 in any suitable
   manner.      The remote access program guide may, if
10 desired,     store favorites information on storage 56
   (FIG.   5),   may provide the user with an opportunity to
   remotely adjust channel settings and other preferences
   based on the favorites information.         Remote program
   guide access device 24 may transmit changed or new
15 favorites information to interactive television program
   equipment      17 via remote access link 19 using one or
   more access communications.         Information indicating the
   user who changed the profiles may also be stored by the
   local or remote access program guides.
20               The information on the user's preferences may
   be used by the local and remote access interactive
   program guides to navigate through favorite channels
   and display television program listings.          FIG. 10 shows
   an illustrative program listings display screen that
25 may be displayed by the remote access program guide on
   remote program guide access device 24 using user
   interface 52.       The display screen includes a number of
   channels     that have been selected as favorites      (e.g.,
   channels     2,  4,  7, 47 and 48).   Alternatively,   remote
30 program guide access device 24 may, for example,
   display television program listings in         a grid,  table,
   or list     while highlighting favorite channels or
   preferred programs.        A user may be provided with the

                                         -  39
   opportunity to "scroll" between favorite listings                        or
   channels by issuing an appropriate command using user
   interface 52.          In still      another suitable approach,
   remote program guide access device                   24 may display
 5 program guide data for only those programs or channels
   that      are of interest        to users as     defined by the
   profiles.
                   User preference profiles             may also be used to
   limit       the amount of data provided to remote program
10 guide access device 24 and thereby tend to minimize the
   bandwidth requirements              of remote     access link      19.   Data
   filtering       may be performed,         for  example,      by the local
   interactive        guide according to the user profiles                 when
   transferring        data to remote program guide              access
15 device 24.         Only data for those programs              or channels
   that      are of interest        to the user      may be transferred        if
   desired.        Alternatively,        data filtering        may be
   performed,       for example,        by program guide server 25 or
   Internet service system 61.
20                 The remote access program guide may also
   provide the user with the opportunity to remotely
   schedule recordings using the local interactive program
   guide.        The user may,        for example,      select   a program
   listing       using user interface 52           (FIG.    5)  and issue an
25 appropriate command             (e.g.,   pushing an on-screen
   "button,"       issuing an appropriate voice command,                  etc.).
   The remote access program guide may respond by sending
   one or more access communications to the local
   interactive program guide implemented on interactive
30 television program guide equipment 17 with the remote
   program guide access device 24 to record the program
   associated with the selected listing                    when the program
   is aired.         The local program guide may store the

                            - 40
   program on secondary storage device 32, digital storage
   device 31, or on storage 56 of remote program guide
   access device 24.   Information indicating the user who
   scheduled a program for recording may also be stored by
 5 the program guide or remote program guide access
   device 24.   If the programming is stored on storage 56,
   it may be transmitted to remote program guide access
   device 24 in any suitable format (e.g:, as National
   Television Standards Committee (NTSC) video, as MPEG-2
10 files, etc.), and may be converted to a digital format
   by a suitable analog to digital converter in remote
   program guide access device 24 if necessary (not
   shown).  Any suitable transmission scheme may be used,
   such as using FTP if files are transferred, for
15 example, across an Internet link. Programs may also be
   recorded by program guide server 25.    Program guide
   systems in which user selected programs are stored by a
   program guide server are described for example, in
   above-mentioned Ellis et al. U.S. patent application
20 Serial No. 09/332,244, filed June 11, 1999, PCT App.
   Publ. No. WO 00/04706, published January 27, 2000.
              If desired, program series may be recorded.
   Interactive television program guide systems in which
   program series are recorded are described, for example,
25 in Knudson et al. U.S. patent application Serial No.
   09/330,792, filed June 11, 1999, which is hereby
   incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.
              Program guide information may also be stored
   by the remote access interactive television program
30 guide on storage 56.   User settings and profiles, video
   clips, and detailed descriptive information may also be
   stored.   Storing programing or data on storage 56 may
    be appropriate in situations, for example, where the
    data is required to be maintained across a power

                                  -  41
   outage, or if   the volume of data that the interactive
   program guide must store during normal operation is
   more than interactive television program guide
   equipment 17 can handle.
 5           The remote access program guide may also
   provide a user with an opportunity to remotely order
   pay-per-view programs and packages.          The remote access
   program guide may,     for example,    provide the user with
   an opportunity to select a pay-per-view program or
10 package listing using user interface 52 (e.g., by using
   a pointing device,     touch sensitive screen,     or issuing a
   voice command to select a pay-per-view program
   listing).   In response to the user command,         remote
   program guide access device 24 may obtain pay-per-view
15 information   (e.g.,   price,    ordering information,   time,
   event code,   etc.)   from the interactive television
   program guide running on interactive         television program
   guide equipment 17,      via remote access link 19.
   Alternatively,    the pay-per-view      information may have
20 been provided to remote program guide access device 24
   by the local guide,      program guide server 25,     or
   Internet Service system 61.
              The remote access program guide may provide
   the pay-per-view information to the user using user
25 interface 52, and may provide the user with the
   opportunity to order the pay-per-view selection.            Once
   the user issues an appropriate command to remote
   program guide access device 24 to order the pay-per
   view selection,     the remote access guide- on-remote-
30 program guide access device 24 may indicate to the
   local guide implemented interactive program guide
   equipment 17    (e.g., via one or more access
   communications)     the program that the user wishes to

                               -42
   order.   The local interactive program guide may respond
   by ordering the pay-per-view program from television
   distribution facilitating 16 or some other distribution
   facility.    Alternatively, the remote access program
 5 guide may order the pay-per-view program from
   television distribution facility 16    (or some other
   distribution facility) and indicate the ordered pay
   pay-view to the local guide so that ordering related
   functions may be coordinated.
10            Remotely ordering pay-per-view programs via
   the local interactive guide as opposed to ordering pay
   per-view programs directly from a headend by phone,
   internet, or impulse ordering using the remote access
   guide may allow the local program guide to perform
15 functions that it would not ordinarily be able to
   perform.   Ordering a pay-per-view through the local
   guide as opposed to directly from television
   distribution facility 16 may allow the local guide to,
   for example, parentally control the ordering of a
20 program, inform the user that the program is about to
   start, inform the user that the user has missed an
   ordered pay-per-view program,   provide the user with an
   opportunity to reorder the program,    or any other
   suitable function associated with ordering a pay-per
25 view program.
               The remote access program guide may also
   provide the user with an opportunity to remotely access
   video and audio (either together or separately) that is
   being distributed to the local. interactive. t-elevision.
30 program guide or which has been stored by the local
    interactive television program guide on user television
   equipment 22 or at a remote server.      In response to an
   appropriate user command on user interface device 56,

                               - 43
    the remote access program guide may,     for example,   query
    the interactive television program guide for media
    directory information stored on digital storage device
    31 or secondary storage device 32.      Interactive
 5  television program guides which store programming using
    a digital media directory are described,      for example,
    in the previously mentioned Ellis et al. U.S. patent
    application Serial No.   09/157,256,   fil-ed September 17,
     1998, PCT App. Publ. No. WO 00/16548, published
10  March 23, 2000.
                The remote access program guide may provide
     the user with the opportunity to select a directory
     entry or may, for example, provide the user with an
     opportunity to select a program listing of a television
15   program that is being broadcast. In response to either
     selection, the remote access program guide may issue an
     appropriate access communication to the interactive
     television program guide to play back or tune to the
     selection and transmit it back to remote program guide
 20  access device 24 over remote access link 19.        Remote
     program guide access device 24 may play the video or
      audio for the user.   In one approach, for example,
      remote program guide access device 24 may provide a
      user with the opportunity to access audio from a
 25   digital music channel which is received by interactive
      television program guide equipment 17, and play the
      audio on a speaker or.by using an audio device that may
      be contained in user interface 52 (e.g., a car stereo).
                 Video and audio may-be transmitted from
 30   interactive television program guide equipment 17 to
      remote program guide access device 24 over remote
      access link 19 in any suitable format      (e.g., as NTSC
      video,  as MPEG-2 files,   using the M-bone,   etc.),  and
       may be converted to a digital format if necessary by a
       suitable analog to digital converter in remote program

                                   -44
    guide access device 24      (not shown)     Any suitable
    transmission scheme may be used.
                The remote access program guide may also
    provide a user with the opportunity to poll the local
  5 interactive television program guide to determine the
    status of interactive television program guide
    equipment 17 or,     more specifically,    user television
    equipment 22.     For example,     the remote access program
    guide may obtain information regarding whether the
10  interactive television program guide is         in use, what
    channel user television equipment 22 is         tuned to,    the
    title  of the current program,       the rating of the current
    program,   the status of remote access link 19,        available
    devices,   etc.   Any suitable scheme may be used,         such as
15  using a Simple Network Management Protocol          (SNMP)
    approach in which a management client process runs as
    part of the interactive television program guide
    implemented on interactive television program guide
    equipment 17,    and in  which a management server process
20  runs on remote program guide access device 24.
                 When the user issues an appropriate command
    using user interface device 56 (e.g., by pressing a
    button on a key pad,      selecting an on-screen option or
    button,   issuing an appropriate voice command,         etc.),
25  the remote access program guide may respond by issuing
     an access communication to the interactive program
     guide over remote access link 19 using remote program
     guide access device 24.       The interactive program guide
    may respond by transmitting the desired -status
 30  information back to remote program guide access device
     24 over remote access link 19,        or by transmitting a
     display screen    (if  appropriate) .    The remote access
     program guide may indicate the status of interactive

                                - 45
   television program guide equipment 17 on remote program
   guide access device 24 using any suitable indicator
   (e.g.,  a display screen, synthesized voice responses,
   etc.).    An illustrative status display screen 200 for
 5 display using user interface 52 is        shown in  FIG.  11.
               The remote access program guide may also
   provide a user with an opportunity to control user
   television equipment 22 remotely.         A user may, for
   example,   position highlight region 201 over a setting,
10 select   the setting,  and change its     value.   The user
   may,  for example,   change the current channel,       the
   current volume,    or control user television equipment 22
   in any other suitable manner.
               The remote access program guide may also
15 provide a user with the opportunity to send audio,
   graphical, and text messages to the local interactive
   program guide for playing or display by user television
   equipment 22.     For example,    the remote access program
   guide may receive a voice message from the user using
20 user interface device 24.       That voice message may be
   converted to a digital     signal by an analog-to-digital
   converter in    remote program guide access device 24 if
   necessary,   and sent to the interactive television
   program guide over remote access link 19.          Once
25 received, the local interactive television program
   guide may play (or display) the message on user
   television equipment 22.-      If   desired, messages created
   by a user on the local interactive television program
   guide or by an operator of television distribution
30 facility 16 may be sent to remote program guide access
   device 24.     The remote access program guide may in         turn
   provide the messages to the user using remote program
   guide access device 24.

                                            -   46
                  FIGS.     12-24 are illustrative flow charts of
   steps involved in           providing remote access                to functions
   of a local      interactive          television           program guide    in
   accordance with the principles of the present
 5  invention.       The steps        shown in          FIGS.    12-24 are
   illustrative       and may be performed in                   any suitable
   order.       Moreover, in practice it may be desirable to
   combine or delete various steps or combinations of
   steps shown in the           flow charts.
10                FIG. 12 shows           illustrative steps involved in
   providing remote access                to the various program guide
   functions.       At step 1200,             a   remote access link is
   established between            the remote access program guide
   implemented on remote program guide access device 24
15 and the interactive            television            program guide
   implemented on interactive                   television        program guide
   equipment      17 using remote access                   link   19.   At step
   .1210,     the remote access program guide provides the user
   with the opportunity             to remotely access functions                 of
20 the interactive          program guide over the remote                   access
   link.
                  The remote access program guide may,                       for
   example,      obtain a user command from the user that
   indicates a desired program guide function using remote
25 program guide access device 24                        (substep 1265) and then
   remotely provide the indicated program guide function
   to the user.         A user may indicate a desired function by
   entering an appropriate command using user interface
   52.       The user may,       for example,             enter a command using a
30 keyboard,      speak a command into a microphone,                       select an
   on-screen button using a pointing device,                           or any other
   suitable approach.

                               - 47
               The indicated program guide function may be
   remotely provided to the user audibly (substep 1270)
   using,  for example,  a speaker,  car stereo,   or other
   device capable of producing sounds that suitably
 5 indicate to the user program guide information.
   Alternatively,   the indicated program guide function may
   be remotely provided to the user visually      (at substep
   1280),  for example,  by using a monitor,   LCD,   or other
   display device.
10             Establishing the remote access link between
   the remote access program guide and the local
   interactive television program guide implemented on
   interactive television program guide equipment 17 as
   indicated by step 1200 and providing the user with an
15 opportunity to remotely access functions of the local
   interactive television program guide over remote access
   link 19   (step 1210) may depend on the configuration of
   the interactive television program guide system.
   FIGS.  13a-13e show illustrative variations of steps
20 1200 and 1210 of FIG. 12 for establishing remote access
   link 19 and for providing the user with remote access
   to program guide functions for the illustrative system's
   10 of FIGS. 2a-2d and FIGS. 6a-6c.
               FIG. 13a illustrates steps involved in
25 establishing remote access link 19 and for providing
   the user with remote access to program guide functions
   in  the systems of FIGS.   2a and 2c.   In these systems,
   remote access link 19 may be established between the
   remote access program guide and the interactive
30 television program guide via a communications device in
   user television equipment 22     (Step 1200a).    The local
   interactive television program guide may be wholly
   implemented on user television 22 as in system 10 of

                                  -  48
   FIG.  2a,   or may be partially implemented on user
   television equipment 22 as,        for example,   an interactive
   program guide client,      as in   system 10 of FIG.     2c.   At
   step 1210a,     remote program guide access device 24 may
 5 provide the user with the opportunity to remotely
   access the functions of the local interactive
   television program guide over the remote access link
   with a communications device.
                Remote access link 19 may be established
10 between the remote access program guide and the
   interactive television program guide via remote program
   guide access device 24 and a communications device in
   television distribution facility         16 or other location
   for a system configured as shown in          FIG. 2d.    Providing
15 remote access to the functions of the local interactive
   television program guide in        such a system may,      for
   example,    involve the steps shown in       FIG. 13b.    At step
   1200b,    for example,   remote access link 19 may be
   established with a communications device in           television
20 distribution facility      16.    The remote access program
   guide may,     for example,  provide the user with the
   opportunity to remotely access functions           of the program
   guide with a communications device in the television
   distribution facility 16 at step 1210b.
25              If television distribution facility 16
   includes a program guide server as shown in            FIG.   2c,
   remote access link 19 may be established between the
   remote access program guide and the interactive
   television program guide via remote program guide
30 access device 24 and a communications device in
   television distribution facility          16 as indicated by
   step 1200c of FIG.      13c.    At step 1210c remote program
   guide access device 24 may,         for example,   provide the

                                  -  49
   user with the opportunity to remotely access the
   functions of the program guide over remote access
   link 19 with a communications device in distribution
   facility 16.
 5              Steps involved in establishing remote access
   link 19 in     on-line program guide systems that
   communicate with the remote access program guide such
   as in   systems 10 of FIGS.      6a and 6b are shown in      FIGS.
   13d and 13e.      In the on-line program guide system of
10 FIG.   6a,  for example,    remote access link 19 may be
   established between the local interactive          television
   program guide and the remote access program guide with
   Internet    service system 61 (step 1200d,      FIG.   13d),    In
   the client-server on-line program guide system of FIG.
15  6b,  for example,    remote access link 19 may be
   established between the local interactive television
   program guide and the remote access program guide with
    an Internet    service system in     contact with program
    guide server 25     (step 1200e,    FIG. 13e).   The remote
20  access program guide may provide the user with the
    opportunity to remotely access the functions of the
    program guide at steps 1210d and 1210e of FIGS.           13d and
    13e, respectively.
                 Establishing remote access link 19 at
25  step 1200 of FIG.      12 may also involve exchanging one or
    more access communications between the interactive
    television program guide implemented on interactive
    television program guide equipment 17 and the remote
    access program guide implemented on remote program
30  guide access device 24,       as indicated by substep 1202 of
    FIG. 14.     Access communicators may include any client
    server or peer-to-peer communication construct suitable
     for providing program guide information across remote

                                          -  50
   access       link 19.       Access communications           may include,       for
   example,        requests,      commands,    messages,       or remote
   procedure calls,            as indicated by substeps 1204,                1205,
   1206,      and 1207,       respectively.
 5                  Access communications may also involve
   complex communications between application constructs
   running on remote program guide access device 24 and
   interactive        television       program guide       equipment        17.
   Access       communications       may,    for example,       be object
10 based, as indicated by substep 1208.                      Objects running
   in    two program guides,           for example,      may communicate
   using an Object Request Broker                 (ORB).       The program
   guide information may,              for   example,    be encapsulated as
   component object model              (COM)    objects     and persisted        to
15 files       that are transmitted over           remote access          link 19.
   Access communications may also include,                       for example,
   HTML      formatted markup language documents                  (e.g.,     Web
   pages),        that are exchanged between remote program guide
   access       device 24 and interactive           television         program
20 guide equipment 17 via Internet                 service       system 61,      as
   indicated by substep 1209.
                    FIGS.     15-23 are flowcharts          of illustrative
   steps involved in             providing remote access to a number
   of specific program guide functions.                      Remote access to
25 the functions may be provided in                 any interactive
   television program guide system,                  such as a system 10
   having the arrangements of interactive television
   program guide equipment 17 shown in                    FIGS.     2a-2d and
   FIGS.       6a and 6b.        The step-s. -shown in      FIGS.     12-14 are
30 not shown in          the flowcharts of FIGS.            15-23 to avoid
   over-complicating the drawings,                 although any suitable
   combination or combinations of the steps of the
   flowcharts of FIGS.              12-23 may be used in          practice.

                                    -   51
                 FIG.   15 shows illustrative             steps involved in
   remotely providing program listings information to a
   user.      At step 1600, program listings information is
   remotely obtained from the local              interactive            television
 5 program guide implemented on interactive television
   program guide      equipment    17 via remote access                  link 19.
   The remote access program guide may, for example,
   obtain this information on startup,                  periodically,
   continuously,      on demand in     response         to a     suitable user
10 command,     or using any other suitable               scheme using
   remote program guide access device 24.
                 At step 1610,     the program listings
   information may be provided to the user.                        The program
   listings     information may be displayed                for the user by
15 the remote access program guide              in    a   table,       listing
   grid,     or other suitable     construct,         using user interface
   52     (substep 1620).      Alternatively, program listings
   information may be provided audibly                   for the user by
   using, for example, a speaker             (substep 1630).
20               At step    1640,  the remote access program guide
   may provide the user with the opportunity to select a
   program listing.         In  response to such a selection, the
   remote access program guide may provide the user with
   the opportunity to access other remote program guide
25 features for the listing           (e.g.,    displays additional
   info,     schedule a program reminder,             record,         parental
   control,     order the program if         it    is    a pay-per-view
   program, etc.).
                 FIG.   16 shows illustrative              steps -involved..in
30 providing the user with remote access                     to the program
   reminder feature of a local interactive television
   program guide.        At step 1700,       a user is          provided with
   an opportunity to schedule a programming reminder.                              The

                               - 52
   user may be provided with an opportunity to remotely
   schedule a programming reminder with the local guide or
   with the remote access guide.         This opportunity, may,
   for example,  be provided in     response to the user
 5 selection of a program listing.         At step 1210, the
   program reminder is   scheduled by the local guide or the
   remote access guide.    The program reminder may be
   scheduled with the local interactive television program
   guide (substep 1720), may be stored by the remote
10 access interactive television program guide
   (substep 1730), or both.
              At step 1740,  the program reminder is
   generated at an appropriate      time    (e.g.,  a predefined or
   user-selectable number of minutes,         hours,  or days)
15 before a program is scheduled to air.           The reminder may
   be generated by the local interactive television
   program guide implemented on interactive television
   program guide equipment 17,      or may be generated by the
   remote interactive television program guide.           The
20 program reminder may, for example, be sent to the user
   via e-mail or alphanumeric page,         as indicated by
   substeps 1750 and 1760 respectively.
              FIG.  17 shows illustrative       steps involved in
   providing a user with remote access to the parental
25 control features of the local interactive television
   program guide implemented on interactive television
   program guide equipment 17.        At step 1800,    parental
   control information is remotely obtained.           This may
   occur,  for example,  on startup,       periodically,
30 continuously,   on demand in    response to a suitable user
   command, or using any other suitable scheme.
              The remote access program guide may provide
   the user with the opportunity to parentally control

                                  -   53
     programming   (e.g., by program,      channel,   theme, time,
     etc.)  in any suitable manner       (step 1810).    At step
     1820,  the remote access program guide remotely sets a
     parental control setting with the interactive
  5  television program guide via remote access link 19.
     Remote program guide access device 24 may use, for
     example,  one or more access communications sent over
     remote access link 19 to exchange the parental control
     settings with interactive television program guide 17.
10              Programming may be locked locally by a user
     via user television equipment 22, or may have been
     locked remotely by the remote access program guide.
    The remote access program guide may indicate to a user
     that programming is locked (e.g., by program, channel,
15  theme, etc.) with remote program guide access device 24
    at step 1830. Remot-e program guide access device 24
    may use,   for example,  a notice,      icon, synthesized voice
    output, message, or any other suitable indicator.
                FIG. 18 shows illustrative       steps involved in
20  providing a user with remote access to the favorites
    and user profile functions of the interactive
    television program guide implemented on interactive
    television program guide equipment 17.           At step 1900,
    user preference profiles are remotely obtained from the
25  local interactive television program guide by the
    remote access interactive television program guide via
    remote access link 19.      The information or profiles may
    be obtained,    for example,    on startup, periodically,
    continuously,    on demand in    response to a suitable user
30  command, or using any other suitable scheme.
                The remote access program guide may provide
    the user with the opportunity remotely adjust user
    profiles (step 1910).     The user may, for example, add

                                 -  54
    or delete favorite channels,       themes,  indicate likes or
    dislikes,   etc.   At step 1920, the remote access program
    guide remotely adjusts user profiles with the local
    interactive television program guide.          This may be
 5  accomplished by,    for example,     remote program access
    device 24 exchanging one or more access communications
    with interactive television guide equipment 12 via
    remote access link 19.      The one or more access
    communications may indicate one or more user profiles
10  or favorites information.      At step 1925, the remote
    program guide obtains program guide data according to
    the preference profiles.
                At step 1930, remote program guide access
    device 24 may provide the user with the opportunity to
15  remotely navigate through favorites.          Remote program
    guide access device 24 may, for example, have obtained
    program listings information (step 1600, FIG. 15),
    sorted the information according to the favorites
    information,    and displayed only listings for a favorite
20  channel or theme.     Alternatively,      remote program guide
    access device 24 may,     for example,     display television
    program listings in a grid, table, or list while
    highlighting favorite channels.         A user may be provided
    with the opportunity to "jump" between favorite
25  listings or channels by issuing an appropriate command
    using user interface 52.
            -   FIG.. 19 shows illustrative steps involved in
    providing a user with remote access to program
     recording.    At step 2000,   the remote access program
-30 guide provides the user with the opportunity to select
     a program for recording.      This opportunity may be
    provided in response to the user indicating a desire to
     record programming by, for example, selecting a program

                                 -   55
   listing (step 1640,    FIG.   15)   and issuing a suitable
   command.   In response, the remote access program guide
   remotely schedules the program for recording with the
   local interactive television program guide implemented
 5 on interactive television program guide equipment               17
   (step 2000).    Remote program guide access device 24 may
   exchange,  for example,    one or more access
   communications with interactive           television program
   guide equipment 17 that are sent over remote access
10 link 19.
              At an appropriate time,           the program is
   recorded (step 2020)       As indicated by substeps 2030
   and 2040,  the program may be recorded by the local
   interactive program guide on interactive television
15 program guide equipment     17    (e.g.,     digital storage
   device 31 or secondary storage device 32 of user
   television equipment 22      (FIG.    3),    or on program guide
   server 25,  or may be recorded by remote program guide
   access device 24 on storage 56          (FIG.    5) or program
20 guide server 25.     If the program is recorded by remote
   program guide access device 24,            the programming may,
   for example,   be digitized and transmitted as a MPEG-2
   data stream over remote access link 19 using access
   communications.
25            FIG.   20 shows illustrative          steps involved in
   providing the user with remote access to remotely order
   pay-per-view programs and packages             using the local
   interactive television program guide implemented on
   interactive television program guide equipment              17.    At
30 step 2100,   the remote access program guide obtains pay
   per-view information     (e.g., price,         ordering
   information,   time,  event code,       selections in    a package,
   etc.),  from the interactive program guide implemented

                                -   56
     on interactive television program guide equipment 17
     via remote access link 19.      The pay-per-view
     information may be obtained on startup, periodically,
     continuously, on demand in response to a suitable user
  5  command, or using any other suitable scheme.       The pay
    per-view information is provided to the user by the
    remote access program guide using user interface 52 of
    remote program guide access device 24 in any suitable
     fashion (step 2110).
10             At step 2120, the remote access program guide
    provides the user with the opportunity to remotely
    order a pay-per-view program or package.       This
    opportunity may be provided, for example, in response
    to the user selecting a pay-per-view program listing or
15  package listing (e.g., step 1640, FIG. 15).        At step
    2130, the remote access program guide remotely orders
    the pay-per-view program or package by indicating the
    program or package to the local interactive television
    program guide by, for example, exchanging one or more
20  access communications over remote access link 19 (step
    2133).   The access communications may contain the pay
    per-view information for the selected pay-per-view
    program or package.   The local guide may order the
    program or package at step 2135.       Alternately, the
25  remote access program guide may order the pay-per-view
    program (step 2137).
               The way in which the remote access program
    guide orders the pay-per-view program using the local
    interactive television program guide may depend on the
30  configuration of the system.       If the system is
    configured as shown in FIGS. 2a and 2c, the remote
    access program guide may,     for example,  provide the pay
    per-view information to the interactive television

                                         -57
     program guide implemented at least partially on user
     television equipment 22.           The interactive television
    program guide may,        in  turn,      order the pay-per-view
    program with television         distribution       facility    16.   If
  5  the system is    configured       as shown in     FIGS.    2b and 2d,
     the remote access       program guide may,        for example,
    provide the pay-per-view           information to the interactive
    television program guide via separate communications
    device 27.     If the system is configured as shown in
 10 FIGS.  6a and 6b,      the remote access program guide may
    provide   the pay-per-view information via Internet
    service system 61.
                FIG.    21 shows    illustrative       steps involved in
    providing a user with access               to remotely-played     video
15  or audio.    At step 2200,         the     remote access program
    guide may obtain video         or audio       information from the
    interactive   television       program guide implemented on
    interactive   television       program guide equipment          17 via
    remote access link 19.          This may occur,          for example,   in
20  response   to the user selecting             a video or audio listing
    displayed by remote program guide access device 24.
                Substeps 2210 and 2220 show illustrative
    steps involved in        obtaining directory information used
    in providing a user with audio and video information.
25  The remote access program guide may query the local
    interactive television program guide implemented on
    interactive television program guide equipment 17 for
    directory information using one or more access
    communications that are sent over remote access link 19
30  (step 2210).      The directory information may be
    contained,   for example,       in     a media library directory
    for a media library that is              stored on user television
    equipment 22,     or by television distribution facility

                             -  58
   16.   The directory information may be provided back to
   the remote access program guide by exchanging one or
   more remote access communications between interactive
   television program guide equipment 17 and remote
 5 program guide access device 24 over remote access link
   19, as is indicated by substep 2220.    Step 2210 may be
   skipped and step 2220 performed when, for example,
   directory information or listings are provided to the
   remote access guide ahead of time.
10            At step 2230, the remote access program guide
   may provide the user with the opportunity to select a
   video or audio for remote playing. The user may select
   a video or audio by, for example, selecting a listing
   that is indicated to the user by user interface 52.
15 The user may be provided with an opportunity to play a
   program in real-time via the local and remote guides,
   or to play a stored program.    In response, the remote
   access program guide may' obtain the selected video or
   audio from the local interactive television program
20 guide using access communications that are sent over
   remote access link 19.   The access communications may
   contain the video or audio in a suitable analog or
   digital format.   At step 2250, remote program guide
   access device 24 remotely plays the video or audio for
25 the user using user interface 52.    Selected video may
   be displayed, for example, on a suitable monitor, LCD,
   or other suitable display device.    Selected audio may
   be played for the user using any suitable speaker.
   Audio may, for example, be played by a car stereo if
30 remote program guide access device 24 is an automobile
   PC.
              FIG. 22 shows illustrative steps involved in
   providing the user with the opportunity to remotely

                                    -  59
   poll the local interactive television program guide
   implemented on interactive television program guide
   equipment 17.     At step 2300, the remote access program
   guide may poll the interactive television program guide
 5 for polling information.           The polling information may
   indicate,  for example,      whether user television
   equipment 22 is    in   use,  the current channel user
   television equipment 22 is          tuned to,  the current
   programming rating,      current program title,        the status
10 of remote access link 19 or communications paths 20,
   the available devices of user television equipment 22,
   or any other status related information.
              Step 2300 may include substeps 2310 and 2320
   for obtaining the polling information.             At substep
15 2310,  remote program guide access device 24 may obtain
   the polling information.           Polling information may be
   obtained on startup, periodically,           continuously,     on
   demand in  response to a suitable user command,              or using
   any other suitable scheme.            More particularly,     status
20 information may be obtained using SNMP            (substep 2320),
   if desired.   If   SNMP is    used to obtain polling
   information,  for example,         the access communications may
   include commands and protocol data units             (PDUs).     Other
   suitable network management protocols may also be used.
25 At step 2330,    remote program guide access device 24 may
   present the polling information to the user in               any
   suitable method.       The polling information may be
   displayed,  for example,       in    a status display screen such
   as status display screen 200 of FIG. 11.              Polling
30 information may,      for example,      be output to the user via
   synthesized voice outputs that are played using a
   speaker and voice synthesis hardware and software.

                             - 60
             FIG. 23 shows illustrative steps involved in
   providing the user with the opportunity to create
   messages and send them between the local interactive
   television program guide implemented on interactive
 5 television program guide equipment 17 and the remote
   access program guide.   At step 2400, the user is
   provided with the opportunity to create a message. The
   user may create the message with the local interactive
   television program guide using, for example, user
10 interface 46 of user television equipment 22 (FIG. 4),
   or the user may create the message using user interface
   52 of remote program guide access device 24.
             The message may include any suitable text,
   graphics, or audio.   The user may, for example, speak
15 an audio message into a microphone. The audio message
   may be digitized and stored in an access communication
   for transfer over remote access link 19.
   Alternatively, the user may input a text message using
   a suitable text input device (e.g., a keyboard).
20 However the message is created and whatever its
   content, the message is transferred over remote access
   link 19 using one or more access communications. The
   message may be transferred from the interactive
   television program guide to the remote access program
25 guide, or from the remote access program guide to the
   local interactive television program guide, depending
   on where the message was created and its  intended
   destination.   At step 2410, the message may be
   presented to the user by user television equipment 22
30 (e.g., substep 2430), or by remote program guide access
   device 24  (e.g., substep 2440).
             The discussion thus far has focused on
   implementing the invention with an interactive

                                -   61
   television program guide.       The invention may also be
   applied to non-program-guide        interactive     television
   applications.    Local non-program-guide          applications  run
   on user television equipment        such as a set-top box and
 5 corresponding remote access non-program-guide
   application may run on a remote access device.
   Interactive   television applications may be stand-alone
   applications, portions of an operating system, or any
   suitable combination thereof.
10             One non-program-guide application that may be
   implemented on a set-top box in accordance with the
   present invention is an Internet browser.              An Internet
   browser may have settings such as bookmarks, parental
   control settings,    and general preferences          that control
15 how the browser functions.        As shown in      FIG.  24, a
   remote access device may provide the user with access
   to a browser application by displaying,            for example,
   browser screen 200 of a remote access browser
   application.     Browser screen 799 may have a bookmark
20 option 705.    A user may,     for example,      select bookmark
   option 705 and add a bookmark         (i.e.,    a record of the
   address of the current web site that can be used to
   access the site).     After the user adds a bookmark with
   a remote access Internet browser,            the remote access
25 Internet browser may exchange one or more access
   communications with a local Internet browser to add the
   bookmark to the local browser.
               Another application that may be implemented
    or a set-top box in    accordance with the present
30  invention is   a shopping application.          A shopping
    application may have settings such as a default
    shipping address and credit card number.              As shown in
    FIG. 25,  a remote access shopping application screen

                             - 62
    730 may have settings such as a shipping address 720,
    and credit card number 725.   A user may,   for example,
    add a shipping address and credit card information.
    After a user adds shipping and credit card information
  S with the remote access shopping application,     the remote
    access application may exchange one or more access
    communications with a local shopping application to
    provide the information to the local application.
               Another non-program-guide application that
10  may be implemented on a set-top box and accessed via a
    remote access device in accordance with the present
    invention is a stock ticker.    A stock ticker may have
    settings such as settings indicating the top ten stocks
    in which the user is interested.     As shown in FIG. 26,
15  a remote access device may display a remote access
     stock ticker settings screen 710.    Stock ticker
     settings screen 710 may have,  for example,   ticker
     symbol 712 and a top ten stocks option 715.      A user
    may, for example, add a top stock.     By exchanging one
20   or more access communications, the remote access stock
     ticker application can make the top ten stock settings
     effective on a local stock ticker application.
               A chat application may be implemented on a
     set top box.   Chat applications are services that allow
 25  users to exchange chat messages with other users in
     real time.   A chat application may be implemented as a
     stand-alone chat application or as part of another
     application such as a program guide application.       Chat
     applications that may be implemented on user television
 30  equipment are described in DeWeese et al. U.S. patent
     application Serial No.  09/356,270,   filed July 16,   1999,
     PCT App. Publ. No. WO 00/13416, published March 9,
      2000, which is hereby incorporated by reference herein
      in its entirety. A

                             - 63
   user may remotely adjust settings associated with a
   chat application such as the size of a chat window, an
   address book, or whether to filter potentially
   offensive messages.  After the user adjusts chat
 5 settings with a remote access chat application running
   on a remote access device, the remote access chat
   application may remotely adjust the settings of a local
   chat application by, for example, exchanging one or
   more access communications with the local chat
10 application over a remote access link.
             If desired, the settings of an e-mail
   application running on a set-top box may be adjusted
   remotely. Set-top based messaging systems are
   described, for example, in McKissick et al. U.S. patent
15 application Serial No. 09/356,245, filed July 16, 1999,
   PCT App. Publ. No. WO 00/13415, published March 9,
   2000, which is -hereby incorporated by reference herein
   in its entirety. Users may, for example, remotely add
   to or change an address book. When the user adjusts e
20 mail settings with a remote access e-mail application
   running on a remote access device, the remote access e
   nail application may remotely adjust the settings of a
   local e-mail application by, for example, exchanging
   one ore more access communications with the local e
25 mail application over a remote access link.
             It will be understood that the -foregoing is
   only illustrative of the principles of the invention
   and that various modifications can be made by those
   skilled in the art without departing from the scope and
30 spirit of the invention, which is limited only by the
   claims that follow.

                            - 64
          Throughout this specification, including the
  claims, where the context permits, the term "comprise"
  and variants thereof such as  "comprises" or "comprising"
  are to be interpreted as including the stated integer or
5 integers without necessarily excluding any other
  integers.

                             - 65
   THE CLAIMS DEFINING THE INVENTION ARE AS FOLLOWS:
        1. A method for accessing video programs over an
   Internet link, the method comprising:
 5      receiving a plurality of video programs with user
   television equipment, wherein the user television
   equipment outputs to a first display device, and the user
   television equipment is located at user site;
        providing the user with the opportunity to select a
10 video program from the plurality of video programs over
   the Internet link using a remote access device, wherein:
        the remote access device outputs to a second display
   device which is different from the first display device;
        the remote access device is remote from the user
15 television equipment; and the remote access device
   communicates with the user television equipment over the
   Internet link;
        in response to receiving, at the user television
   equipment, a user selection of the video program from the
20 remote access device over the Internet link, directing
   the user television equipment to access the video
   program; and
        providing, from the user television equipment, the
   selected video program over the Internet link to the
25 remote access device for output to the second display;
        wherein providing the user with the opportunity to
   select a video program from the plurality of video

                              - 66
   programs over the  Internet link using the remote access
   device further comprises:
        receiving a generated television guide screen that
   identifies at least one video program;
 5      providing the generated television guide screen to
   the remote access device over the  Internet link; and
        receiving a user selection of the at least one video
   program from the remote access device.
10      2. A method for accessing a video program over an
   Internet link, the method comprising:
        receiving, at a remote access device, a television
   guide screen generated by a user television equipment
   over the Internet link, wherein:
15      the user television equipment outputs to a first
   display device and the user television equipment  is
   located at user site;
        the remote access device is remote from the user
   television equipment;  and
20      the remote access device communicates with the user
   television equipment over the Internet link;
        displaying on a second display device of the remote
   access device the television guide screen that is
   received from the user television equipment over the
25 Internet link, wherein the second display device is
   different from the  first display device;

                              - 67
        receiving a user selection of a channel for viewing
   with a remote access device based on the television guide
   screen displayed on the  second display device;
        transmitting, from the remote access device, an
 5 instruction over the Internet link to the user television
   equipment to tune to the selected channel;
        receiving, at the remote access device, from the
   user television equipment video of the  selected channel
   over the Internet link;  and
10      displaying the video of the selected channel
   received from the user television equipment over the
   Internet link on the second display device of the remote
   access device.
15      3. A method for providing a video program to a
   remote access device over an Internet link, the method
   comprising:
        providing, to a remote access device, a television
   guide screen generated by user television equipment over
20 the Internet link, wherein:
        the user television equipment outputs to a first
   display device and the user television equipment  is
   located at user site,
        the remote access device is remote from the user
25 television equipment;  and the remote access device
   communicates with the user television equipment over the
   Internet link, wherein the remote access device outputs

                             - 68
   to a second display device which is different from the
   first display device;
        receiving, at the remote access device, a user
   selection of a channel for viewing from the television
 5 guide screen being displayed on the second display
   device;
        receiving, at the user television equipment, the
   user selection of a channel for viewing from the remote
   access device over the Internet link;
10      tuning the user television equipment to the selected
   channel; and
        transmitting, from the user television equipment,
   video corresponding to the selected channel to the remote
   access device over the Internet link.
15
        4. A method for accessing a video program over an
   Internet link, the method comprising:
        transmitting, with control circuitry to a remote
   access device over an Internet link a video guide screen;
20      receiving, with the control circuitry from the
   remote access device over an Internet link, a user
   selection of the video program based on the video guide
   screen being displayed on a second display device,
   wherein:
25      the control circuitry is coupled to a device that
   outputs to a first display device and the remote access
   device outputs to a second display device which is

                              - 69
   different from the  first display device, wherein the
   control circuitry and the device are located at user
   site;
         the remote access device is remote from the control
 5 circuitry;  and
         the remote access device communicates with the
   control circuitry over the Internet link;
         in response to receiving the user selection of the
   video program with the control circuitry, directing the
10 device to access the video program;   and
         transmitting the selected video program that   is
   accessed to the remote access device over the Internet
   link for output to the second display device.
15       5. A method for accessing a video program over an
   Internet link, the method comprising:
         receiving, at a remote access device over the
   Internet link, a video guide screen generated using
   control circuitry, wherein:
20       the control circuitry is coupled to a device that
   outputs to a first display device, wherein the control
   circuitry and the device are   located at user site;
         the remote access device is remote from the control
   circuitry;  and
25       the remote access device communicates with the
   control circuitry over the Internet link;

                             - 70
        displaying on a second display device of the remote
   access device the video guide screen that is received
   from the control circuitry over the Internet link,
   wherein the second display device is different from the
 5 first display device;
        receiving a user selection of a channel for viewing
   with a remote access device based on the video guide
   screen being displayed on the second display device;
        transmitting, from the remote access device, an
10 instruction over the Internet link to the control
   circuitry to tune to the selected channel in response to
   the user selection of a channel for viewing;
        receiving, at the remote access device from the
   control circuitry, video corresponding to the selected
15 channel over the Internet link; and
        displaying the video corresponding to the selected
   channel on the second display device of the remote access
   device.
20      6. A method for providing a video program to a
   remote access device over an Internet link, the method
   comprising:
        transmitting, from control circuitry to a remote
   access device over the Internet link, a video guide
25 screen generated by the control circuitry, wherein:

                             -  71
        the control circuitry is coupled to a device that
   outputs to a first display device, wherein the control
   circuitry and the device are   located at user site;
        the remote access device is remote from the control
 5 circuitry;
        the remote access device outputs to a second display
   device which is different from the first display device;
   and
        the remote access device communicates with the
10 control circuitry over the Internet link;
        receiving, with the control circuitry over the
   Internet link, a user selection of a channel for viewing
   from the remote access device based on the video guide
   screen being displayed on the second display device;
15      using the control circuitry to tune to the selected
   channel; and
        transmitting, over the   Internet link, video
   corresponding to the selected channel   from the control
   circuitry to the remote access device   for display on the
20 second display device.
        7. A method for accessing an interactive program
   guide over an Internet link, the method comprising:
        generating, with control circuitry, a first
25 interactive program guide screen of the interactive
   program guide implemented using the control circuitry,

                             - 72
   for displaying a plurality of program identifiers,
   wherein the control circuitry is located at user site;
        transmitting, over the  Internet link, from the
   control circuitry to a remote access device the  first
 5 interactive program guide screen for display on the
   remote access device, wherein:
        the control circuitry is coupled to a first display
   device screen;
        the remote access device outputs to a second display
10 device which is different from the first display device;
   and
        the remote access device communicates with the
   control circuitry over the Internet link;
        receiving, with the control circuitry, a user
15 command corresponding to a selection of a function of the
   interactive program guide over the Internet link from the
   remote access device based on the  first interactive
   program guide screen;
        in response to receiving the user command with the
20 control circuitry from the remote access device,
   directing the control circuitry to generate a second
   interactive program guide screen corresponding to the
   selected function of the interactive program guide;  and
        transmitting, over the  Internet link, from the
25 control circuitry to the remote access device the second
   interactive program guide screen for display on the
   second display device of the remote access device;

                             - 73
        in response to receiving a selection of a video
   program from the second interactive program guide screen,
   instructing the control circuitry to access the selected
   video program; and
 5      transmitting the accessed video program over the
   Internet link for display on the second display device.
        8. A method for accessing an interactive program
   guide over an Internet link, comprising:
10      receiving, with a remote access device over the
   Internet link, a first interactive program guide screen
   of the interactive program guide implemented using
   control circuitry, wherein:
        the first interactive program guide screen is
15 generated using the control circuitry the control
   circuitry is coupled to a first display device, wherein
   the control circuitry is located at user site;
        the remote access device communicates with the
   control circuitry over the Internet link; and
20      the remote access device outputs to a second display
   device which is different from the first display device;
        displaying, on the remote access device, the first
   interactive program guide screen received from the
   control circuitry over the Internet link;
25      receiving a user command over the Internet link
   corresponding to a selection of a function of the
   interactive program guide with the remote access device

                              - 74
   based on the  first interactive program guide screen that
   is received from the control circuitry over the  Internet
   link;
         transmitting, from the remote access device, an
 5 instruction over the Internet link to the control
   circuitry to cause the control circuitry to generate a
   second interactive program guide screen of the
   interactive program guide corresponding to the selected
   function of the interactive program guide;
10       receiving, over the Internet link, the second
   interactive program guide screen with the remote access
   device from the control circuitry;  and
         displaying, on the second display device of the
   remote access device, the second interactive program
15 guide screen that is  received from the control circuitry
   over the  Internet link;
         in response to receiving a selection of a video
   program from the second interactive program guide screen,
   instructing the control circuitry to access the selected
20 video program;  and
         transmitting the accessed video program over the
   Internet link for display on the second display device.
         9. A method for providing an interactive program
25 guide to a remote access device over an Internet link,
   the method comprising:

                             - 75
        transmitting, from control circuitry over the
   Internet link to the remote access device, a first
   interactive program guide screen of the interactive
   program guide implemented using the control circuitry,
 5 wherein the first interactive program guide screen is
   generated using the control circuitry, the control
   circuitry is located at user site, and wherein the remote
   access device communicates with the control circuitry
   over the Internet link;
10      receiving, with the control circuitry from the
   remote access device over the Internet link, a user
   command corresponding to a selection of a function of the
   interactive program guide based on the  first interactive
   program guide screen, wherein the control circuitry is
15 coupled to a first display device and the remote access
   device outputs to a second display device which is
   different from the first display device;  and
        in response to receiving the user command with the
   control circuitry, generating a second interactive
20 program guide screen corresponding to the selected
   function of the interactive program guide;  and
        transmitting, from the control circuitry over the
   Internet link to the remote access device, the second
   interactive program guide screen for display on the
25 second display device of the remote access device;
        in response to receiving a selection of a video
   program from the second interactive program guide screen,

                             - 76
   instructing the control circuitry to access the selected
   video program; and
        transmitting the accessed video program over the
   Internet link for display on the second display device.
 5
        10. A method for accessing video programs over an
   Internet link, the method comprising:
        receiving a plurality of video programs with
   electronic user equipment, wherein the electronic user
10 equipment outputs to a first electronic display device,
   and wherein the electronic user equipment and the first
   electronic display device are located at a first same
   location within a user home;
        receiving by the electronic user equipment, over the
15 Internet link from processing circuitry, a communication
   indicative of a video program selected by a user, wherein
   the processing circuitry:
        outputs to a second electronic display device which
   is different from the first electronic display device,
20 wherein the processing circuitry and the second
   electronic display device are located at a second same
   location remote from the first same location;
        generates a display of a screen of a guide, wherein
   the screen of the guide comprises a plurality of
25 interactive video program listings that identifies the
   plurality of video programs, wherein the display is
   generated based on guide information from the electronic

                              - 77
   user equipment and received by the processing circuitry
   over the  Internet link;
        receives the user selection of the video program,
   wherein the user selects the video program by selecting
 5 an interactive video program listing that is displayed,
   by the guide, on the second electronic display device;
   and
        generates the communication based on the user
   selection of the interactive video program listing that
10 is displayed, by the guide, on the second electronic
   display device;
        accessing the video program with the electronic user
   equipment  in response to receiving the communication by
   at least one of tuning to a channel of the video program
15 with the electronic user equipment and retrieving the
   video program previously selected by the user for
   recording;  and
        transmitting, from the electronic user equipment,
   the selected video program over the Internet link to the
20 processing circuitry.
        11. A method for accessing video programs over an
   Internet link, the method comprising:
        receiving a plurality of video programs with
25 electronic user equipment that outputs to a first
   electronic display device, the electronic user equipment

                              -  78
   and the  first electronic display device being located at
   a first same location within a user home;
         receiving by the electronic user equipment, over the
   Internet link from processing circuitry, a communication
 5 indicative of a video program selected by a user, wherein
   the processing circuitry:
         outputs to a second electronic display device,
   wherein the processing circuitry and the second
   electronic display device are located at a second same
10 location remote from the first same location;
         generates a display of a graphical user interface
   screen, wherein the graphical user interface screen
   comprises a plurality of interactive video program
   listings that  identifies the plurality of video programs,
15 wherein the display is generated based on guide
   information from the electronic user equipment and
   received by the processing circuitry over the Internet
   link;
         receives the user selection of the video program,
20 wherein the user selects the video program by selecting
   an interactive video program listing that is displayed,
   by the graphical user interface screen, on the second
   electronic display device;   and
         generates the communication based on the user
25 selection of the interactive video program listing that
   is displayed, by the graphical user interface screen, on
   the second electronic display device;

                              - 79
        accessing the video program with the electronic user
   equipment  in response to receiving the communication by
   at least one of tuning to a channel of the video program
   with the electronic user equipment and retrieving the
 5 video program previously selected by the user for
   recording;  and
        transmitting, from the electronic user equipment,
   the selected video program over the Internet link to the
   processing circuitry.
10
        12.  The method of claim 10 or claim 11,  wherein the
   electronic user equipment is   first electronic user
   equipment,  and wherein second electronic user equipment
   comprises the processing circuitry, further comprising
15 generating for display the interactive video program
   listing using the second electronic user equipment for
   the video program selected by the user.
        13.  The method of claim 10 or claim 11,  further
20 comprising:
        receiving a user request from the processing
   circuitry to view a different video program;
        in response to receiving the user request, accessing
   the different video program with the electronic user
25 equipment;  and

                             - 80
        transmitting, from the electronic user equipment,
   the different video program over the Internet link to the
   processing circuitry.
 5      14. The method of claim 13, wherein:
        receiving the user request to view a different video
   program comprises receiving a user request to view a
   different video program on a different channel;
        accessing the different video program with the
10 electronic user equipment comprises accessing the
   different video program on the different channel; and
        transmitting, from the electronic user equipment,
   the different video program over the Internet link to the
   processing circuitry comprises transmitting the video of
15 the different channel to the processing circuitry.
        15. The method of any one of claims 10-14 further
   comprising generating for display, at the processing
   circuitry, at least one on-screen option for controlling
20 the electronic user equipment over the Internet link,
   wherein the at least one on-screen option comprises at
   least one of changing the selected channel, controlling
   volume, and recorded video program playback options.
25      16.  A method for providing a video program to a
   remote access device over an Internet link, the method
   comprising:

                             - 81
        outputting to a first electronic display device
   using a user equipment device, wherein the user equipment
   device includes processing circuitry, wherein the
   processing circuitry is coupled to communications
 5 circuitry, and wherein the communications circuitry, the
   first electronic display device, and the user equipment
   device are located at a same location at a user site,
   wherein:
             the remote application is  implemented on a
10 remote access device that is remote from the
   communications circuitry, wherein the remote access
   device outputs to a second electronic display device
   which is different from the  first electronic display
   device;
15           the remote application communicates with the
   communications circuitry over the  Internet link; and
             the communications circuitry transmits, to the
   remote application over the  Internet link, a video guide
   screen including a plurality of video program listings
20 generated by the user equipment device;
             the remote application:
                  generates a display, on the second
   electronic display device, that includes the video guide
   screen received from the communications circuitry;
25                receives a user input selecting a video
   program listing of the plurality of video program

                               - 82
   listings based on the display that   includes the video
   guide screen;  and
                    transmits data associated with the video
   program listing corresponding to the user input to the
 5 communications circuitry over the   Internet link; and
             the communications circuitry further:
                    receives, over the Internet link, the data
   corresponding to the user input from the remote
   application;
10                  directs the user equipment device to
   access the video program of the selected video program
   listing based on the received data corresponding to the
   user input;  and
                    transmits, over the Internet link, the
15 video program from the user equipment device to the
   remote application for display on the second electronic
   display device.
        17.  The method of claim 16,   wherein the
20 communications circuitry directs the user equipment
   device to access the video program by directing the user
   equipment device to tune to a channel of the video
   program.
25      18.  The method of claim 16 or claim 17,   wherein the
   user input is a first user input and the communications
   circuitry further:

                              -  83
        receives, over the  Internet link, data corresponding
   to a second user input  from the remote application;
        directs the user equipment device to access a
   different video program based on the data corresponding
 5 to the second user input;   and
        transmits, over the Internet link, the different
   video program from the user equipment device to the
   remote application.
10      19.  A system comprising:
        a memory device;  and
        a processor configured to perform the method
   according to any one of claims 1-18.
15      20.  A non-transitory computer readable medium
   storing computer executable instructions which, when
   executed by a processor, perform the method being claimed
   in any one of claim 1-18.
20

<removed-apn>
<removed-apn> 07 Aug
           12     2018
              Mar 2016

<removed-apn>
<removed-apn> 07 Aug
           12     2018
              Mar 2016

<removed-apn>
<removed-apn> 07 Aug
           12     2018
              Mar 2016

<removed-apn>
<removed-apn> 07 Aug
           12     2018
              Mar 2016

<removed-apn>
<removed-apn> 07 Aug
           12     2018
              Mar 2016

<removed-apn>
<removed-apn> 07 Aug
           12     2018
              Mar 2016

<removed-apn>
<removed-apn> 07 Aug
           12     2018
              Mar 2016

<removed-apn>
<removed-apn> 07 Aug
           12     2018
              Mar 2016

<removed-apn>
<removed-apn> 07 Aug
           12     2018
              Mar 2016

<removed-apn>
<removed-apn> 07 Aug
           12     2018
              Mar 2016

<removed-apn>
<removed-apn> 07 Aug
           12     2018
              Mar 2016

<removed-apn>
<removed-apn> 07 Aug
           12     2018
              Mar 2016

<removed-apn>
<removed-apn> 07 Aug
           12     2018
              Mar 2016

<removed-apn>
<removed-apn> 07 Aug
           12     2018
              Mar 2016

<removed-apn>
<removed-apn> 07 Aug
           12     2018
              Mar 2016

<removed-apn>
<removed-apn> 07 Aug
           12     2018
              Mar 2016

<removed-apn>
<removed-apn> 07 Aug
           12     2018
              Mar 2016

<removed-apn>
<removed-apn> 07 Aug
           12     2018
              Mar 2016

<removed-apn>
<removed-apn> 07 Aug
           12     2018
              Mar 2016

<removed-apn>
<removed-apn> 07 Aug
           12     2018
              Mar 2016

<removed-apn>
<removed-apn> 07 Aug
           12     2018
              Mar 2016

<removed-apn>
<removed-apn> 07 Aug
           12     2018
              Mar 2016

<removed-apn>
<removed-apn> 07 Aug
           12     2018
              Mar 2016

<removed-apn>
<removed-apn> 07 Aug
           12     2018
              Mar 2016

<removed-apn>
<removed-apn> 07 Aug
           12     2018
              Mar 2016

<removed-apn>
<removed-apn> 07 Aug
           12     2018
              Mar 2016

<removed-apn>
<removed-apn> 07 Aug
           12     2018
              Mar 2016

<removed-apn>
<removed-apn> 07 Aug
           12     2018
              Mar 2016

<removed-apn>
<removed-apn> 07 Aug
           12     2018
              Mar 2016

<removed-apn>
<removed-apn> 07 Aug
           12     2018
              Mar 2016

<removed-apn>
<removed-apn> 07 Aug
           12     2018
              Mar 2016

<removed-apn>
<removed-apn> 07 Aug
           12     2018
              Mar 2016

<removed-apn>
<removed-apn> 07 Aug
           12     2018
              Mar 2016

<removed-apn>
<removed-apn> 07 Aug
           12     2018
              Mar 2016

<removed-apn>
<removed-apn> 07 Aug
           12     2018
              Mar 2016

