Abstract
An electronic gaming console is illustrated having a console cabinet (10) including
a prize display (12), a coin entry slot (13), a payout tray (14) and internally
mounted game control processor circuits. A video game is provided for play on the
console in which images of objects (balls) are dropped through a series of
obstacles (pins) and eventually fill a number of containers. Prizes are paid
according to either the number of balls which are in each container at the end of
the ball drop and/or the manner in which the pins are hit.
9641501_1(GHMaters) P88135.AU.11

                                              1
Slot machine pin and ball game
Introduction
            The present invention relates to gaming machines or consoles of the type
generally referred to as slot machines, and in particular the invention provides a
new type of game played on such a machine.
            Players who regularly play gaming machines quickly tire of particular
games and therefore it is necessary for manufacturers of these machines to come
up with innovative games or game features that add interest to the games provided
on such machines in order to keep the players amused and therefore willing to
continue playing the game.
Description of the Prior Art
            Gaming or poker machines have been well known in the state of New
South Wales for many years and have more recently gained considerable
popularity throughout Australia, with quite substantial amounts of money wagered
on these machines. There is a growing tendency for State governments to legalise
the use of gaming machines by licensing operators, with resulting revenue gains
through licence fees and taxation of monies invested. The licensed operation of
gaming machines is the subject of State legislation and regulation. This regulation
almost always dictates a minimum percentage payout for a gaming machine. For
example, a minimum of 85% of monies invested must be returned as winnings,
and manufacturers of gaming machines therefore must design their machines
around these regulatory controls.
            With the growth that has occurred in the gaming machine market there is
intense competition between manufacturers to supply the various existing and new
venues. When selecting a supplier of gaming machines, the operator of a venue
will often pay close attention to the popularity of various games with their patrons.
            Therefore, gaming machine manufacturers are keen to devise games
which are popular with players, as a mechanism for improving sales.
            In particular, manufacturers regularly devise new games which have not
previously been seen on slot machines in order to stimulate renewal of player
interest.
           Pachinko is a game popular in Japan in which an 11mm diameter steel ball
is fired into a labyrinth of pins or nails projecting from a back panel and awards are
gained if the balls can be caused to come to rest in certain locations. Typically,
when a ball is caused to come to rest in a designated prize winning position, the
player is rewarded with additional balls, the number of balls awarded to the player
being dependant on the particular location that the ball is brought to rest. The
9641501_1(GHMaters) P88135.AU.11

                                               2
player purchases balls from the operator before commencing play, or when he
runs out and after stopping play, a player may exchange balls for non-monetary
prizes.
           In this specification the term Gaming console will be used to refer to a
gaming machine of the type having a video display screen on which a game is
displayed with player inputs being either by physical buttons, joysticks etc or by
pseudo buttons, etc, provided as touch sensitive areas on the display, or a mixture
of each. Typical games that have previously been provided on such consoles
include video simulations of spinning reels or video card games among others.
Summary of the Invention
            In accordance with a first aspect of the present invention, there is provided
an electronic gaming console having credit means, reward means, game control
means, display means, and player input controls, the control means being
responsive to the credit means and the player input controls to play a game which
is displayed on the display means and if a winning event occurs, a player reward is
awarded by the reward means, the gaming console, wherein the game provides a
video display of a labyrinth of pins on the display means and the player input
controls allow a player to initiate motion of virtual ball images on the display
means, player rewards being awarded when virtual ball images come to rest in
predetermined prize winning locations of the display means, wherein the
predetermined prize winning locations in which the virtual ball images come to rest
include a row of buckets disposed below the labyrinth of pins,
            wherein the labyrinth of pins has a pin configuration that is dependent on
credits wagered in the credit means, wherein the player input controls allow the
player to initiate firing of the virtual ball images on the display means and to control
firing parameters for the virtual ball images.
            In accordance with a second aspect of the present invention, there is
provided an electronic gaming system comprising:
            a credit acceptor configured to receive a wager from a player to play a
game;
            a payout mechanism configured to provide a reward to the player;
            a player input control configured to allow the player to interact with the
game;
            an electronic display configured to provide the player with a visual display
of the game; and
            a controller configured to interface with the credit acceptor, the payout
mechanism, the player input control, and the electronic display, wherein the
9641501_1(GHMaters) P88135.AU.11

                                                     3
controller executes predetermined operations including:
            controlling the electronic display to display a labyrinth of pins interfacing
with the player input control on the electronic display,
            controlling motion of virtual ball images on the electronic display in
response to manipulation of the player input control, and
            interfacing with the payout mechanism to provide player rewards when the
virtual ball images come to rest in predetermined prize winning locations on the
electronic display, wherein the predetermined prize winning locations at which the
virtual ball images come to rest include a row of buckets disposed below the
labyrinth of pins, wherein the labyrinth of pins has a pin configuration that is
dependent on the wager of the player.
            In accordance with a third aspect of the present invention, there is provided
an electronic gaming system comprising:
            a credit acceptor configured to receive a wager from a player to play a
game;
            a payout mechanism configured to provide a reward to the player;
            a player input control configured to allow the player to interact with the
game;
            an electronic display configured to provide the player with a visual display
of the game; and
            a controller configured to interface with the credit acceptor, the payout
mechanism, the player input control, and the electronic display, wherein the
controller executes predetermined operations including:
                          controlling the electronic display to display a labyrinth of pins,
                          interfacing with the player input control on the electronic display,
                          controlling motion of virtual ball images on the electronic display in
            response to manipulation of the player input control, and
                          interfacing with the payout mechanism to provide player rewards
when the virtual ball images come to rest in predetermined prize winning locations
on the electronic display, wherein the predetermined prize winning locations at
which the virtual ball images come to rest include buckets below the labyrinth of
pins, and wherein an amount of the wager by the player determines how buckets
below the labyrinth of pins are arranged.
9641501_1(GHMaters) P88135.AU.11

                                               4
Brief Description of the Drawings
            Embodiments of the present invention will now be described by way of
example with reference to the accompanying drawings in which:
            Figure 1 illustrates a touch screen gaming console incorporating the
present invention;
           Figure 2 is a schematic diagram of a gaming console control circuit;
           Figure 3 is a diagram of a game screen with game features indicated;
           Figure 4 is a diagram of a game screen showing prizes awarded for various
numbers of balls in each of a plurality of buckets;
            Figure 5 illustrates a gaming console with button switch controls,
incorporating a simple embodiment of the present invention;
            Figure 6 illustrates a basic game screen layout without features;
            Figure 7 illustrates a game screen layout with a set of preferred features;
            Figures 8-12 illustrate game screen layouts with further sets of preferred
features; and
           Figure 13 illustrates a gaming console with button switch controls and two
displays, incorporating a simple embodiment of the present invention in
combination with another style of game (in this case a spinning reel game).
Detailed Description of the Preferred Embodiments
            In the following detailed description, the methodology of the embodiments
will be described and it is to be understood that it is within the capabilities of the
non-inventive worker in the art to introduce the methodology on any standard
microprocessor based gaming console by means of appropriate programming.
          Referring to Figure 1, the illustrated embodiment of the invention is housed
in a conventional gaming console cabinet 10 including a prize display 12, a coin
entry slot 13, a payout tray 14 and internally mounted game control processor
circuits (refer to Figure 2).
          The program to implement the game of the present invention runs on a
standard gaming console control processor 31 as illustrated schematically in
 Figure 2. This processor forms part of a controller 30 which drives the display
screen 11 and receives input signals from input controls such as buttons or touch
sensitive areas on a video display. In the illustrated embodiment, the controller
receives touch input signals from touch sensors 32 as well as receiving coin input
pulses from a coin chute mechanism 33 and sends signals to drive a coin payout
mechanism 34.
          This is a new type of video game which involves balls (objects) being
dropped through a series of pins (obstacles) and eventually filling a number of
9641501_1(GHMaters) P88135.AU.11

                                              5
containers.
          It is similar in some respects to games known as Pachinko, which are pin
and ball games popular in Japan, however, this video embodiment includes
features not evident in prior art slot machines. Examples of the display layout of
games according to the present invention are illustrated in Figures 3 & 4.
          In Figure 3, a game display is illustrated showing a plurality of possible game
features in combination. The game includes as feature prizes:
           a) free games
           b) win multipliers
           c) extra balls
          As the balls 44 fall through the pins 42 and are collected in buckets 41, if
each of the pins in the row 45 is hit (ie, by a different ball in this game, but in other
games possibly by the same ball where rebounding and/or flippers are provided), a
feature prize is awarded. A second feature is provided if all balls hit a particular
pin 46. A third feature is provided if all balls fall into a single bucket 47. A fourth
feature 48 is awarded if at least one ball falls into each bucket 41.
          Referring to Figure 4, a similar game to that of Figure 3 is illustrated with pay
tables shown for different number of balls in each bucket.
          Referring to Figure 5, an example of a further simple embodiment of the
invention is illustrated showing the entire console 10 with a simple game layout on
the screen 11.
          Again, the console includes a display panel 12, which has rules of the game
and/or prize winning events illustrated for player information, a coin slot 13, video
display screen 11 to display the game and a coin tray 14. As well, this
embodiment has a bill acceptor 23 and push buttons 24 to control the game.
            Figure 6 illustrates a basic game screen layout without additional game
features. It should be noted that the different prize rows 32 under the buckets
could be awarded for different numbers of balls, different types of balls (eg. shape,
colour) or different ball combinations landing in the buckets; or even different ball
drop patterns or similar.
            Figure 7 illustrates a game screen layout with a set of preferred features. In
this embodiment the number of balls 44 dropped is dependent upon the number of
credits staked (for example 1 credit buys 10 balls). A series of holes 52 are
located amongst the pins such that if a ball passes over that point it will disappear
from the screen. Balls that manage to avoid all of the holes 52 will either drop into
a bucket 41 or through the chocolate wheel 51 at the bottom of the display. The
balls 44 are in 3 different colours (randomly selected) 53, 45, 55 and prizes are
9641501_1(GHMaters) P88135.AU.11

                                              6
paid at the end of the ball drop according to the colour of any balls that made it to a
bucket 41. In the case of the chocolate wheel 51, prizes are awarded for each ball
that drops through the chocolate wheel, causing the chocolate wheel to spin. The
prize paid for the chocolate wheel is dependent upon the position in which the
wheel stops. A feature is also included where one of the rows 56 below the holes
contains pins that become lit when they are hit. If 3 or more pins become lit in one
game then 10 free games are awarded during which all of the holes are replaced
by pins (hence guaranteeing a prize for each ball).
            Figure 8 illustrates a game screen layout with a further set of preferred
features. The features shown on this game layout are:
a)          Fixed (or variable) prize awarded for any ball or a special ball (eg. colour,
shape) or a pre-determined number of balls hitting a specific pin 57 (in the
illustrated example, prizes are marked under the pins);
b)          All wins from the game will be multiplied by a fixed (or variable) amount if
any ball or a special ball (eg. colour, shape) or a pre-determined number of balls
hit a specific pin 58;
c)          One or more free games are awarded if any ball or a special ball (eg.
colour, shape) or a pre-determined number of balls hit a specific pin 59;
d)          Bonus or prize buckets 61 being placed in different positions;
e)          Rods 62 joining pins to prevent balls from taking certain paths;
f)          Buckets 63 may not always be open - a rod 64 may prevent the bucket 63
from being entered at certain times depending on triggers that occur in the game to
open and close the bucket.
          Figure 9 illustrates a game screen layout with yet a further set of preferred
features. The features shown on this game layout are:
a)          Incrementing pins 65 where each time a ball or a specific type of ball hits
the pin the indicator will increment. For example, a feature may be awarded when
the incrementing pin reaches 5;
b)          Different coloured pins 66 may give bonuses for being hit, or being hit by
specific balls or a specified number of balls. The pins which are coloured may
change from game to game;
c)          Balls 68 may get stuck to certain pins 69 and/or when certain pins are hit a
ball or balls may be released from the pin to drop in addition to the ball which hit
the pin;
d)          Certain features may involve complete sections 69 of the pin layout being
blocked off giving an improved chance of balls landing in the outside buckets;
e)          On certain occasions, a spring 71 may appear in a certain bucket(s) 72
9641501_1(GHMaters) P88135.AU.11

                                                7
such that if a ball lands in the bucket it will bounce back out again;
f)          Different patterns of ball combinations 73 and colours in the buckets 41
may pay different amounts. In the diagram (assuming only the highest win will be
paid), the first bucket will pay 300 for the black ball, the second will pay 6 for any 2
balls, the third will pay 1000 for the black ball and the fourth will pay 250 for the
grey ball.
          Figure 10 illustrates a game screen layout with another set of preferred
features. The features shown on this game layout are:
a)        Dropping balls 74 from different positions will alter the chance of getting balls
into the outside buckets. The drop position may be bough t or random or a special
feature;
b)        A shortcut pin 75 may ensure that if it is hit the ball will be diverted to another
position 76 on the screen via a path 77;
c)        Flippers 78 may randomly or by way of player skill be used to flick balls in
different directions when hit;
d)        Diverter pins 79 can ensure that if they are hit the ball will fall in a fixed
direction;
e)        Different sized balls 81 could be used randomly or bought such that the
bigger the ball the less likely it will fall into a hole;
f)        A ball or a special ball (eg. colour, shape) or a pre-determined number of
balls landing in certain buckets 82 may award special features instead of prizes.
          Figure 11 illustrates a game screen layout with still another set of preferred
features. The features shown on this game layout are:
a)        Balls 83, 84, 85, 86 can be numbered for different features or win patterns.
In this case, wins are paid if the correct numbered ball lands in the correct bucket;
b)        Hence ball 83 (1) and fixed ball 84 (2) will pay 5000 and 2000 respectively,
but 3 will not pay a prize;
c)        Prize zones 87 may be used. For example, a bonus may be given if all the
pins within a fixed zone are hit (and hence become lit).
          Figure 12 illustrates a game screen layout with yet another set of preferred
features. This diagram demonstrates how different shaped pin patterns can be
used to vary the game.
          Figure 13 illustrates a gaming console with button switch controls 24 and two
displays, incorporating a simple embodiment of the present invention shown on a
top screen 88 in combination with another style of game 89 (in this case a spinning
reel game) shown on the lower screen 91.
          Prizes are paid according to either the number of balls which are in each ball
9641501_1(GHMaters) P88135.AU.11

                                               8
capturing location or container 41 at the end of the ball drop and/or the manner in
which the pins are hit. Note that in the attached figures, the ball capturing locations
are shown as cups, but may also be pairs of closely spaced pins (less than a ball
diameter), or other suitable retaining device. Prizes may also be paid according to
the type of balls dropped. For example, red balls may pay double the prize of the
blue balls, or prizes may be paid according to indicia such as numbers on the balls
which are in any container. When the indicia are numbers, the numbers may
represent prize values or prize multipliers.
          The plurality of game features described with reference to Figures 3-13 and
those described below, can be mixed in a variety of other combinations and each
of the features may be offered for purchase by the player in a particular game (eg,
an additional card 7, may buy less holes or more cups). The basic structure of the
game can be varied by:
(i)         changing the type of balls to be dropped, such as balls of different sizes,
balls of different colours and/or balls carrying different numbers which are equal to
prizes,
(ii)        changing the functions of balls to be dropped,
(iii)       changing the number of balls to be dropped,
(iv)        changing the position from where the balls are dropped,
(v)         changing the number of rows of pins,
(vi)        changing the pin pattern,
(vii)       awarding prizes/bonuses/features depending on how the containers and/or
pins are hit,
(viii) varying the number of balls such that the higher the bet, the more balls may
be purchased,
(ix)        changing the position of prize buckets,
(x)         changing the number or position of holes amongst the pins
(xi)        allowing access to different tools or controls which may affect the path of
the balls,
(xii)       incorporating other types of games into the base game. For example,
spinning reels (see below), keno, bingo, card games, second screen animations,
chocolate wheels (see below) and so on. These could be bonus features awarded
from the base game, base games that trigger a feature of the pin and ball game or
may be played in conjunction with the base game (eg, reels spin and then balls
drop for every game played).
            Note that any of the types of game structures or features listed above, may
change on a game by game basis or as a special feature when triggered by a
9641501_1(GHMaters) P88135.AU.11

                                               9
particular event during the base game. In some cases, the player may even be
able to select the structure that they want.
            The betting strategy provided by the game can be any of the following:
(i)         each credit buys one ball, therefore, a bet of 10 credits buys 10 balls,
 (ii)       varying the number of balls such that the higher the bet the more balls
drop, for example: Bet 1, 3, 6, 12 and 20 credits give 5, 6, 7, 8, and 9 balls
respectively,
(iii)       varying the number of pins such that the higher the bet more or less rows
of pins appear,
 (iv)       varying the number of pins such that the higher the bet more or less pins
appear,
 (v)        varying the number of containers such that the higher the bet more
containers become available. For example, a bet of 1 credit buys the first 4
containers from left to right; a bet of 2 credits buys all eight,
 (vi)       varying the number of pin features such that the higher the bet more pin
features can be won,
(vii)       varying the size of the prizes such that all prizes are multiplied (preferably
linearly) by a factor which is a function of bet size,
(viii) varying the number of active balls dropped, with the same number of balls
being be dropped from game to game, independent of the number of balls
purchased, and with unpurchased balls being distinguished by appearance,
(ix)        varying the size or shape of the balls to change the chance of specific
effects occurring,
 (x)        varying the location from which the balls are dropped, such that the further
out from the centre that the balls drop, the greater chance of the balls landing in
the outside buckets which will have larger prizes,
(xi)        varying the number of holes that appear for the balls to disappear into,
(xii)       varying the function of the balls under certain circumstances,
(xiii)      varying the number of tools available to re-direct the path of the balls,
 (xiv)      varying the number of prize zones that are available,
 (xv)       varying the number of balls required in a bucket to give a prize (i.e. a higher
bet requires fewer balls),
(xvi) varying the number of times a pin has to be hit or the number of pins that
need to be hit in order to award a bonus feature (i.e. a higher bet requires fewer
hits or fewer pins).
           For the betting strategy where higher bets buy additional balls, a low bet
may result in the balls that have not been bought still being shown to drop. In this
9641501_1(GHMaters) P88135.AU.11

                                              10
way, the player can see prizes that they have missed due to their low stake, and
can possibly still use the balls that weren't bought towards feature triggers. The
balls that have not been bought would need to be easily distinguished from the
bought balls, for example, they could be smaller and/or transparent in appearance,
or merely a different colour.
            In general, prizes will be paid according to how many balls are in each
container.
Containers may have the following features or characteristics:
(i)         a free game, free balls or any other type of bonus can be won when certain
containers are filled in a pre-determined way, for example: 10 free games are won
when 2 or more balls end up in the last column,
(ii)        containers may not always be open, they may have a top or cover which
can prevent balls from entering the container under certain conditions,
(iii)       some containers may have springs which will flick the balls to other
containers,
(iv)        some containers may become bonus baskets,
(v)         a specified number of balls may need to drop into the same container in
order to win a prize or jackpot, for example, 3 balls in container 1, pays 100
credits,
(vi)        balls may remain in the containers across multiple games allowing them to
accumulate as each game is played,
(vii)       as a special feature, the prizes associated with particular containers may
become much larger,
(viii)      an animated object may sit above the container and catch balls before they
drop into a container possibly moving them to other locations,
(ix)        roaming containers could exist that move position from game to game or as
the balls drop or as a special feature, the containers may also be moving while the
balls drop.
            Pins can also be provided with specific features or characteristics as
follows:
(i)         depending on either the number of times each pin is hit and/or whether or
not certain patterns such as a row, diagonal or diamond shape made up of hit pins
occurs, prizes or bonuses are paid such as:
*           free games free balls
-           second screen features
-           wins multiplied by odds
*           progressives,
9641501_1(GHMaters) P88135.AU.11

                                               11
 (ii)       the pins can occur in different patterns from game to game, for example: in
one game they make up a triangular shape; in another, a diamond shape,
(iii)       pins may swallow or capture balls when hit,
(iv)        pins may release balls when hit,
(v)         each time a pin is hit it may become lit, change colour and/or record the
number of hits to award bonuses,
(vi)        pins may have different colours so that when a certain combination of
colours are all lit bonuses are paid,
(vii)       pins may be tilted so that the ball bounce will be biased to one side,
(viii)      pins may have holes in them for the ball to pass or may be able to be
knocked over for the ball to continue on its path,
(ix)        pins, in any pattern, may randomly flash during the ball drop sequence
awarding bonuses,
(x)         pins may be greyed out or move in and out to make it easier/harder for
balls to roll,
(xi)        pins may be joined by a rod to block balls from rolling down certain paths,
(xii)       pins may have numbers on them which represent the amount of credits,
free games, etc. won when they are either hit or lit,
(xiii)      when all pins are hit/lit a bonus is paid,
(xiv)       some pins may have the ability to flick the ball in any direction,
(xv)        some pins may be sticky such that if a ball hits them, it will stick and stay
on the pin, this could create a block where balls can no longer pass through that
position or another ball could be required to hit the stuck ball in order to dislodge it,
(xvi)       for the duration of a free game feature, all holes that are normally present
to swallow balls during the base game could be replaced by pins hence
guaranteeing a prize for each ball dropped in a free game (or at least giving a
higher probability of prizes),
 (xvii)     there may be feature pins, for example, free game pins such that if a
certain number of free game pins are hit a free game feature will be awarded,
alternatively, "shortcut" pins such that when a ball hits the shortcut pin it will skip
straight to another position on the screen,
(xviii)     pins may have deflectors such that when hit, they will always deflect a ball
in one specified direction,
 (xix)      as a special feature, the centre pin or pins may become larger, blocking off
access through the centre and hence increasing the chance of balls falling towards
the outer containers,
(xx)        all pins may become the same colour as a special feature,
9641501_1(GHMaters) P88135.AU.11

                                              12
(xxi)        "elastic bands" may be placed around 2 or more pins such that if a ball
drops against the band, it will be bounced off rather than merely deflected. Balls
can also have different features and characteristics as follows:
(i)         the balls may be the same colour, different colours during the same game
or change colours from game to game, they may also have numbers on them, both
the colouring and numbers can be utilised to award prizes,
(ii)        special balls when hitting pins may split up into a number of balls,
(iii)       special balls may have the ability to jump from column to column and
award prizes,
(iv)        special balls will enable bonuses to be found,
(v)         there may be a larger ball which can knock pins over or split into smaller
balls,
(vi)        balls may fall down the pin holes,
(vii)       a slot reel, chocolate wheel or other mechanism may be activated by a ball
or other means to provide a multiplier, bonus or trigger,
(viii)      different sized balls could be provided such that bigger balls are less likely
to fall down holes,
(ix)        different shaped balls could be provided such that spherical balls can only
fall down round holes, cubic "balls" will only fall down square holes, elliptical
"balls" can only fall down oval holes etc,
(x)         large balls or "superballs" may block holes or knock out pins,
(xi)        the speed of the ball drop may differ depending upon the size of the ball,
(xii)       as balls drop, the path that they follow may be plotted, for example, the
pins that they hit may change colour, if another ball follows that same path or a lit
path a bonus (prize or feature) may be given, alternatively, if all pins become lit, a
bonus (prize or feature) may be given, the lit pins may even be carried across from
one game to the next,
(xiii)      as balls drop, blockages formed as a blocking element such as a pin or
other object may be placed along the path that they follow such that no other ball
may drop through the blockages,
(xiv)       the balls could be in the shape of coins or other objects,
(xv)        certain balls may alter the paths for other balls, for example, if a certain ball
drops in one direction when it hits a particular pin, then all balls to hit the same pin
from then on will also drop in that same direction,
(xvi)       when balls drop into holes something may happen to them, for example,
they may be channelled into containers or come out other holes or re-appear in
other sections of the screen,
9641501_1(GHMaters) P88135.AU.11

                                              13
 (xvii)     balls may change colour as they drop, or may change the colour of pins
that they hit to their own colour, similarly, certain balls that drop into a container
may change the colour of all other balls in that same container,
(xviii) some wins could be paid in balls rather than credits, that is, certain events
may cause extra balls to be dropped as part of the same game, these may or may
not be at extra cost to the player,
 (xix) some balls may "defy gravity" by 'dropping' across the screen horizontally
or upwards or similar, hence, prize containers may appear on all sides of the pin
layout rather than just at the bottom,
(xx)        "Fireballs" may exist that burn the pins as they hit them,
(xxi) balls may be numbered or have letters on them, if they land in a certain
order or spelling a specific word, a bonus (prize or feature) may be awarded,
(xxii) holes may disappear or close up as soon as a ball drops into them. Skill
elements can also be provided in a game, for example:
(i)         games may include an element of skill provided by including player
controls which enable the player to drop or project the balls at different angles,
(ii)        the game may have a flipper to flick the balls.
Tools or Controls can also be provided in some games such as:
 (i)        flippers could be provided at certain locations such that if a ball hits the
flipper it will (automatically or by control of the player) be flicked back to drop
through some or all of the pins again, hence providing a second chance at prizes
or feature triggers,
(ii)        ladders, magnets or some other objects could cause the balls to move
upwards or in other directions instead of just dropping downwards.
In certain games, a game feature of a chocolate wheel can be provided which
could have features such as:
 (i)        a chocolate wheel could replace a prize container whereas the ball drops
through the chocolate wheel, it will spin and pay the prize that is spun up,
(ii)        an independent chocolate wheel could be displayed where certain triggers
or prizes can cause the chocolate wheel to spin to reveal a bonus by way of a
prize, win multiplier, number of free games, extra balls to drop, change in the game
structure or similar,
 (iii)      an independent chocolate wheel could be displayed so that whenever balls
fall into certain containers or similar, the chocolate wheel will spin to reveal the
prize that will be awarded.
Games can also include a game feature of spinning reels which may have features
such as:
9641501_1(GHMaters) P88135.AU.11

                                             14
(i)         a spinning reel game could be played above the pins such that when a
winning combination occurs on the reels, coins could come out from below the
reels and drop into the pins so that the base game determines the prize, a spinning
reel game element could be used to determine the base game structure, for
example, the prize values, position of holes, number of pins, pin layout or similar,
(ii)        containers could have multipliers on them, then, when a win on a spinning
reel game occurs, a ball could be dropped through the pins to determine how
much the win will be multiplied by.
          It will be appreciated by persons skilled in the art that numerous variations
and/or modifications may be made to the invention as shown in the specific
embodiments without departing from the spirit or scope of the invention as broadly
described. The present embodiments are, therefore, to be considered in all
respects as illustrative and not restrictive.
9641501_1(GHMaters) P88135.AU.11

                                             15
CLAIMS:
 1.         An electronic gaming console having credit means, reward means, game
control means, display means, and player input controls, the control means being
responsive to the credit means and the player input controls to play a game which
is displayed on the display means and if a winning event occurs, a player reward is
awarded by the reward means, the gaming console, wherein the game provides a
video display of a labyrinth of pins on the display means and the player input
controls allow a player to initiate motion of virtual ball images on the display
means, player rewards being awarded when virtual ball images come to rest in
predetermined prize winning locations of the display means, wherein the
predetermined prize winning locations in which the virtual ball images come to rest
include a row of buckets disposed below the labyrinth of pins, wherein the labyrinth
of pins has a pin configuration that is dependent on credits wagered in the credit
means, wherein the player input controls allow the player to initiate firing of the
virtual ball images on the display means and to control firing parameters for the
virtual ball images.
2.          The electronic gaming console as claimed in claim 1, wherein the player
controls include a control to control firing speed of the virtual ball images.
3.          The electronic gaming console as claimed in claims 1 or 2, wherein the
player controls include a control to control firing direction of the virtual ball images.
4.          The electronic gaming console as claimed in any one of the preceding
claims, wherein the player controls include a control to affect or control the
trajectory of a virtual ball image after it is fired.
5.          The electronic gaming console as claimed in any one of the preceding
claims, wherein a number of virtual ball images provided to the player for a game
is dependent upon a number of credits bet on the game.
6.          The electronic gaming console as claimed in claim 5, wherein each credit
bet in any one game by the player buys one virtual ball image.
7.          The electronic gaming console as claimed in claim 5, wherein a number of
virtual ball images provided for a first credit is different to the number of virtual ball
9641501_1(GHMaters) P88135.AU.11

                                           16
images provided for subsequent credits wagered on a single game.
8.          The electronic gaming console as claimed in claim 5, wherein each credit
bet by the player buys more virtual ball images than a previous credit bet in any
one game.
9.          The electronic gaming console as claimed in any one of the preceding
claims, wherein virtual ball images of different colours are provided and a value of
prizes awarded are determined according to colours of virtual ball images dropped
through the labyrinth of pins.
10.         The electronic gaming console as claimed in any one of the preceding
claims, wherein at least one virtual ball image changes colour as it drops through
the labyrinth of pins.
11.         The electronic gaming console as claimed in any one of the preceding
claims, wherein at least one virtual ball image changes a colour of any pins that it
hits as it drops through the labyrinth of pins to its own colour.
12.         The electronic gaming console as claimed in any one of the preceding
claims, wherein at least one virtual ball image, if it drops into a bucket, changes a
colour of all other balls in that same bucket at the end of the game.
13.         The electronic gaming console as claimed in any one of the preceding
claims, wherein the number of virtual ball images dropped is variable from game to
game.
14.         The electronic gaming console as claimed in claim 13, wherein the number
of virtual ball images dropped is selectable by the player.
15.         The electronic gaming console as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 12,
wherein the game permits a varying of a number of active ball images to be
purchased and dropped, while maintaining a constant total number of virtual ball
images being dropped from game to game, the total number of virtual ball images
being independent of the number of active virtual ball images dropped.
16.         The electronic gaming console as claimed in claim 15, wherein the total
9641501_1(GHMaters) P88135.AU.11

                                              17
number of virtual ball images includes unpurchased virtual ball images, wherein
the unpurchased virtual ball images are distinguished from the purchased virtual
ball images by appearance.
17.         The electronic gaming console as claimed in claim 15, wherein the
unpurchased virtual ball images are available to trigger awarding of a feature game
or bonus.
18.         The electronic gaming console as claimed in claims 16 or 17, wherein the
unpurchased virtual ball images are distinguished from the purchased virtual ball
images by being transparent.
19.         The electronic gaming console as claimed in any one of claims 16 to 18,
wherein the unpurchased virtual ball images are distinguished from the purchased
virtual ball images by colour.
20.         The electronic gaming console as claimed in any one of claims 16 to 19,
wherein the unpurchased virtual ball images are distinguished from the purchased
virtual ball images by size.
21.         The electronic gaming console as claimed in any one of the preceding
claims, wherein the buckets of the row of buckets are arranged to block virtual ball
images from moving out of play below the row.
22.         The electronic gaming console as claimed in claim 21, further comprising
virtual holes displayed on the display means at one or more locations of the
labyrinth of pins, wherein the virtual holes are configured to catch virtual ball
images to remove them from game play when the location of the virtual hole
coincides with a position of a virtual ball image on the display means.
23.         An electronic gaming system comprising:
            a credit acceptor configured to receive a wager from a player to play a
game;
            a payout mechanism configured to provide a reward to the player;
            a player input control configured to allow the player to interact with the
game;
            an electronic display configured to provide the player with a visual display
9641501_1(GHMaters) P88135.AU.11

                                                    18
of the game; and
            a controller configured to interface with the credit acceptor, the payout
mechanism, the player input control, and the electronic display, wherein the
controller executes predetermined operations including:
                         controlling the electronic display to display a labyrinth of pins
            interfacing with the player input control on the electronic display,
                         controlling motion of virtual ball images on the electronic display in
            response to manipulation of the player input control, and
                          interfacing with the payout mechanism to provide player rewards
            when the virtual ball images come to rest in predetermined prize winning
            locations on the electronic display, wherein the predetermined prize
            winning locations at which the virtual ball images come to rest include a row
            of buckets disposed below the labyrinth of pins, wherein the labyrinth of
            pins has a pin configuration that is dependent on the wager of the player.
24.         The electronic gaming system as claimed in claim 23, further comprising a
wheel disposed in the row of buckets, wherein the controller directs the electronic
display to spin the wheel in response to virtual contact between the wheel and a
virtual ball image.
25.         The electronic gaming system as claimed in claim 24, wherein the
controller directs the electronic display to stop spinning the wheel some time after
virtual contact between the wheel and the virtual ball image, and wherein the
controller interfaces with the payout mechanism to provide a reward to the player if
the wheel stops spinning at a predetermined winning position.
26.         The electronic gaming system as claimed in any one of claims 23 to 25,
wherein the row of buckets are arranged to block virtual ball images from moving
out of play below the buckets.
27.         The electronic gaming system as claimed in claim 26, wherein the
controller directs the electronic display to provide virtual holes disposed at one or
more locations of the labyrinth of pins, wherein virtual coincidence between a
position of a virtual ball image and a position of a virtual hole on the electronic
display removes the virtual ball image from game play.
28.         An electronic gaming system comprising:
9641501_1(GHMaters) P88135.AU.11

                                                     19
            a credit acceptor configured to receive a wager from a player to play a
game;
            a payout mechanism configured to provide a reward to the player;
            a player input control configured to allow the player to interact with the
game;
            an electronic display configured to provide the player with a visual display
of the game; and
            a controller configured to interface with the credit acceptor, the payout
mechanism, the player input control, and the electronic display, wherein the
controller executes predetermined operations including:
                          controlling the electronic display to display a labyrinth of pins,
                          interfacing with the player input control on the electronic display,
                          controlling motion of virtual ball images on the electronic display in
            response to manipulation of the player input control, and
                          interfacing with the payout mechanism to provide player rewards
            when the virtual ball images come to rest in predetermined prize winning
            locations on the electronic display, wherein the predetermined prize
            winning locations at which the virtual ball images come to rest include
            buckets below the labyrinth of pins, and wherein an amount of the wager by
            the player determines how buckets below the labyrinth of pins are
            arranged.
29.         The electronic gaming system of claim 28, wherein the buckets of the row
of buckets are disposed immediately adjacent one another in a side-by-side
relationship below the labyrinth of pins.
30.         The electronic gaming system as claimed in claims 28 or 29, wherein the
buckets of the row of buckets are arranged to block virtual ball images from
moving out of play below the buckets.
9641501_1(GHMaters) P88135.AU.11

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
