H:\rec\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\REC\9370386 1docx-25/01/2016
                                                            ABSTRACT
                                The present invention relates to methods of treating or preventing
addiction and relapse use of addictive agents, and treating or preventing addictive
or compulsive behaviour and relapse practice of an addictive behaviour or
compulsion, by administering a peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor gamma
(PPARy) agonist, alone or in combination with another therapeutic agent, such as,
for example, an opioid receptor antagonist or an antidepressant. The present
invention also includes pharmaceutical compositions for treating or preventing
addiction or relapse that include a PPARy agonist and one or more other
therapeutic agents, as well as unit dosage forms of such pharmaceutical
compositions, which contain a dosage effective in treating or preventing addiction
or relapse. The methods and compositions of the invention are useful in the
treatment or prevention of addiction to any agent, including alcohol, nicotine,
marijuana, cocaine, and amphetamines, as well as compulsive and addictive
behaviours, including pathological gambling and pathological overeating.

 1:
 \dar\Interwovn\NRPortbl\DCC\DAR\16707343_iLdocx-26 03 2018
                        COMPOSITIONS AND METHODS FOR PROPHYLAXIS AND
                                                        TREATMENT OF ADDICTIONS
CROSS-REFERENCE(S) TO RELATED APPLICATION(S)
                              This application is a divisional of Australian Patent Application No.
<removed-apn>, the entire content of which is incorporated herein by reference.
                              This application claims the benefit under 35 U.S.C. § 119(e) of U.S.
Provisional Patent Application No. 60/911,201 filed April 11, 2007, where this
provisional application is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.
BACKGROUND
Technical Field
                              The present invention is directed generally to the treatment or
prevention of addictions using PPARy agonists, alone or in combination with other
therapeutic agents.
Description of the Related Art
                              The World Health Organization (WHO) defines substance addiction
as using a substance repeatedly, despite knowing and experiencing harmful
effects. Substance addiction is a chronic, relapsing disease characterized by a
loss of control over drug use, compulsive drug seeking and craving for a
substance, use that persists despite negative consequences, and physical and/or
psychological dependence on the substance. Substance addiction typically
follows a course of tolerance, withdrawal, compulsive drug taking behaviour, drug
seeking behaviour, and relapse. Substance abuse and addiction are public health
issues with significant social and economic impact on both the addict and society
by playing a major role in violent crime and the spread of infectious diseases.
Addictive substances include alcohol, caffeine, nicotine, cannabis (marijuana) and
cannabis derivatives, opiates and other morphine-like opioid agonists such as
heroin, phencyclidine and phencyclidine-like compounds, sedative ipnotics such
as benzodiazepines and
                                                                  -1 -

      WO 2008/128126                                                   PCT/US2008/0601 46
   barbiturates and psychostimulants such as cocaine, amphetamines and
  amphetamine-related drugs such as dextroamphetamine and methylamphetamine.
                 Alcohol is one of the most commonly abused substances at a global
  level. Additionally, alcoholism leads to serious liver and cardiovascular disease and
  generates dependence resulting in severe mental disorders, social problems and
 adverse consequences including the division of families, tragic accidents and the
 reduction of work performance. According to the WHO, alcohol consumption is
 responsible for 20-30% of oesophageal and liver cancer, liver cirrhosis, homicides,
 epilepsy, and motor vehicle accidents world wide. Globally, alcohol abuse leads to
 about 1.8 million deaths per year. Compulsive behaviour towards the consumption
 of alcohol is a core symptom of the disorder. In recent years several approaches
 have been investigated to help alcoholic patients to not only control alcohol drinking
 but also alcohol cravings and relapse (Monti et al., 1993; Volpicelli et al. 1992;
 O'Brien et al. 1997).
                Medications such as naltrexone, acamprosate, ondansetron, disulfiram,
 gamma hydroxybutyrate (GHB), and topiramate tested for their potential therapeutic
 effect on alcohol abuse belong to several classes (Volpicelli et a. 1992; O'Brien et
 al. 1997). Few of these pharmacotherapeutics, such as naltrexone, acamprosate,
and disulfiram, have been proven to be of a certain utility and approved for the
treatment of alcoholism. Among these medications, the non-selective opioid
antagonist naltrexone is currently considered the pharmacological gold standard.
However, despite some promising results none of these medications, including
naltrexone, is of sufficient efficacy in alcoholism and prognosis remains poor.
                Nicotine is one of the most widely used addictive drugs, and nicotine
abuse is the most common form of substance abuse. The WHO estimates that there
are 1.25 billion smokers worldwide, representing one third of the global population
over the age of 15. The WHO further estimates that 5 million deaths occur each year
as a direct result of tobacco use, making nicotine abuse the largest single
preventable cause of death worldwide. In industrialized countries, 70-90% of lung
cancer, 56-80% of chronic respiratory disease, and 22% of cardiovascular disease
                                             2

       WO 2008/128126                                                      PCT/US2008/06014 6
   instances are attributed to nicotine addiction. Cigarette smoking is associated with
   430,000 deaths a year in the US alone and is estimated to cost the nation 80 billion
   dollars yearly in health care costs. Tobacco use accounts for one third of all cancers,
   including cancer of the lung, mouth, pharynx, larynx, esophagus, cervix, kidney,
   ureter, and bladder. The overall rates of death from cancer are twice as high among
  smokers as among nonsmokers. Smoking also causes lung diseases such as
  chronic bronchitis and emphysema; exacerbates asthma symptoms; and increases
  the risk of heart disease, including stroke, heart attack, vascular disease, and
  aneurysm. An estimated 20% of the deaths from heart disease are attributable to
  smoking. Expectant women who smoke are at greater risk than nonsmokers for
  premature delivery, spontaneous abortion, and infants with decreased birth weight.
                 Nicotine use results in increased levels of the neurotransmitter
 dopamine, which activates the reward pathways to regulate feelings of pleasure and
 to mediate the desire to consume nicotine. Symptoms associated with nicotine
 withdrawal include craving, irritability, anger, hostility, aggression, fatigue,
 depression, and cognitive impairment, which lead the abuser to seek more nicotine.
 Environmental conditioning factors and exposure to psychological stress represent
 additional factors motivating nicotine use in smokers. Repeated nicotine use results
in the development of tolerance, requiring higher doses of nicotine to produce the
same initial stimulation.
                 Most therapies developed for nicotine addiction have shown only
moderate success in preventing relapse, leading to a high failure rate in attempts to
quit smoking. Treatments include the use of nicotine replacement products, anti
depressants, anti-hypersensitives, and behavioural therapy.
                The National Institute on Drug Abuse estimates that 72 million
Americans, about one third of the population, have tried marijuana. Acute effects of
marijuana use include memory and learning problems, distorted perception, difficulty
problem solving, loss of coordination, and increased heart rate. Long term abuse can
cause the same respiratory problems observed in tobacco smokers, such as daily
cough, phlegm production, increased risk of lung infections, and an increased
                                              3

      WO 2008/128126                                                    PCT/US2008/0601 4 6
  chance of developing cancer of the head, neck and lungs. Depression, anxiety, and
  job-related problems have been associated with marijuana use. Long term marijuana
  use can result in addiction with compulsive use that interferes with daily activities.
  Cravings and withdrawal symptoms, such as irritability, increased aggression,
  sleeplessness, and anxiety make it difficult for addicts to stop using marijuana. There
  are no pharmaceutical treatments available for treating marijuana addiction and
  relapse.
                According to the WHO, an estimated 13 million people abuse opiates
 world wide, including 9 million heroin addicts. More than 25% of opiate abusers die
 from suicide, homicide, or an infectious disease, such as HIV and hepatitis, within
 10-20 years of becoming addicted. Tolerance and physical dependence can
 develop within two to three days.
                The goals for treatment of opiate addiction, as with other types of
 substance addictions, are to discontinue the use of the opiate while minimizing
 painful withdrawal symptoms and preventing relapse. Current treatments involve
 replacing the addictive drug with a substitution of an opioid receptor agonist or mixed
agonist/antagonist. An alternative approach consists of the use of an opioid receptor
antagonist to block the effect of the agonist. Antagonists provide no relief from pain
or other withdrawal symptoms; rather, they can precipitate withdrawal, and their
therapeutic use was associated with increased accidental oploid agonists overdosing
and increased lethality. Use of agonists with a lower affinity for the receptors results
in the least severe withdrawal symptoms, but it can lead to a dependence on the
substitute opiate. Also, many substitution therapies take 3-6 months, allowing time
for addicts to stop treatment midway.
                Psychostimulants, such as cocaine and amphetamines, cause
euphoria, increased alertness, and increased physical capacity in humans. These
substances first increase dopamine transmission, but long term drug usage results in
a reduction of dopamine activity, leading to dysregulation of the brain reward system
and dysporia. The WHO estimates 33 million people around the world abuse
amphetamines.
                                            4

       WO 2008/128126                                                   PCT/US2008/060146
                  Chronic cocaine abuse can result in hyperstimulation, tachycardia,
   hypertension, mydriasis, muscle twitching, sleeplessness, extreme nervousness,
   hallucinations, paranoia, aggressive behaviour, and depression. Cocaine overdose
   may lead to tremors, convulsions, delirium, and death resulting from heart
   arrhythmias and cardiovascular failure. Desipramine, amantadine and bromocriptine
  have been shown to decrease cocaine withdrawal symptoms.
                 Amphetamine withdrawal symptoms include EEG changes, fatigue,
  and mental depression. Tolerance develops over time and may be associated with
  tachycardia, auditory and visual hallucinations, delusions, anxiety reactions,
  paranoid psychosis, exhaustion, confusion, memory loss, and prolonged depression
  with suicidal tendencies. Current treatments for amphetamine addiction include
  phenothiazines, haloperidol, and chlorpromazine for hallucinations, but potential side
 effects of these drugs include postural hypotension and severe extrapyramidal motor
 disorders.
                 In the past, treatment for substance addictions focused on behavioural
 therapy, but dependence on many of these highly addictive substances is hard to
 break. In particular, addictions to alcohol, cocaine, and heroin are considered
 chronic, relapsing disorders. Also, concurrent abuse of multiple substances, such as
 nicotine, heroin, cocaine and alcohol, is common.
                 The long-lasting, chronic nature of many addictions and high rates of
 recidivism present a considerable challenge for the treatment of drug and alcohol
addiction, such that understanding of the neurobiological basis of relapse has
emerged as a central issue in addiction research. Emotional and environmental
factors (conditioning stimuli) were listed among the main causes of relapse. For
example, it is known that specific stress conditions such as loss of work and
economic difficulties, or stimuli predictive of the presence of alcohol previously
associated with its use such as a bottle of the preferred wine and a bar-like
environment, may strongly facilitate relapse in detoxified former alcoholics.
                                              5

      WO 2008/128126                                                     PCT/US2008/060146
                  Two major theoretical positions exist to explain the persistence of
   addictive behaviour and vulnerability to relapse associated with drug and alcohol
   addiction, homoeostatic hypotheses and conditioning hypotheses.
                  Homeostatic hypotheses relate relapse risk to neuroadaptive changes
   and disruption of neuroendocrine homeostasis that are thought to underlie anxiety,
   mood dysregulation and somatic symptoms that accompany acute withdrawal, and
  that can persist for considerable periods of time during what has been referred to as
  the "protracted withdrawal" phase. This view, therefore, implicates alleviation of
  discomfort and negative affect as a motivational basis for relapse.
                  Conditioning hypotheses are based on observations that relapse is
  often associated with exposure to drug-related environmental stimuli. This view
  holds that specific environmental stimuli that have become associated with the
  rewarding actions of a drug by means of classical conditioning can elicit subjective
  states that trigger resumption of drug use. The homeostatic and conditioning
  hypotheses are not mutually exclusive. In fact, homeostatic and conditioning factors
  are likely to exert additive effects in that exposure to drug-related environmental
  stimuli may augment vulnerability to relapse conveyed by homeostatic disturbances.
                 Clearly, there is a need in the art for new methods for treating and
 preventing addiction and the relapse use of addictive agents. The present invention
 meets these needs by providing methods and pharmaceutical combinations useful in
 treating and preventing addiction and recividism.
 BRIEF SUMMARY
                 The present invention is directed generally to the use of PPARy
 agonists, alone or in combination with one or more additional therapeutic agents, for
the treatment and prevention of addictions and relapse to addictive use or behavior.
Accordingly, the present invention provides methods and related compositions, unit
dosage forms, and kits useful for the treatment and prevention of addictions, and for
the treatment and prevention of relapse use of addictive agents or practice of
addictive or compulsive behaviours.
                                                6

                                                                                         6
      WO 2008/128126                                                    PCT/US2008/06014
                   In one embodiment, the present invention includes a method of treating
   or preventing an addiction, comprisind determining that a subject has or is at risk of
  developing an addiction, and providing to the subject an amount of an agonist of a
   peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor gamma (PPARy agonist) effective for the
  treatment or prevention of the addiction.
                  In a related embodiment, the present invention provides a method of
  treating or preventing an -addiction, comprising providing to a subject having an
  addiction a peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor gamma (PPARy agonist) and
  an additional therapeutic agent, wherein each of the PPARy agonist and the
  additional therapeutic agent contribute to the effective treatment or prevention of the
 addiction.
                 In certain embodiments of the methods of treating or preventing
 addiction of the present invention, the PPARy agonist is a thiazolidinedione (TZD).
 In particular embodiments, the TZD is pioglitazone, rosiglitazone, ciglitazone,
 troglitazone, englitazone, rivoglitazone, or darglidazone. Incertain embodiments,
 the additional therapeutic agent is an opioid antagonist, a mixed opioid partial
 agonist/antagonist, an antidepressant, an antiepileptic, an antiemetic, a
 corticotrophin-releasing factor-1 (CRF-1) receptor antagonist, a selective serotonin-3
(5-HT3) antagonist, a 5-H T2N2c antagonist, or a cannabinoid-1 (CB1)      receptor
antagonist. In particular embodiments, the opioid antagonist is naltrexone or
nalmefene. In particular embodiments, the antidepressant is fluoxetine, mirtazapine,
or bupropion. In particular embodiments, the antiepileptic is topiramate,
levetiracetam, or gabapentin. In one embodiment, the CRF-1 receptor antagonist is
antalarmin. In another embodiment, the selective serotonin-3 (5-HT3) antagonist is
ondansetron. In particular embodiments, the cannabinoid-1 (CB1)        receptor
antagonist is rimonabant or tanarabant. In one embodiment, the mixed opioid
agonist/antagonist is buprenorphine.
                In certain embodiments of the methods of the present invention, the
subject is addicted to an addictive agent, or at risk for relapse use of an addictive
agent. In particular embodiments, the addictive agent is alcohol, nicotine, marijuana,
                                             7

     WO 2008/128126                                                    PCT/US2008/0601 4 6
  a marijuana derivative, an opioid agonist, a benzodiazepine, a barbiturate, or a
  psychostimulant. In certain embodiments, the opioid agonist is selected from the
  group consisting of: morphine, methadone, fentanyl, sufentanil and heroin. In certain
  embodiments, the psychostimulant is cocaine, amphetamine or an amphetamine
  derivative. In addition, the subject may be addicted to more than one addictive
  agent, and the pharmaceutical compositions, unit dosage forms, and kits may be
  useful for treating or preventing addiction or relapse use of more than one addictive
  agent.
                  In other embodiments of the present invention, the subject is addicted
 to an addictive or compulsive behavior or at risk for relapse practice of an addictive
 or compulsive behaviour. In particular embodiments, the addictive or compulsive
 behavior is pathological gambling, pathological overeating, pathological use of
 electronic devices, pathological use of electronic video games, pathological use of
 electronic communication devices, pathological use of cellular telephones, addiction
 to pornography, sex addiction, obsessive compulsive disorder, compulsive spending,
 anorexia, bulimia, intermittent explosive disorder, kleptomania, pyromania,
trichotillomania, compulsive overexercising, and compulsive overworking. In
addition, the subject may be addicted to more than one addictive or compulsive
 behaviour, and the pharmaceutical compositions, unit dosage forms, and kits may be
useful for treating or preventing addiction or relapse use of more than one addictive
or compulsive behaviour.
                 In particular embodiments of any of the methods of the present
invention, the addictive agent is alcohol and the additional therapeutic agent is an
opioid antagonist or a mixed oploid antagonist/partial agonist. In one embodiment,
the oploid antagonist is naltrexone. In another embodiment, the mixed oploid partial
agonist/antagonist is buprenorphine.
                In other particular embodiments of any of the methods of the present
invention, the addictive agent is nicotine and the additional therapeutic agent is an
antidepressant. In one embodiment, the antidepressant is bupropion.
                                             8

                                                                                         6
     WO 2008/128126                                                    PCT/IUS2008/06014
                  In further particular embodiments of any of the methods of the present
  invention, the addictive agent is a psychostimulant and the additional therapeutic
  agent is an antidepressant. In one embodiment, the antidepressant is bupropion.
                  In other particular embodiments of any of the present invention, the
  subject is addicted to two or more addictive agents and the additional therapeutic
  agent is an oploid antagonist or a mixed opioid partial agonist/antagonist. In certain
  embodiments, the opioid antagonist is naltrexone or nalmefene. In other
  embodiments, the mixed opioid partial agonist/antagonist is buprenorphine.
                 In further related embodiments, the present invention provides a
 method of preventing relapse use of an addictive agent or practice of an addictive or
 compulsive behaviour, comprising providing an effective amount of a peroxisome
 proliferator-activated receptor gamma (PPARy agonist) to a subject who has
 undergone a period of abstinence from, or limited or reduced use of, the addictive
 agent or practice of the addictive or compulsive behaviour. In certain embodiments,
 the subject has undergone physiological withdrawal from the addictive agent during
the period of abstinence from, or limited or reduced use of, the addictive agent or
due to no longer being exposed to an effective amount of the anti-addiction
treatment. The anti-addiction treatment may be an anti-addiction drug or may be a
non-pharmacologic therapy such as counseling, psychotherapy or hypnosis therapy.
                In a related embodiment, the present invention includes a method of
preventing relapse use of an addictive agent or practice of an addictive or
compulsive behaviour, comprising providing an effective amount of a peroxisome
proliferator-activated receptor gamma (PPARy agonist) to a subject who has
undergone a period of abstinence from, or limited or reduced use of, the addictive
agent or practice of the addictive or compulsive behaviour, and also providing to the
subject an additional therapeutic agent, wherein each of the PPARy agonist and the
additional therapeutic agent contribute to the effective prevention of the relapse use
or practice. In certain embodiments, the subject has undergone physiological
withdrawal from the addictive agent during the period of abstinence from, or limited
                                             9

      WO 2008/128126                                                   PCT/US2008/06014 6
  or reduced use of, the addictive agent or due to no longer being exposed to an
  effective amount of the anti-addiction treatment.
                  In another related embodiment, the present invention provides a
  method of treating relapse use of an addictive agent or practice of an addictive or
  compulsive behaviour, comprising providing an effective amount of a peroxisome
  proliferator-activated receptor gamma (PPARy agonist) to a subject who has
  undergone a period of abstinence from, or limited or reduced use of, the addictive
  agent or practice of the addictive or compulsive behaviour. In certain embodiments,
 the subject has undergone physiological withdrawal from the addictive agent during
 the period of abstinence from, or limited or reduced use of, the addictive agent or
 due to no longer being exposed to an effective amount of the anti-addiction
 treatment.
                 In a further embodiment, the present invention includes a method of
 treating relapse use of an addictive agent or practice of an addictive or compulsive
 behaviour, comprising providing an effective amount of a peroxisome proliferator
 activated receptor gamma (PPARy agonist) to a subject who has undergone a period
of abstinence from, or limited or reduced use of, the addictive agent or practice of the
addictive or compulsive behaviour, and also providing to the subject an additional
therapeutic agent wherein each of the PPARy agonist and the additional therapeutic
agent contribute to the effective treatment of the relapse use or practice. In certain
embodiments, the subject has undergone physiological withdrawal from the addictive
agent during the period of abstinence from, or limited or reduced use of, the
addictive agent or due to no longer being exposed to an effective amount of the anti
addiction treatment.
                In another related embodiment, the present invention provides a
method of preventing relapse use of an addictive agent or practive of an addictive or
compulsive behaviour, comprising providing an effective amount of a peroxisone
proliferator-activated receptor gamma (PPARy agonist) to a subject, wherein the
subject previously reduced or eliminated use of the addictive agent or practice of the
addictive or compulsive behaviour in response to treatment with an effective amount
                                            10

       WO 2008/128126                                                  PCT/US2008/060146
   of an anti-addiction treatment, and wherein the subject is no longer exposed to an
   effective amount of the anti-addiction treatment. In certain embodiments, the subject
   is no longer exposed to an effective amount of an anti-addiction agent because the
  subject has become conditioned to the anti-addiction agent. In certain embodiments,
  the subject is no longer exposed to an effective amount of the anti-addiction
  treatment because the subject has reduced or eliminated exposure to the anti
  addiction treatment.
                  In a related embodiment, the present invention provides a method of
  preventing relapse use of an addictive agent or practive of an addictive or
  compulsive behaviour, comprising providing an effective amount of a peroxisone
  proliferator-activated receptor gamma (PPARy agonist) to a subject, wherein the
  subject previously reduced or eliminated use of the addictive agent or practice of the
  addictive or compulsive behaviour in response to treatment with an effective amount
 of an anti-addiction treatment, and wherein the subject is no longer exposed to an
 effective amount of the anti-addiction treatment, and also providing to the subject an
 additional therapeutic agent, wherein each of the PPARy agonist and the additional
 therapeutic agent contribute to the effective prevention of the relapse use or practice.
 In certain embodiments, the subject is no longer exposed to an effective amount of
 an anti-addiction agent because the subject has become conditioned to the anti
addiction agent. In certain embodiments, the subject is no longer exposed to an
 effective amount of the anti-addiction treatment because the subject has reduced or
eliminated exposure to the anti-addiction treatment.
                 In additional embodiments, the present invention includes a method of
treating relapse use of an addictive agent or practive of an addictive or compulsive
behaviour, comprising providing an effective amount of a peroxisone proliferator
activated receptor gamma (PPARy agonist) to a subject, wherein the subject
previously reduced or eliminated use of the addictive agent or practice of the
addictive or compulsive behaviour in response to treatment with an effective amount
of an anti-addiction treatment, and wherein the subject is no longer exposed to an
effective amount of the anti-addiction treatment. In certain embodiments, the subject
                                             11

       WO 2008/128126                                                   PCT/US2008/0601 4 6
   is no longer exposed to an effective amount of an anti-addiction agent because the
   subject has become conditioned to the anti-addiction agent. In certain embodiments,
  the subject is no longer exposed to an effective amount of the anti-addiction
  treatment because the subject has reduced or eliminated exposure to the anti
  addiction treatment.
                   In a further embodiment, the present invention includes a method of
  treating relapse use of an addictive agent or practive of an addictive or compulsive
  behaviour, comprising providing an effective amount of a peroxisone proliferator
  activated receptor gamma (PPARy agonist) to a subject, wherein the subject
  previously reduced or eliminated use of the addictive agent or practice of the
 addictive or compulsive behaviour in response to treatment with an effective amount
 of an anti-addiction treatment, and wherein the subject is no longer exposed to an
 effective amount of the anti-addiction treatment, and also providing to the subject an
 additional therapeutic agent, wherein each of the PPARy agonist and the additional
 therapeutic agent contribute to the effective treatment of the relapse use or practice.
 In certain embodiments, the subject is no longer exposed to an effective amount of
 an anti-addiction agent because the subject has become conditioned to the anti
addiction agent. In certain embodiments, the subject is no longer exposed to an
effective amount of the anti-addiction treatment because the subject has reduced or
eliminated exposure to the anti-addiction treatment.
                  In particular embodiments of any of the methods of treating or
preventing relapse use or practice of the present invention, the PPARy agonist is
pioglitazone and the additional therapeutic agent is naltrexone.
                 In particular embodiments of any of the methods of treating or
preventing relapse use or practice of the present invention, the relapse use or
relapse practice is stress-induced.
                 In another embodiment, the present invention provides a method of
reducing one or more symptoms associated with physiological withdrawal from an
addictive agent, comprising providing an effective amount of a peroxisome
                                              12

      WO 2008/128126                                                     PCT/US2008/060146
   proliferator-activated receptor gamma (PPARy) agonist to a subject undergoing
   physiological withdrawal from an addictive agent.
                    In a related embodiment, the present invention provides a method of
   reducing one or more symptoms associated with physiological withdrawal from an
  addictive agent, comprising providing an effective amount of a peroxisome
  proliferator-activated receptor gamma (PPARy) agonist and an additional therapeutic
  agent to a subject undergoing physiological withdrawal from an addictive agent,
  wherein each of the PPARy agonist and the additional therapeutic agent contribute to
  reducing one or more symptoms associated with physical withdrawl from the
  addictive agent.
                   In particular embodiments of methods of reducing one or more
  symptoms associated with physiological withdrawal from an addictive agent
 according to the present invention, the PPARy agonist is a thiazolidinedione (TZD).
  In certain embodiments, the TZD is pioglitazone, rosiglitazone, ciglitazone,
 troglitazone, englitazone, rivoglitazone or darglidazone. In certain embodiments, the
 additional therapeutic agent is an opioid antagonist, a mixed opioid partial
 agonist/antagonist, an antidepressant, an antiepileptic, an antiemetic, a
 corticotrophin-releasing factor-1 (CRF-1) receptor antagonist, a selective serotonin-3
 (5-HT3) antagonist, a 5-HT2N2c antagonist, or a cannabinoid-1 (CB1) receptor
 antagonist.
                  In another embodiment, the present invention includes a
 pharmaceutical composition, comprising a peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor
gamma (PPARy) agonist and an additional therapeutic agent, wherein each of the
 PPARy agonist and the additional therapeutic agent contribute to the effective
treatment or prevention of an addiction. In certain embodiments, the PPARy agonist
is a thiazolidinedione (TZD). In certain embodiments, the TZD is pioglitazone,
rosiglitazone, ciglitazone, troglitazone, englitazone, rivoglitazone or darglidazone.
                 In one embodiment, the pharmaceutical composition is effective in the
treatment of an addiction to an addictive agent. In particular embodiments, the
                                              13

     WO 2008/128126                                                    PCT/US2008/060146
  addictive agent is alcohol, nicotine, marijuana, a marijuana derivative, an opioid
  agonist, a benzodiazepine, a barbiturate, or a psychostimulant.
                  In another embodiment, the pharmaceutical composition is effective in
  the treatment of an addiction to an addictive or compulsive behaviour. In particular
  embodiments, the addictive or compulsive behavior is pathological gambling,
  pathological overeating, pathological use of electronic devices, pathological use of
  electronic video games, pathological use of electronic communication devices,
  pathological use of cellular telephones, addiction to pornography, sex addiction,
  obsessive compulsive disorder, compulsive spending, anorexia, bulimia, intermittent
  explosive disorder, kleptomania, pyromania, trichotillomania, compulsive
  overexercising, and compulsive overworking.
                 In certain embodiments of pharmaceutical compositions of the present
 invention, the additional therapeutic agent is an opioid antagonist, a mixed opioid
 partial agonist/antagonist, an antidepressant, an antiepileptic, an antiemetic, a
 corticotrophin-releasing factor-1 (CRF-1) receptor antagonist, a selective serotonin-3
 (5-HT3) antagonist, a 5-HT 2N2c antagonist, and a cannabinoid-1 (CB1) receptor
 antagonist. In one embodiment, the opioid antagonist is naltrexone or nalmefene. In
 one embodiment, the antidepressant is fluoxetine, mirtazapine, or bupropion. In one
 embodiment, the antiepileptic is selected from the group consisting of: topiramate,
 levetiracetam, and gabapentin. In one embodiment, the CRF-1 receptor antagonist
is antalarmin. In one embodiment, the selective serotonin-3 (5-HT3) antagonist is
ondansetron. In one embodiment, the cannabinoid-1 (CB1) receptor antagonist is
rimonabant or tanarabant. In one embodiment, the mixed opioid agonist/antagonist
is buprenorphine.
                In a particular embodiment of a pharmaceutical composition of the
present invention, the addictive agent is alcohol and the additional therapeutic agent
is an opioid antagonist or a mixed opioid antagonist/partial agonist. In one
embodiment, the opioid antagonist is naltrexone. In one embodiment, the mixed
opioid partial agonist/antagonist is buprenorphine.
                                            14

                                                                                         6
       WO 2008/128126                                                   PCT/US2008/06014
                   In a particular embodiment of a pharmaceutical composition of the
   present invention, the addictive agent is nicotine and the additional therapeutic agent
   is an antidepressant. In one embodiment, the antidepressant is bupropion.
                  In a particular embodiment of a pharmaceutical composition of the
   present invention, the addictive agent is a psychostimulant and the additional
  therapeutic agent is an antidepressant. In one embodiment, the antidepressant is
  bupropion.
                  In a particular embodiment of a pharmaceutical composition of the
  present invention, the addictive agent comprises two or more addictive agents and
  the additional therapeutic agent is an opioid antagonist or a mixed opioid partial
  agonist/antagonist. In one embodiment, the opioid antagonist is naltrexone or
  nalmefene. In one embodiment, the mixed opiold partial agonist/antagonist is
 buprenorphine.
                 In a particular embodiment of a pharmaceutical composition of the
 present invention, the PPARy agonist is pioglitazone and the additional therapeutic
 agent is naltrexone.
                 In further related embodiments, the present invention includes unit
 dosage forms of a pharmaceutical composition adapted for the treatment of an
 addiction, wherein said unit dosage form comprises a peroxisome proliferator
 activated receptor gamma (PPARy) agonist and an additional therapeutic agent,
wherein said unit dosage form comprises the PPARy agonist and the additional
therapeutic agent in a combined amount effective in the treatment of an addiction,
and wherein each of the PPARy agonist and the additional therapeutic agent
 contribute to the effective treatment or prevention of the addiction. In particular
embodiments, the PPARy agonist is a thiazolidinedione (TZD). In certain
embodiments, the TZD is pioglitazone, rosiglitazone, ciglitazone, troglitazone,
englitazone, rivoglitazone or darglidazone. In certain embodiments, the additional
therapeutic agent is an opioid antagonist, a mixed opioid partial agonist/antagonist,
an antidepressant, an antiepileptic, an antiemetic, a corticotrophin-releasing factor-1
(CRF-1) receptor antagonist, a selective serotonin-3 (5-HT3) antagonist, a     5-HT2N2c
                                            15

      WO 2008/128126                                                     PCT/US2008/0601 4 6
   antagonist, or a cannabinoid-1 (CB1) receptor antagonist. In one embodiment, the
   opioid antagonist is naltrexone or nalmefene. In one embodiment, the
  antidepressant is fluoxetine, mirtazapine, or bupropion. In one embodiment, the
  antiepileptic is selected from the group consisting of: topiramate, levetiracetam, and
  gabapentin. In one embodiment, the CRF-1 receptor antagonist is antalarmin. In
  one embodiment, the selective serotonin-3 (5-HT3) antagonist is ondansetron. In
  one embodiment, the cannabinoid-1 (CB1) receptor antagonist is rimonabant or
  tanarabant. In one embodiment, the mixed opioid agonist/antagonist is
  buprenorphine.
                 In one particular embodiment of a unit dosage form of the present
 invention, the PPARy agonist is pioglitazone and the additional therapeutic agent is
 naltrexone.
                 In another related embodiment, the present invention includes a kit
 useful for the treatment or prevention of an addiction, comprising: a first container
 comprising a peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor gamma (PPARy) agonist;
 and a second container comprising an additional therapeutic agent, wherein each of
 the PPARy agonist and the additional therapeutic agent contribute to the effective
treatment of prevention of an addiction. In particular embodiments, the PPARy
 agonist is a thiazolidinedione (TZD). In certain embodiments, the TZD is
 pioglitazone, rosiglitazone, ciglitazone, troglitazone, englitazone, rivoglitazone or
darglidazone. In certain embodiments, the additional therapeutic agent is an opioid
antagonist, a mixed opioid partial agonist/antagonist, an antidepressant, an
antiepileptic, an antiemetic, a corticotrophin-releasing factor-1 (CRF-1) receptor
antagonist, a selective serotonin-3 (5-HT3) antagonist, a 5-HT2N2c antagonist, or a
cannabinoid-1 (CB1)     receptor antagonist. In one embodiment, the opioid antagonist
is naltrexone or nalmefene. In one embodiment, the antidepressant is fluoxetine,
mirtazapine, or bupropion. In one embodiment, the antiepileptic is selected from the
group consisting of: topiramate, levetiracetam, and gabapentin. In one embodiment,
the CRF-1 receptor antagonist is antalarmin. In one embodiment, the selective
serotonin-3 (5-HT3) antagonist is ondansetron. In one embodiment, the
                                             16

                                                                                          6
      WO 2008/128126                                                     PCT/US2008/06014
   cannabinoid-1 (CB1) receptor antagonist is rimonabant or tanarabant. In one
   embodiment, the mixed opioid agonist/antagonist is buprenorphine.
                  In one particular embodiment of a kit of the present invention, the
   PPARy agonist is pioglitazone and the additional therapeutic agent is naltrexone.
                  In one particular embodiment of a kit of the present invention, the
  addictive agent is alcohol and the additional therapeutic agent is an opioid antagonist
  or a mixed opioid antagonist/partial agonist. In one embodiment, the opioid
  antagonist is naltrexone. In one embodiment, the mixed opioid partial
  agonist/antagonist is buprenorphine.
                 In one particular embodiment of a kit of the present invention, the
  addictive agent is nicotine and the additional therapeutic agent is an antidepressant.
  In one embodiment, the antidepressant is bupropion.
                 In one particular embodiment of a kit of the present invention, the
  addictive agent is a psychostimulant and the additional therapeutic agent is an
  antidepressant. In one embodiment, the antidepressant is bupropion.
                In one particular embodiment of a kit of the present invention, the
 addictive agent comprises two or more addictive agents and the additional
 therapeutic agent is an opioid antagonist or a mixed opioid partial agonist/antagonist.
 In one embodiment, the opioid antagonist is naltrexone or nalmefene. In one
 embodiment, the mixed opioid partial agonist/antagonist is buprenorphine.
                In a further embodiment, the present invention includes a kit
 comprising one or more unit dosage forms of a peroxisome proliferator-activated
 receptor gamma (PPARy) agonist and one or more unit dosage forms of nicotine. In
one embodiment, the one or more unit dosage forms of nicotine comprise two or
 more different amounts of nicotine. In one embodiment, the PPARy agonist is a
thiazolidinedione (TZD). In one embodiment, the TZD is pioglitazone, rosiglitazone,
ciglitazone, troglitazone, englitazone, rivoglitazone or darglidazone.
               In additional embodiment, the present invention includes a method of
preventing a subject from becoming addicted, or reducing the likelihood that a
subject will become addicted, to an addictive therapeutic agent, comprising providing
                                            17

      WO 2008/128126                                                   PCT/US2008/0601 46
  to a subject in need thereof an addictive therapeutic agent, and an effective amount
  of a peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor gamma (PPARy agonist), wherein the
  effective amount of the PPARy agonist is an amount effective in preventing the
  subject from becoming addicted, or reducing the likelihood that the subject will
  become addicted, to the addictive therapeutic agent. In particular embodiment, this
  method further comprises providing to the subject an additional therapeutic agent,
  wherein each of the PPARy agonist and the additional therapeutic agent contribute to
  preventing the subject from becoming addicted, or reducing the likelihood that the
  subject will become addicted, to the addictive therapeutic agent. In one
 embodiment, the addictive therapeutic agent is an opioid agonist.
                 In certain embodiments of the methods of the present invention, the
 subject is addicted to an addictive agent, or at risk for relapse use of an addictive
 agent. In various embodiments, the pharmaceutical compositions, unit dosage
 forms, and kits of the present invention are useful for the treatment or prevention of
 addiction to an addictive agent or relapse use of an addictive agent. In particular
 embodiments, the addictive agent is alcohol, nicotine, marijuana, a marijuana
 derivative, an opioid agonist, a benzodiazepine, a barbiturate, or a psychostimulant.
 In certain embodiments, the opioid agonist is selected from the group consisting of:
 morphine, methadone, fentanyl, sufentanil and heroin. In certain embodiments, the
 psychostimulant is cocaine, amphetamine or an amphetamine derivative. In
 addition, the subject may be addicted to more than one addictive agent, and the
 pharmaceutical compositions, unit dosage forms, and kits may be useful for treating
 or preventing addiction or relapse use of more than one addictive agent.
                In other embodiments of the present invention, the subject is addicted
to an addictive or compulsive behavior or at risk for relapse practice of an addictive
or compulsive behaviour. In various embodiments, the pharmaceutical
compositions, unit dosage forms, and kits of the present invention are useful for the
treatment or prevention of addiction to an addictive or compulsive behaviour or
relapse use of an addictive or compulsive behaviour. In particular embodiments, the
addictive or compulsive behavior is pathological gambling, pathological overeating,
                                            18

      WO 2008/128126                                                   PCT/US2008/06014 6
   pathological use of electronic devices, pathological use of electronic video games,
   pathological use of electronic communication devices, pathological use of cellular
  telephones, addiction to pornography, sex addiction, obsessive compulsive disorder,
  compulsive spending, anorexia, bulimia, intermittent explosive disorder, kleptomania,
  pyromania, trichotillomania, compulsive overexercising, and compulsive
  overworking. In addition, the subject may be addicted to more than one addictive or
  compulsive behaviour, and the pharmaceutical compositions, unit dosage forms, and
  kits may be useful for treating or preventing addiction or relapse use of more than
 one addictive or compulsive behaviour.
 BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE SEVERAL VIEWS OF THE DRAWINGS
                Figure 1 is a graph depicting the effect of acute administration of 10.0
 or 30.0 mg/kg of pioglitazone (Pio 10 and Pio 30, respectively) on alcohol intake in
 Marchigian Sardinian alcohol-preferring (msP) rats. Controls were treated with
 vehicle only (Veh). Values represent the mean ± sem of alcohol intake. Significant
 difference from controls is indicated: *p<0.05.
                Figure 2 is a graph depicting the effect of acute administration of 0.25
 mg/kg of naltrexone (Ntx) alone or in combination with 10.0 or 30.0 mg/kg of
 pioglitazone (Pio 10 and Pio 30, respectively) on alcohol intake in msP rats.
 Controls were treated with drugs' vehicles (Veh+Veh). Values represent the mean
sem of alcohol intake. Significant difference from controls is indicated:. **p< 0.01 and
*p<0.05.
                Figures 3A-3D are graphs demonstrating the effect of subchronic
administration of 10.0 or 30.0 mg/kg of pioglitazone (Pio 10 and Pio 30, respectively)
on alcohol intake in msP rats. Controls were treated with drug vehicle (Veh). The
values shown in Figures 3A-3C represent the mean ± sem of daily alcohol intake
measured at: 2 hours (Figure 3A); 8 hours (Figure 3B); and 24 hours (Figure 3C)
from the beginning of the dark phase of the daily light/dark cycle. Figure 3D shows
daily food intake measured at 24 hour intervals. Significant difference from controls
is indicated: *p<0.05.
                                            19

      WO 2008/128126                                                      PCT/US2008/0601 4 6
                  Figures 4A-4D are graphs demonstrating the effect of subchronic
   administration of 0.25 mg/kg of naltrexone (Ntx) alone or in combination with 10.0
  or 30.0 mg/kg of pioglitazone (Pio 10 and Pio 30, respectively) on alcohol intake in
  msP rats. Controls were treated with drug vehicle (Veh + Veh). The values shown
  in Figures 4A-4C represent the mean ± sem of daily alcohol intake measured at: 2
  hours (Figure 4A); 8 hours (Figure 4B); and 24 hours (Figure 4C) from the beginning
  of the dark phase of the daily light/dark cycle. Figure 4D shows daily food intake
  measured at 24 hour intervals. Significant difference from controls is indicated:
  *p<0.05.
                 Figure 5 is a bar graph depicting the effect of pioglitazone on
  yohimbine-induced reinstatement of ethanol seeking behaviour. Compared to
  extinction (Ext), yohimbine elicited a significant reinstatement of responding that was
  markedly reduced by pre-treatment with 10.0 and 30.0 mg/kg of pioglitazone (Pio 10
 and 30, respectively). Values represent the mean (±SEM) number of responses at
 the active lever. Significant difference from controls (pioglitazone vehicle; Veh) is
 indicated: **P<0.05.
                Figure 6 is a bar graph depicting the lack of effect of pioglitazone on
 cue-induced reinstatement of ethanol seeking behaviour. Values shown represent
 the mean (±SEM) number of responses at the active or inactive levers.
 Conditioning: responses of the last 10% alcohol (filled circle) and water (open circle)
 session of the discrimination phase. Extinction (EXT): responses during the last day
 of this phase. Reinstatement: responses in rats exposed to stimuli predictive of
 alcohol (S*/CS*) or water (S~/CS~) availability. Significant difference from Ext is
indicated: **P<0.01.
                Figure 7 is a graph depicting the effect of treatment with ciglitazone 5.0
(Cig 5) or 20.0 mg/kg (Cig 20) or its vehicle (Veh) on FR1 ethanol self-administration
in Wistar rats. Each lever response resulted in the delivery of 0.1 ml of 10% ethanol.
Significant difference from controls (Veh) is indicated: *P<0.05.
                Figure 8 is a graph the effect of administration of 7.5 or 15.0 mg/kg of
rosiglitazone (Ros) on alcohol intake in msP rats. Controls were treated with the
                                             20

     WO 2008/128126                                                     PCT/US2008/0601 4 6
  drug vehicle (Veh). Values represent the mean ± sem of alcohol intake (g/kg) at the
  indicated time points. Significant difference from controls is indicated: **<0.01 and
  *p<0.05.
                 Figures 9A and 9B are graphs depicting the effect of pre-treatment with
  the PPARy antagonist GW9662 on pioglitazone induced reduction of ethanol
 drinking. Figure 9A represents the effect of GW9662 (GW) given alone (1.0 and 5.0
  mg/kg) on ethanol intake in msP rats. Figure 9B describes the effect of pre-treatment
 with GW9662 on animals injected with 30 mg/kg pioglitazone (Pio) or its vehicle.
 The control group received vehicles of both drugs (Veh+Veh). Values represent the
 mean ± sem of alcohol intake (g/kg). Significant difference from controls is indicated:
 **p< 0.01.
                 Figure 10 is a graph depicting the effect of pre-treatment with the
 PPARy antagonist GW9662 given ICV on pioglitazone-induced reduction of ethanol
 drinking. MsP rats received 5.0 pg/rat of GW9662 (GW) alone, 30 mg/kg of
 pioglitazone (Pio) alone or their combination. Control group received vehicles of
 both drugs (Veh+Veh). Values represent the mean ± sem of alcohol intake (g/kg).
Significant difference from controls is indicated: *p<0.05 and **p< 0.01.
                Figure 11 is a graph depicting the effect of naltrexone (Ntx) on
yohimbine-induced reinstatement of alcohol seeking. Compared to extinction (Ext)
yohimbine elicited a significant reinstatement of responding that was not modified by
pre-treatment with 0.25 and 1.0 mg/kg of naltrexone. Values represent the mean
(±SEM) number of responses at the active lever. Difference from controls (0.0) was
not significant.
                Figure 12 is a graph depicting the effect of naltrexone (Ntx) on cue
induced reinstatement of alcohol seeking. Values represent the mean (±SEM)
number of responses at the active lever. Conditioning: responses of the last 10%
alcohol (filled circle) and water (open circle) session of the discrimination phase.
Extinction (Ext): responses during the last day of this phase. Reinstatement:
responses in rats exposed to stimuli predictive of alcohol (S*/CS*) or water (S-/CS~)
                                            21

                                                                                           6
       WO 2008/128126                                                     PCT/US2008/06014
  availability. Treatment with 0.25 and 1.0 mg/kg of naltrexone significantly reduced
  cue-induced reinstatement of alcohol-seeking; **p< 0.01.
                  Figures 13A and 13B are graphs depicting the effect of naltrexone (ntx)
  plus pioglitazone (Pio) combination on: yohimbine-induced reinstatement of alcohol
  seeking (Figure 13A) or cue-induced reinstatement of alcohol seeking (Figure 13B).
  Compared to extinction (Ext), yohimbine elicited a significant reinstatement of
  responding. The combination of Naltrexone (1.0 mg/kg) plus pioglitazone (10 and 30
 mg/kg) significantly inhibited yohimbine-induced reinstatement of alcohol seeking
 (Figure 13A). Treatment with 1.0 mg/kg of naltrexone in combination with
 Pioglitazone (10.0 and 30.0 mg/kg) also significantly reduced cue-induced
 reinstatement of alcohol-seeking. Conditioning: responses of the last 10% alcohol
 (filled circle) and water (open circle) session of the discrimination phase. Extinction
 (Ext): responses during the last day of this phase. Reinstatement: responses in rats
 exposed to stimuli predictive of alcohol (S*/CS*) or water (S~/CS~) availability.
 Values represent the mean (±SEM) number of responses at the active lever.
 Significant difference from Ext is indicated: *P<0.05, **p<0.01.
                  Figure 14 is a graph depicting the effect of administration of 10 mg/kg
 of pioglitazone (Pio) alone or 3 mg/kg of fluoxetine alone or their combination on
 alcohol intake in msP rats. Controls were treated with the drug vehicles (Veh+Veh).
Values represent the mean ± sem of alcohol intake (g/kg). Significant difference
from controls is indicated: *p<0.05 and **p<0.01.
                 Figure 15 is a graph depicting the effect of administration of 10 mg/kg
of pioglitazone (Pio) alone or 5 mg/kg of mirtazapine alone or their combination on
alcohol intake in msP rats. Controls were treated with the drug vehicles (Veh+Veh).
Values represent the mean ± sem of alcohol intake (g/kg). Significant difference
from controls is indicated: *p<0.05.
                 Figure 16 is a graph depicting the effect of administration of 10 mg/kg
of pioglitazone (Pio) alone or 30 mg/kg of topiramate alone or their combination on
alcohol intake in msP rats. Controls were treated with the drug vehicles (Veh+Veh).
                                              22

      WO 2008/128126                                                    PCT/US2008/06014 6
   Values represent the mean ± sem of alcohol intake (g/kg). Significant difference
  from controls is indicated: *p<0.05.
                 Figure 17 is a graph depicting the effect of administration of 10 mg/kg
  of pioglitazone (Pio) alone or 100 mg/kg of levetiracetam (Leve) alone or their
  combination on alcohol intake in msP rats. Controls were treated with vehicles alone
  (Veh+Veh). Values represent the mean ± sem of alcohol intake (g/kg). Significant
  difference from controls is indicated: *p<0.05 and **p<0.01.
                 Figure 18 is a graph depicting the effect of administration of 10 mg/kg
  of pioglitazone (Plo) alone or 30 mg/kg of gabapentin alone or their combination on
 alcohol intake in msP rats. Controls were treated with vehicles (Veh+Veh). Values
  represent the mean ± sem of alcohol intake (g/kg). Significant difference from
 controls is indicated: **p<0.01 and *p<0.05.
                Figure 19 is a graph depicting the effect of administration of 10 mg/kg
 of pioglitazone (Pio) alone or 1.0 mg/kg of ondansetron alone or their combination on
 alcohol intake in msP rats. Controls were treated with the drug vehicles (Veh+Veh).
 Values represent the mean ± sem of alcohol intake (g/kg). Significant difference
 from controls is indicated: **p<0.01 and *p<0.05.
                Figure 20 is a graph depicting the effect of administration of 10 mg/kg
of pioglitazone (Pio) alone or 15 mg/kg of antalarmin alone or their combination on
 alcohol intake in msP rats. Controls were treated with vehicles (Veh+Veh). Values
 represent the mean ± sem of alcohol intake (g/kg). Significant difference from
controls is indicated: *p<0.05 and **p<0,01.
                Figure 21 is a graph depicting the effect of administration of 10 and 30
mg/kg of pioglitazone (Pio) on an alcohol withdrawal score inWistar rats. Controls
received oral administration of alcohol vehicle. Values represent the mean ± sem of
total withdrawal score. Significant difference from controls is indicated: **p<0.01.
                Figures 22A and 22B are graphs depicting the effect of treatment with
10.0 or 30.0 mg/kg pioglitazone (10 or 30, respectively) or its vehicle (veh) on FR5
cocaine self-administration in Wistar rats. Figure 22A shows the number of rewards
at the active lever, with each five lever response resulting inthe delivery of one
                                            23

     WO 2008/128126                                                     PCT/US2008/0601 4 6
  reward (0.25 mg/ 0.1 ml of cocaine). Figure 22B shows the number of responses at
 the left inactive lever. Significant difference from controls (Veh) is indicated:
 **p<0.01.
                 Figure 23A and 23B are graphs depicting the effect of treatment with
 pioglitazone (30.0 mg/kg) or its vehicle (veh) on FRS nicotine self-administration in
 Wistar rats. Figure 23A shows the number of rewards at the active lever, with each
 five lever response resulting in the delivery of 0.25 mg/ 0.03 ml of nicotine. Figure
 23B shows the number of responses at the left inactive lever. Significant difference
 from controls (Veh) is indicated: *p<0.05.
 DETAILED DESCRIPTION
                The present invention is based, in large part, upon the finding
 described herein that peroxisome proliferato r-activated receptor gamma (PPARy)
 agonists are useful in the treatment and prevention of addictions and relapse use of
 an addictive agent or behaviour. Accordingly, the present invention provides
 methods and related compositions, formulations, unit dosage forms and kits for the
treatment and prevention of addiction and relapse use, which include one or more
 PPARy agonists, alone or in combination with one or more additional therapeutic
agents in which each of the PPARy agonist and the additional therapeutic agent(s)
contribute to the effective treatment or prevention of the addiction.
                As demonstrated in the accompanying Examples, a variety of different
thiazolidinediones (TZDs) were shown to reduce intake of an addictive agent in
various models of addiction. For example, each of the TZDs, pioglitazone,
ciglitazone, and rosiglitazone, significantly reduced ethanol consumption in rat
models of alcohol addiction (Examples 1, 3, 7, and 8). The effect was evident for
both acute and subchronic administration of a TZD (Examples 1 and 2). In addition,
TZDs were shown to reduce cocaine use in a rat model of cocaine addiction
(Example 23) and a rat model of nicotine addiction (Example 24). This effect of the
PPARy agonists was shown to be mediated by the activation of PPARY receptors
using two different PPARy agonists (Examples 9 and 10). In addition, an
                                             24

                                                                                          6
      WO 2008/128126                                                     PCT/US2008/06014
    observational study of human patients using pioglitazone for the treatment of
   diabetes confirmed that this PPARy agonist was efficacious in reducing ethanol
   abuse (Example 22). These data establish that PPARy agonists may be used to
   treat and prevent addiction to a variety of different addictive agents.
                   In addition, the accompanying Examples demonstrate that PPARy
   agonists used in combination with a variety of different therapeutic agents
   substantially reduced intake of an addictive agent. For example, it is shown that
   acute or subchronic treatment with the TZD, pioglitazone, enhanced the inhibitor
   action of the opioid antagonist, naltrexone, on ethanol intake (Examples 2 and 4).
  These data demonstrate that the use of a PPARy agonist in combination with an
  opioid antagonist would have increased, e.g., additive or synergistic, efficacy in
  treating or preventing addiction.
                  In addition to reducing use of an addictive agent, PPARy agonists were
  also able to reduce or prevent relapse use, or reinstatement, of addictive agents. As
  described in Example 5, treatment with pioglitazone significantly reduced stress
  induced reinstatement of alcohol use. Interestingly, however, it did not significantly
 reduce cue-induced reinstatement of alcohol use (Example 6). In contrast, the
 oploid antagonist, naltrexone, reduced cue-induced reinstatement of alcohol use, but
 not stress-induced reinstatement of alcohol use (Examples 12 and 11). The data
 support the concept that the combination of a PPARy agonist and an opioid
 antagonist would have an enhanced ability to prevent relapse use of an addictive
 agent, since such a combination would prevent both stress-induced and cue-induced
 relapse use. In fact, treatment with the combination of the PPARy agonist,
 pioglitazone, and the opioid antagonist, naltrexone, resulted in a significantly
 reduced reinstatement of both stress-induced and cue-induced alcohol use (Example
 13).
                 PPARy agonists also worked synergistically with other classes of
therapeutic agents in reducing or preventing addiction and relapse use. For
example, the TZD, pioglitazone, used in combination with a variety of different
classes of antidepressants, including fluoxetine and mirtazapine, worked
                                             25

     WO 2008/128126                                                   PCT/US2008/06014 6
  synergistically in reducing ethanol consumption in an animal model of ethanol
 addiction (Examples 14 and 15). Anti-epileptics, including topiramate, levetiracetam,
 and gabapentin, showed synergism in combination with a TZD in reducing ethanol
 intake (Examples 16-18), and antiemetics, including the serotonin-3 (5-HT3) receptor
 selective antagonist, ondansetron, and the corticotrophin releasing factor 1 receptor
 selective antagonist, antalarmin, also showed synergism in combination with a TZD
 in reducing alcohol consumption (Examples 19 and 20).
                 Interestingly, the experiments described in the accompanying
 Examples also showed that PPARy agonists significantly reduced withdrawal
 symptoms in alcohol-addicted animals (Example 21).
                In summary, the present invention demonstrates that treatment with
 PPARy agonists represent a novel pharmacological approach for the treatment and
 prevention of addiction, since it reduces addictive agent consumption and recidivism
 associated to stress exposure.
                In addition, considering that the physiopathology of addiction has
features (i.e., drug craving, compulsive behaviour triggered by drug desire,
withdrawal, relapse behaviour, neurological damages, cognitive impairment)
common to all drugs of abuse it is reasonable to think that PPARyagonists will be
useful also for the treatment of dependence to other addictive agents or behaviours,
including, e.g., opiates (morphine, heroin methadone), psychostimulants (cocaine,
methamphetamine, and amphetamine related compounds in general), nicotine,
gamma hydroxybutyrate (GHB), phencyclidine, and phencyclidine derivatives, etc.
                PPARy agonists showed efficacy also in combination with opioid
antagonists; co-administration of the two drugs resulted in additivity with regard to
the effect on ethanol drinking and expanded the efficacy of the opioid antagonist on
stress induced reinstatement. In a co-administration regimen, it is of particular
significance to note the neuroprotective anticonvulsant and withdrawl-reducing effect
of TDZs, especially during the early treatment phase. In fact, opioid antagonists do
not result in any amelioration of withdrawal symptoms and this, in general, may
                                            26

                                                                                          6
     WO 2008/128126                                                      PCT/US2008/06014
  contribute to the early treatment drop out and low compliance often reported with
 these drugs.
                 The ability of TDZs to normalize hepatic function may also have
 positive consequences in exploitation of a combined treatment approach. In fact, the
 clinical condition of alcoholic patients is, in general, compromised, especially during
 the early detoxification phase. Thus, rapid recovery and amelioration from a
 pathological state could improve treatment retention.
 A.      Methods of Treating and Preventing Addictions Using PPARy Agonist(s)
                Thus, the present invention includes methods of treating or preventing
 an addiction, comprising providing one or more PPARy agonists to a subject having
 an addiction or at risk for developing an addiction. In various embodiments, the
 subject is addicted to an addictive agent or behaviour, including, but not limited to,
 any of the addictive agents and behaviours described herein. The subject may be
 physically or physiologically dependent on the substance or behaviour; the subject
 may be psychologically dependent; or the subject may be both physically and
psychologically dependent. The subject may be addicted to one or more than one
addictive agent or behaviour.
               As used herein, unless the context makes clear otherwise, "treat," and
similar word such as "treatment," "treating" etc., is an approach for obtaining
beneficial or desired results, including and preferably clinical results. Treatment can
involve optionally either the reducing or amelioration of a disease or condition, (e.g.,
addiction, relapse use, withdrawal), or the delaying of the progression of the disease
or condition (e.g., addiction relapse use, withdrawal).
               As used herein, unless the context makes clear otherwise, "prevent,"
and similar word such as "prevention," "preventing" etc., is an approach for
preventing the onset or recurrence of a disease or condition, (e.g., addiction, relapse
use, withdrawal) or preventing the occurrence or recurrence of the symptoms of a
disease or condition, or optionally an approach for delaying the onset or recurrence
                                             27

       WO 2008/128126                                                   PCT/US2008/06014 6
   of a disease or condition or delaying the occurrence or recurrence of the symptoms
   of a disease or condition.
                  Generally, a subject is provided with an effective amount of a PPARy
   agonist.   As used herein, an "effective amount" or a "therapeutically effective
   amount" of a substance, e.g., a PPARy agonist, is that amount sufficient to affect a
   desired biological or psychological effect, such as beneficial results, including clinical
   results. For example, in the context of treating addiction using the methods of the
   present invention, an effective amount of a PPARy agonist is that amount sufficient
  to cause the subject to reduce or discontinue use of an addictive agent.
                 According to certain embodiments of the present invention, a subject is
  provided with a PPARy agonist alone, while in other embodiments, a subject is
  provided with a PPARy agonist in combination with an additional therapeutic agent.
  It is understood that the effective amount of either or both of a PPARy agonist and an
  additional therapeutic agent may be different when either is provided alone than
 when provided in combination.         For example, when the PPARy agonist and the
 additional therapeutic agent act synergistically, then a lower amount of the PPARy
 agonist, a lower amount of the additional therapeutic agent, or lower amounts of both
 the PPARy agonist or the additional therapeutic agent may be required to achieve
 the same therapeutic effect that would be provided by either the PPARy agonist or
 the additional therapeutic agent alone. In other embodiments, the same amount of
 the PPARy agonist and the additional therapeutic agent are used to provide an
 enhanced therapeutic effect relative to the therapeutic effect provided by either the
 PPARy agonist or the additional therapeutic agent alone. As another example, data
 in the Examples below indicate that patients addicted to alcohol and treated with the
 PPARy agonist pioglitazone exhibit decreased depression, and treatment of addicted
 patients with a combination of a PPARy agonist and an antidepressant agent in
accordance with the present invention may provide an enhanced antidepressive
therapeutic effect as part of the treatment of the addictive disorder.
                The subject may be any animal, including a mammal, and, particularly,
a human.
                                            28

                                                                                           6
     WO 2008/128126                                                       PCT/US2008/06014
                 In one aspect of the invention, the subject is first determined or
 diagnosed to have an addiction, or to be at risk of developing an addiction, by
 diagnostic testing, observation or analysis by a medical care provider. An effective
 amount of a PPARy agonist, or an effective amount of a PPARy agonist and one
 additional therapeutic agent, are then provided to the subject for treatment or
 prevention of the addiction. In another aspect of the invention, the subject is first
 determined or diagnosed o have an addiction, or to be at risk of developing an
 addiction, by diagnostic testing, observation or analysis by a medical care provider,
 but the subject has not been diagnosed or determined to have diabetes or other
 insulin disorder. An effective amount of a PPARy agonist, or an effective amount of
a PPARy agonist and one additional therapeutic agent, are then provided to the
subject for treatment or prevention of the addiction. The dosage of the PPARy
agonist, or the PPARy agonist and the one additional therapeutic agent, may be
specifically determined by the medical practitioner for treatment or prevention of the
addiction rather than for any other disorder or disease.
                In particular aspects, the subject is provided with a PPARy agonist,
alone or in combination with an additional therapeutic agent for the primary purpose
of treating or preventing an addiction. In related aspects of the methods of the
present invention, the subject has not previously been provided with a PPARy
agonist for the treatment or prevention of any disease or disorder other than an
addiction. In particular, in certain embodiments, the subject has not previously been
provided with a PPARy agonist for the treatment of insulin resistance or diabetes. In
a further related embodiment, the subject has not been diagnosed with insulin
resistance or diabetes.
               In various embodiments of the present invention, the subject may be
provided with any PPARy agonist, including any of the specific PPARy agonists
described below. In particular embodiments, the PPARy agonist is a TZD, including
any of the TZDs described below. In certain embodiments, the TZD is pioglitazone,
ciglitazone, rosiglitazone or trogalitazone.
                                             29

                                                                                           6
       WO 2008/128126                                                     PCT/US2008/06014
                   In particular embodiments, the subject is suffering from or at risk for
   addiction to any physically addictive agent or addictive or compulsive behaviour,
   including, e.g., any of those described below. In particular embodiments, the subject
   is addicted to alcohol, cocaine, nicotine, marijuana, an opiate or other opioid agonist
   or methampetamine or other psychostimulant, or phencyclidine and phencyclidine
  derivatives.
                  In particular embodiments, a subject is considered at risk of addiction
  or relapse to use of an addictive agent or practice of an addictive behaviour when
  the subject has previously been addicted to the same or a different addictive agent
  or addictive or compulsive behaviour. In certain embodiment, the subject is
 considered at risk of addiction or relapse to use of an addictive agent or practice of
 an addictive behaviour when the subject is psychologically addicted to an addictive
 agent or addictive or compulsive behaviour, even if the subject is no longer
 physically addicted.
                 In certain embodiments, the subject is addicted to or at risk of
 becoming addicted to a therapeutic agent provided to the patient to treat a disease
 or disorder, e.g., a pain medication. In a related embodiment, the subject may be at
 risk of abusing an addictive therapeutic agent, such as a pain medication. Abusing
 an addictive therapeutic agent, in certain embodiment, is understood to indicate
 using the agent for a reason different than or in addition to its prescribed use. In
 such a situation, a subject may be provided with both an addictive therapeutic agent
 and a PPARy agonist, alone or in combination with an additional therapeutic agent.
 For example, a subject suffering from pain, or at risk of pain, may be provided with
an opioid agonist and a PPARy agonist or TZD, e.g., pioglitazone, to both provide
analgesia and prevent or treat addiction to the opioid agonist. Because PPARy
agonists have been shown to reduce neuropatic pain and inflammatory responses
(see, e.g., Oliveira A. et al., Antinociceptive and antiedematogenic activities of
fenofibrate, an agonist of PPAR alpha, and pioglitazone, an agonist of PPAR
gamma, Eur J Pharmacol. 561(1-3):194-201 (2007)), the PPARy agonist may add to
or enhance the analgesic affect of the opioid agonist.
                                             30

                                                                                          6
     WO 2008/128126                                                      PCT/US2008/06014
                  In various embodiments, the subject is provided with the PPARy
   agonist at the same time that the subject is using an addictive agent, after the
   subject has discontinued use of an addictive agent, or before the subject begins
  using an addictive agent.
         1.      Addictive Agents
                 The term addiction is used to describe a recurring compulsion by an
  individual to engage in some specific activity, despite harmful consequences to the
  individual's health, mental state or social life. The term is often reserved for drug
  addictions, but it is sometimes applied to other compulsions, such as problem
 gambling, and compulsive overeating. Factors that have been suggested as causes
 of addiction include genetic, biological/pharmacological and social factors.
                 The medical community now makes a careful theoretical distinction
 between physical or physiological dependence (characterized by symptoms of
 withdrawal) and psychological dependence (sometimes referred to simply as
 addiction). Addiction is now narrowly defined as "uncontrolled, compulsive use." If
 there is no harm being suffered by, or damage done to, the patient or another party,
then clinically it may be considered compulsive, but to the definition of some it is not
 categorized as "addiction". In practice, the two kinds of addiction (physiological
dependence and psychological dependence) are not always easy to distinguish.
Addictions often have both physical and psychological components.
                Physical dependence (or drug dependence) refers to a state resulting
from habitual use of a drug, where negative physical withdrawal symptoms result
from abrupt discontinuation. Examples of addictive agents for which a user may
develop a physical dependence include nicotine, opioids, barbiturates,
benzodiazepines, alcohol, i.e., ethyl alcohol, GHB, and methaqualone.
                Commonly abused stimulants such as cocaine or amphetamine class
drugs are not believed to cause significant physical dependence. However, their
potential for extreme physiological addiction can compel the user to consume
                                             31

      WO 2008/128126                                                    PCT/US2008/0601 4 6
  amounts which become physically damaging, but life-threatening withdrawal effects
  have not been observed.
                 As used herein, addictive agents includes any and all agents to which a
  subject can become addicted, either physically or psychologically, or both. As noted
  above, addiction includes addiction to chemical entities, such as drugs, e.g., ethyl
  alcohol, nicotine, or cocaine, as well as addiction to other behaviours, e.g.,
  pathological gambling, pathological overeating, pathological use of electronic
  devices, e.g., BlackBerry@, pathological use of electronic video games, pathological
  use of electronic communication devices, pathological use of cellular telephones,
 addiction to pornography, sex addiction, obsessive compulsive disorder, compulsive
 spending, anorexia, bulimia, intermittent explosive disorder, kleptomania, pyromania,
 trichotillomania, compulsive overexercising, and compulsive overworking.
                Addictive agents include addictive recreational drugs, as well as
 addictive medications. Examples of addictive agents include, but are not limited to,
 alcohol, e.g., ethyl alcohol, gamma hydroxybutyrate (GHB), caffeine, nicotine,
 cannabis (marijuana) and cannabis derivatives, opiates and other morphine-like
 opioid agonists such as heroin, phencyclidine and phencyclidine-like compounds,
 sedative ipnotics such as benzodiazepines, methaqualone, mecloqualone,
 etaqualone and barbiturates and psychostimulants such as cocaine, amphetamines
 and amphetamine-related drugs such as dextroamphetamine and
 methylamphetamine. Other examples include LSD, psilocybin, extasy and other
 hallucinogens. Examples of addictive medications include, e.g., benzodiazepines,
 barbiturates, and pain medications including alfentanil, allylprodine, alphaprodine,
anileridine benzylmorphine, bezitramide, buprenorphine, butorphanol, clonitazene,
codeine, cyclazocine, desomorphine, dextromoramide, dezocine, diampromide,
dihydrocodeine, dihydromorphine, dimenoxadol, dimepheptanol,
dimethylthiambutene, dioxaphetyl butyrate, dipipanone, eptazocine, ethoheptazine,
ethylmethylthiambutene, ethylmorphine, etonitazene fentanyl, heroin, hydrocodone,
hydromorphone, hydroxypethidine, isomethadone, ketobemidone, levallorphan,
levorphanol, levophenacylmorphan, lofenitanil, meperidine, meptazinol, metazocine,
                                            32

      WO 2008/128126                                                   PCT/US2008/060146
  methadone, metopon, morphine, myrophine, nalbuphine, narceine, nicomorphine,
  norlevorphanol, normethadone, nalorphine, normorphine, norpipanone, opium,
  oxycodone, OXYCONTIN@, oxymorphone, papaveretum, pentazocine,
  phenadoxone, phenomorphan, phenazocine, phenoperidine, piminodine, piritramide,
  propheptazine, promedol, properidine, propiram, propoxyphene sufentanil, tramadol,
 tilidine, salts thereof, mixtures of any of the foregoing, mixed p-agonists/antagonists,
 and the like.
                  In certain embodiments, a subject may be addicted to an opioid
 agonist. The terms "opioid agonist," "opioid" and "opiate" are used interchangably
 herein and are used to designate a group of drugs that are, to varying degrees,
 opium- or morphine-like in their properties. Their main use is for pain relief. These
 agents work by binding to opioid receptors, which are found principally in the central
 nervous system and the gastrointestinal tract. Opiates are also addictive agents.
 Opiates include alfentanil, allylprodine, alphaprodine, anileridine, apomorphine,
 benzylmorphine, beta-hydroxy 3-methylfentanyl, bezitramide, carfentanil,
 clonitazene, codeine, desomorphine, dextromoramide, diacetylmorphine (heroin),
diampromide, dihydrocodeine, dihydroetorphine, dihydromorphine, dimenoxadol,
dimepheptanol, dimethylthiambutene, dioxaphetylbutyrate, dipipanone, eptazocine,
ethoheptazine, ethylmethylthiambutene, ethylmorphine, etonitazene, etorphine,
fentanyl, hydrocodone, hydromorphone, hydroxypethidine, isomethadone,
ketobemidone, LMM, levorphanol, levophenacylmorphan, lofentanil, meperidine,
metapon, metazocine, methadone, methadyl acetate, metopon, morphine,
myrophine, narceine, nicomorphine, norlevorphanol, normethadone, normorphine,
norpipanone, opium, oxycodone, oxymorphone, papaverine, phenadoxone,
phenomorphan, phenoperidine, piminodine, piritramide, propheptazine, promedol,
properidine, propoxyphene, remifentanil, sufentanil, thebaine, tildine, and tramadol.
                 Naturally occurring opiates include codeine, morphine, noscapine,
papaverine, and thebaine. Semi-synthetic opioids include diacetylmorphine,
hydrocodone, hydromorphone, levorphanol, metapon, nalorphine, naloxone,
naltrexone, oxycodone, oxymorphone, and tramadol. Synthetic opioids include
                                             33

                                                                                       6
     WO 2008/128126                                                   PCT/US2008/06014
 ethoheptazine, fentanyl, levorphanol, meperidine, methadone, phenazocine,
 propoxyphene and sufentanil.
                Three broad classifications of opiates are phenanthrenes,
 phenylheptylamines, and phenylpiperidines. Examples of phenanthrenes include
 codeine, etorpine, hydrocodone, hydromorphone, morphine, oxycodone, and
 oxymorphone. Examples of phenylheptylamines include dimeheptanol,
 dimenoxadol, dipipanone, isomethadone, methadone, methadyl acetate, and
 propoxyphene. Examples of phenylpiperidines include alfentanyl, alphaprodine,
 beta-promedol, carfentanyl, fentanyl, lofentanil, meperidine, properidine, and
 sufentanil.
                Specific psychostimulants include, by way of example, amphetamine,
 cocaine, dextroamphetamine, methamphetamine, pemoline, and
 methylenedioxymethamphetamine.
                While a subject may be addicted to a single addictive agent or
behaviour, frequently subject is addicted to two or more addictive agents or
behaviours. Addiction to two or more addictive agents or addictive behaviours is
referred to as polyaddiction.
        2.      PPARy Agonists
                Peroxisome proliferator-activated receptors (PPARs) are ligand
activated transcription factors of the nuclear hormone receptor superfamily. At
present three distinct PPAR isoforms, namely PPARa, PPARp/S and PPARy, have
been identified (Breidert et al., 2002; Feinstain et al. 2003). The PPARa receptor
isoform is highly expressed in the liver and kidney and it regulates fatty acid
catabolism; the PPARp/S is ubiquitously expressed and is involved in the regulation
of different cellular processes including adipocytes, keratinocytes and
oligodendrocytes differentiation. Finally, PPARy receptors are predominantly
expressed in adipose tissue and macrophages, where they are involved in adipocyte
differentiation, regulation of sugar and lipid homeostasis and control of inflammatory
                                             34

       WO 2008/128126                                                                      6
                                                                          PCT/US2008/06014
    responses (Heneka et al. 1999; Landreth and Heneka 2001; Harris and Phipps
    2002).
                   The endogenous ligands of PPAR receptors belong to various classes
   of unsaturated fatty acid compounds that include leukotrienes, retinoic acid
   metabolites and prostaglandins. For example, the PPARy receptor is mainly located
   in the cytoplasmatic fraction and is activated by the 15-deossi-A 12 14-prostaglandin J2
   (Burstein 2005; Cernuda-Morollon, et al., 2002).
                   Recent studies have also shown that, in addition to various peripheral
  tissues, PPARp/S and PPARy receptors are expressed in neurons, and
  olygodendrocytes (but not in astrocytes) of the central nervous system (CNS). The
  exact role of these receptors in the brain is not well understood yet (Kainu et al.
  1994).
                  It is known that activation of PPARy mediates neuroprotective
  responses against excitotoxic process and inflammatory damages (Butcher et al.
 2002). Activation of these receptors is also associated with improvement of cognitive
 performances, and has protective potential against epileptic insults (Yu et al. 2008)
                  In 1997 a new class of drugs, the thiazolidinediones (TZDs), was
 developed in Japan, originally as anti-oxidants. Certain of these compounds were
 then approved for the clinical treatment of insulin resistance and type 2 diabetes.
                  At the molecular level, TDZs bind with high affinity and activate PPARy
 receptors; this has been proposed as the major mechanism through which these
 molecules exert their therapeutic effects. At present, two TDZ compounds are used
 clinically to treat humans, pioglitazone (Actos@) and rosiglitazone (Avandia@).
 Pioglitazone and methods for synthesizing and formulating pioglitazone and
 pioglitazone compositions are further described in US Patents 4,687,777, 5,965,584
and 6,150,383, the disclosure of each of which is hereby incorporated by reference.
Other compounds (i.e., ciglitazone, troglitazone, aleglitazar, muraglitazar,
tesaglitazar, and ragaglitazar, etc.) are under development. Suitable PPARy
agonists for use in the present invention include selective PPARy agonists such as
                                               35

     WO 2008/128126                                                      PCT/US2008/0601 4 6
  ciglitazone, troglitazone, pioglitazone, rosiglitazone, englitazone, rivoglitazone and
  darglidazone.
                 An additional class of PPARy agonists are the dual-acting PPAR
  agonists. Dual-acting PPAR agonists are a novel group of compounds that activate
  nuclear transcription factors. By activating both PPARa and PPARy receptors, they
  simultaneously reduce atherogenic triglycerides, raise cardioprotective HDI levels,
 and improve insulin resistance. Examples of dual-acting PPAR agonists that may be
 suitable for use in the present invention include tesaglitazar, aleglitazar,
 muraglitazar, and ragaglitazar.
                 Additional PPARy agonists that may be used according to the present
 invention include, but are not limited to, those described in the following patents and
 patent applications: U.S. Patent Nos. 6,294,580, 7,067,530, 6,582,738, 6,794,154,
 4,812,570, 4,775,687, 4,725,610, 4,582,839, and 4,572,912; and U.S. Patent
 Application Publication Nos. US2002/006942, US2007/0299047, US2004/0077525,
 and US2008/0045580, the disclosures of which are hereby incorporated by
 reference. Examples of dual PPARy agonists that may be used according to the
 present invention include, e.g., those described in U.S. Patent Application Nos.
2007/037882, US2006/0270722, US2006/0211749, US2006/0167045, and
 US2005/0014833, the disclosures of which are hereby incorporated by reference.
B.       Methods of Treating and Preventing Addiction Using PPARy Agonist(s) in
         Combination with Other Therapeutic Agents
                As demonstrated in the accompanying Examples, PPARy agonists may
be effectively used in combination with one or more additional therapeutic agents to
treat or prevent addiction, including addiction to one or more of the addictive agents
described infra and compulsive or addictive behaviour. Accordingly, the present
invention includes methods of treating or preventing an addiction, comprising
providing to a subject addicted to an addictive agent one or more PPARy agonist(s)
and one or more additional therapeutic agent(s), in which each of the PPARy
agonist(s) and the additional therapeutic agent(s) contribute to the effective
                                            36

      WO 2008/128126                                                    PCT/US2008/0601 4 6
  treatment or prevention of the addiction. In one embodiment, a subject is provided
  with or administered one PPARy agonist and one additional therapeutic agent. In
  another embodiment, a subject is addicted to two or more addictive agents. As
  demonstrated by the Examples below, the combination of a PPARy agonist and
  another therapeutic agent may have advantageous additive or synergistic efficacy in
 treating or preventing addiction or relapse use of an addictive agent. In some
 embodiments, the additional agent is another anti-addiction agent.
                  The PPARy agonist and the additional therapeutic agent may be
 administered at the same time (i.e., concurrently), or either may be administered
 before the other (i.e., sequentially). In general, both the PPARy agonist and the
 additional therapeutic agent are present in the subject at the same time for a
 duration of time and at levels sufficient to provide a therapeutic benefit to the subject,
 i.e., in the treatment or preventing of an addiction or the prevention of a relapse use
 (or reinstatement) of an addictive agent or compulsive or addictive behaviour. The
 PPARy agonist and the additional therapeutic agent may be administered by the
 same or different routes of administration. Typically, the PPARy agonist and the
 additional therapeutic agent are each provided to a subject according to a standard
 route of administration of a commercially available or other pharmaceutical
composition. In one embodiment, the PPARy agonist and the additional therapeutic
agent are co-administered using a composition comprising both agents.
                 The additional therapeutic agent provided in combination with a PPARy
agonist may be any therapeutic agent that contributes to an aspect of the effective
treatment or prevention of the addiction. For example, the additional therapeutic
agent may be a drug used to treat an addiction or a drug used to alleviate side
effects associated with physiological withdrawal from an addictive agent. In addition,
the additional therapeutic agent may be any drug that affects brain serotonin
neurotransmission, such as selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs), and
tricyclic and tetracyclic serotonin and norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs) as
described below, and serotonin agonists such as sumatriptan, ergonovine,
dihydroergotamine and buspirone. In certain embodiments, the additional
                                             37

      WO 2008/128126                                                   PCT/US2008/0601 4 6
   therapeutic agent is an opioid antagonist, including mixed opioid partial
   agonist/antagonists, an antidepressant, an antiepileptic, an antiemetic, a
   corticotrophin-releasing factor-1 (CRF-1) receptor antagonist, a selective serotonin-3
   (5-HT3) antagonist, a 5-HT2N2c antagonist such as mianserin, mirtazapine and
   ketanserin, or a cannabinoid-1 (CB1) receptor antagonist, including but not limited to
  those therapeutic agents specifically described infra.
                  In one embodiment, the addictive agent is alcohol and the additional
  therapeutic agent is an opioid antagonist or a mixed opioid antagonist/partial agonist.
  In a particular embodiment, the opioid antagonist is naltrexone. In another
  embodiment, the mixed opioid partial agonist/antagonist is buprenorphine.
                  In one embodiment, the addictive agent is alcohol, and the additional
 therapeutic agent is topiramate or levetiracetam.
                  In one embodiment, the addictive agent is nicotine and the additional
 therapeutic agent is an antidepressant. In a particular embodiment, the
 antidepressant is bupropion.
                 In one embodiment, the addictive agent is cocaine, and the additional
 therapeutic agent is buprenorphine.
                 In one embodiment, the addictive agent is a psychostimulant and the
 additional therapeutic agent is an antidepressant. In a particular embodiment, the
 antidepressant is bupropion.
                 In one embodiment, the subject is addicted to two or more addictive
 agents and the additional therapeutic agent is an opioid antagonist or a mixed opioid
 partial agonist/antagonist. In a particular embodiment, the mixed opioid partial
agonist/antagonist is buprenorphine.
                In particular embodiments, a subject is provided with a combination of:
pioglitazone and naltrexone; ciglitazone and naltrexone; rosiglitazone and
naltrexone; englitazone and naltrexone; rivoglitazone and naltrexone; darglidazone
and naltrexone;pioglitazone and fluoxentine; ciglitazone and fluoxentine;
rosiglitazone and fluoxentine; englitazone and fluoxentine; rivoglitazone and
fluoxentine; darglidazone and fluoxentine; pioglitazone and mirtazapine; ciglitazone
                                            38

                                                                                         6
       WO 2008/128126                                                   PCT/US2008/06014
   and mirtazapine; rosiglitazone and mirtazapine; englitazone and mirtazapine;
   rivoglitazone and mirtazapine; darglidazone and mirtazapine; pioglitazone and
  topiramate; ciglitazone and topiramate; rosiglitazone and topiramate; englitazone
  and topiramate; rivoglitazone and topiramate; darglidazone and topiramate;
  pioglitazone and levetiracetam; ciglitazone and levetiracetam; rosiglitazone and
  levetiracetam; englitazone and levetiracetam; rivoglitazone and levetiracetam;
  darglidazone and levetiracetam; pioglitazone and gabapentin; ciglitazone and
 gabapentin; rosiglitazone and gabapentin; englitazone and gabapentin; rivoglitazone
 and gabapentin; darglidazone and gabapentin; piolitazone and ondansetron;
 ciglitazone and ondansetron; rosiglitazone and ondansetron; englitazone and
 ondansetron; rivoglitazone and ondansetron; darglidazone and ondansetron;
 pioglitazone and antalarmin; ciglitazone and antalarmin; rosiglitazone and
 antalarmin; englitazone and antalarmin; rivoglitazone and antalarmin; darglidazone
 and antalarmin.
                 For treatment of alcohol addiction, combinations to be administered in
 accordance with the present invention include a PPARy agonist and an opioid
 agonist or a mixed opioid antagonist/partial antagonist, a PPARy agonist and an
 antidepressant, a PPARy agonist and a CB1 receptor antagonist/inverse agonist, a
 PPARy agonist and varenicicline, a PPARy agonist and acamprosate, and a PPARy
 agonist and disulfiram.
                 For treatment of a psychostimulant addiction, combinations to be
 administered in accordance with the present invention include, e.g., a PPARy agonist
 and an antidepressant or a PPARy agonist and a partial opioid agonist/antagonist,
 e.g., buprenorphine.
                 For treatment of nicotine addiction, combinations to be administered in
accordance with the present invention include, e.g., a PPARy agonist and an
antidepressant, a PPARy agonist and nicotine (as a replacement, in an oral,
transcutaneous or other conventional formulation), a PPARy agonist and an opioid
antagonist, a PPARy agonist and a CB1 receptor antagonist/inverse agonist, and a
PPARy agonist and varenicicline.
                                             39

      WO 2008/128126                                                    PCT/US2008/0601 4 6
                 For treatment of polysubstance addiction, combinations to be
  administered in accordance with the present invention include, e.g., a PPARy agonist
  and an opioid agonist or a mixed opioid antagonist/partial antagonist.
                 For treatment of gambling addiction, combinations to be administered
  in accordance with the present invention include, e.g., a PPARy agonist and and an
  antidepressant or a PPARy agonist and an agent affecting dopamine
  neurotransmission, e.g., a direct or indirect dopamine antagonist.
                The effective amount of either or both of a PPARy agonist and an
  additional therapeutic agent may be reduced when administered in combination that
 when either is provided alone. For example, when the PPARy agonist and the
 additional therapeutic agent act additively or synergistically, then a lower amount of
 the PPARy agonist, a lower amount of the additional therapeutic agent, or lower
 amounts of both the PPARy agonist or the additional therapeutic agent may be
 required to achieve the same therapeutic effect that would be provided by either the
 PPARy agonist or the additional therapeutic agent alone.
                a.      Opioid Antagonists
                An opioid antagonist acts on one or more opioid receptors. At least
three types of opioid receptors, mu, kappa, and delta opioid receptors, have been
 reported, and opiold antagonists are generally classified by their effects on the opioid
 receptors. Opioid antagonists may antagonize central receptors, peripheral
 receptors or both. Naloxone and naltrexone are commonly used opioid antagonist
drugs that are competitive that bind to the opioid receptors with higher affinity than
agonists, but that do not activate the receptors. This effectively blocks the receptor,
preventing the body from responding to opiates and endorphins.
                Many opioid antagonists are not pure antagonists but also produce
some weak opioid partial agonist effects, and can produce analgesic effects when
administered in high doses to opioid-naive individuals. Examples of such
compounds include nalorphine, and levallorphan. However, the analgesic effects
from these drugs are limited and tend to be accompanied by dysphoria, most likely
                                            40

                                                                                        6
     WO 2008/128126                                                    PCT/US2008/06014
  due to action at the kappa opioid receptor. Since they induce opioid withdrawal
 effects in people who are taking, or have previously used, opiold full agonists, these
 drugs are considered to be antagonists.
                Naloxone is one example of an opioid antagonist that has no partial
 agonist effects. Instead, it is a weak inverse agonist at mu opiold receptors, and is
 used for treating opiold overdose.
                Specific examples of opioid antagonists that may be used according to
 the invention include alvimopan, binaltorphimine, buprenorphine, cyclazocine,
 cyclorphan, cypridime, dinicotinate, beta-funaltrexamine, levallorphan,
 methylnaltrexone, nalbuphine, nalide, nalmefene, nalmexone, nalorphine, nalorphine
 dinicotinate, naloxone, naloxonazine, naltrendol, naltrexone, naltrindole, oxilorphan,
 and pentazocine.
                b.     Antidepressents
               Antidepressents are drugs used to treat depression. The three
 neurotransmitters believed to be involved in depression are serotonin, dopamine,
 and norepinephrine. Certain types of antidepressants increase the levels of one or
 more of these neurotransmitters in the brain by blocking their reabsorption.
               Several different classes of antidepressants have been identified,
including selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs), tricyclic and tetracyclic
serotonin and norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs), norepinephrine reuptake
inhibitors (NRIs), norepinephrine and dopamine reuptake inhibitors (NDRIs),
azaspirones, monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAGls), and atypical antidepressants.
               SSRls include, e.g., cericlamine, citalopram, clomipramine,
cyanodothiepin, dapoxetine, duloxetine, escitalopram, femoxetine, fluoxetine,
fluvoxamine, ifoxetine, imipramine, indalpine, indeloxazine, litoxetine, lofepramine,
mianserine, milnacipran, mirtazapine, nefazadone, nortriptyline, paroxetine,
sertraline, sibutramine, tomoxetine, trazodone, venlafaxine, and zimeldine.
               Amitriptyline, amoxapine, butriptyline, clomipramine, demexiptiline,
desipramine, dibenzepin, dimetacrine, dothiepin, doxepin, imipramine, iprindole,
                                           41

      WO 2008/128126                                                       PCT/US2008/06014 6
  lofepramine, maprotiline, melitracen, metapramine, mianserin, mirtazpine,
  nortriptyline, propizepine, protriptyline, quinupramine, setiptiline, tianeptine, and
  trimipramine are all tricyclic and tetracyclic antidepressants.
                  SNRIs include, e.g., amoxapine, atomoxetine, bicifadine, desipramine,
  desvenlafaxine, duloxetine, maprotiline, milnacipran, nefazodone, reboxetine,
  sibutramine, and venlafaxine.
                 Nisoxetine, nortriptyline, reboxetine, talsupram, and tomoxetine are all
 examples of NRIs.
                 NDRIs include, e.g., bupropion, hydroxybupropion, and tesofensine.
                 Azaspirones include, e.g., buspirone, gepirone, ipsapirone,
 tandospirone, and tiaspirone. Buspirone is an anxiolytic (partial agonist at 5-HT1
 autoreceptors) that may be provided with an anti-depressant such as an SSRI.
                 Specific MAOls include, e.g., amiflamine, brofaromine, clorgyline,
 alpha-ethyltryptamine, iproclozide, iproniazid, isocarboxazid, mebanazine,
 moclobemide, nialamide, pargyline, phenelzine, pheniprazine, pirlindole, safrazine,
selegiline, toloxatone, and tranlcypromine.
                 Atypical antidepressants include, e.g., amesergide, amineptine,
benactyzine, bupropion, clozapine, fezolamine, levoprotiline, lithium, medifoxamine,
mianserin, minaprine, olanzapine, oxaflozane, oxitriptan, rolipram, teniloxazine,
tofenacin, trazodone, tryptophan, and viloxazine.
                c.     Antiepileptics
                The anticonvulsants, also called anti-epileptic drugs (AEDs) are a
diverse group of drugs used in prevention of the occurrence of epileptic seizures and
bipolar disorders. AEDs suppress the rapid and excessive firing of neurons that
begins a seizure and/or prevents the spread of the seizure within the brain and offer
protection against possible excitotoxic effects that may result in brain damage. Many
anticonvulsants block sodium channels, calcium channels, AMPA receptors, or
NMDA receptors.
                                              42

                                                                                         6
     WO 2008/128126                                                     PCT/US2008/06014
                Anti-epileptic agents include, but are not limited to, benzodiazepines,
  barbituates, valproates, GABA agents, iminostilibenes, hydantoins, NMDA
  antagonists, sodium channel blockers and succinamides.
                Benzodiazepines include, e.g., alprazolam, chlordiazepoxide,
 cholrazepate, clobazam, clonazepam, diazepam, halazapam, lorazepam, oxazepam,
 and prazepam.
                Barbiturates used as anti-epileptics include, e.g., amobarbital,
 mepobarbital, methylphenobarbital, pentobarbital, phenobarbital, and primidone.
                Valproates used as anti-epileptics include, e.g., sodium valporate,
 valproic acid, valproate semisodium, and valpromide.
                Anti-epileptic GABA agents include, e.g., gabapentin, losigamone,
 pregabalin, retigabine, rufinamide, and vigabatrin.
                Carbamazepine and oxcarbazepine are examples of iminostilbenes.
                Hydantoins include, e.g., fosphenytoin sodium, mephenytoin, and
 phenytoin sodium.
                NMDA antagonists such as harkoseramide are used as anti-epileptics.
               Sodium channel blockers such as lamotrigine are also anti-epileptic
 agents.
               Succinimides include, e.g., ethosuximide, methsuximide, and
 phensuximide.
               Other anti-epileptic drugs include acetazolamide, briveracetam, CBD
cannabis derivative, clomthiazole edisilate, divalproex sodium, felbamate,
isovaleramide, lacosamide, lamotrigine, levetiracetam, methanesulphonamide,
talampanel, tiagabine, topiramate, safinamide, seletracetam, soretolide, stiripentol,
sultiam, valrocemide, and zonisamide.
               d.     Antiemetics
               Anti-emetics are drugs effective against vomiting and nausea. Anti
emetics are typically used to treat motion sickness and the side effects of opioid
analgesics, general anaesthetics, and chemotherapy.
                                            43

                                                                                        6
    WO 2008/128126                                                     PCT/US2008/06014
                Classifications of anti-emetics include, e.g., 5-hydroxytryptamine 3 (5
 HT3) receptor antagonists, histamine receptor antagonists, dopamine receptor
 antagonists, muscarinic receptor antagonists, acetyl choline receptor antagonists,
 cannabinoid receptor antagonists, limbic system inhibitors, NK-1 receptor
 antagonists, corticosteroids, tachykinin antagonists, GABA agonists, cannabinoids,
 benzodiazepines, anticholinergics, and substance P inhibitors.
               5-HT3 receptor antagonists include, e.g., alosetron, azasetron,
 bemesetron, cilansetron, dolasetron, granisetron, indisetron, itasetron, ondansetron,
 palonosetron, propisetron, ramosetron, renzapride, tropisetron, and zatosetron.
               Coritcosteroid anti-emetics include dexamethasone and
 methylprednisolone.
               Lymbic system inhibitors include alprazolam, lorazepam, and
 midazolam.
               Dopamine receptor antagonists include diphenhydramine, dronabinol,
 haloperidol, metoclopramide, and prochlorperazine.
               NK-1 receptor antagonists used as an anti-emetic include aprepitant
 and morpholine, and an example of a GABA agonist is propofol.
               Thiethylperazine is a type of histamine receptor antagonist.
               Cannabinoid receptor antagonists used as anti-emetics include
dronabinol, nabilone, rimonabant, tanarabout, and tetrahydrocannabinol.
               Examples of other anti-emetics include acetylleucine,
 monoethanolamine, alizapride, benzquinamide, bietanautine, bromopride, buclizine,
chlorpromazine, clebopride, cyclizine, dimenhydrinate, dipheniodol, domperidone,
dranisetron, meclizine, methalltal, metopimazine, oxypendyl, pipamazine,
piprinhydrinate, scopolamine, thioproperzaine, and trimethobenzamide.
              e.      Cannabinoid Receptor Antagonists
              The cannabinoid receptors are a class of the G-protein coupled
receptor superfamily. Their ligands are known as cannabinoids. There are currently
two known subtypes, CB1 which is expressed mainly in the brain, but also in the
                                           44

      WO 2008/128126                                                     PCT/US2008/060146
  lungs, liver, and kidney, and CB2, which is mainly expressed in the immune system
  and in hematopoietic cells. It is also believed that there are novel cannabinoid
  receptors that is, non-CB1 and non-CB2, which are expressed in endothelial cells
  and in the CNS. Cannabinoid receptor antagonists may be selective for either the
  CB1 or CB2 receptor. The present invention contemplates the use of either or both
  CB1 and CB2 receptor antagonists.
                 Addictive agents (e.g., alcohol, opiates, Delta(9)-tetrahydrocannabinol
 (Delta(9)-THC) and psychostimulants, including nicotine) elicit a variety of chronically
 relapsing disorders by interacting with endogenous neural pathways in the brain. In
 particular, they share the common property of activating mesolimbic dopamine brain
 reward systems, and virtually all abused drugs elevate dopamine levels in the
 nucleus accumbens. Cannabinoid-1 (CB1) receptors are expressed in this brain
 reward circuit and modulate the dopamine-releasing effects of Delta(9)-THC and
 nicotine.
                 Rimonabant (SR141716), a CB1 receptor antagonist, blocks both the
 dopamine-releasing and the discriminative and rewarding effects of Delta(9)-THC in
animals. Although CB1 receptor blockade is generally ineffective in reducing the
 self-administration of cocaine in rodents and primates, it reduces the reinstatement
of extinguished cocaine-seeking behaviour produced by cocaine-associated
conditioned stimuli and cocaine priming injections. Similarly, CB1 receptor blockade
is effective in reducing nicotine-seeking behaviour induced by re-exposure to
nicotine-associated stimuli. In human clinical trials, rimonabant was shown to block
the subjective effects of Delta(9)-THC in humans and prevents relapse to smoking in
ex-smokers.
                Other examples of cannabinoid receptor CB1 antagonists include
SR141716A (rimonabant), rosanabant, taranabant and CP-945598.
C.      Methods of Treating and Preventing Relapse
                Relapse use, or reinstatement, refers to the process of returning to the
use of alcohol or another addictive agent or the practice of an addictive behaviour
                                            45

      WO 2008/128126                                                    PCT/US2008/0601 4 6
   after a period of abstinence from, or limited or reduced use of, an addictive agent or
   practice of an addictive behaviour. In certain situations, relapse use of an addictive
   agent refers to the return to use of an addictive agent by a subject who has
   undergone physical withdrawal from the addictive agent. Typically, the subject will
   have undergone physical withdrawal from the addictive agent during a period of non
   use or limited or reduced use of the addictive agent. In one embodiment, relapse
   use occurs in a subject who has previously undergone a treatment regime with an
  effective amount of an anti-addiction agent to reduce or eliminate use of an addictive
  agent, but who is no longer using an effective amount of the anti-addiction agent.
  Anti-addictive agents include any and all agents used to treat or prevent addiction or
  withdrawal symptoms.
                 Alcoholism, like many other addictions, is a chronic relapsing disorder
  characterized by high recidivism rates. Two major factors triggering relapse
  behaviour are stress and environmental conditioning experiences (O'Brien et al.
  1997; Monti et al. 1993; Shaham et al. 1995), which probably facilitate relapse to
 alcohol-seeking via distinct brain mechanisms. For example, activation of the
 mesolimbic dopamine system via an opioid-dependent mechanism (or via direct
 alterations in dopamine transmission in the basolateral nucleus of amygdala) seems
 to mediate the effect of drug-associated cues (Liu and Wiess 2002; Ciccocioppo et
 al. 2001), and, extrahypothalamic CRF within the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis
 and median raphe nucleus is likely to mediate stress-induced reinstatement of drug
seeking behaviour (Erb et al 1998; Shaham et al. 1995; L6 et al. 2000).
                 Several lines of evidence suggest that molecular mechanisms
underlying relapse to addiction are common to different classes of drugs of abuse.
Drug craving and loss of control over drug taking behaviour associated to relapse
are under the direct influence of stress and environmental conditioning stimuli; the
two major factors affecting resumption to drug use.
                Chronic drug abuse produces neuroadaptive changes not only within
systems implicated in the acute reinforcing effects of ethanol, but also within other
motivational systems, notably brain stress-regulatory mechanisms. Stress has an
                                             46

                                                                                          6
       WO 2008/128126                                                    PCT/US2008/06014
   established role in the initiation and maintenance of drug abuse, and is a major
   determinant of relapse in abstinent individuals (Brown et al 1995; Marlatt et al. 1985;
   McKay et al. 1995; Wallace 1989). The significance of stress in drug-seeking
   behaviour has also been amply documented in the animal literature. Physical,
   social, and emotional stress can facilitate acquisition or increase self-administration
  of cocaine (Goeders et al. 1995; Haney et al. 1995; Ramsey and VanRee 1993;
  Ahmed and Koob 1997), heroin, (Shaham and Stewart 2004), and ethanol (Nash et
  al. 1998; Mollenauer et al. 1993; Blanchard et al. 1987; Higley et al. 1991)) in
  rodents and nonhuman primates. Stressful stimuli have also been shown to elicit
  reinstatement of cocaine, heroin, and ethanol-seeking behaviour in drug-free animals
  following extinction (Ahmed and Koob 1997; Shaham 1993; Shaham and Stewart
  1995; le et al. 1998) and these findings provide experimental support for a role of
  stress in relapse.
                 Traditionally, stress-related drug-seeking behaviour has been thought
 to be mediated via activation of the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis.
  However, growing evidence suggests that the non-neuroendocrine corticotropin
 releasing factor (CRF) system in the central nucleus of the amygdala (CeA) may play
 a significant independent role in the regulation of addictive behaviour associated with
 stress. The CeA is rich in CRF immunoreactive cell bodies, terminals, and
 receptors, and this neuronal CRF system has been implicated in the mediation of
 behavioural and emotional responses to stressful stimuli (Dunn and Berridge 1990;
 Koob et al. 1994). For example, immobilization stress elevates extracellular CRF
 levels in the CeA (Merlo Pich et al. 1995; Merali et al. 1998) while intra-CeA injection
 of the CRF receptor antagonist, a-helical CRF9-41, reduces behavioural signs of
 anxiety produced by social and environmental stressors (Heinrichs et al. 1992;
Swiergiel et al. 1993). Anxiety and stress-like symptoms are central to drug and
alcohol withdrawal syndromes. Considering the evidence on a role of CRF neurons
in the CeA in the regulation of emotional and anxiogenic effects of stress, if is likely
that anxiogenic and stress-like consequences of withdrawal from drugs of abuse
may be mediated by the CRF system in the CeA as well.
                                              47

      WO 2008/128126                                                      PCT/US2008/060146
                  Changes in the regulation of the activity of the CRF system within the
   CeA may represent a critical neuroadaptive mechanism responsible for the
   development of dependence and compulsive drug-seeking behaviour.
                 The data discussed above identify neuroadaptive changes in brain
  circuitries and perturbations in stress systems as an important element in compulsive
  drug-seeking behaviour and dependence. Another important factor in the long
  lasting addictive potential of drugs of abuse is the conditioning of their rewarding
  actions with specific environmental stimuli. Environmental cues repeatedly
  associated with the subjective effects of drugs of abuse including alcohol can evoke
  drug craving (Childress et al. 1988; Ehrman et al. 1992; Monti et al. 1993; Pomerleau
  et al. 1983; Stormark et al. 1995) or elicit automatic behavioural responses (Miller
  and Gold 1994; Tiffany and Carter 1998) that ultimately may lead to relapse.
  Learned responses to drug-related stimuli may, therefore, contribute critically to the
  high rates of relapse associated with cocaine and other drug addiction.
                 Data from operant response-reinstatement models developed to
 investigate drug-seeking behaviour associated with exposure to drug-related
 environmental cues in rats indicate that discriminative stimuli predictive of cocaine
 (Weiss et al. 2000), ethanol (Katner et al. 1999; Katner and Weiss 1999), or heroin
 (Gracy et al. 2000) availability reliably elicit strong recovery of extinguished drug
 seeking behaviour in the absence of further drug availability. The response
 reinstating effects of these stimuli show remarkable resistance to extinction with
repeated exposure and, in the case of cocaine, can still be observed after several
months of forced abstinence. Additionally, in the case of ethanol, drug-seeking
behaviour induced by ethanol-predictive discriminative stimuli was found to be
enhanced in genetically alcohol-preferring P rats compared to Alcohol Nonpreferring
(NP) and nonselected Wistar rats (Weiss and Ciccocioppo 1999). This observation
demonstrates that genetic predisposition toward heightened ethanol intake is
reflected also by a greater susceptibility to the motivating effects of ethanol cues
(i.e., enhanced drug-seeking under conditions where behaviour is not directly
reinforced by ethanol itself). Together, these findings strongly support the
                                              48

      WO 2008/128126                                                    PCT/US2008/060146
   hypothesis that learned responses to drug-related stimuli are a significant factor in
   long-lasting vulnerability to relapse.
                  In humans, relapse risk involves multiple determinants that are likely to
  interact. For example, exposure to drug cues may augment vulnerability to relapse
  imparted by protracted withdrawal symptoms resulting from neuroadaptive changes
  in dependent individuals. Interactive effects exacerbating relapse risk may also exist
  between the motivating effects of stress and drug-related cues. Recent work
  addressing these issues has confirmed that additive interactions between the
  response-reinstating effects of ethanol-associated cues and stress can indeed be
  demonstrated, and that these effects are enhanced in rats with a history of ethanol
  dependence (Liu and Weiss 2000).
                 In experimental laboratories, reinstatement of drug seeking is obtained
 with administration of the a-2 adrenoreceptor antagonist yohimbine, which,
 increasing brain noradrenaline cell firing and release, acts as a pharmacological
 stressor. Footshock stress and yohimbine-induced reinstatement of drug-seeking
 behaviours both represent valid experimental models to investigate stress-induced
 alcohol relapse (Lee et al. 2004; L8 et al. 2000).
                As shown in the accompanying Examples, PPARy agonists significantly
 reduce stress-induced relapse use of an addictive agent (Example 5). In addition, in
 human patients, pioglitazone, a TZD, consistently reduced OCDS score (Example
22). Obsession for alcohol and the urge to drink (which are measured by OCDS
scale) are the major predictors of relapse. These data indicate, therefore, that
pioglitazone has anti-relapse properties.
                Interestingly, the results showed that pioglitazone did not significantly
prevent relapse elicited by conditioning factors. Interestingly, various reports have
shown that the nonselective opiate receptor antagonist naltrexone reduces the urge
to drink elicited by presentation of alcohol cues in human alcoholics (Monti et al.
1993) and decreases the efficacy of an alcohol cue to reinstate extinguished
responding at a previously drug-paired lever in rats (Katner et al. 1999). However,
                                             49

       WO 2008/128126                                                   PCT/US2008/060146
   naltrexone does not reduce relapse behaviour elicited by stress ((Le A.D.
   Psychopharmacology 1998).
                  These findings suggest that the use of a combination of pioglitazone
   and naltrexone should result in a synergistic action to reduce relapse behaviour
   elicited by both stress and conditioning factors.
                  Accordingly, the present invention provides treatment methods and
  drug combinations that protect individuals from the effects of more than a single
  environmental risk factor (i.e., stress and environmental conditioning factors).
                 In one embodiment, the present invention provides a method of
  treating or preventing stress-induced relapse use of an addictive agent, comprising
  providing a PPARy agonist to a subject who has undergone physiological withdrawal
 from an addictive agent.
                 In a related embodiment, the invention includes a method of treating or
 preventing relapse use of an addictive agent or practice of an addictive or
 compulsive behaviour, comprising providing an effective amount of a peroxisone
 proliferator-activated receptor gamma (PPARy agonist) to a subject who previously
 reduced or eliminated use of an addictive agent or practice of an addictive or
 compulsive behaviour in response to exposure to an effective amount of another
 anti-addiction treatment, wherein the subject is no longer exposed to an effective
 amount of the anti-addiction treatment. The anti-addiction treatment may be an anti
 addiction drug or may be a non-pharmacologic therapy such as counseling,
 psychotherapy or hypnosis therapy. The relapse use may be triggered by stress.
                In certain embodiments, the subject is no longer exposed to an
effective amount of an anti-addiction agent because the subject has become tolerant
to the agent, such that the blood plasma concentration of the anti-addiction agent
that was previously effective in treating the addiction is no longer effective. In other
embodiments, the subject is no longer exposed to an effective amount of an anti
addiction agent because the subject is now exposed to a lower blood plasma
concentration of the anti-addiction agent, and this lower blood plasma concentration
is not effective.
                                             50

                                                                                         6
      WO 2008/128126                                                    PCT/US2008/06014
                  In certain embodiments of the methods of the present invention, the
  subject has undergone a period of abstinence from, or limited or reduced use of, the
  addictive agent or practice of the addictive or compulsive behaviour. This period of
  abstinence or limited or reduced use may be, e.g., at least 24 hours, at least 48
  hours, at least 3 days, at least 5 days, at least one week, at least 2 weeks, at least I
  month, at least 2 months, at least 4 months, at least 6 months, at least 9 months, at
  least one year, at least 2 years, or at least 5 years.
                 In another embodiment, the present invention includes a method of
 treating or preventing relapse use of an addictive agent, comprising providing a
 PPARy agonist and an opioid antagonist to a subject who has undergone
 physiological withdrawal from the addictive agent.
                 In a further embodiment, the present invention includes a method of
 treating or preventing relapse use of an addictive agent, comprising providing a
 PPARy agonist and a CB1 antagonist, e.g., disulfiram, topiramate, levetiracetam,
SSRIs, or ondansetron, to a subject who has undergone physiological withdrawal
from the addictive agent.
                In particular embodiments, the relapse use is triggered by stress, an
environmental conditioning factor, or both. Examples of suitable PPARy agonists are
TDZs, such as pioglitazone, etc. One example of a suitable opiold receptor
antagonist is naltrexone.
               While the methods of the present invention may be practiced in
subjects addicted to a single addictive agent, they may also be used in subjects
addicted to two or more addictive agents. Similarly, while these methods may be
used to prevent relapse use of the addictive agent from which the subject has
undergone withdrawal, they may also be adapted to prevent relapse use or the
commencement of use of an addictive agent different than the one from which the
subject has undergone physiological withdrawal.
                                             51

     WO 2008/128126                                                  PCT/US2008/060146
  D.     Methods of Reducing Withdrawal Symptoms and Treating Depression/Anxiety
                 Withdrawal, also known as withdrawal/abstinence syndrome, refers to
  the characteristic signs and symptoms that appear when a drug or addictive agent
  that causes physical dependence is regularly used for a long time and then suddenly
  discontinued or decreased in dosage. Withdrawal symptoms can vary significantly
 among individuals, but there are some commonalities. Brain dysfunction associated
 with withdrawal is often characterized by depression, anxiety and craving, and, if
 extreme, can help drive the individual to continue the drug despite significant harm
 the definition of addiction - or even to suicide.
                Increased heart rate and/or blood pressure, sweating, and tremors are
 common signs of withdrawal. More serious symptoms such as confusion, seizures,
 and visual hallucinations indicate a serious emergency and the need for immediate
 medical care. Alcohol, opiates, benzodiazepines, and barbiturates are the only
commonly abused substances that can be fatal in withdrawal. Abrupt withdrawal
from other drugs, such as nicotine or psychostimulants, can exaggerate mild to
moderate neurotoxic side effects due to hyperthermia and generation of free
radicals, but life-threatening complications are very rare.
               As demonstrated in the accompanying Examples, PPARy agonists
reduce withdrawal symptoms (Example 21). In addition, they decreased anxiety and
depression, which is also associated with withdrawal (Example 22). These data
demonstrate that PPARy agonists may be successfully used to reduce withdrawal
symptoms, including depression and anxiety, thus making withdrawal easier for
subjects and encouraging them to complete the withdrawal process.
               The present invention includes a method of reducing one or more
withdrawal symptoms associated with reduced or discontinued use of an addictive
agent, comprising providing an effective amount of a peroxisome proliferator
activated receptor gamma (PPARy) agonist to a subject undergoing physiological
withdrawal from an addictive agent.
               The PPARy agonist may be provided to the subject before the subject
begins withdrawal and/or during the withdrawal process. In a related method, a
                                            52

      WO 2008/128126                                                   PCT/US2008/060146
   subject is provided with a PPARy agonist over a period of time during which the
   subject uses a reduced amount of an addictive agent. In one embodiment, the
  subject uses a step-wise reduced amount of an addictive agent at the same time as
  a PPARy agonist, until physical withdrawal is completed. The subject may then
  discontinue use of the PPARy agonist or continue use of the PPARy agonist to
  prevent relapse. In one particular embodiment, the addictive agent is nicotine, and
  the subject reduces use of nicotine over a period of time during which the subject is
  provided with a PPARy agonist, such as a TZD, e.g., pioglitazone, alone or in
  combination with another therapeutic agent.
  E.     Pharmaceutical Compositions, Routes of Administration, Unit Dosage Forms,
         Kits,
                 The present invention has established the efficacy of using
 combinations of a PPARy agonist, e.g., a TZD such as pioglitazone, in combination
 with one or more additional therapeutic agents, such as opiold antagonists,
 antidepressents, antiepileptics, antiemetics, and CB1 receptor antagonists. Thus,
 the present invention further includes compositions comprising one or more PPARy
 agonists and one or more additional therapeutic agents, such as oploid antagonists,
 mixed opioid antagonists/partial agonist, antidepressents, antiepileptics, antiemetics,
CRF1 receptor antagonists and CB1 receptor antagonists.
                In particular embodiments, the composition comprises one PPARy
agonist and one additional therapeutic agent. In one particular embodiment, a
composition comprises a TZD and one additional therapeutic agent. In certain
embodiments, the additional therapeutic agent is an opioid antagonist or a mixed
opioid antagonist/partial agonist. In one embodiment, the opioid antagonist is
naltrexone. In another embodiment, the mixed opioid partial agonist/antagonist is
buprenorphine. In certain embodiments, the additional therapeutic agent is an
antidepressant. In a particular embodiment, the antidepressant is bupropion. In
certain embodiments, the additional therapeutic agent is an antiepileptic, an
antiemetic, or an opioid antagonist or a mixed oploid partial agonist/antagonist.
                                           53

      WO 2008/128126                                                    PCT/US2008/060146
                  In various embodiments, the composition comprises: pioglitazone and
   naltrexone; ciglitazone and naltrexone; rosiglitazone and naltrexone; englitazone and
   naltrexone; rivoglitazone and naltrexone; darglidazone and naltrexone;pioglitazone
   and fluoxentine; ciglitazone and fluoxentine; rosiglitazone and fluoxentine;
  englitazone and fluoxentine; rivoglitazone and fluoxentine; darglidazone and
  fluoxentine; pioglitazone and mirtazapine; ciglitazone and mirtazapine; rosiglitazone
  and mirtazapine; englitazone and mirtazapine; rivoglitazone and mirtazapine;
  darglidazone and mirtazapine; pioglitazone and topiramate; ciglitazone and
  topiramate; rosiglitazone and topiramate; englitazone and topiramate; rivoglitazone
  and topiramate; darglidazone and topiramate; pioglitazone and levetiracetam;
 ciglitazone and levetiracetam; rosiglitazone and levetiracetam; englitazone and
  levetiracetam; rivoglitazone and levetiracetam; darglidazone and levetiracetam;
 pioglitazone and gabapentin; ciglitazone and gabapentin; rosiglitazone and
 gabapentin; englitazone and gabapentin; rivoglitazone and gabapentin; darglidazone
 and gabapentin; piolitazone and ondansetron; ciglitazone and ondansetron;
 rosiglitazone and ondansetron; englitazone and ondansetron; rivoglitazone and
 ondansetron; darglidazone and ondansetron; pioglitazone and antalarmin;
 ciglitazone and antalarmin; rosiglitazone and antalarmin; englitazone and antalarmin;
 rivoglitazone and antalarmin; darglidazone and antalarmin.
                The compositions of the present invention may be administered to a
 subject as a pharmaceutical composition or formulation. In particular embodiments,
 pharmaceutical compositions of the present invention may be in any form which
 allows for the composition to be administered to a subject.           For example, the
composition may be in the form of a solid, liquid or gas (aerosol). Typical routes of
administration include, without limitation, oral, topical, parenteral, sublingual, rectal,
vaginal, and intranasal. The term parenteral as used herein includes subcutaneous
injections, intravenous, intramuscular, epidural, intrasternal injection or infusion
techniques.
                Pharmaceutical compositions used according to the present invention
comprise a PPARy agonist, another therapeutic agent, and a pharmaceutically
                                            54

                                                                                      6
     WO 2008/128126                                                  PCT/US2008/06014
  acceptable diluent, excipient, or carrier.  "Pharmaceutically acceptable carriers" for
  therapeutic use are well known in the pharmaceutical art, and are described, for
  example, in Remingtons Pharmaceutical Sciences, Mack Publishing Co. (A.R.
  Gennaro edit. 1985). For example, sterile saline and phosphate-buffered saline at
  physiological pH may be used. Preservatives, stabilizers, dyes and even flavoring
  agents may be provided in the pharmaceutical composition. For example, sodium
  benzoate, sorbic acid and esters of p-hydroxybenzoic acid may be added as
  preservatives. Id. at 1449. In addition, antioxidants and suspending agents may be
  used. Id.
                Pharmaceutical compositions of the invention are generally formulated
 so as to allow the active ingredients contained therein to be bioavailable upon
 administration of the composition to a subject.           Compositions that will be
 administered to a subject may take the form of one or more dosage units, where for
 example, a tablet, capsule or cachet may be a single dosage unit, and a container
 comprising a combination of agents according to the present invention in aerosol
 form may hold a plurality of dosage units.
               In particular embodiments, the composition comprising a PPARy
agonist and another therapeutic agent is administered in one or more doses of a
tablet formulation, typically for oral administration. The tablet formulation may be,
e.g., an immediate release formulation, a controlled release formulation, or an
extended release formulation. In one embodiment, a tablet formulation comprises an
effective amount of a composition comprising a PPARy agonist and another
therapeutic agent. In particular embodiments, a tablet comprises about 1, 5, 10, 20,
30, 50 100, 150, 200, 250, or 300 mg of a PPARy agonist, such as pioglitazone, and
about 1, 5, 10, 20, 30, 50 100, 150, 200, 250, or 300 mg of another therapeutic
agent.
              The present invention further includes unit dosage forms of
pharmaceutical compositions comprising a PPARy agonist and another therapeutic
agent. Each unit dosage form comprises a therapeutically effective amount of a
pharmaceutical composition of the present invention, when used in the
                                           55

      WO 2008/128126                                                   PCT/US2008/0601 4 6
   recommended amount. For example, a unit dosage form may include a
  therapeutically effective amount in a single tablet, or a unit dosage form may include
  a therapeutically effective amount in two or more tablets, such that the prescribed
  amount comprises a therapeutically effective amount.
                A number of the PPARy agonists and other therapeutic agents
  described herein are approved for human use at particular dosages. The present
  invention contemplates using these agents at their approved dosages or at other
  effective dosages. Since the combination of a PPARy agonist and another
 therapeutic agent has been demonstrated to have synergistic efficacy, it is
  understood that effective amounts of one or both agents may be reduced when
 provided together, as compare to the effective amount of each when provided alone.
 In particular embodiments, a PPARy agonist is provided to a subject in an amount in
 the range of 0.1-1000 mg/day, 1-1000 mg/day, 10-100 mg/day, or 25-50 mg/day. In
 one embodiment, pioglitazone is provided to a patient at about 30 mg/day.
                Table 1 lists representative agents used in the present invention and
 provides the daily dosages at which these agents are conventially administered to
adults for other indications, which dosages are believed to be useful for
administration in accordance with the methods of the present invention in the
treatment or prevention of addiction and relapse use or practice. Dosages listed are
oral unless otherwise indicated. It is believed that the dosages of these agents may
be reduced when delivered in combinations of a PPARy agonist and an additional
therapeutic agent in accordance with the present invention for the treatment or
prevention of addiction or for the treatment or prevention of relapse use. These
reductions may be up to 10% of conventional dosages, or up to 20% of conventional
dosages, or up to one third of conventional dosages, up to one half of conventional
dosages or up to two thirds of conventional dosages. For example, pioglitazone is
most commonly dosed at 30 mg per day for treatment of diabetes, which dosage
was found to be effective for the treatment of alcoholism (Example 22). When
combined with 50 mg/day naltrexone in accordance with the present invention for
                                            56

    WO 2008/128126                                                     PCT/US2008/0601 4 6
 treatment of addiction, it is believed therapeutic effect may be seen at 10-15 mg per
 day of pioglitazone.
                                           Table 1
          Therapeutic Agent                Exemplary Dosage Applied as Single Age
              pioglitazone                                   15-45 mg
             rosiglitazone                                    2-8 mg
              troglitazone                                 200-600 mg
              rimonabant                                    10-20 mg
            buprenorphine                               0.3 mg (IV or IM)
                                                      12-16 mg (sublingual)
               naltrexone                                   25-50 mg
               fluoxetine                                   20-80 mg
              mirtazipine                                   15-45 mg
              topiramate                                     400 mg
            levetiracetam                                1,000-6,000 mg
              gabapentin                                  900-1,800 mg
             ondansetron                                     8-24 mg
               bupropion                                   200-400 mg
               Inone particular embodiment, a unit dosage form of a pharmaceutical
composition of the present invention comprises about 30 mg of pioglitazone and
about 50 mg of naltrexone. This unit dosage form may consist of one or more
tablets.
               Certain combinations of PPARy agonists and other therapeutic agents
may not be readily adaptable to coformulation. For example, one of the agents may
be more amenable to intravenous administration, while another of the agents may be
more amenable to oral administration. Or, the serum half life of the two agents may
be such that one must be administered more frequently than the other. Accordingly,
the present invention contemplates kits comprising one or more unit dosage forms of
                                            57

      WO 2008/128126                                                   PCT/US2008/0601 4 6
  a PPARy agonst and one or more unit dosage forms of another therapeutic agent,
  such that the two unit dosage forms may be provided to a subject in a therapeutically
  effective manner. In particular embodiments, a kit comprises unit dosage forms of
  pioglitazone and naltrexone; ciglitazone and naltrexone; rosiglitazone and
  naltrexone; englitazone and naltrexone; rivoglitazone and naltrexone; darglidazone
  and naltrexone;pioglitazone and fluoxentine; ciglitazone and fluoxentine;
  rosiglitazone and fluoxentine; englitazone and fluoxentine; rivoglitazone and
 fluoxentine; darglidazone and fluoxentine; pioglitazone and mirtazapine; ciglitazone
 and mirtazapine; rosiglitazone and mirtazapine; englitazone and mirtazapine;
 rivoglitazone and mirtazapine; darglidazone and mirtazapine; pioglitazone and
 topiramate; ciglitazone and topiramate; rosiglitazone and topiramate; englitazone
 and topiramate; rivoglitazone and topiramate; darglidazone and topiramate;
 pioglitazone and levetiracetam; ciglitazone and levetiracetam; rosiglitazone and
 levetiracetam; englitazone and levetiracetam; rivoglitazone and levetiracetam;
 darglidazone and levetiracetam; pioglitazone and gabapentin; ciglitazone and
 gabapentin; rosiglitazone and gabapentin; englitazone and gabapentin; rivoglitazone
 and gabapentin; darglidazone and gabapentin; piolitazone and ondansetron;
 ciglitazone and ondansetron; rosiglitazone and ondansetron; englitazone and
ondansetron; rivoglitazone and ondansetron; darglidazone and ondansetron;
 pioglitazone and antalarmin; ciglitazone and antalarmin; rosiglitazone and
 antalarmin; englitazone and antalarmin; rivoglitazone and antalarmin; darglidazone
and antalarmin.
                In one embodiment, the present invention includes a kit comprising unit
dosage forms of a PPARy agonist and unit dosage forms of nicotine. In one
embodiment, the unit dosage forms of nicotine comprise a plurality of different unit
dosage forms of nicotine, wherein the different dosage forms of nicotine represent
decreasing amount that may be taken one after the other over a period of time, so as
to overcome addiction and effectuate withdraw from the nicotine. The unit dosage
forms of nicotine may be present, e.g., in the form of a skin patch, gum, or a lozenge.
                                           58

     WO 2008/128126                                                      PCT/US2008/06014 6
                                         EXAMPLES
                 The following examples describe a number of studies performed to
 demonstrate the effect of various PPARy agonists for treating addiction and
 preventing relapse for a variety of addictive agents. Certain examples describe
 studies demonstrating the effect of PPARy agonists used in combination with other
 therapeutic agents to treat alcohol addiction. These studies were performed using
 well-validated laboratory animal models for alcohol abuse and cocaine abuse.
                 Most of the studies described in Examples 1-21 were conducted using
 male, genetically selected alcohol-preferring rats, referred to as Marchigian
 Sardinian alcohol-preferring (msP) rats. These animals were bred at the Department
of Pharmacological Sciences and Experimental Medicine of the University of
Camerino (Marche, Italy) for 60 generations from Sardinian alcohol-preferring rats of
the 13 t' generation, provided by the Department of Neurosciences of the University
of Cagliari, Italy. At the time of the experiments, their body weight ranged between
300 and 350 g. They were housed in a room on a reverse 12-hourlight/dark cycle
(lights off at 9:00 a.m.), temperature of 20-220C and humidity of 45-55%. The rats
were offered free access to tap water and food pellets (4RF1 8, Mucedola, Settimo
Milanese, Italy). In the operant self-administration experiments, male heterogeneous
Wistar rats (Charles River, Germany) were used.
                Experiments were performed at 9:30 a.m., which is the beginning of the
dark phase of the light/dark cycle. Separate groups of animals were used in each
experiment. All procedures were conducted in adherence to the European
Community Council Directive for Care and Use of Laboratory Animals and the
National Institutes of Health Guide for the Care and Use of Laboratory Animals.
                Pioglitazone, rosiglitazone, fluoxetine, mirtazapine, topiramate,
gabapentine, ondansetrone, and levetiracetam was purchased from commercial
sources. Yohimbine and ciglitazone were purchased from SIGMA SRL(Mi, Italy).
Naltrexone and GW9662 were obtained from TOCRIS (U.K).
                                             59

      WO 2008/128126                                                     PCT/US2008/060146
                 Prior to administration, pioglitazone was suspended in distilled water,
  and the resulting suspension was maintained under constant agitation until
  administration. The drug was given orally (OS) via gavage procedure in a volume of
  1.0 ml/kg. Yohimbine was dissolved in distilled water and was administered
  intraperitoneally (IP) in a volume of 1.0 ml/kg. Naltrexone hydrochloride was
  dissolved in distilled water and administered IP in a volume of 1.0 ml/kg.
  Rosiglitazone, fluoxetine, mirtazapine, topiramate, gabapentin and levetiracetam
 were suspended in distilled water, and resulting suspensions were maintained under
  constant agitation until administration. These drugs were given orally (OS) via
  gavage procedure in a volume of 1.0 ml/kg. Yohimbina was dissolved in distilled
 water and was administered intraperitoneally (IP) in a volume of 1.0 ml/kg. GW9662
 was prepared in 5% DMSO and 5% TWIN 80 and was given either IP (1 ml/kg) or
 intacerebroventricularly (ICV, 1 p./rat). Antalarmin was prepared in 10 % TWIN 80
 and was given IP (1 ml/kg). Ondansetron was prepared in acqueous solution and
 was given IP (1 ml/kg).
                At the beginning of the experiments, msP rats were allowed free choice
 between water and 10% (v/v) alcohol 24 h/day for at least 15 days. The fluids were
 offered in graduated drinking tubes equipped with metallic drinking spouts. The
 position (to the right or left) of alcohol and water drinking tubes was changed daily to
 avoid the development of side preference. Water and food were available ad libitum,
while alcohol access was either restricted to 2 hours/day (Examples 1 and 2) or was
 available 24 hours/day (Examples 3 and 4). Alcohol, water and food intakes were
 measured.
                Training and testing were conducted in standard operant chambers
(Med Associate) located in sound-attenuating, ventilated environmental cubicles.
Each chamber was equipped with a drinking reservoir (volume capacity: 0.30 ml)
positioned 4 cm above the grid floor in the centre of the front panel of the chamber,
and two retractable levers located 3 cm to the right or to the left of the drinking
receptacle. Auditory and visual stimuli were presented via a speaker and a light
                                              60

     WO 2008/128126                                                                      6
                                                                        PCT/US2008/06014
  located on the front panel. A microcomputer controlled the delivery of fluids,
  presentation of auditory and visual stimuli, and recording of the behavioural data.
                 Rats were trained to self-administer 10% alcohol (v/v) in 30-min. daily
  sessions on a fixed-ratio 1 schedule of reinforcement, in which each response
  resulted in delivery of 0.1 ml of fluid as previously described (Economidou et al.
 2006). For the first 3 days, rats were allowed to lever-press for a 0.2% (w/v)
 saccharin solution, and then trained to self-administer 10% alcohol by fading the
 saccharine (Weiss et al. 1993). During the first 6 days of training, rats were allowed
 to lever-press for a 5.0% (v/v) alcohol solution containing 0.2% (w/v) saccharin.
 Starting on day 7, the concentration of alcohol was gradually increased from 5.0% to
 8.0% and finally to 10.0% (w/v), while the concentration of saccharin was
 correspondingly decreased to 0%.
                Cue-induced reinstatement of alcohol-seeking behaviour experimental
 procedures consisted of three phases: (1) conditioning phase; (2) extinction phase;
 and (3) reinstatement phase, as described below.
                For the conditioning phase, at the completion of the fading procedure
(see above), in 30 min daily sessions, animals were trained to discriminate between
 10% alcohol and water. Beginning with self-administration training at the 10%
alcohol concentration, discriminative stimuli (SD) predictive of alcohol versus water
availability were presented during the alcohol and water self-administration sessions,
respectively. The discriminative stimulus for alcohol consisted of the odour of an
orange extract (S*) whereas water availability (i.e. no reward) was signalled by an
anise extract (S~). The olfactory stimuli were generated by depositing six to eight
drops of the respective extract into the bedding of the operant chamber. In addition,
each lever-press resulting in delivery of alcohol was paired with illumination of the
chamber's house light for 5 sec (CS*). The corresponding cue during water sessions
was a 5 second tone (70 dB) (CS-). Concurrently with the presentation of these
stimuli, a 5 sec. time-out period was in effect, during which responses were recorded
but not reinforced. The olfactory stimuli serving as S* or S~ for alcohol availability
were introduced one minute before extension of the levers and remained present
                                              61

      WO 2008/128126                                                     PCT/US2008/06014 6
  throughout the 30-min. sessions. The bedding of the chamber was changed and
  bedding trays were cleaned between sessions. During the first three days of the
  conditioning phase, the rats were given alcohol sessions only. Subsequently,
  alcohol and water sessions were conducted in random order across training days,
  with the constraint that all rats received a total of 10 alcohol and 10 water sessions.
                 For the extinction phase, after the last conditioning day, rats were
  subjected to 30-min extinction sessions for 15 consecutive days. During this phase,
 sessions began by extension of the levers without presentation of the SD.
  Responses at the lever activated the delivery mechanism but did not result in the
 delivery of liquids or the presentation of the response-contingent cues (house light or
 tone).
                The reinstatement testing phase began the day after the last extinction
 session. This test lasted 30-min under conditions identical to those during the
 conditioning phase, except that alcohol and water were not made available.
 Sessions were initiated by the extension of both levers and presentation of either the
 alcohol S* or water S- paired stimuli. The respective SD remained present during the
 entire session and responses at the previously active lever were followed by
activation of delivery mechanism and a 5-sec presentation of CS* in the S* condition
or the CS~ (tone) in the S~ condition. Rats were tested under the S/CS- condition on
day 1 and under S*/CS* condition on day 2.
                Stress-induced reinstatement of alcohol-seeking experimental
procedures consisted of three phases: (1) training phase; (2) extinction phase; and
(3) reinstatement phase, as described below.
                For the training phase, after completion of the fading procedure, msP
rats were trained to self-administer 10% (v/v) alcohol for 15 days in 30-min daily
sessions under a FR1 schedule of reinforcement. During the infusion, a stimulus
house light was turned on for 5 s (time out; TO). Lever presses during the TO period
were counted, but did not lead to further infusions.
                For the extinction phase, after the last alcohol self-administration
session, animals were subjected to 30-min extinction sessions for 15 consecutive
                                             62

       WO 2008/128126                                                   PCT/US2008/060146
   days. Responses at the lever activated the delivery mechanism but did not result in
   the delivery of alcohol.
                  For the reinstatement phase, the day after the last extinction session,
   rats were injected with yohimbine (1.25 mg/kg) and after 30 minutes were placed in
  the operant chamber and lever presses was monitored for 30 min. It is known that
  administration of the a-2 adrenoreceptor antagonist yohimbine, increasing brain
  noradrenaline cell firing and release, acts as a pharmacological stressor and
  facilitates relapse to alcohol seeking (Le et al. 2005).
                  Analysis of variance (ANOVA) of data was used to evaluate the results.
 When appropriate, ANOVA was followed by post-hoc tests. In particular, the effect
  of acute administration of pioglitazone, naltrexone or their combination on alcohol
 intake (Examples 1 and 2) was evaluated by mean of a two-way ANOVA with two
 within factors (time and treatment). The effect of chronic administration of
 pioglitazone, naltrexone or their combination on alcohol intake (Examples 3 and 4)
 was evaluated by mean of a three-way ANOVA with one between factor (treatment)
 and two between factors (days and hours). The effect of pioglitazone on
 reinstatement of alcohol seeking (Examples 5 and 6) was evaluated by mean of a
one-way ANOVA with repeated measures using drug dose as a within subject factor.
Alcohol self-administration (Example 7) in Wistar rats was studied by one-way
ANOVA with one within factor (dose). Post hoc analysis was carried out using the
Newman-Keuls test.
                                        EXAMPLE 1
     EFFECT OF ACUTE PIOGLITAZONE ADMINISTRATION ON VOLUNTARY ETHANOL INTAKE
                 The effect of acute pioglitazone administration on voluntary ethanol
intake was demonstrated by first training rats to drink 10% (w/v) alcohol for 24 hours
a day (free choice between water and ethanol). After acquisition of a stable baseline
of ethanol intake (6-8 g/kg bw; daily), alcohol access was restricted to 2 hours a day
at the beginning of the dark phase. Water and food were freely available.
                                              63

      WO 2008/128126                                                      PCT/US2008/06014 6
                   Once stable ethanol drinking baseline was reached (also under limited
  access conditions), rats (n=7) were tested for the effect of pioglitazone (0.0, 10.0,
  30.0 mg/kg) using a within subject counterbalanced Latine square design where
  each animal received all drug doses. Before starting the treatment, rats were trained
  to gavage administration procedures for three days, during which they received
  vehicle (distilled water).
                  Treatments were carried out at intervals of at least three days. Before
  each ethanol drinking experiment, msP rats received two doses of pioglitazone or
 vehicle at 12 hours and at 1 hour before access to ethanol. Drinking experiments
 were conducted right at the beginning of the dark cycle. Alcohol, water and food
 intakes were monitored at 30, 60, 90 and 120 minutes after ethanol was made
 available.
                  Analysis of variance revealed the absence of a significant treatment
 effect on ethanol intake F(2,6)= 1.22 NS]. However, a significant treatment time
 interaction was detected {F(6,18)= 6.87 p<0.01]. As shown in Figure 1, post-hoc
tests revealed that acute treatment with 30 mg/kg of pioglitazone significantly
 reduced ethanol consumption at 2 hours but not at 30, 60, or 90 minutes. The
selectivity effect was demonstrated by the lack of significant effects on water and
food consumption (data not shown).
                                         EXAMPLE 2
    EFFECT OF ACUTE PIOGLITAZONE PLUS NALTREXONE ADMINISTRATION ON VOLUNTARY
                                       ETHANOL INTAKE
                 In this experiment, the effect of the co-administration of pioglitazone
and naltrexone on alcohol consumption was examined to demonstrate that PPARy
agonists could enhance the inhibitory action of opioid antagonists on ethanol intake.
The dose of naltrexone used in these studies (0.25 mg/kg) was previously shown to
be marginally effective in reducing ethanol intake in msP rats under the same
experimental conditions (Ciccocioppo et al. 2007).
                                              64

     WO 2008/128126                                                     PCT/US2008/06014 6
                 The msP rats (n=8) were prepared for the study as described in
  Example 1. After acquisition of a stable baseline of ethanol intake, alcohol access
  was restricted to 2 hours a day at the beginning of the dark phase. Water and food
  were freely available. Animals were tested for the effect of the combination between
  pioglitazone (0.0, 10.0, 30.0 mg/kg) given at 12 hours and at 1 hour before access to
  ethanol and naltrexone (0.0 and 0.25 mg/kg) injected 2 minutes after the second
  pioglitazone administration. The experiment was conducted using a within subject
  counterbalanced Latine square design where each animal received all drug doses.
                These experiments were conducted at the beginning of the dark cycle
 and alcohol, and water and food intakes were monitored at 30, 60, 90 and 120
 minutes after ethanol was made available. Water and food intakes were not
 significantly modified by the various treatments.
                Analysis of variance revealed a significant overall effect of treatment
 [F(3,7)= 5.95 p<0.01] on alcohol intake. As shown in Figure 2, post-hoc tests
demonstrated that both naltrexone alone and naltrexone + piolgitazone significantly
reduced ethanol intake at 30, 60, and 90 minutes. At 120 minutes, the treatments
with naltrexone alone and naltrexone + pioglitazone (10 mg/kg) did not show
significant effects. In contrast, compared to controls, the co-administration of
naltrexone + pioglitazone (30 mg/kg) showed a significant effect also at 120 minutes
(p<0.05). This data suggests that co-administration of the two drugs results in an
enhancement of their effects, or could result in an increased duration of naltrexone
effect.
                                       EXAMPLE 3
EFFECT OF SUBCHRONIC PIOGLITAZONE ADMINISTRATION ON VOLUNTARY ETHANOL INTAKE
               The effect of subchronic pioglitazone administration was demonstrated
using rats trained to drink 10% (v/v) alcohol for 24 hours a day (free choice between
water and ethanol) until a stable baseline of ethanol intake was reached. At this
point, msP rats (N=9/group) were tested for the effect of pioglitazone (0.0, 10.0, or
30.0 mg/kg) on ethanol intake using a between subject design, in which each group
                                           65

      WO 2008/128126                                                   PCT/US2008/0601 46
  of animals received a different dose of drug. Before starting the treatment, rats were
  trained to gavage administration procedures for three days, during which they
  received vehicle (distilled water).
                  Pioglitazone treatment was continued for seven consecutive days, and
  drug (or vehicle) was administered twice a day at 12 hour and at 1 hour before the
  beginning of dark period of the light/dark cycle. Alcohol, water and food intakes were
  monitored at 2, 8 and 24 hours. Fluids and food intakes were monitored for three
  additional days after the end of the drug treatment period.
                 Sub-chronic (7 days) pioglitazone administration significantly reduced
 voluntary ethanol intake in msP rats. Analysis of variance revealed a significant
 overall effect of treatment [F (2,33)= 9.51; p<0.01]. As shown by post-hoc tests, the
 effect appeared from the first day of treatment at the highest drug dose (Figures 3A,
 3B and 3C). The effect progressively increased during treatment, and starting from
 the 4 th day of treatment, both drug doses (10 and 30 mg/kg) significantly reduced
 ethanol intake.
                 During treatment, water consumption was rather low and was not
 significantly affected by drug treatment. Conversely, food intake (Figure 3D) was
 significantly increased by pioglitazone [F (2,33) = 7.34 p < 0.01 ]. The effect was
 higher after administration of the lowest dose (10 mg/kg) of drug. At the end of the
treatment, rats gradually recovered from the effect of the drug and ethanol intake
and progressively returned at pre-treatment levels (data not shown).
                                        EXAMPLE 4
       EFFECT OF SUBCHRONIC PIOGLITAZONE PLUS NALTREXONE ADMINISTRATION ON
                                 VOLUNTARY ETHANOL INTAKE
                The effect of chronic co-administration of pioglitazone and naltrexone
on alcohol consumption was studied to evaluate if PPARy agonists could also
enhance the inhibitory action of opioid antagonists on ethanol intake after repeated
treatments. As in the studies described in Example 2, a naltrexone dose (0.25
mg/kg) previously shown to be marginally effective in reducing ethanol intake in msP
                                            66

                                                                                          6
       WO 2008/128126                                                    PCT/US2008/06014
   rats was used (Ciccocioppo et al. 2007). According to a between-subject design,
   four groups of msP rats (N=9/group) were prepared as described in Example 3.
   Specifically, once a stable baseline of daily ethanol consumption was reached,
   different groups of msP rats were tested for the effect of pioglitazone in combination
  with naltrexone. For seven consecutive days, msP rats received pioglitazone
  treatments (0.0, 10.0, or 30.0 mg/kg) at 12 hour and at 1 hour before the beginning
  of the dark of the light/dark cycle, while naltrexone (0.0 and 0.25 mg/kg) was injected
  2 minutes after the second pioglitazone administration. Alcohol, water and food
  intakes were monitored at 2, 8 and 24 hours. Fluids and food intakes were
  monitored for three additional days after the end of the drug treatment period.
                 Sub-chronic (7 days) administration of naltrexone or naltrexone +
  pioglitazone significantly reduced voluntary ethanol intake in msP rats. Analysis of
 variance revealed a significant overall effect of treatment [F(3,32)=9.59 p<0.01]. As
  shown by post-hoc tests (Figures 4A, 4B and 4C), naltrexone significantly reduced
 ethanol intake at 2 hours (p<0.05) but not at 8 and 24 hours. In addition, the effect
 progressively decayed during treatment days. Animals treated with pioglitazone plus
 naltrexone, instead, significantly reduced their drinking at all time points tested (2, 8
 and 24 hours). This effect remained significant for the entire period of treatment.
 These results indicate that pioglidazone and naltrexone co-administration may result
 in additive or synergistic effects.
                 During treatment, water consumption was rather low and was not
significantly affected by drug treatment. Conversely, food intake was significantly
increased by pioglitazone [F(3,32)= 5.34 p < 0.05](Figure 4D). The effect was higher
after administration of the lowest dose (10 mg/kg) of drug. At the end of the
treatment, rats gradually recovered from the effect of the drug and ethanol intake
progressively returned at pre-treatment levels.
                                             67

      WO 2008/128126                                                   PCT/US2008/060146
                                         EXAMPLE 5
           EFFECT OF ACUTE PIOGLITAZONE ADMINISTRATION ON YOHIMBINE-INDUCED
                             REINSTATEMENT OF ALCOHOL SEEKING
                  To demonstrate the effect of TZDs on stress-induced relapse to alcohol
   seeking, following acquisition of a stable baseline of 10% ethanol, responding msP
  rats (n=10) were subjected to an extinction period (14 days) during which ethanol
  responding progressively decreased. The day after the last extinction session, rats
  were subjected to the reinstatement test. The animals were treated OS with
  pioglitazone (0.0, 10.0, or 30.0 mg/kg) at 12 hours and 1 hour before the
  reinstatement test. Yohimbine (1.25 mg/kg, IP) was given 30 min after the last
  pioglitazone administration.
                 Animals received all drug treatments according to a counterbalance
  Latin square design. A 3-day interval, during which animals were subjected to
  extinction sessions, was allowed between drug tests. In the reinstatement test,
 active and inactive lever responses were recorded.
                 A stable baseline of responding for 10% (v/v) alcohol was established
 in 15 days. Following this alcohol self-administration phase, extinction training
 began. During the extinction phase, responding progressively decreased, and the
 last extinction day values were 16.1±3.9. The intraperitoneal administration of the
 alpha-2 adrenoceptor antagonist yohimbine at the dose of 1.25 mg/kg significantly
 reinstated the operant response for alcohol F(1,18)=22.78 p<0.01]. As shown by the
 analysis of variance, pre-treatment with pioglitazone significantly reduced the effect
of yohimbine [F(2,9)=12.21, p<0.01] (Figure 5). Post-hoc analysis demonstrated a
significant inhibition of reinstatement following administration of 30 mg/kg of
pioglitazone (p<0.01).
                 At the lowest dose (10 mg/kg), pioglitazone showed a clear trend
(p=0.07) to an inhibition of yohimbine effect. Analysis of inactive lever responding
revealed absence of treatment effects at-this lever. This indicated the selectivity of
the effect of yohimbine in eliciting reinstatement of alcohol seeking.
                                             68

       WO 2008/128126                                                    PCT/US2008/060146
                                          EXAMPLE 6
     EFFECT OF ACUTE PIOGLITAZONE ADMINISTRATION ON CUE-INDUCED REINSTATEMENT OF
                                       ALCOHOL SEEKING
                  In this experiment to demonstrate the effect of TZDs on cue-induced
   relapse to alcohol use, msP rats (n=14) were trained to operantly self-administer
   10% ethanol or water in 30 min daily session on an FR-1 schedule of reinforcement,
  where each response resulted in delivery of 0.1 ml of fluid. Ethanol availability was
   signalled by the odor of an orange extract, which served as a discriminative stimulus.
   In addition, each lever press resulting in delivery of ethanol was paired with
  illumination of the house light for 5 s (S*/CS*). For water, anise odor and a 5 sec
  white noise were employed as discriminative and contiguous cues (S~/CS~),
  respectively. Rats were than subjected to daily extinction sessions, during which
  lever presses progressively decreased.
                 The reinstatement test was conducted by re-exposing them to the
 conditioned stimuli predictive of ethanol or water availability but in the absence of the
 fluids. Pioglitazone (0.0, 10.0, 30.0 mg/kg) was given 12 hours and 1 hour before
 the reinstatement test. Experiments were conducted at the beginning of the dark
 phase of the light/dark cycle. Animals received all drug treatments according to a
 counterbalance Latin square design, and a 3-day interval was allowed between
 reinstatement sessions. In the reinstatement test, active and inactive lever
 responses were recorded.
                 Throughout the conditioning phase, in which animals discriminated
 between alcohol or water availability, rats responded at a higher level for alcohol.
ANOVA showed a significant overall effect of conditioning [F(1.28)= 41.89, p<0.01].
On the last day of the discrimination period, animals reached a lever pressing
response of about 120 in 30 min., while the response for water was 20. During
extinction, lever pressing progressively decreased to 5.87±1.07 of the last extinction
day. In the reinstatement test, the ANOVA showed that cues had a significant overall
effect on alcohol-seeking [F(1.28)= 30.4, p<0.01]. A more detailed analysis showed
a robust reinstatement of responding under the S*/CS* (p<0.01) but not under the
                                              69

      WO 2008/128126                                                    PCT/US2008/060146
   S~/CS- compared with the last day of extinction. As shown in Figure 6, conditioned
   reinstatement of alcohol-seeking was not significantly modified by pre-treatment with
   pioglitazone. Responses at the inactive lever were not influenced by the treatment
  (data not shown).
                                          EXAMPLE 7
    EFFECT OF CIGLITAZONE ADMINISTRATION ON ETHANOL SELF-ADMINISTRATION IN WISTRA
                                             RATS
                  This study was performed to demonstrate the the effect of pioglitazone
  on ethanol intake extends also to other PPARy agonists. The effect of ciglitazone, a
  structurally different TDZ, on ethanol-self-administration was determined. In
  addition, to verify that the effect observed with pioglitazone extends to other
  experimental alcohol intake models, these studies were performed in heterogeneous
 Wistar rats under operant self-administration conditions.
                 Wistra rats (n=7) were trained to self-administer ethanol 30 min/day
 under FR1 schedule of reinforcement. Once a stable level of responding was
 reached, in a within subject counterbalance order (Latin square design), rats were
 treated with ciglitazone (0.0, 5.0 or 20.0 mg/kg) given IP 30 minutes before the
 beginning of the self-administration session. The number of responses to the active
 and inactive levers were recorded. A 3-day interval was allowed between self
administration sessions.
                 During ethanol self-administration, Wistar rats acquired robust operant
alcohol responding. At the end of this phase, rats pressed the alcohol lever an
average of 30-35 times in 30-min. At this point, animals were treated with ciglitazone
IP. Results showed that ciclitazone treatment significantly reduced ethanol self
administration [F(2,6)=5.87 p<0.05]. Responding at the inactive lever was very low
and was not affected by drug treatment [F(2,6)=1.52 NS]. Post hoc tests showed
that ethanol self-administration was significantly reduced following administration of
the highest dose of drug (Figure 7).
                                             70

       WO 2008/128126                                                   PCT/US2008/06014 6
                                          EXAMPLE 8
       EFFECT OF ACUTE ROSIGLITAZONE ADMINISTRATION ON VOLUNTARY ETHANOL INTAKE
                  The ability of another TZD, rosiglitazone, to reduce ethanol intake was
   demonstrated. MsP rats were first trained to drink 10% (w/v) alcohol for 24 hours a
   day (free choice between water and ethanol). Once stable ethanol drinking baseline
   was reached (6-8 g/kg/day), rats (n= 28) were tested for the effect of rosiglitazone
   (0.0, 7.5 and 15 mg/kg) using a between subject design. Before starting the
  treatment, rats were trained to gavage administration procedures for three days,
   during which they received vehicle (distilled water). Rosiglitazone was given twice,
   at 12 hours and 1 hour before access to ethanol. Drinking experiments started at the
  beginning of the dark cycle. Alcohol, water and food intakes were monitored at 2, 8
  and 24 hours after ethanol was made available.
                  Analysis of variance revealed a significant treatment effect on ethanol
  intake [F(2,18)= 0.4 p<0.05]. As shown in Figure 8, post-hoc Newman-Keuls tests
  revealed that acute treatment with 15 mg/kg of rosiglitazone significantly reduced
  ethanol consumption at 2 hours (p<0.05). Inhibition of ethanol drinking was highly
  significant at 24 hours (p<0.01). The selectivity effect was demonstrated by the lack
  of significant effects on water and food consumption (data not shown).
                                         EXAMPLE 9
   EFFECT OF   IP ADMINISTRATION OF THE PPARy ANTAGONIST GW9662 ON PIOGLITAZONE
                            INDUCED REDUCTION OF ETHANOL INTAKE
                 This experiment demonstrated that the effect of pioglitazone on ethanol
 intake was mediated by activation of PPARy receptors. After acquisition of a stable
 baseline of ethanol intake, msP rats (n=22) were tested for the effect of GW9662 on
 pioglitazone-induced reduction of ethanol intake. Rats were treated with 30 mg/kg of
 pioglitazone given OS 1 hour before access to ethanol. GW9662 was administered
 IP 30 min after pioglitazone administration, and additional 30 min were awaited
before giving ethanol access to rats. Before starting the treatment, rats were trained
to gavage and IP administration procedures for three days. Experiment was
                                             71

      WO 2008/128126                                                     PCT/US2008/060146
   conducted in a between subject design (n = 22). Another group of msP rats (n=22)
   received GW9662 alone to demonstrate the effect of PPARy blockade on ethanol
  consumption. Drinking experiments started at the beginning of the dark cycle.
  Alcohol, water and food intakes were monitored at 2, 8 and 24 hours after ethanol
  was made available.
                  As shown in Figure 9A, analysis of variance revealed that blockade of
  PPARy receptors by GW9662 did not modify ethanol drinking in msP rats [F(2,18)=
  0.40 NS]. However, analysis of variance revealed a significant treatment effect on
  ethanol intake F(3,24)= 18.64 p<0.01] following administration of pioglitazone (Figure
  9B). Newman-Keuls tests revealed that treatment with 30 mg/kg of pioglitazone
  significantly reduced ethanol consumption at 8 and 24 hours (p<0.01). Pretreatment
  with GW9662 blocked the effect of pioglitazone in a dose related manner. Water
  and food consumption were not affected by drug treatments (data not shown).
                                        EXAMPLE 10
          EFFECT OF ICV ADMINISTRATION OF THE PPARy ANTAGONIST GW9662 ON
                   PIOGLITAZONE-INDUCED REDUCTION OF ETHANOL INTAKE
                 This experiment demonstrated that the effect of pioglitazone on ethanol
 intake is mediated by activation of brain PPARy receptors. For this purpose, msP
 rats (n=6) were treated with GW9662 (5 pg/rat) ICV to selectively block brain PPARy
 receptors, while pioglitazone (30 mg/kg) was given OS. The experiment was
 conduced using a within subject counterbalanced Latine square design, where each
 animal received all drug doses.
                 The drinking experiments were conducted at the beginning of the dark
cycle, and alcohol, water and food intakes were monitored at 2, 8 and 24 hours after
ethanol was made available.
                 Analysis of variance revealed a significant treatment effect on ethanol
intake F(3,5)= 12.93 p<0.001]. As shown in Figure 10, post-hoc Newman-Keuls
tests revealed that treatment with 30 mg/kg of pioglitazone significantly reduced
ethanol consumption at 2 hours (p<0.05) 8 hours (p<0.05) and at 24 hours (p<0.01).
                                             72

                                                                                         6
      WO 2008/128126                                                    PCT/US2008/06014
   ICV administration of GW9662 did not significantly affect ethanol intake per se.
   However it completely prevented the effect of pioglitazone. Water and food
   consumption were not affected by drug treatments (data not shown).
                                         EXAMPLE 11
            EFFECT OF ACUTE NALTREXONE ADMINISTRATION ON YOHIMBINE- NDUCED
                             REINSTATEMENT OF ALCOHOL SEEKING
                 The inability of naltrexone to reduce yohimbine-induced reinstatement
  of alcohol use was demonstrated. Following acquisition of a stable baseline of 10%
  ethanol, responding msP rats (n=10) were subjected to an extinction period (14
  days) during which ethanol responding progressIvely decreased. The day after the
  last extinction session, rats were subjected to the reinstatement test.
                 To determine whether naltrexone was able to prevent the effect of the
 pharmacological stressor yohimbine, animals (n=7) were treated IP with the opioid
 antagonist (0.0, 0.25 and 1.0 mg/kg) 1 hour before the reinstatement test.
 Yohimbine (1.25 mg/kg, IP) was given 30 min after naltrexone administration.
 Animals received all drug treatments according to a counterbalance Latin square
 design. A 3-day interval, during which animals were subjected to extinction
 sessions, was allowed between drug tests. In the reinstatement test, active and
 inactive lever responses were recorded.
                 A stable baseline of responding for 10% (v/v) alcohol was established
in 15 days. Following this alcohol self-administration phase, extinction training
began. During the extinction phase, responding progressively decreased. The
intraperitoneal administration of the alpha-2 adrenoceptor antagonist yohimbine at
the dose of 1.25 mg/kg significantly reinstated the operant response for alcohol
F(1,8)=1 9.99 p<0.01]. As shown by the analysis of variance, pre-treatment with
naltrexone did not significantly reduce the effect of yohimbine [F(2,8)=0.46, NS]
(Figure 11). Analysis of inactive lever responding revealed absence of treatment
effects at this lever (data not shown). This indicates the selectivity of the effect of
yohimbine in eliciting reinstatement of alcohol seeking.
                                             73

                                                                                           6
      WO 2008/128126                                                      PCT/US2008/06014
                                         EXAMPLE 12
    EFFECT OF ACUTE NALTREXONE ADMINISTRATION ON CUE-IINDUCED REINSTATEMENT OF
                                       ALCOHOL SEEKING
                 The ability of naltrexone to reduce cue-induced reinstatement of
  alcohol seeking was demonstrated. In this experiment, msP rats (n=9) were trained
  to operantly self-administer 10% ethanol or water in 30 min daily session on an FR-1
  schedule of reinforcement, where each response resulted in delivery of 0.1 ml of
 fluid. Ethanol availability was signalled by the odor of an orange extract, which
  served as a discriminative stimulus. In addition, each lever press resulting in
 delivery of ethanol was paired with illumination of the house light for 5 s (S*/CS*).
 For water, anise odor and a 5 sec white noise were employed as discriminative and
 contiguous cues (S~/CS~), respectively. Rats were than subjected to a daily
 extinction sessions during which lever presses progressively decreased.
                Reinstatement tests were conducted by re-exposing them to the
 conditioned stimuli predictive of ethanol or water availability, but in the absence of
the fluids. Naltrexone (0.0, 0.25 and 1.0 mg/kg) was given one hour before the
 reinstatement test. Experiments were conducted at the beginning of the dark phase
 of the light/dark cycle. Animals received all drug treatments according to a
counterbalance Latin square design, and a 3-day interval was allowed between
 reinstatement sessions. In the reinstatement test, active and inactive lever
responses were recorded.
                Throughout the conditioning phase, in which animals discriminated
between alcohol or water availability, rats responded at a higher level for alcohol.
During extinction, lever pressing progressively decreased. In the reinstatement test,
the ANOVA showed that cues had a significant overall effect on alcohol-seeking
[F(1,8)= 36.31, p<0.01]. A more detailed analysis showed a robust reinstatement of
responding under the S*/CS* (p<0.01) but not under the S~/CS~ compared with the
last day of extinction. As shown in Figure 12, conditioned reinstatement of alcohol
seeking was significantly reduced by naltrexone [F(2,8)= 15.90; p<0.01]. Post-hoc
                                             74

     WO 2008/128126                                                      PCT/US2008/0601 4 6
  analysis revealed that both doses (0.25 and 1.0 mg/kg) of the opioid antagonist
 tested significantly reduced reinstatement of ethanol seeking (p<0.01). Responses
 at the inactive lever were not influenced by the treatment (data not shown).
                                        EXAMPLE 13
  EFFECT OF CO-ADMINISTRATION OF PIOGLITAZONE AND NALTREXONE ON YOHIMBINE- AND
                    CUE-INDUCED REINSTATEMENT OF ALCOHOL SEEKING
                The combined effect of a PPARy agonist, pioglitazone, and an opioid
 antagonist, naltrexone, on various inducers of reinstated alcohol seeking was
 determined.
                For yohimbine-induced reinstatement of ethanol seeking, after
 acquisition of a stable baseline of 10% ethanol responding, msP rats (n=9) were
 subjected to an extinction period (14 days) during which ethanol responding
 progressively decreased. The day after the last extinction session, rats were
 subjected to the reinstatement test.
               To evaluate whether combination of naltrexone plus pioglitazone was
 able to prevent the effect of the pharmacological stressor yohimbine, animals were
treated IP with the opioid antagonist (1.0 mg/kg) and OS with the TDZ (30 mg/kg) 1
 hour before the reinstatement test. Yohimbine (1.25 mg/kg, IP) was given 30 min
after naltrexone/pioglitazone administration. Animals received all drug treatments
according to a counterbalance Latin square design. A 3-day interval, during which
animals were subjected to extinction sessions, was allowed between drug tests. In
the reinstatement test, active and inactive lever responses were recorded.
               For cue-induced reinstatement of alcohol seeking, another group of
msP rats (n=10) were trained to operantly self-administer 10% ethanol or water in 30
min daily session on an FR-1 schedule of reinforcement, where each response
resulted in delivery of 0.1 ml of fluid. Ethanol availability was signalled by the odor of
an orange extract, which served as a discriminative stimulus. In addition, each lever
press resulting in delivery of ethanol was paired with illumination of the house light
for 5 s (S*/CS*). For water, anise odor and a 5 sec white noise were employed as
                                            75

      WO 2008/128126                                                                       6
                                                                          PCT/US2008/06014
   discriminative and contiguous cues sicsS~), respectively. Rats were then subjected
  to a daily extinction sessions, during which lever presses progressively decreased.
                  A reinstatement test was conducted by re-exposing them to the
  conditioned stimuli predictive of ethanol or water availability, but in the absence of
  the fluids. Naltrexone (1.0 mg/kg) and pioglitazone were co-administered 1 hour
  before the reinstatement test. Experiments were conducted at the beginning of the
  dark phase of the light/dark cycle. Animals received all drug treatments according to
  a counterbalance Latin square design and a 3-day interval was allowed between
  reinstatement sessions. In the reinstatement test, active and inactive lever
  responses were recorded.
                 For yohimbine-induced reinstatement of alcohol seeking, rats reached
  a stable baseline of responding for 10% (v/v) alcohol in 15 days. Following this time
  period, alcohol self-administration phase extinction training began. During the
  extinction phase, responding progressively decreased. The intraperitoneal
 administration of the alpha-2 adrenoceptor antagonist yohimbine at the dose of 1.25
  mg/kg significantly reinstated the operant response for alcohol F(1,8)=12.86 p<0.01].
 As shown by the analysis of variance, pre-treatment with naltrexone plus
 pioglitazone significantly reduced the effect of yohimbine [F(2,8)=5.71, p<0.01]
 (Figure 13A). Analysis of inactive lever responding revealed absence of treatment
 effects at this lever.
                For cue-induced reinstatement of alcohol seeking, msP rats rapidly
 learned to discriminate between alcohol or water availability; rats responded at a
higher level for alcohol. During extinction, lever pressing progressively decreased.
In the reinstatement test, the ANOVA showed that cues had a significant overall
effect on alcohol-seeking [F(1,9)= 31,83, p<0.01]. A more detailed analysis showed
a robust reinstatement of responding under the S*/CS* (p<0.01) but not under the
S~/CS~ compared with the last day of extinction. As shown in Figure 13B,
conditioned reinstatement of alcohol-seeking was significantly reduced by co
administration of naltrexone and pioglitazone [F(2,9)= 16,58; p<0.01]. Responses at
the inactive lever were not influenced by the treatment (data not shown).
                                            76

     WO 2008/128126                                                      PCT/US2008/0601 4 6
                                        EXAMPLE 14
     EFFECT OF ACUTE PIOGLITAZONE PLUS FLUOXETINE ADMINISTRATION ON VOLUNTARY
                                       ETHANOL INTAKE
                In this experiment, the effect of the co-administration of pioglitazone
  and fluoxetine on alcohol consumption was studied to demonstrate that co-treatment
 with PPARy agonists, e.g., TZDs, and antidepressants, e.g., selective serotonin
  uptake inhibitors, has synergistic effects on ethanol intake inhibition. For this
  purpose, a low dose of fluoxetine (3.0 mg/kg, OS) that did not reduce ethanol intake
 in msP rats in a pilot study was used. Also, a pioglitazone dose (10 mg/kg, OS) was
 chosen that does not significantly affect alcohol intake per se.
                MsP rats were first trained to drink 10% (w/v) alcohol for 24 hours a
 day (free choice between water and ethanol). Once a stable ethanol drinking
 baseline was reached (6-8 g/kg/day), in a between subject design, msP rats (n= 34)
 were tested for the effect of pioglitazone, fluoxetine or their combination. Rats
 treated with drug vehicles served as a control. Before starting the treatment, rats
were trained to gavage administration for three days, during which they received
 drugs vehicle (distilled water). Pioglitazone and fluoxetine were given twice, at 12
 hours and 1 hour before access to ethanol. Drinking experiments started at the
beginning of the dark cycle. Alcohol, water, and food intakes were monitored at 2, 8
and 24 hours after ethanol was made available.
               Analysis of variance revealed a significant overall effect of treatment
[F(3,30)= 5.37 p<0.01] on alcohol intake. As shown in Figure 14, post-hoc tests
demonstrated that a low dose of pioglitazone alone or fluoxetine alone did not
significantly modify ethanol intake in msP rats. However, co-administration of the
two agents resulted in a marked inhibition of ethanol consumption at 2 and 8 hours
(p<0.01), as well as at 24 hours (p<0.05). These data suggest that co-administration
of the two drugs exert synergistic inhibitory actions on ethanol drinking.
                                             77

      WO 2008/128126                                                     PCT/US2008/0601 4 6
                  A modest, nonsignificant trend to an increase of food intake was
  observed following drug treatment (data not shown). Water consumption was very
  low and was not modified by drug administration (data not shown).
                                         EXAMPLE 15
    EFFECT OF ACUTE PIOGLITAZONE PLUS MIRTAZAPINE AADMINISTRATION ON VOLUNTARY
                                        ETHANOL INTAKE
                 The effect of the co-administration of pioglitazone and mirtazapine on
  alcohol consumption was studied to demonstrate that co-treatment with PPARy
  agonists and this antidepressant had synergistic effects on ethanol intake inhibition.
  For this purpose, a low dose of mirtazapine (5.0 mg/kg, OS) that did not reduce
 ethanol intake in msP rats in a pilot study was used. Also, a pioglitazone dose (10
 mg/kg, OS) was chosen such that it did not significantly affect alcohol intake per se.
                 MsP rats were first trained to drink 10% (w/v) alcohol for 24 hours a
 day (free choice between water and ethanol). Once stable ethanol drinking baseline
 was reached (6-8 g/kg/day), in a between subject design, msP rats (n= 34) were
 tested for the effect of pioglitazone, mirtazapine or their combination. Rats treated
 with drug vehicles served as a control. Before starting the treatment, rats were
 trained to gavage administration for three days, during which they received drugs
 vehicle (distilled water). Pioglitazone and mirtazapine were given twice, at 12 hours
 and 1 hour before access to ethanol. Drinking experiments started at the beginning
of the dark cycle. Alcohol, water and food intakes were monitored at 2, 8 and 24
 hours after.ethanol was made available.
                 Analysis of variance revealed a significant overall effect of treatment
[F(3,30)= 12.50 p<0.01] on alcohol intake. As shown in Figure 15, post-hoc tests
demonstrated that a low dose of pioglitazone alone or mirtazapine alone did not
significantly modify ethanol intake in msP rats. However, co-administration of the
two agents resulted in a marked inhibition of ethanol consumption at 2 and 8 hours
(p<0.05); a significant reduction of ethanol intake at 2 hours was also reported for
                                             78

       WO 2008/128126                                                    PCT/US2008/060146
   pioglitazone alone (p<0.05). These data suggest that co-administration of the two
  drugs exert synergistic inhibitory actions on ethanol drinking.
                  A nonsignificant trend to an increase of food intake was observed
  following drug treatments (data not shown). Water consumption was very low and
  was not modified by drug administration (data not shown)
                                         EXAMPLE 16
     EFFECT OF ACUTE PIOGLITAZONE PLUS TOPIRAMATE ADMINISTRATION ON VOLUNTARY
                                        ETHANOL INTAKE
                 In this experiment, the effect of the co-administration of pioglitazone
 and topiramate on alcohol consumption was studied to demonstrate that co
 treatment with PPARy agonists and this antiepileptic has synergistic effects on
 ethanol intake inhibition. For this purpose, a low dose of topiramate (30.0 mg/kg,
 OS) that did not reduce ethanol intake in msP rats in a pilot study was used. Also, a
 pioglitazone dose (10 mg/kg, OS) was chosen such that it did not significantly affect
 alcohol intake per se.
                 MsP rats were first trained to drink 10% (w/v) alcohol for 24 hours a
 day (free choice between water and ethanol). Once stable ethanol drinking baseline
was reached (6-8 g/kg/day), in a between subject design, msP rats (n= 34) were
tested for the effect of pioglitazone, topiramate or their combination. Rats treated
with drug vehicles served as a control. Before starting the treatment, rats were
trained to gavage administration for three days, during which they received drugs
vehicle (distilled water). Pioglitazone and topiramate were given twice, at 12 hours
and 1 hour before access to ethanol. Drinking experiments started at the beginning
of the dark cycle. Alcohol, water and food intakes were monitored at 2, 8 and 24
hours after ethanol was made available.
                Analysis of variance revealed a significant overall effect of treatment
[F(3,30)= 4.35 p<0.01] on alcohol intake. As shown in Figure 16, post-hoc tests
demonstrated that a low dose of pioglitazone alone or topiramate alone did not
significantly modify ethanol intake in msP rats. However, co-administration of the
                                             79

      WO 2008/128126                                                     PCT/US2008/060146
  two agents resulted in a marked inhibition of ethanol consumption at 2, 8 and 24
  hours (p<0.05); a significant reduction of ethanol intake at 2 hours was also reported
  for topiramate alone (p<0.05). These data suggest that co-administration of the two
  drugs exert synergistic inhibitory actions on ethanol drinking.
                 A nonsignificant trend to an increase of food intake was observed
 following drug treatments (data not shown). Water consumption was very low and
 was not modified by drug administration (data not shown).
                                        EXAMPLE 17
    EFFECT OF ACUTE PIOGLITAZONE PLUS LEVETIRACETAM ADMINISTRATION ON VOLUNTARY
                                       ETHANOL INTAKE
                 The effect of the co-administration of pioglitazone and levetiracetam
 on alcohol consumption was studied to demonstrate that co-treatment wit PPARy
 agonists and this antiepileptic has synergistic effects on ethanol intake inhibition.
 For this purpose, a low dose of levetiracetam (100.0 mg/kg, OS) that did not reduce
 ethanol intake in msP rats in a pilot study was used. Also, a pioglitazone dose (10
 mg/kg, OS) was chosen, such that it did not significantly affect alcohol intake per se.
                MsP rats were first trained to drink 10% (w/v) alcohol for 24 hours a
 day (free choice between water and ethanol). Once stable ethanol drinking baseline
was reached (6-8 g/kg/day), in a between subject design, msP rats (n= 33) were
tested for the effect of pioglitazone, levetiracetam or their combination. Rats treated
with drug vehicles served as a control. Before starting the treatment, rats were
trained to gavage administration for three days, during which they received drugs
vehicle (distilled water). Pioglitazone and levetiracetam were given twice, at 12
hours and 1 hour before access to ethanol. Drinking experiments started at the
beginning of the dark cycle. Alcohol, water and food intakes were monitored at 2, 8
and 24 hours after ethanol was made available.
                Analysis of variance revealed a significant overall effect of treatment
[F(3,29)= 3.76 p<0.05] on alcohol intake. As shown in Figure 17, post-hoc tests
demonstrated that a low dose of pioglitazone alone or levetiracetam alone did not
                                             80

     WO 2008/128126                                                      PCT/US2008/06014 6
  significantly modify ethanol intake in msP rats. Conversely, co-administration of the
  two agents resulted in a marked inhibition of ethanol consumption at 2 hours
  (p<0.01), as well as at 8 and 24 hours (p<0.05). These data suggest that co
  administration of the two drugs exerts synergistic inhibitory actions on ethanol
 drinking.
                 Food and water consumption was not modified by drug administration
 (data not shown).
                                         EXAMPLE 18
    EFFECT OF ACUTE PIOGLITAZONE PLUS GABAPENTIN ADMINISTRATION ON VOLUNTARY
                                        ETHANOL INTAKE
                 The effect of the co-administration of pioglitazone and gabapentin on
 alcohol consumption was studied to demonstrate that co-treatment with PPARy
 agonists and this antiepileptic has synergistic effects on ethanol intake inhibition.
 For this purpose, a low dose of gabapentin (60.0 mg/kg, OS) that did not reduce
 ethanol intake in msP rats in a pilot study was used. Also a pioglitazone dose (10
 mg/kg, OS) was chosen, such that it did not significantly affect alcohol intake per se.
                 MsP rats were first trained to drink 10% (w/v) alcohol for 24 hours a
 day (free choice between water and ethanol). Once stable ethanol drinking baseline
was reached (6-8 g/kg/day), in a between subject design, msP rats (n= 36) were
tested for the effect of pioglitazone, gabapentin or their combination. Rats treated
with drug vehicles served as a control. Before starting the treatment, rats were
trained to gavage administration for three days, during which they received drugs
vehicle (distilled water). Pioglitazone and topiraate were given twice, at 12 hours
and 1 hour before access to ethanol. Drinking experiments started at the beginning
of the dark cycle. Alcohol, water and food intakes were monitored at 2, 8 and 24
hours after ethanol was made available.
                Analysis of variance revealed a significant overall effect of treatment
[F(3,7)= 3.31 p<0.05] on alcohol intake. As shown in Figure 18, post-hoc tests
demonstrated that a low dose of pioglitazone alone or gabapentin alone did not
                                              81

                                                                                          6
       WO 2008/128126                                                    PCT/US2008/06014
   significantly modify ethanol intake in msP rats. Conversely, co-administration of the
   two agents resulted in a marked inhibition of ethanol consumption at 2 and 8 hours
   (p<0.05). These data suggest that co-administration of the two drugs exerts
   synergistic inhibitory actions on ethanol drinking.
                  A nonsignificant trend to an increase of food intake was observed
  following drug treatments (data not shown). Water consumption was very low and
  was not modified by drug administration (data not shown).
                                         EXAMPLE 19
    EFFECT OF ACUTE PIOGLITAZONE PLUS ONDANSETRON ADMINISTRATION ON VOLUNTARY
                                        ETHANOL INTAKE
                  The effect of the co-administration of pioglitazone and ondansetron on
  alcohol consumption was studied to demonstrate that co-treatment with PPARy
  agonists and this serotonin-3 (5-HT3) receptor selective antagonist have synergistic
  effects on ethanol intake inhibition. For this purpose, a low dose of ondansetron (1.0
  mg/kg, IP) that did not reduce ethanol intake in msP rats in a pilot study was used.
 Also, a pioglitazone dose (10 mg/kg, OS) was chosen, such that it did not
 significantly affect alcohol intake per se.
                 MsP rats were first trained to drink 10% (w/v) alcohol for 24 hours a
 day (free choice between water and ethanol). Once stable ethanol drinking baseline
 was reached (6-8 g/kg/day), in a between subject design, msP rats (n= 36) were
 tested for the effect of pioglitazone, ondansetron, or their combination. Rats treated
with drug vehicles served as a control. Before starting the treatment, rats were
trained to gavage administration for three days, during which they received drugs
vehicle (distilled water). Pioglitazone and ondansetron were given twice, at 12 hours
 and 1 hour before access to ethanol. Drinking experiments started at the beginning
of the dark cycle. Alcohol, water and food intakes were monitored at 2, 8 and 24
 hours after ethanol was made available.
                 Analysis of variance revealed a nonsignificant overall effect of
treatment [F(3,32)= 2.73 p<0.05], but a significant treatment time interaction on
                                             82

                                                                                         6
     WO 2008/128126                                                     PCT/US2008/06014
  alcohol intake was observed [F(6,64)= 2.29 p<0.0.5]. As shown in Figure 19, post
  hoc tests demonstrated that a low dose of pioglitazone alone or ondansetron alone
  did not significantly modify ethanol intake in msP rats. However, co-administration of
 the two agents resulted in a marked inhibition of ethanol consumption at 24 hours
  (p<0.05). Water and food consumption was very low and was not modified by drug
  administration (data not shown). These data suggest that co-administration of the
 two drugs exerts synergistic inhibitory actions on ethanol drinking.
                                         EXAMPLE 20
    EFFECT OF ACUTE PIOGLITAZONE PLUS ANTALARMIN ADMINISTRATION ON VOLUNTARY
                                        ETHANOL INTAKE
                 The effect of the co-administration of pioglitazone and antalarmin on
 alcohol consumption was studied to demonstrate that co-treatment with PPARy
 agonists and this corticotrophin releasing factor CRF1 receptor selective antagonist
 has synergistic effects on ethanol intake inhibition. For this purpose, a low dose of
 antalarmin (15.0 mg/kg, IP) that modestly reduced ethanol intake in msP rats in a
 pilot study was used. Also, a pioglitazone dose (10 mg/kg, OS) was chosen, such
that it did not significantly affect alcohol intake per se.
                 MsP rats were first trained to drink 10% (w/v) alcohol for 24 hours a
day (free choice between water and ethanol). Once stable ethanol drinking baseline
was reached (6-8 g/kg/day), in a between subject design, msP rats (n= 32) were
tested for the effect of pioglitazone, antalarmin or their combination. Rats treated
with drug vehicles served as a control. Before starting the treatment, rats were
trained to gavage administration for three days during which they received drugs
vehicle (distilled water). Pioglitazone and antalarmin were given twice, at 12 hours
and 1 hour before access to ethanol. Drinking experiments started at the beginning
of the dark cycle. Alcohol, water and food intakes were monitored at 2, 8 and 24
hours after ethanol was made available.
                Analysis of variance revealed a significant overall effect of treatment
[F(3,28)= 3.29 p<0.05] on alcohol intake. As shown in Figure 20, post-hoc tests
                                              83

                                                                                         6
      WO 2008/128126                                                    PCT/US2008/06014
  demonstrated that a low dose of pioglitazone alone or antalarmin alone did not
  significantly modify ethanol intake in msP rats. However, co-administration of the
 two agents resulted in a marked inhibition of ethanol consumption at 8 (p<0.01) and
 24 hours (p<0.05); a significant reduction of ethanol intake at 8 hours was also
 reported for antalarmin alone (p<0.05). These data suggest that co-administration of
 the two drugs exerts synergistic inhibitory actions on ethanol drinking.
                 Water and food consumption was not modified by drug administration
 (data not shown).
                                         EXAMPLE 21
            EFFECT OF PIOGLITAZONE ADMINISTRATION ON ALCOHOL WITHDRAWAL
                 The effect of pioglitazone administration on alcohol withdrawal was
 determined in rats. Male Wistar rats were subjected to a six days of intermittent
 alcohol intoxication. During the dark phase, rats received 4 oral administration of
 2.5-3.0 g/kg of 20% ethanol. The first ethanol dose was given at the beginning of the
 dark phase. The other 3 daily doses were administered at intervals of 3 hours. Rats
were not injected during the light phase of the light/dark cycle. Targeted blood
alcohol levels were 250-300 mg/dl. After 6 days of this treatment, rats undergo to
spontaneous withdrawal, which generally appears between 8 and 14 hours after the
last ethanol injection. Pioglitazone (0.0, 10 and 30 mg/kg) was administered twice,
12 hours and 1 hour before rating withdrawal symptoms. Behavioural signs of
withdrawal included: (1) presence of the ventromedial distal flexion response; (2) tail
stiffness/rigidity; and (3) tremors (Schulteis et al.1995). Each sign was rated during
a 3-5 min observation period on a scale of 0-2 (Macey et al., 1996; Schulteis, et al.,
1995). All signs were cumulated to yield an overall withdrawal severity score.
                Twelve hours after the last ethanol administration, animals treated with
pioglitazone vehicle showed marked withdrawal symptoms. The analysis of variance
showed an overall effect of pioglitazone treatment that reduced tail rigidity [F(4,25)=
11.98 p<0.001] (Figure 21). Post hoc tests revealed that alcohol withdrawal signs
were significantly reduced after administration of both 10 mg/kg and 30 mg/kg of
                                             84

      WO 2008/128126                                                         PCT/US2008/060146
  pioglitazone, with a highly significant effect of tail rigidity (p<0.01), tremors (p<0.01),
  and ventromedial limb retraction (p<0.01). Interestingly, while measuring withdrawal
  score, two out of the 7 animals of vehicle treated groups showed convulsion.
  Conversely, none of the 12 rats treated with pioglitazone showed seizures. These
  data suggest that pioglitazone not only helps to reduce ethanol drinking (see
  previous experiments), but it also possesses the ability to reduce or control alcohol
 withdrawal syndrome and related symptoms, including seizures.
                                        EXAMPLE 22
                  EFFECT OF PIOGLITAZONE ON ALCOHOL ABUSE IN HUMANS
                An observational study of human patients using pioaglitazone (Actos@)
 for the treatment of diabetes was performed to demonstrate that PPARy agonists,
 alone or in combination with opioid antagonists, are effective in reducing ethanol
 abuse.
                A total of 12 patients were enrolled in the study. 4 patients (2 male and
 2 female) received only psychotherapy (Control; CRT); 4 patients (male) received
 naltrexone 50 mg/day (NTX) + psychotherapy; and 4 patients (3 male and 1 female)
received pioglitazone 30 mg/day (Actos@; ACT) + psychotherapy. The patients'
ages ranged from 25 to 45 years old. All patients had previous unsuccessful
experiences of alcohol detoxification. No major psychiatric co-morbidity was
identified. Patient treated with Actos@ were all diagnosed with diabetes.
               Patients were scored at Timepoint 0 (immediately before beginning the
treatment) for various psychological indicators. Anxiety was determined using the
S.T.A.I. Y-1 Questioner; obsession for alcohol was determined using the Obsessive
Compulsive Drinking Scale questioner; and depression was determined using the
M.A.D.R.S 10 Item questioner. Daily and weekly ethanol consumption was also
scored. Patients were also tested one a week for anxiety, depression, and
obsession to drink.
               In addition, patients' blood samples were taken at Timepoint 0 and
after four weeks (T1) and 12 weeks (T2) of treatment. Hematological parameters
                                             85

                                                                                             6
      WO 2008/128126                                                        PCT/US2008/06014
  measured included: mean corpuscular volume (MCV); gamma-GT; aspartate
  aminotransferase (AST); alanine aminotransferase (ALT); and carbohydrate-deficient
  transferring (CDT). MCV and CDT are biomarkers for ethanol consumption, and
  GGT, ALT and AST are biomarkers for hepatic functionality.
                  Data were analyzed by analysis of variance followed by Newman-Keuls
  post hoc tests when appropriate.
                  Results demonstrated a rapid normalization of all blood parameters in
  patients treated with pioglitazone (ACT), as shown in Table 2.
 Table 2: Mean value of blood tests
          TO                             T1= 4 weeks                   T2= 8 weeks
          ACT         NTX       CTR      ACT      NTX        CTR       ACT      NTX     CTR
 MCV      102.26      101.96    102.78   99.82    101.96     103.26    91.37   97.96    104.87
 GGT      192.21      167.38    173.58   86.7     91.35      181.67    38.26   42.9     179.47
 ALT      51.6        62.7     58.7      45.6     52.8       52        24.9    41.8     55.9
 AST      69.2       49.3      82.1      51.9     41.5       78.4      29.3    38.3     77
 CDT      3.2        3.6       3.8       2.9      3.0        3.7       2.1     2.5      3.1
 The decrease of MCV and CDT indicated that patients' ethanol drinking
 progressively decreased over the two-months of drug treatment. The decrease in
 GGT, ALT and AST reflected normalisation of hepatic function. In naltrexone treated
 patients (NTX), a decrease in MCV and CDT was also observed, but to a lesser
 extent compared to the pioglitazone group. Hepatic parameters were also
ameliorated by naltrexone, but again the effect of pioglitazone was more
 pronounced. The Control group that received only psychotherapy did not show any
improvement during the 2-month treatment.
                 Statistical analysis revealed an overall effect of treatment for all blood
parameters measured (MCV, [F(2,9)= 89.7 P<0.0001]; GGT; [F(2,9)= 5328
P<0.0001]; ALT [F(2,9)= 52.57 P<0.0001]; AST [F(2,9)= 771 P<0.0001]; CDT
[F(2,9)= 26.54 P<0.0001]). Post hoc tests revealed that for all the five biomarkers a
statistical difference (P<0.001) exists between controls (psychotherapy alone) and
patients treated with naltrexone (P<0.001) or with poglitazone (P<0.001).
                                              86

     WO 2008/128126                                                    PCT/US2008/0601 4 6
  Pioglitazone was more effective than naltrexone in reducing the values of MCV
  (P<0.001), GGT (P<0.001) and ALT (p<0.001). No significant difference between
  naltrexone and pioglitazone were detected for CDT and AST.
                 Results also showed a progressive decrease in anxiety score during
 treatment. Pioglitazone showed the highest effect, as shown in Table 3. In control
 patients, (psychotherapy alone) anxiety did not diminish during treatment.
 Table 3: Anxiety Score obtained using The STAY-Y1 scale (mean score values)
         ACT        NTX        CTR
 T=0     59         61         63
 T=1.1   58         61         64
 T=1.2   55         59         62
 T=1.3   54         53         69
 T=1.4   56         52         65
         ACT        NTX        CTR
 T=2.1   49         51         61
T=2.2    47         53         63
T=2.3    43         52         67
T=2.4    40         51         64
T=0 corresponds to the beginning of the treatment; T=1.1 corresponds to month 1,
week 1; T=1.2 corresponds to month 1, week 2, etc.
                The analysis of variance revealed an overall effect of treatment
([F(2,9)= 142.86 P<0.0001]). Post hoc tests revealed statistically significant
difference between controls and patients treated with naltrexone (P<0.001) or with
poglitazone (P<0.001). Pioglitazone was more effective than naltrexone, and a
significant difference between pioglitazone and naltrexone was also observed
(p<0.001)
                Results also showed a progressive decrease in obsessive compulsive
score for alcohol. The effect was extremely robust for pioglitazone. As shown in
Table 4. In control patients, OCDS remained at pre-treatment level.
                                           87

                                                                                         6
      WO 2008/128126                                                    PCT/US2008/06014
  Table 4: Obsessive compulsive drinking scale (OCDS) (mean score values)
          ACT        NTX        CTR
  T=0 50             49         52
  T=1. 45            47         49
  1
  T=1. 37           45          48
  2
  T=1. 36           41          49
  3
  T=1. 34           40          47
  4
         ACT        NTX         CTR
  T=2.   31         41          47
  1
 T=2.    29         43         49
 2
 T=2.    28         42         50
 3
 T=2.    28         44         51
 4                            1
 T=O corresponds to the beginning of the treatment; T=1.1 corresponds to month 1,
 week 1; T=1.2 corresponds to month 1, week 2, etc.
                 The analysis of variance revealed an overall effect of treatment
 ([F(2,9)= 329.27 P<0.0001]). Post hoc tests revealed statistically significant
 difference between controls and patients treated with naltrexone (P<0.001) or with
 poglitazone (P<0.001). Pioglitazone was more effective than naltrexone, and a
 significant difference between pioglitazone and naltrexone was also observed
(p<0.001).
                 The initial Score in the MADRS scale indicated that this patient
population did not have severe co-morbid depression. During treatment with
pioglitazone, the depression score decreased starting from the second week of
treatment, as shown in Table 5. At week 3, it reached the plateau. However, a floor
effect might have contributed to rapid plateau.
                                             88

      WO 2008/128126                                                    PCT/US2008/060146
  Table 5: Depression Scale M.A.D.R.S (mean score values)
          ACT        NTX     CTR
  T=O     21         19      20
  T=1.     15        16      18
  T=1.    13         18      19
  2
  T=1.    10         16      17
  3
  T=1.    11        17       19
  4
          ACT       NTX      CTR
  T=2.    12        17      21
  1     |
  T=2.    13        15      19
  2
  T=2.    10        18      19
 T=2. 12            19
 4
 T=O corresponds to the beginning of the treatment; T=1.1 corresponds to month 1,
 week 1; T=1.2 corresponds to month 1, week 2, etc.
                The analysis of variance revealed an overall effect of treatment
 ([F(2,9)= 42.12 P<0.0001]). Post hoc tests revealed statistically significant difference
 between controls and patients treated with pioglitazone (P<0.001) but not naltrexone.
 Pioglitazone was significantly different also from naltrexone (p<0.001)
                In summary, the blood parameters determined during the course of this
study indicated normalization of different alcohol drinking related markers in patients
treated with pioglitazone or naltrexone. The effect was more robust with
pioglitazone. Patients under psychotherapy alone did not show improvements
during treatment. This indicates that the difference between Controls and Drug
treated patients depended upon the pharmacological intervention.
                High comorbidity exists between alcohol abuse, anxiety and
depression. The symptoms of these mood-related disorders tend to exacerbate
during early alcohol detoxification phase, thus contributing to reduced patients
compliance. In this respect, it is highly relevant that pioglitazone reduces anxiety and
depressive symptoms in alcoholic patients. This could also explain why after two
                                             89

       WO 2008/128126                                                    PCT/US2008/060146
   months of drug administration, all 4 patients under pioglitazone were still in
   treatment, whereas 2 patients of the control group and 1 of the naltrexone the group
   dropped out. It is also highly relevant that pioglitazone consistently reduced OCDS
   score. Obsession for alcohol and the urge to drink (which are measured by OCDS
   scale) are the major predictors of relapse. These data indicate, therefore, that
  pioglitazone has anti-relapse properties.
                   The absence of a placebo treatment in the control (psychotherapy
  alone) group may have contributed to the high efficacy of drug treatments, since the
  effect of naltrexone was higher that that normally reported in controlled randomized
  clinical trials. However, placebo effect cannot account for the difference between
  pioglitazone and naltrexone efficacy. In fact, in this case, both groups of patients
  received pharmacological medications in association with psychotherapy. Based on
 this consideration, while it cannot be ruled out that the effect of pioglitazone could
 have been over estimated to some extent in these studies, it is evident that this drug
 has a significant efficacy in controlling alcohol abuse, and its effect may be superior
 to naltrexone.
                                          EXAMPLE 23
                  EFFECT OF PIOGLITAZONE ON COCAINE SELF-ADMINISTRATION
                  The ability of pioglitazone to reduce cocaine use was demonstrated in
 a rat model of cocaine addiction. Cocaine hydrochloride (obtained from the National
 Institute on Drug Abuse, Bethesda, MD) was dissolved in sterile physiological saline
 at a concentration of 0.25 mg/0.1 ml. Drug or vehicle solution was infused at a
volume of 0.1 ml over 4 s. Pioglitazone obtained from a commercial source was
suspendend in distilled water, and the resulting suspension was maintained under
constant agitation until administration. Pioglitazone was given orally (OS) via
gavage procedure 12 hours and 1 hour before the beginning of cocaine self
administration.
                  Male Wistar rats weighing between 180 and 200 g at the time of arrival
in the lab were used. The rats were housed in groups of three in a humidity- and
                                               90

      WO 2008/128126                                                    PCT/US2008/06014 6
  temperature-controlled (220 C) vivarium on a 12 h: 12 h reverse light/dark cycle (on,
   17:00; off, 05:00) with ad libitum access to food and water. One week after arrival,
  rats were subjected to surgery, and a silastic catheter was implanted into the right
  jugular vein.
                  Rats (n=6) were trained to self-administer cocaine in 2-h daily sessions
  on a fixed-ratio 5 schedule of reinforcement, in which each response resulted in
  delivery of 0.25 mg/0.1 ml of fluid cocaine solution. Cocaine self-administration
 training continued until a stable baseline of responding was reached (less than 10%
 variation for 3 consecutive days calculated for each single rat). At this point, drug
 testing begun.
                 In a within subject counterbalance order (Latin square design), rats
 were treated with pioglitazone (0.0, 10.0 or 30.0 mg/kg) given OS 12 hours and 1
 hour before the beginning of the self-administration session. The number of
 responses to the active and inactive levers was recorded. A 3-day interval was
 allowed between drug testing. During these intervals, cocaine self-administration
 was continued to re-establish baseline lever responses.
                 The effect of pioglitazone administration on cocaine self-administration
was evaluated by mean of a one-way within factor ANOVA followed by Newman
Keuls post hoc test.
                 Treatment with pioglitazone significantly reduced cocaine self
administration [F(2,5)=13.189 p<0.01]. Post hoc tests revealed a significant (p<0.01)
reduction of cocaine self-administration at both 10.0 and 30.0 mg/kg of pioglitazone
(Figure 22A). Responses at the left inactive lever were very low and were not
modified by pioglitazone treatment (Figure 22B).
                                        EXAMPLE 24
                         EFFECT OF PIOGLITAZONE ON    NICOTINE USE
                The ability of PPARy agonists and antidepressent to reduce nicotine
use was demonstrated in an animal model of nicotine addiction.
                                             91

     WO 2008/128126                                                     PCT/US2008/06014 6
                 Bupropion hydrochloride (Sigma, Milan, Italy) was dissolved in saline.
  Nicotine tartrate (Sigma, Milan, Italy) was dissolved in isotonic saline at a
  concentration of 0.03 mg/0.1 ml free base. The pH of the nicotine solution was
  adjusted to 7 with dilute NaOH. Drug or vehicle solution was infused at a volume of
  0.1 ml over 4 s. Pioglitazone was obtained from commercial source; it was
  suspendend in distilled water, and the resulting suspension was maintained under
  constant agitation until administration. Pioglitazone was given orally (OS) via
  gavage procedure at 12 hours and 1 hour before the beginning of nicotine self
 administration.
                 Male Wistar rats weighing between 180 and 200 g at the time of arrival
 in the lab were used. The rats were housed in groups of three in a humidity- and
 temperature-controlled (220 C) vivarium on a 12 h:12 h reverse light/dark cycle (on,
  17:00; off, 05:00) with ad libitum access to food and water. One week after arrival,
 the rats were subjected to surgery, and a silastic catheter was implanted into the
 right jugular vein.
                Rats (n=9) were trained for one week to self-administer cocaine in 2-h
 daily sessions on a fixed-ratio 5 schedule of reinforcement, in which each five
 response resulted in delivery of 0.25 mg/0.1 ml of fluid cocaine solution. After the
successful completion of cocaine training, rats were allowed to self-administer
nicotine at the 0.03 mg/kg/infusion dose by switching the delivery of cocaine for the
delivery of a nicotine infusion. Nicotine self-administration training continued until
stable baseline of responding was established (less than 20% variation for 3
consecutive days calculated for each single rat). At this point, drug testing began.
                In a within subject counterbalance order (Latin square design), rats
were treated with pioglitazone (0.0 and 30.0 mg/kg) given OS 12 hours and 1 hour
before the beginning of the self-administration session. The number of responses to
the active and inactive levers was recorded. A 3-day interval was allowed between
drug testing. During these intervals, nicotine self-administration was continued to re
establish lever responses baseline.
                                            92

      WO 2008/128126                                                      PCT/US2008/060146
                   The effect of pioglitazone administration on nicotine self-administration
   was evaluated by mean of a paired t-test. Statistical significance was set at P<0.05
                  After a few training days, Wistar rats acquired robust operant
   responding for nicotine. As shown in Fig 23A, treatment with 30 mg/kg pioglitazone
   significantly reduced nicotine self-administration [tdf8=-2,70 p<0.051. Responses at
  the left inactive lever was very low and were not modified by pioglitazone treatment
  (Fig.23B). These results demonstrate that PPARy agonists are effective in reducing
   nicotine use.
                                          EXAMPLE 25
       EFFECT OF PIOGLITAZONE AND SELECTED THERAPEUTIC AGENTS ON NICOTINE USE
                  The ability of PPARy agonists in combination with other therapeutic
  agents, such as bupropion, nicotine replacement formulations, naltrexone,
  varenicicline, and CB1 receptor antagonist/inverse agonists, e.g., rimonabant,
  rosonabant, taranabant, and CP-945598, to synergistically reduce nicotine use is
 determined in a rat model of nicotine addiction.
                  Experiments are conducted using operant self-administration
 paradigms, essentially as described in Example 23 (see also Bruijnzeel and Markou,
 2003; Rauhut et al 2003). Briefly, male Wistar rats are implanted with a permanent
 silastic catheter into the right jugular vein for intravenous nicotine self-adminisration
 (0.03 mg/infusion). Using operant self-administration chambers, rats are trained to
 self-infuse nicotine under a fixed ratio 5 schedule of reinforcement (five lever presses
to obtain one nicotine infusion). Nicotine self-administration training is continued
 until stable baseline of responding is established. At this point, drug testing is
begun.
                 In a within subject counterbalance order (Latin square design), rats are
treated with pioglitazone (predicted dose range 5-30.0 mg/kg) or with other PPRy
agonists in combination with bupropion, nicotine (replacement formulations; i.e.,
nicotine patches), naltrexone, varenicicline, or rimonabant. To evaluate synergism
between PPRAy agonists and these latter drugs, the lowest effective dose for each
                                              93

      WO 2008/128126                                                   PCT/US2008/0601 46
  of the compounds is tested in association with the PPARy agonist. A dose range for
  bupropion is 10-100 mg/given OS; a dose range for naltrexone is 0.25-2.5 mg/kg
 given IP; a dose range for varenicline is 0.25-2.5 mg/kg given IP; and a dose range
 for rimonabant is (0.1-3.0 mg/kg given IP) (Bruijnzeel and Markou, 2003; Rauhut et
 al. 2003; Steensland P et al. 2007; Cohen et al. 2005). The number of responses to
 the active and inactive leversis recorded. A 3-day interval is allowed between drug
 testing. During these intervals, nicotine self-administration is continued to re
 establish lever responses baseline.
                Data is analyzed by analysis of variance followed by post-hoc tests
 (Newman-Keuls or Dunnets) where appropriate. Statistical significance is set at P <
 0.05. It is expected that these experiments will demonstrate that the combination of
 a PPARy agonist and any of the listed drugs will act synergistinically in reducing
 nicotine self-administration, thereby demonstrating the efficacy of using PPARy and
 any of these drugs to treat addiction.
                                       EXAMPLE 26
     EFFECT OF PIOGLITAZONE AND ANTIDEPRESSANTS OR OPIOID AGONOST/ANTAGONIST
                             PARTIAL AGONISTS ON COCAINE USE
                The ability of PPARy agonists in combination with anidepressants,
bupropion, fluoxetine, or the opioid parial agonist agonist/antagonist, buprenorphine,
to synergistically reduce cocaine use is determined in a rat model of cocaine
addiction.
                Experiments are conducted using operant self-administration
paradigms as described in Example 23 (see also Glatz et al. 2002; Peltier et al.
1993). Briefly, male Wistar rats are implanted with a permanent silastic catheter into
the right jugular vein for intravenous cocaine self-administration (0.25 mg/infusion).
Using operant self-administration chambers, rats are trained to self-infuse cocaine
under a fixed ratio 5 schedule of reinforcement (five lever presses to obtain one
cocaine infusion). Cocaine self-administration training is continued until stable
baseline of responding is established. At this point, drug testing is begun.
                                           94

     WO 2008/128126                                                    PCT/US2008/0601 4 6
                 In a within subject counterbalance order (Latin square design), rats are
 treated with pioglitazone (predicted dose range 5-30.0 mg/kg) or with another PPRy
 agonist in combination with bupropion, fluoxetine, or buprenorphine. To evaluate
 synergism between PPRAY agonists and these latter drugs, the lowest effective dose
 for each of the compound is tested in association. A dose range for bupropion is
 10.0-100.0 mg/kg given OS; a dose range for fluoxetine is 3.0-15.0 mg/kg given OS;
 and a dose range for buprenorphine is 0.1-5.0 mg/kg given IP (Glatz et al. 2002;
 Peltier et al. 1993; Sorge et al. 2005). The number of responses to the active and
 inactive levers are recorded. A 3-day interval is allowed between drug testing.
 During these intervals, nicotine self-administration is continued to re-establish lever
 responses baseline.
                 Data is analyzed by analysis of variance followed by post-hoc tests
(Newman-Keuls or Dunnets) where appropriate. Statistical significance is set at P <
0.05. It is expected that these experiments will demonstrate that the combination of
a PPARY agonist and any of the listed drugs will act synergistinically in reducing
cocaine self-administration, thereby demonstrating the efficacy of using PPARy and
any of these drugs to treat addiction.
                                       EXAMPLE 27
             EFFECT OF PIOGLITAZONE ON DEVELOPMENT OF OPIATE ADDICTION
                The ability of PPARY agonists to reduce opiate use and prevent opiate
addiction is determined in a rat model of opiate addiction.
                Experiments are conducted using a conditioned place preference
apparatus and a well established procedure to study morphine induced conditioned
place preference (Ciccocioppo et al. 2000). Briefly, using a two-chamber place
conditioning apparatus, male Wistar rats are trained to associate morphine effects to
one side of the box and saline to the other side. Multiple groups of rats are used,
and the experiment is conducted in a between subject design. A nimals are
pretreated with pioglitazone vehicle before the injection of morphine vehicle. Control
group receive morphine and pioglitazone vehicles in both compartments.
                                            95

      WO 2008/128126                                                     PCT/US2008/0601 4 6
                 The rats are conditioned during a conditioning phase of six days.
   Every other day, for three times, rats receive subcutaneous injections of 3 mg/kg of
   morphine or its vehicle. Pioglitazone (5.0-30.0 mg/kg) is injected one hour before
  morphine. During conditioning, the guillotine door remains closed, and the rats are
  confined for 1 h in one compartment of the box, The day following the last
  conditioning session, rats are allowed to explore the entire box for 15 min, and the
  time spent in each compartment is measured.
                 Place preference score (referred to as A time) for each rat is obtained
  by subtracting the time spent in the compartment associated with morphine vehicle
 to the time spent in the compartment associated to morphine injections. The A time
 values are submitted to statistical analysis. Data is analyzed by analysis of variance
 followed by post-hoc tests (Newman-Keuls or Dunnets) where appropriate.
 Statistical significance is set at P < 0.05.
                It is predicted that morphine will elicit a marked conditioned place
 preference, and treatment with pioglitazone will reduce the acquisition of morphine
 induced place conditioning (see for review; Sanchis-Segura and Spanagel 2006)
 These results will demonstrate the ability of PPARy agonists to prevent the
 development of addiction to opioids and more specifically to morphine.
                The various embodiments described above can be combined to
 provide further embodiments. All of the U.S. patents, U.S. patent application
publications, U.S. patent applications, foreign patents, foreign patent applications
and non-patent publications referred to in this specification and/or listed in the
Application Data Sheet, are incorporated herein by reference, in their entirety.
Aspects of the embodiments can be modified, if necessary to employ concepts of the
various patents, applications and publications to provide yet further embodiments.
                These and other changes can be made to the embodiments in light of
the above-detailed description. In general, in the following claims, the terms used
should not be construed to limit the claims to the specific embodiments disclosed in
the specification and the claims, but should be construed to include all possible
                                             96

   H:\fmt\Intenvoven\NRPortbl\DCCFMl2686475_I.do-22/03/2013
   embodiments along with the full scope of equivalents to which such claims are
   entitled. Accordingly, the claims are not limited by the disclosure.
   Throughout this specification and the claims which follow, unless the context
 5 requires otherwise, the word "comprise", and variations such as "comprises" and
   "comprising", will be understood to imply the inclusion of a stated integer or step or
   group of integers or steps but not the exclusion of any other integer or step or
   group of integers or steps.
10 The reference in this specification to any prior publication (or information derived
   from it), or to any matter which is known, is not, and should not be taken as an
   acknowledgment or admission or any form of suggestion that that prior publication
   (or information derived from it) or known matter forms part of the common general
   knowledge in the field of endeavour to which this specification relates.
15
                                                            - 97 -

   WO 2008/128126                                                      PCT/US2008/060146
References Cited:
  Ahmed, S. H. and Koob, G. F., Cocaine- but not food-seeking behaviour is
        reinstated by stress after extinction, Psychopharmacology, 132, 289, 1997.
  Ang E,, Chen J,, Zagouras P,, Magna H,, Holland J,, Schaeffer E, et al. (2001).
        Induction of nuclear factor-kappaB in nucleus accumbens by chronic cocaine
        administration.J. Neurochem. 79:221-224.
 Asanuma M., Cadet J. L. (1998) .Methamphetamine -induced increase in striatal
       NF-kappaB       DNA-binding       activity is attenuated          in   superoxide
       dismutasetrangenic mice. Brain Res Mol Brain Res 60:305-30, 9.
 Barroso, I., Gurnell, M., Crowley, V.E. Agostani, M., Schwabe, J. W., Soos, M. A.,
       Maslen, G. L., Williams, T. D. Lewis, H., Schafer, A. J., et al., Dominant
       negative mutations in human PPARgamma associated with severe insulin
       resistance, diabetes mellitus and hypertension. Nature. I 999;402:880-3.
 Blanchard, R. J., Hori, K., Tom, P., and Blanchard, C., Social structure and ethanol
       consumption in laboratory rats, Pharmacol. Biochem. Behav., 28, 437,1987.
 Bowers M. S., Kalivas P. W. (2003). Forebrain astroglial plasticity is induced
      following withdrawal from repeated cocaine administration. Eur J Neurosci
       17:1273-1278.
 Breidert T., Callebert J., Heneka M. T., Landreth G. E., Launary J. M., Hirsch E. C.:
      Protectiv action of the peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor gamma
      agonist pioglitazone in a mouse model of Parkinson's disease.J Neurochem
      2002;82:615-624
 Brown S. A., Vik P. W. , Patterson T. L., et al. Stress, vulnerability and adult alcohol
      relapse. J Studies Alcohol 1995;56:538.
Bruijnzeel A. W., Markou A. Characterization of the effects of bupropion on the
      reinforcing properties of nicotine and food in rats. Synapse. 2003;50: 20-8.
Bucther, S. P., Hensshall, D. C., Teramura, Y , Iwasaki, K., Sharkey, J., 1997.
      Neuroprotetive actions of FK501 in experimentala stroke: in vivo evidence
      against an antiexcitotoxic mechanism.J Neurosci. 17, 6939-694.
Burstein S. PPAR-gamma: a nuclear receptor with affinity for cannabinoids. Life
      Sci. 2005;77:1674-84.
Cernuda-Morollon, E, Rodriguez-Pascual, F., Klatt, lamas, Perez-Sala, D.,2002.
      PPAR agonists amplify iNOS expression while inhibiting NF-kappaB:
     implications for mesangial cell activation by cytokines. J. Am. Soc. Nephrol.
      13,2223-2231.
Childress, A. R., Ehrman, R. N., McLellan, A. T., and O'Brien, C. P., Conditioned
     craving and arousal in cocaine addiction: A preliminary report, in NIDA
     Research Monograph 81, US Government Printing Office, Washington, DC,
     1988, 74.
Chinetti G, Fruchart J. C., Staels B. (2000). Peroxisome proliferator-activated
     receptors (PPARs): nuclear receptors at the crossroads between lipid
     methabolism and inflammation./nflamm Res 49: 497-505.
Ciccocioppo R., Angeletti S., Sanna P. P., Weiss F., Massi M. Effect of
     nociceptin/orphanin FQ on the rewarding properties of morphine. Eur J
     Pharmacol. 2000;404: 153-9.
                                           98

   WO 2008/128126                                                     PCT/US2008/060146
 Ciccocioppo R., Katner S. N., Weiss F. Relapse induced by alcohol-associated
         enviromental stimuli after extinction in rats. Alcohol Clin Exp Res 1999
         c;23(Suppl):52A.
 Ciccocioppo R., Panocka ., Polidori C., Regoli D., Massi M. Effect of nociceptin on
         alcohol intake in alcohol-preferring rats. Psychopharmacology 1999
         a;141:220-4.
 Ciccocioppo R., Sanna P.P., Weiss F. Cocaine-predictive stimulus induces drug
        seeking behaviour and neural activation in limbic brain regions after multiple
        months of abstinence: reversal by D(1) antagonists. Proc Nat/ Acad Sci U S A
        2001-b;98(4):1976-81.
 Cohen C., Perrault G., Griebel G., Soubri6 P. Nicotine-associated cues maintain
        nicotine-seeking behavior in rats several weeks after nicotine withdrawal:
        reversal by the cannabinoid (CB1) receptor antagonist, rimonabant
        (SRI 41716). Neuropsychopharmacology. 2005; 30:145-55.
 Crews F., Nixon K., Kim D., Joseph J., Shukitt-Hale B., Qin L., Zou J. 2006. BHT
        blocks NF-kappaB activation and ethanol-induced brain damage. Alcohol Clin
        Exp Res. 30:1938-49.
 Cristiano L., Cimini A., Moreno S., Ragnelli A.M., Paola Ceru M. (2005).
        Peroxisome proliferator-activated receptors (PPARs) and related transcription
       factors in differentiating astrocyte cultures. Neuroscience 131: 577-587.
Crosby M. B., Zhang J., Nowing T. M, Svenson J. L., Nicol C. J., Gonzalez F. J. et
       al. (2006). Inflammatory modulation of PPAR gamma expression and activity.
       Clin Immunol 118:276-283 [E-pub 2005 November 2021].
De Souza E. B. Corticotropin-releasing factor receptors: physiology, pharmacology,
       biochemistry and role in central nervous system and immune disorders.
       Psychoneuroendocrinology 1995;20(8):789-819.
Deeb, S., Fajas, L., Nemoto, M., Laakso, M., Fujimoto, W. & Auwerk, J., (1998) Nat
       Genet. 20, 284-287.
Di Chiara G., Imperato A. Drugs abused by humans preferentially increase
      synaptic dopamine concentrations in the mesolimbic system of freely moving
      rats. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 1988;85(14):5274-8.
Dunn, A. J. and Berridge, C. W., Physiological and behavioural responses to
      corticotropin-releasing factor administration: is CRF a mediator of anxiety or
      stress responses?, Brain Res Brain Res Rev, 15, 71, 1990.
Ehrman, R. N., Robbins, S. J., Childress, A. R., and O'Brien, C. P., Conditioned
      responses to cocaine-related stimuli in cocaine abuse patients,
      Psychopharmacology, 107, 523, 1992.
Erb Suzanne, Shaham Yavin, Stewart Jane. The Role of Corticotropin-Releasing
      Factor and Corticosterone in Stress- and Cocaine-Induced Relapse to
      Cocaine Seeking in Rats. J Neurosci 1998;18(14):5529-3
Feinstein D. L. (2003). Therapeutic potential of peroxisome proliferator-activated
      receptor agonists for neurological disease. Diabetes Technol Ther 5: 67-73.
Feinstein D. L., Galea E., Gavrilyuk V., Brosnan C. F., Whitacre C. C., Dumitrescu
     Ozimek L., Landreth G. E., Pershdsingh H. A., Heneka M. T:
     peroxisomeproliferator-activated          receptor-gamma     agonists     prevent
     experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis.Ann Neuronal 2002;51:694-702.
                                            99

   WO 2008/128126                                                     PCT/US2008/060146
  Furumaka, S., et al. Increased oxidative stress in obesity and its impact on
        metabolic syndrome. J. Clin. Invest. 114:1752-1761.
 Glatz A. C., Ehrlich M., Bae R. S., Clarke M. J., Quinlan P. A., Brown E. C., Rada
        P., Hoebel B. G. Inhibition of cocaine self-administration by fluoxetine or D
        fenfluramine combined with phentermine. Pharmacol Biochem Behav. 2002;
        71:197-204.
 Goeders, N. E. and Guerin, G. F., Non-contingent electric shock facilitates the
        acquisition    of   intravenous     cocaine     self-administration    in    rats,
        Psychopharmacology, 114, 63,1994.
 Gonzalez-Zalueta, M., Ensz, L. M., Mukhina, G., Lebovittz, R. M., Zwacka, R. M.,
        Engelhardt, J. F., Oberley, L. W., Dawson,V. L., Dawson, T. M., 1998.
        Manganese superoxide dismutase protects nNOS neurons from NMDA and
        nitric oxide-mediated neurotoxicity.J. Neurosci. 18, 2040-2055.
 Gracy, K. N., Dankiewicz, L. A., Weiss, F., and Koob, G. F., Heroin-specific cues
       reinstate heroin-seeking behaviour in rats after prolonged extinction,
       Pharmacol. Biochem. Behav., 65, 489, 2000.
 Haney, M., Maccari, S., Le Moal, M., Simon, H., and Piazza, P. V., Social stress
       increases the acquisition of cocaine self-administration in male and female
       rats, Brain Res., 698, 46, 1995.
 Harris S. G., Phipps R. P.: Prostaglandin D(2), its metabolite 15-d-PGJ(2), and
       peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor gamma agonists induce apoptosis
       in trasformed, but not normal, human T lineage cells. Immunology
      2002;105:23-34.
Heinrichs, S. C., Merlo Pich, E., Miczek, K. A., Britton, K. T., and Koob, G. F.,
      Corticotropin-releasing factor reduces emotionality in socially defeated rats via
      direct neurotropic action, Brain Res., 581, 190, 1992.
Heneka M. T., Feinstein D. L., Gleichamann M., Wullner U., Klockgether T:
      Peroxide proliferator-activated receptor gamma agonists protect cerebellar
      granule cells from cytokine-induced apoptotic cell death by inhibition of
      inducible nitric oxide synthase. J Neuroimmunol 1999;100:156-168.
Higley, J. D., Hasert, M. F., Suomi, S. J., and Linnoila, M., Nonhuman primate
      model of alcohol abuse: effect of early experience, personality, and stress on
      alcohol consumption., Proc. Nat/. Acad. Sci. USA, 88, 7261, 1991.
Hofmann C., Lorenz K., Braithwaite S. S. et al. Altered gene expression for tumor
     necrosis factor-y and its receptors during drug and dietary modulation of
     insulin resistance. Endocrinology 1994; 134:264-270.
Hollenberg, A. N., Susulic, V. S., Madura, J. P., Zhang, B., Moller, D. E., Tontonoz,
     P., Sarraf, P., Spielgelman, (1997) J. Bio/. Chem. 272, 5283-5290.
Hotta, K., et a. 2001. Circulating concentrations of the adipocyte protein
     adiponectin are decreased in parallel with reduced insulin sensitivity during
     the progression to type 2 diabetes in rhesus monkeys. Diabetes. 50:1126
     1133.
Hu, E., Liang, P., and Spiegelman, B. M. (1996) Adipo Q is a novel adipose
     specific gene dysregulated in obesity. J. Biol. Chem. 271: 10697-10703.
Hwang, J., Kleinhenz, D. J., Lassegue, B.,Griendling, K. K., Dikalov, S., Hart, C.
     M., 2005. Peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor-gamma ligands regulate
                                          100

                                                                                        6
    WO 2008/128126                                                     PCT/US2008/06014
        endothelial membrane superoxide production Am. J. Physiol.:Cell Physiol.
        288,C899-C905.
  Jiang C, Ting A. T., Seed B. (1998) PPARy agonists inhibit production of monocyte
        inflammatory cytokines. Nature 391:82-86.
  Kainu T, Wikstrom A. C., Gustafsson J. A., Pelto-Huikko M.: Localization of the
        peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor in the brain. Neuroreport 1994;
        5:2481-2485.
  Katner, S. N., Magalong, J. G., and Weiss, F., Reinstatement of alcohol-seeking
        behaviour by drug-associated discriminative stimuli after prolonged extinction
       in the rat, Neuropsychopharmacology, 20, 471, 1999.
 Katner S. N. and Weiss F. Ethanol-associated olfactory stimuli reinstate ethanol
       seeking behaviour after extinction and modify extracellular dopamine levels in
       the nucleus accumbens. Alcohol Clin Exp Res 1999;23:1751.
 Kielian, T., Drew, P. D., 2003. Effects of peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor
       gamma agonists on central nervous system inflammation. J. Neurosci. Res.
       71, 315-325.
 Kliwer, S. A., Lenhard, J. M., Willson, T. M., Patel, I., Morris, D. C., Lehmann, J. M.,
       1995. A prostaglandin J2 metabolite binds peroxisome proliferator-activated
       receptor-gamma and promotes adipocyte differentiation. Cell 83, 813-819.
 Koob G. F., Heinrichs S. C. , Menzaghi F., et al. Corticotropin releasing factor,
       stress and behaviour. Semin Neurosci 1994;6:221.
 Koob G. F. , Sanna P. P. , Bloom F. E. Neuroscience of addiction. Neuron 1998;
       21:467-76.
 Koob G. F. Drugs of abuse: Anatomy, pharmacology and function of reward
       pathways. Trends Pharmacol Sci 1992;13:177-84.
 Kubota, N., et al., Pioglitazone ameliorates insulin resistance and diabetes by both
      adiponectin dependent and independent pathways. J. Biol. Chem. 281:8748
      8755.
 Landreth G.        E, Heneka        M. T: Anti-inflammatory actions of the
      peroxisomepr.oliferator-activated receptor gamma agonists in Alzheimer's
      disease.Neurobiol Aging 2001; 22:937-944.
Le A. D. , Harding S., Juzytsch W., Watchus J., Shalev U., Shaham Y. The role of
      corticotrophin-releasing factor in stress-induced relapse to alcohol-seeking
      behaviour in rats. Psychopharmacology (Berl) 2000;150(3):317-24.
Le A. D, Harding S., Juzytsch W., Funk D., Shaham Y. Role of alpha-2
      adrenoceptors in stress-induced reinstatement of alcohol seeking and alcohol
      self-administration in rats. Psychopharmacology (Berl). 2005; 179:366-73.
Lee B., Tiefenbacher S., Platt D. M., Spealman R. D. Pharmacological blockade of
      alpha2-adrenoceptors induces reinstatement of cocaine-seeking behavior in
      squirrel monkeys. Neuropsychopharmacology. 2004; 29:686-93.
Letteron P., Fromenty B., Terris B. Acute and chronic hepatic steatosis lead to in
      vivo lipid peroxidation in mice. J Hepatol 1996; 24:200-208.
Levine J. A., Harris M. M., Morgan M. Y. Energy expenditure in chronic abuse.Eur.
      J. Clin. Invest. 2000; 30:779-787.
Liu, X. and Weiss, F., Reinstatement of ethanol-seeking behaviour by stress- and
      drug-related cues in rats with a history of ethanol dependence, Soc. Neurosci.
     Abstr. 26, 786, 2000.
                                          101

   WO 2008/128126                                                    PCT/US2008/0601 4 6
 Liu X., Weiss F. Reversal of ethanol-seeking behaviour by D1 and D2 antagonists
       in an animal model of relapse: differences in antagonist potency in previously
       ethanol-dependent versus nondependent rats. J Pharmacol Exp Ther
       2002;300(3):882-9.
 Maeda, K., et al. 1996. cDNA cloning and expression of a novel adipose specific
       collagen-like factor, apM1 (Adipose most abundant Gene transcript 1).
       Biochem. Biophys. Res. Commun. 221: 286-289.
 Maeda, N., et al. 2001. PPARy ligands increase expression and plasma
       concentrations of adiponectin, an adipose derived protein. Diabetes. 50:2094
       2099.
 Mao, X., et al. 2006. APPL1 binds to adiponectin receptors and mediates
       adiponectin signalling and function.Nat. Cell Biol. 8:516-523.
 Marlatt, G. A., Relapse prevention: introduction and overview of the model, in
       Relapse Prevention: Maintenance Strategies in the Treatment fo Addictive
       Behaviours, Guilford, London, 1985, 3.
 McKay, J. R., Rutherford, M. J., Alterman, A. I., Cacciola, J. S., and Kaplan, M. R.,
      An examination of the cocaine relapse process, Drug Alcohol Dep., 38, 35,
       1995.
McCusker C. G., Brown K. The cue-responsivity phenomenon in dependent
      drinkers: 'personality' vulnerability and anxiety as intervening variables. Br J
      Addict 1991;86:905-12.
McEwen B. S., Magarinos A. M., Reagan L. P. 2002. Studies of hormone action in
      the hippocampal formation: possible relevance to depression and diabetes. J
      Psychosom Res.;53(4):883-90.
Merali, Z., McIntosh, J., Kent, P., Michaud, D., and Anisman, H., Aversive and
      Appetitive Events Evoke the Release of Corticotropin- Releasing Hormone
      and Bombesin-Like Peptides at the Central Nucleus of the Amygdala, J.
      Neurosci., 18, 4758, 1998.
Merlo Pich, E., Lorang, M. T., Yeganeh, M., De Fonseca, F. R., Raber, J., Koob, G.
      F., and Weiss, F., Increase of extracellular corticotropin-releasing factor-like
      immunoreactivity levels in the amygdala of awake rats during restraint stress
      and ethanol withdrawal as measured by microdialysis, J. Neurosci., 15, 5439,
      1995.
Miller, N. S. and Gold, M. S., Dissociation of "conscious desire" (craving) from and
      relapse in alcohol and cocaine dependence, Ann. Clin. Psychiatry, 6, 99,
      1994.
Mollenauer, S., Bryson, R., Robinson, M., Sardo, J., and Coleman, C., EtOH Self
     administration in anticipation of noise stress in C57BL/6J mice, Pharmacol.
     Biochem. Behav., 46, 35, 1993.
Monti P. M., Rohsenow D. J., Rubonis A. V., Niaura R. S., Sirota A. D., Colby S.
     M., Abrams D. B. Alcohol cue reactivity: effects of detoxification and extended
     exposure. J Stud Alcohol 1993;54:235-45.
Nash, J., Jr. and Maickel, R. P., The role of the hypothalamic-pituitary
     adrenocortical axis in post- stress induced ethanol consumption by rats, Prog
     Neuropsychopharmacol Biol Psychiatry, 12, 653, 1988.
                                          102

                                                                                       6
  WO 2008/128126                                                      PCT/US2008/06014
 Nishikawa T, Mataga N, Takashima M, Toru M (1993). Behavioural sensitization
         and relative hyperresponsiveness of striatal and limbic dopaminergic neurons
         after repeated MHET treatment. Eur J Pharmacol 88: 195-203.
 O'Brien CP (1997). A range of research-based pharmacotherapies for addiction.
         Science 278: 66-70.
 Oliveira A. et al., Antinociceptive and antiedematogenic activities of fenofibrate, an
         agonist of PPAR alpha, and pioglitazone, an agonist of PPAR gamma, Eur J
        Pharmacol. 561(1-3):194-201 (2007).
 Panocka I, Ciccocioppo R, Mosca M, Polidori C, Massi M. Effects of the dopamine
         D1 receptor antagonist SCH 39166 on the ingestive behaviour of alcohol
        preferring rats. Psychopharmacology (Ber/) 1995; 120(2):227-35.
 Park, E.J.,Park, S.Y., Jou, I., 2003 15d-PGJ2 and rosiglitazone suppress janus
        kinase-STAT inflammatory signaling through induction of suppressor of
        cytokine signaling 1 (SOCSI) and SOCS3 in glia. J. Biol. Chem. 278,14747
        14752.
 Peltier R, Schenk S. Effects of serotonergic manipulations on cocaine self
        administration in rats. Psychopharmacoogy (Berl). 1993;110:390-4.
Pomerleau, 0. F., Fertig, J., Baker, L., and Cooney, N., Reactivity to alcohol cues
        in alcoholics and non-alcoholics: Implications for the stimulus control analysis
       of drinking, Addict. Behav., 8, 1, 1983.
Ramsey, N. F. and Van Ree, M., Emotional but not physical stress enhances
       intravenous cocaine self-administration in drug naive rats, Brain Res,, 608,
       216,1993.
Rauhut A. S., Neugebauer N., Dwoskin L. P., Bardo M. T. Effect of bupropion on
       nicotine self-administration in rats. Psychopharmacology (Berl). 2003; 169:1-9.
Sanchis-Segura C., Spanagel R.Behavioural assessment of drug reinforcement
       and addictive features in rodents: an overview. Addict Biol. 2006;11:2-38.
Shaham, Y., Immobilization stress-induced oral opioid self-administration and
       withdrawal in rats: role of conditioning factors and the effect of stress on
       "relapse" to opioid drugs, Psychopharmacology, 111, 477, 1993.
Shaham Y and Stewart J. Stress reinstates heroin-seeking in drug- free animals:
       an effect mimicking heroin, not withdrawal. Psychopharmacology
       1995;119:334.
Shalev U. , Yap J., Shaham Y. 2001 Leptin attenuates acute food deprivation
      induced relapse to heroin seeking. J Neurosci. 15;21(4):RC1 29.
Sorensen T. I., Orholm M., Bentsen K. D., Hoybye G., Eghoje K., Christoffersen P.
       1984 Prospective evaluation of alcohol abuse and alcoholic liver injury in men
      as predictors of development of cirrhosis. Lancet. 2(8397):241-4.
Sorge R. E., Rajabi H., Stewart J. Rats maintained chronically on buprenorphine
      show reduced heroin and cocaine seeking in tests of extinction and drug
      induced reinstatement. Neuropsychopharmacology. 2005;30:1681-92.
Souza S. C., Yamamoto M. T., Franciosa M. D., Lien P., BRL 49653 blocks the
      lipolytic actions of tumor necrosis factor-a: a potential new insulin sensitizing
      mechanism for thiazolidinediones. Diabetes 1998; 47:691-695.
Steensland P., Simms J. A., Holgate J., Richards J. K., Bartlett S. E. Varenicline,
      an.alpha4beta2 nicotinic acetylcholine receptor partial agonist, selectively
                                           103

                                                                                      6
  WO 2008/128126                                                     PCT/US2008/06014
        decreases ethanol consumption and seeking. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2007
        ;104:12518-23.
 Stormark, K. M., Laberg, J. C., Bjerland, T., Nordby, H., and Hugdahl, K.,
        Autonomic cued reactivity in alcoholics: The effect of olfactory stimuli, Addict.
        Behav., 20, 571, 1995.
 Swiergiel, A. H., Takahashi, L. K., and Kalin, N. H., Attenuation of stress-induced
        behaviour by antagonism of corticotropin- releasing factor receptors in the
        central amygdala in the rat, Brain Res, 623, 229, 1993.
 Takehara T., Nakamura T., Protective effect of hepatocyte growth factor on in vitro
        hepatitis in primary cultured hepatocytes. Biomed. Res. 1991; 12:335-338.
 Tiffany, S. T. and Carter, B. L., Is craving the source of compulsive drug use?, J
        Psychopharmacol, 12, 23, 1998.
 Tsuchida, A., et al. 2005. Peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor (PPAR) alpha
       activation increases adiponectin receptors and reduces obesity related
       inflammation in adipose tissue: comparison of activation of PPARalpha,
       PPARgamma, and their combination. Diabetes. 54:3358-3370.
 Volpicelli J. R., Alterman A. I., Hayashida M., O'Brien C. P. Naltrexone in the
       treatment of alcohol dependence. Arch Gen Psychiatry 1992;49:876-880.
 Wallace, B. C., Psychological and environmental determinants of relapse in crack
       cocaine smokers, J Subst Abuse Treat, 6, 95, 1989.
Weiss, F. and Ciccocioppo, R., Environmental stimuli potently reinstate alcohol
       seeking behaviour: Effect of repeated alcohol intoxication, Soc. Neurosci.
       Abstr., 25, 1081, 1999.
Weiss F., Ciccocioppo R., Parsons L. H., Katner S., Liu X., Zorrilla E. P., Valdez G.
       R., Ben-Shahar 0., Angeletti S., Richter R. R. Compulsive drug-seeking
       behaviour and relapse. Neuroadaptation, stress, and conditioning factors. Ann
       N Y Acad Sci 2001;937:1-26.
Weiss F., Lorang M. T., Bloom F. E., Koob G. F. Oral alcohol self-administration
      stimulates dopamine release in the rat nucleus accumbens: genetic and
       motivational determinants. J Pharmacol Exp Ther 1993;267:250-8.
Weiss, F., Maldonado-Vlaar, C. S., Parsons, L. H., Kerr, T. M., Smith, D. L., and
      Ben-Shahar, 0., Control of cocaine-seeking behaviour by drug-associated
      stimuli in rats: Effects on recovery of extinguished operant responding and
      extracellular dopamine levels in amygdala and nucleus accumbens, Proc.
      Natl. A cad. Sci. USA, 97, 4321, 2000.
Wise R. A. Drug activation of brain reward pathways. Drug Alcohol Depend
      1998;51:13-22.
Wu Z., Bucher N. L., Farmer S. R. (1996).Induction of peroxisome proliferator
      activated receptor-gamma during the conversion of 3t3 fibroblasts into
      adipocytes is mediated by C/EBPbeta, C/EPBdelta, and glucocorticoids. Mol
      Cell Biol 16: 4128-4136.
Yamauchi, T., et al. 2001. The fat derived hormone adiponectin reverses insulin
      resistance associated with both lipoatrophy and obesity. Nat. Med. 7:941-946.
Yamauchi, T., et al. 2003. Cloning of adiponectin receptors that mediate
      antidiabetic metabolic effects. Nat. Med. 423:762-769.
Yu X, Shao X. G., Sun H., Li Y. N., Yang J., Deng Y. C., Huang Y. G. Activation of
      cerebral peroxisome proliferator-activated receptors gamma exerts
                                          104

 WO 2008/128126                                                    PCT/US2008/060146
     neuroprotection by inhibiting oxidative stress following pilocarpine-induced
     status epilepticus. Brain Res. 2008;1200C:146-58.
Yu, J.G., et al. 2002. The effect of thiazolidinediones on plasma adiponectin levels
     in normal, obese, and type 2 diabetic subjects. Diabetes. 51:2968-2974.
Zalcman S., Savina I., Wise R. A. (1999). Interleukin-6 increases sensitivity to the
     locomotor-stimulating effects of amphetamine in rats. Brain Res 847: 276-283.
Zhao, M. L., Brosnan, C. F:, Lee, S. C., 2004. 15-Deoxy-delta (12-14) -PGJ2
     inhibits astrocyte IL-1 signaling: inhibition of NF-kappaB and MAP kinase
     pathways and suppression of cytokine and chemokine expression. J.
     Neuroimmunol. 153, 132-142.
                                         105

H:\fit\Interwovn\NRPortbl\DCC\FMT\50l3284 _DOC-3 22 2013
THE CLAIMS DEFINING THE INVENTION ARE AS FOLLOWS:
1.               A method of treating or preventing an addiction, comprising:
                               determining that a subject has or is at risk of developing an
                 addiction; and
                               providing to the subject an amount of an agonist of a peroxisome
                 proliferator-activated receptor gamma (PPARy agonist) effective for the
                 treatment or prevention of the addiction.
2.               A method of treating or preventing relapse use of an addictive agent
                 selected from marijuana, a marijuana derivative, a benzodiazepine, a
                 barbiturate and a psychostimulant or relapse practice of an addictive or
                 compulsive behaviour, comprising providing an effective amount of a
                 peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor gamma (PPARy agonist) to a
                 subject who has undergone a period of abstinence from, or limited or
                 reduced use of, the addictive agent or practice of the addictive or
                 compulsive behaviour.
3.               The method of claim 1, wherein the subject previously reduced or
                 eliminated use of the addictive agent or practice of the addictive or
                 compulsive behaviour in response to treatment with an effective amount of
                 an anti-addiction treatment, and wherein the subject is no longer exposed to
                 an effective amount of the anti-addiction treatment.
4.               A method of reducing one or more symptoms associated with physiological
                 withdrawal from an addictive agent selected from marijuana, a marijuana
                 derivative, a benzodiazepine, a barbiturate and a psychostimulant,
                 comprising providing an effective amount of a peroxisome proliferator
                 activated receptor gamma (PPARy) agonist to a subject undergoing
                 physiological withdrawal from the addictive agent.
                                                         - 106 -

H:\fit\Interwovn\NRPortbl\DCC\FMT\50l3284 _DOC-3 22 2013
5.               The method of any one of claims 1-4, further comprising providing to the
                 subject an additional therapeutic agent, wherein each of the PPARy agonist
                 and the additional therapeutic agent contribute to the effective treatment or
                 prevention of the addiction or relapse use, or the reduction of one or more
                 symptoms associated with physiological withdrawal from an addictive
                 agent.
6.               The method of any one of claims 1-5, wherein the subject is addicted to, or
                 at risk of developing an addiction to, an addictive agent selected from
                 marijuana, a marijuana derivative, a benzodiazepine, a barbiturate and a
                 psychostimulant.
7.               The method of claim 6, wherein the addictive agent is a psychostimulant
                 selected from the group consisting of cocaine, amphetamine and an
                 amphetamine derivative.
8.               The method of any one of claims 1-3 or 5, wherein the subject is addicted
                 to, or at risk of developing an addiction to, an addictive or compulsive
                 behavior.
9.               The method of claim 8, wherein the addictive or compulsive behavior is
                 selected from the group consisting of: pathological gambling, pathological
                 overeating, pathological use of electronic devices, pathological use of
                 electronic video games, pathological use of electronic communication
                 devices, pathological use of cellular telephones, addiction to pornography,
                 sex addiction, obsessive compulsive disorder, compulsive spending,
                 anorexia, bulimia, intermittent explosive disorder, kleptomania, pyromania,
                 trichotillomania, compulsive overexercising, and compulsive overworking.
10.              A pharmaceutical composition, comprising a peroxisome proliferator
                 activated receptor gamma (PPARy) agonist and an additional therapeutic
                 agent, wherein each of the PPARy agonist and the additional therapeutic
                                                         - 107 -

H:\fit\Interwovn\NRPortbl\DCC\FMT\50l3284 _DOC-3 22 2013
                 agent contribute to the effective treatment or prevention of use of an
                 addictive agent selected from marijuana, a marijuana derivative, a
                 benzodiazepine, a barbiturate and a psychostimulant or practice of an
                 addictive or compulsive behaviour.
 11.             A unit dosage form of a pharmaceutical composition adapted for the
                 treatment of an addiction to an addictive agent selected from marijuana, a
                 marijuana derivative, a benzodiazepine, a barbiturate and a
                 psychostimulant or practice of an addictive or compulsive behaviour,
                 wherein said unit dosage form comprises a peroxisome proliferator
                 activated receptor gamma (PPARy) agonist and an additional therapeutic
                 agent, wherein said unit dosage form comprises the PPARy agonist and the
                 additional therapeutic agent in a combined amount effective in the
                 treatment of an addiction, and wherein each of the PPARy agonist and the
                 additional therapeutic agent contribute to the effective treatment or
                 prevention of the addiction.
 12.             A kit when used for the treatment or prevention of an addiction to an
                 addictive agent selected from marijuana, a marijuana derivative, a
                 benzodiazepine, a barbiturate and a psychostimulant or practice of an
                 addictive or compulsive behaviour, comprising: a first container comprising
                 a peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor gamma (PPARy) agonist; and a
                 second container comprising an additional therapeutic agent, wherein each
                 of the PPARy agonist and the additional therapeutic agent contribute to the
                 effective treatment or prevention of an addiction.
 13.             The method, composition, unit dosage form, or kit of any one of claims 1
                  12, wherein the PPARy agonist is a thiazolidinedione (TZD).
 14.             The method, composition, unit dosage form, or kit of claim 13, wherein the
                 TZD is selected from the group consisting of: pioglitazone, rosiglitazone,
                 ciglitazone, troglitazone, englitazone, rivoglitazone and darglidazone.
                                                         -108-

H:\fit\Interwovn\NRPortbl\DCC\FMT\50l3284 _DOC-3 22 2013
15.              The method, composition, unit dosage form, or kit of claim 14, wherein the
                 TZD is pioglitazone.
16.              The method of claim 5, composition of claim 10, unit dosage form of claim
                 11, or kit of claim 12, wherein said additional therapeutic agent is selected
                 from the group consisting of: an opioid antagonist, a mixed opioid partial
                 agonist/antagonist, an antidepressant, an antiepileptic, an antiemetic, a
                 corticotrophin-releasing factor-1 (CRF-1) receptor antagonist, a selective
                 serotonin-3 (5-HT3) antagonist, a 5-HT2A/2C antagonist, and a
                 cannabinoid-1 (CB1) receptor antagonist.
17.              The method, composition, unit dosage form, or kit of claim 16, wherein:
                               the additional therapeutic agent is an opioid antagonist selected from
                 naltrexone and nalmefene;
                               the additional therapeutic agent is an antidepressant selected from
                 the group consisting of fluoxetine, mirtazapine, and bupropion;
                               the additional therapeutic agent is an antiepileptic is selected from
                 the group consisting of: topiramate, levetiracetam, and gabapentin;
                               the additional therapeutic agent is the CRF-1 receptor antagonist,
                 antalarmin;
                               the additional therapeutic agent is the selective serotonin-3 (5-HT3)
                 antagonist, ondansetron;
                               the additional therapeutic agent is a cannabinoid-1 (CB1) receptor
                 antagonist selected from rimonabant and tanarabant; or
                               the additional therapeutic agent is the mixed opioid
                 agonist/antagonist, buprenorphine.
18.              The method, composition, unit dosage form, or kit of claim 17, wherein the
                 addictive agent is a psychostimulant and the additional therapeutic agent is
                 an antidepressant.
                                                         -109-

11:\fnt\Intrwovn\NRPortbl\DCC\FMT\50I3284 _lDOC-3 22 2013
19.              The method, composition, unit dosage form, or kit according to claim 18,
                 wherein the PPARy agonist is pioglitazone and the additional therapeutic
                 agent is naltrexone.
                                                          - 110 -

