                                      ABSTRACT
   A   method,       apparatus,      system    and    computer    program         is
   provided       for     controlling      an    electric     power     system,
 5 including        implementation        of   a    voltage     control         and
   conservation        (VCC)  system     used   to   optimally   control        the
   independent       voltage    and    capacitor     banks   using   a    linear
   optimization        methodology     to   minimize     the  losses    in      the
   EEDCS     and   the   EUS.   An    energy   validation     process     system
10  (EVP) is provided which is used to document the savings of
   the VCC and an EPP is used to optimize improvements to the
   EEDCS     for continuously      improving     the   energy  losses    in     the
   EEDS.     The EVP    system   measures    the   improvement   in   the     EEDS
   a  result     of   operating     the   VCC  system     in the   "ON"     state
15 determining       the   level   of   energy   conservation    achieved         by
   the VCC system.

                       1/13
           JS
                         CI
        Iu
      I          C/C/3
LI
   It
                 Ic
              aC

            MANAGEMENT OF ENERGY ON ELECTRIC POWER SYSTEMS
                                     BACKGROUND
[0001] The present disclosure relates to a method, an apparatus, a system and a
computer program for controlling an electric power system, including controlling the
voltage on the distribution circuits with respect to optimizing voltage, conserving
energy, reducing demand and improving reliability. More particularly, the disclosure
relates to a method of controlling energy efficiency, electrical demand and customer
voltage reliability using advanced metering infrastructure ("AMI")-based data
analysis. This method enables the direct control of customer level secondary voltages
to optimally reduce energy usage and electrical demand for an electric energy delivery
system (EEDS). The method executes voltage control using the secondary AMI
based measurements, significantly improving the accuracy of the customer voltage
measurement and level, enabling the EEDS operator to improve the reliability of
customer voltage performance.
[0002] Electricity is commonly generated at a power station by electromechanical
generators, which are typically driven by heat engines fueled by chemical combustion
or nuclear fission, or driven by kinetic energy flowing from water or wind. The
electricity is generally supplied to end users through transmission grids as an
alternating current signal. The transmission grids may include a network of power
stations, transmission circuits, substations, and the like.
[0003] The generated electricity is typically stepped-up in voltage using, for example,
generating step-up transformers, before supplying the electricity to a transmission
system. Stepping up the voltage improves transmission efficiency by reducing the
electrical current flowing in the transmission system conductors, while keeping the
power transmitted nearly equal to the power input. The stepped-up voltage electricity
is then transmitted through the transmission system to a distribution system, which
distributes the electricity to end users. The distribution system may include a network
                                              1

that carries electricity from the transmission system and delivering it to end users.
Typically, the network may include medium-voltage (for example, less than 69kV)
power lines, electrical substations, transformers, low-voltage (for example, less than
1kV) distribution wiring, electric meters, and the like.
[0004] The following, the entirety of each of which is herein incorporated by
reference, describe subject matter related to power generation or distribution:
Engineering Optimization Methods and Applications, First Edition, G.V. Reklaitis, A.
Ravindran, K.M. Ragsdell, John Wiley and Sons, 1983; Estimating Methodology for a
Large Regional Application of Conservation Voltage Reduction, J.G. De Steese, S.B.
Merrick, B.W. Kennedy, IEEE Transactions on Power Systems, 1990; Power
Distribution Planning Reference Book, Second Edition, H. Lee Willis, 2004;
Implementation of Conservation Voltage Reduction at Commonwealth Edison, IEEE
Transactions on Power Systems, D. Kirshner, 1990; Conservation Voltage Reduction
at Northeast Utilities, D.M. Lauria, IEEE, 1987; Green Circuit Field Demonstrations,
EPRI, Palo Alto, CA, 2009, Report 1016520; Evaluation of Conservation Voltage
Reduction (CVR) on a National Level, PNNL-19596, Prepared for the U.S.
Department of Energy under Contract DE-AC05-76RL0 1830, Pacific Northwest
National Lab, July 2010; Utility Distribution System Efficiency Initiative (DEI) Phase
1, Final Market Progress Evaluation Report, No 3, E08-192 (7/2008) E08-192;
Simplified Voltage Optimization (VO) Measurement and Verification Protocol,
Simplified VO M&V Protocol Version 1.0, May 4, 2010; MINITAB Handbook,
Updated for Release 14, fifth edition, Barbara Ryan, Brian Joiner, Jonathan Cryer,
Brooks/Cole-Thomson, 2005; Minitab Software, http://www.minitab.com/en
US/products/minitab/ Statistical Software provided by Minitab Corporation.
[0005] Further, U.S. patent application 61/176,398, filed on May 7, 2009 and US
publication 2013/0030591 entitled VOLTAGE CONSERVATION USING
ADVANCED METERING INFRASTRUCTURE AND SUBSTATION
CENTRALIZED VOLTAGE CONTROL, the entirety of which is herein incorporated
by reference, describe a voltage control and energy conservation system for an
electric power transmission and distribution grid configured to supply electric power
to a plurality of user locations.
                                             2

                                      SUMMARY
[0006] Various embodiments described herein provide a novel method, apparatus,
system and computer program for controlling an electric power system, including
implementation of voltage control using AMI-based secondary voltage measurement
to optimally control the voltages for load tap changing control (LTC) transformers,
voltage regulators, capacitor banks, and distributed generation, storage and high
variation loads such as photovoltaic generation, electric vehicle charging and
microgrids.
[0007] According to an aspect of the disclosure, the voltage control and conservation
system (VCC) controls the electrical energy delivery system (EEDS) primary and
secondary independent voltage control devices such as load tap changing control
(LTC) transformers, voltage regulators, capacitor banks, and distributed generation,
storage, photovoltaic generation, and microgrids to optimize the energy losses while
improving the reliability of the voltage delivered to the energy usage system (EUS).
The electrical energy delivery system (EEDS) is made up of an energy supply system
(ESS) that connects electrically to one or more energy usage systems (EUS).         The
energy usage system (EUS) supplies voltage and energy to energy usage devices
(EUD) at electrical points on an electrical energy delivery system (EEDS) and the
EUS is made up of many energy usage devices (EUD) randomly using energy at any
given time.    The purpose of the energy validation process (EVP) is to operate the
voltage levels of the EEDS in a manner that optimizes the energy losses EEDS, EUS
and ESS.      The electrical energy supply to the electrical energy delivery system
(EEDS) is measured in watts, kilowatts (kw), or Megawatts (Mw) at the supply point
of the ESS and at the energy user system (EUS) or meter point. This measurement
records the average usage of energy (AUE) over set time periods such as one hour.
The energy and voltage measurements made within the EEDS are communicated back
to a central control using a communication network for processing by the VCC which
then issues control changes to the primary and secondary voltage control devices to
produce more precise and reliable voltage control that optimally minimizes the energy
losses for the EEDS.
[0008] According to a further aspect of the disclosure, the energy validation process
(EVP) measures the level of change in energy usage for the electrical energy delivery
                                             3

system (EEDS) that is made up of an energy supply system (ESS) that connects
electrically to one or more energy usage systems (EUS). The test for the level of
change in energy use improvement is divided into two basic time periods: The first is
the time period when the VCC is not operating, i.e., in the "OFF" state. The second
time period is when the VCC is operating, i.e., in "ON" state. Two variables must be
determined to estimate the savings capability for an improvement in the EEDS: The
available change in voltage created by the VCC and the EEDS capacity for energy
change with respect to voltage change or the CVR factor. The average change in
voltage is determined by direct measurement on the advanced metering infrastructure
(AMI). The details regarding the calculation of an example CVR factor and average
voltage change are described in co-pending U.S. patent application nos. 61/789085
and 14/193,980, entitled ELECTRIC POWER SYSTEM CONTROL WITH
MEASUREMENT OF ENERGY DEMAND AND ENERGY EFFICIENCY USING
T - DISTRIBUTIONS ("the co-pending /P006 application"), the entirety of which are
incorporated herein, although other methods of calculating a CVR factor may also be
used.
[0009] According to an aspect of the disclosure, the energy planning process (EPP)
projects the voltage range capability of a given electrical energy delivery system
(EEDS) (made up of an energy supply system (ESS) that connects electrically via the
electrical energy distribution connection system (EEDCS) to one or more energy
usage systems (EUS)) at the customer secondary level (the EUS) by measuring the
level of change in energy usage from voltage management for the EEDS. The EPP
can also determine potential impacts of proposed modifications to the equipment
and/or equipment configuration of the EEDS and/or to an energy usage device (EUD)
at some electrical point(s) on an electrical energy delivery system (EEDS) made up of
many energy usage devices randomly using energy at any given time during the
measurement. The purpose of the energy validation process (EVP) is to measure the
level of change in energy usage for the EEDS for a change in voltage level. The
specifics of an example EVP are covered in the co-pending /P006 application,
although other EVPs may also be used. One purpose of the EPP system of the
disclosed embodiments is to estimate the capability of the EEDS to accommodate
voltage change and predict the level of change available. The potential savings in
energy provided by the proposed modification to the system can be calculated by
                                             4

multiplying the CVR factor (% change in energy/% change in voltage) (as may be
calculated by the EVP, one example of which is described in the co-pending /P006
application, although other methods of calculating a CVR factor may also be used) by
the available change in voltage (as determined by the EPP) to determine the available
energy and demand savings over the time interval being studied. The electrical
energy supply to the electrical energy delivery system (EEDS) is measured in watts,
kilowatts (kw), or Megawatts (Mw) (a) at the supply point of the ESS and (b) at the
energy user system (EUS) or meter point. This measurement records the average
usage of energy (AUE) at each of the supply and meter points over set time periods
such as one hour.
[00010]          The test for energy use improvement is divided into two basic time
periods: The first is the time period when the improvement is not included, i.e., in
"OFF" state. The second time period is when the improvement is included, i.e., in
"ON" state. Two variables must be determined to estimate the savings capability for
a modification in the EEDS: The available voltage change in voltage created by the
modification and the EEDS capacity for energy change with respect to voltage change
(the CVR factor, one example of the calculation of which is described in the co
pending /P006 application, although other methods of calculating a CVR factor may
also be used).
[00011]         According to a further aspect of the disclosure, the VCC uses the EVP
and the EPP to enable the full optimization of the voltage, both during planning and
construction of the EEDS components and during the operation of the EEDS by
monitoring the EVP process to detect when the system changes its efficiency level.
When these three processes (VCC, EVP and EPP) are operating together, it is possible
to optimize the construction and the operation of the EEDS. The EPP optimizes the
planning and construction of the EEDS and its components and the EVP is the
measurement system to allow the VCC to optimize the operation of the EEDS. The
EPP provides the configuration information for the VCC based on the information
learned in the planning optimization process. This full optimization is accomplished
across the energy efficiency, demand management and the voltage reliability of the
EEDS.
                                            5

[00012]         According to a further aspect of the disclosure, the EEDS can be
represented as a linear model over the restricted voltage range of operational voltages
allowed for the EUS. This narrow band of operation is where the optimization
solution must occur, since it is the band of actual operation of the system. The linear
models are in two areas. The first area for use of linear models is that energy loss for
the EEDCS primary and secondary equipment losses can be represented in linear form
using some simple approximations for EEDCS characteristics of voltage and energy.
This second approximation is that the voltage and energy relationship of the EUS can
be represented by the CVR factor and the change in voltage over a given short
interval. This allows the entire loss function for the EEDS over reasonably short
interval and narrow ranges of voltage (+/-10%) to be represented as linear functions
of measureable voltages at the ESS and the EUS. This linear relationship greatly
reduces the complexity of finding the optimum operating point to minimize energy
use on the EEDS. The second area for use of linear models is an approximation that
the EUS voltages can be represented by linear regression models based only on the
EUS voltage and energy measurements. These two approximations greatly reduce the
optimization solution to the EEDS VCC, making the optimization process much
simpler.
[00013]         The calculation of the change in voltage capability is the novel
approach to conservation voltage reduction planning using a novel characterization of
the EEDS voltage relationships that does not require a detailed loadflow model to
implement. The input levels to the EEDCS from the ESS are recorded at set intervals,
such as one hour periods for the time being studied. The input levels to the EUS from
the EEDCS, at the same intervals for the time being studied, are measured using the
AMI system and recorded. The EEDS specific relationship between the ESS
measurements and the EUS usage measurements is characterized using a linear
regression technique over the study period. This calculation specifically relates the
effects of changes in load at the ESS to change in voltage uniquely to each customer
EUS using a common methodology.
[00014]         Once these linear relationships have been calculated, a simple linear
model is built to represent the complex behavior of voltage at various loading levels
including the effects of switching unique EUS specific loads that are embedded in the
                                             6

AMI collected data (e.g., the data includes the "ON" and "OFF" nature of the load
switching occurring at the EUS). Then, the linear model for the voltages is passed to
the VCC for determining the normal operation of the EUS for specific conditions at
the ESS. Using this simple linear model is a novel method of planning and predicting
the voltage behavior of an EEDS caused by modifications to the EEDS by using the
VCC.
[00015]         The relationships between the modification (e.g., adding/removing
capacitor banks, adding/removing regulators, reducing impedance, or adding
distributed generation) are developed first by using a simple system of one ESS and a
simple single phase line and a single EUS with a base load and two repeating
switched loads. By comparing a traditional primary loadflow model of the simplified
EEDS to the linear statistical representation of the voltage characteristics, the linear
model changes can be obtained to relate the EUS voltage changes resulting from
capacitor bank operation. Once this is done, the effects on the EUS voltage can be
forecasted by the VCC and used to determine whether the optimum operating point
has been reached.
[00016]         Once the linear model is built then the model can be used to apply
simple linear optimization to determine the best method of controlling the EEDS to
meet the desired energy efficiency, demand and reliability improvements.
[00017]         According to a further aspect of the disclosure, the energy planning
process (EPP) can be used to take the AMI data from multiple AMI EUS points and
build a linear model of the voltage using the linearization technique. These multiple
point models can be used to predict voltage behavior for a larger radial system (e.g., a
group of contiguous transmission elements that emanate from a single point of
connection) by relating the larger system linear characteristics to the system operation
of capacitor banks, regulators, and LTC transformers. With the new linear models
representing the operation of the independent variables of the EEDS, the optimization
can determine the optimum settings of the independent variables that will minimize
the linear model of the EEDS losses. This optimum control characteristics are passed
from the EVP to the VCC in the configuration process.
                                             7

[00018]          According to a further aspect of the disclosure, the energy planning
process (EPP) can be used to take the AMI data from multiple AMI EUS points and
multiple ESS points and build a linear model of the voltage using the linearization
technique. The linear model that exists for normal operation can be determined based
on the characteristics of the linearization. Using this normal operation model as a
"fingerprint", the other EUS points on the EEDS can be filtered to determine the ones,
if any, that are displaying abnormal behavior characteristics and the abnormal EUS
points can be compared against a list of expected characteristics denoting specific
abnormal behavior that represents the potential of low reliability performance. As an
example, the characteristics of a poorly connected meter base has been characterized
to have certain linear characteristics in the model. The observed linear characteristics
that represent this abnormal condition can be used to identify any of the EUS meters
that exhibit this behavior, using the voltage data from AMI. This allows resolution of
the abnormality before customer equipment failure occurs and significantly improves
the reliability of the EEDS. A set of the voltage fingerprints will be passed by the
EVP to the VCC in the configuration process. The EPP can then use this recognition
to provide alarms, change operation level for efficiency, demand or reliability
improvement.
[00019]          According to a further aspect of the disclosure, the energy planning
process (EPP) can be used to take the AMI data from multiple AMI EUS points and
multiple ESS points and build a linear model of the voltage using the linearization
technique. Using this model and the measured AMI data the EPP can be used to
project the initial group of monitored meters that can be used in the voltage
management system to control the minimum level of voltage across the EEDS for
implementation of CVR. This information is passed from the EPP to the VCC in the
configuration process.
[00020]          According to a further aspect of the disclosure, the energy planning
process (EPP) can be used to take the AMI data from multiple AMI EUS points and
multiple ESS points and build a linear model of the voltage using the linearization
technique. The voltage data can be used to provide location information about the
meter connection points on the circuit using voltage correlation analysis. This method
matches the voltages by magnitude and by phase using a technique that uses the
                                              8

voltage data for each meter to provide the statistical analysis. Common phase voltage
movement is correlated and common voltage movement by circuit is identified using
linear regression techniques. This information is provided by the EPP to the VCC in
the configuration process and used to detect when voltages in the monitored group are
not from the EEDS being controlled. This enables the VCC to stop control and return
itself to a safe mode until the problem is resolved.
[00021]          According to a further aspect of the disclosure, the VCC samples the
monitored group voltages at the EUS and uses the linear models to project the
required level of independent variables required to make the EUS voltages remain in
the required voltage band based on the linear regression model for the EUS location.
This sampling also allows the VCC to determine when the samples are greatly
deviating from the linear regression model and enable alarming and change of VCC
state to maintain reliability of the EEDS.
[00022]          According to a further aspect of the disclosure, the devices that
represent the voltage regulation on the circuit, LTC transformers, regulators, and
distributed generation are assigned non overlapping zones of control in the EEDS. In
each zone there is one parent device and for the EEDS there is also one substation
parent device (node parent device) that controls all other zones and devices. The
EEDS topology determines which zones are secondary to the node zone and the
relationship to other zones. In each of these zones there are other independent devices
that form child devices such as capacitor banks. These are controlled by their zone
parent control. The control processing proceeds by zone topology to implement the
optimization process for the EEDS. For each zone control device and child device a
monitored group of meters are assigned and used to initiate control point changes that
implement the optimization process for the EEDS. This control process only requires
the configuration information from the EPP and measurements of voltages from the
monitored meters at the EUS and measurements of the meters at the ESS to determine
the optimization and control the independent devices/variables of the optimization
solution.
[00023]          According to a further aspect of the disclosure, the non-monitored
meters in the EEDS provide voltage exception reporting (see the US 2013/0030591
publication) that is used to re-select meters that are detected to be below the existing
                                             9

monitored group level for any device and connect them to the monitored group and
disconnect meters that are not representing the lowest/highest of the meters in the
EEDS. Monitored groups are maintained to track the upper and lower operating
levels of the control device block where the total population of meters affected by the
device reside.
[00024]          According to a further aspect of the disclosure, the solution to the
optimization of the EEDS is determined. The first step is to define the boundary of
the optimization problem. The optimization deals with the EEDS, the ESS, the
EEDCS, the EUS and the energy delivery (ED) system (EDS) and involves the
voltage and energy relationships in these systems. The second step is to determine the
performance criterion. This performance criterion is the energy loss from the ESS to
the EUS that occurs in the EEDCS and the energy loss in the EUS and ED from CVR.
The first loss is normally less than 5% of the total controllable losses from the voltage
optimization. The second energy loss is the conservation voltage reduction loss in the
EUS that is a combination of all of the CVR losses in the ED connected to the EUS
point and is normally 95% of the potential controllable losses. The performance
criterion is to minimize these two losses while maintaining or increasing the reliability
of the voltage at the EUS and ED. The third steps to determine the independent
variable in the optimization problem. The independent variables are the voltages
being controlled by the LTC transformers, the voltage regulators, the capacitor bank
position, and the EUS/EDS voltage control such as distributed generation voltage
controllers. Each of these are specifically represented in the control by the VCC. The
next step is creating the system model. The linear model of the losses represent the
performance criterion model. The linear model of the ESS to EUS voltages represents
the system model for the EEDCS. The final step is to determine the constraints. In
this case, the constraints are the voltage range limits on the EUS and ED which are
based on the appropriate equipment and operating standards.
[00025]          The following assumptions were made to evaluate the optimization
solution. First, it is assumed that the loads are evenly distributed by block, as defined
in the VCC. This is a very reliable assumption since the blocks can be specifically
selected. The second is that there is a uniformity between the percentage ESS voltage
drop on the primary and the percentage EUS voltage drop on the secondary. With
                                             10

these two assumptions, it is shown that the model is monotonic, decreasing with
voltage and with the slope of the voltage on the EEDCS. This means that the
reduction in control voltage at the independent variable points always results in a
decrease in the voltage at the EUS and a resulting decrease in the losses and if the
slope of the voltage is minimized by the capacitor bank position simultaneously, then
the application of linear optimization technique shows that the optimum will always
occur at a boundary condition. This means that the first boundary condition that is
encountered will identify the optimum operating point for the ED to minimize losses.
The VCC is an implementation of a control process that implements the search for
this boundary condition to assure optimum loss operation base on voltage control.
[00026]          According to a further aspect of the disclosure, the VCC combines the
optimization of the EPP and the optimization of the VCC to produce a simultaneous
optimization of both the EEDS design and construction with the VCC operating
optimization, to produce a continuous improvement process that cycles through the
overall voltage optimization for the EEDS using a Plan, Manage, and Validate
process. This continuous improvement process adapts the optimization to the
continuously changing EEDS load environment completing the Voltage Optimization
process.
[00027]          Additional features, advantages, and embodiments of the disclosure
may be set forth or apparent from consideration of the detailed description and
drawings. Moreover, it is to be understood that both the foregoing summary of the
disclosure and the following detailed description are exemplary and intended to
provide further explanation without limiting the scope of the disclosure as claimed.
                    BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
[00028]          The accompanying drawings, which are included to provide a further
understanding of the disclosure, are incorporated in and constitute a part of this
specification, illustrate embodiments of the disclosure and together with the detailed
description serve to explain the principles of the disclosure. No attempt is made to
show structural details of the disclosure in more detail than may be necessary for a
fundamental understanding of the disclosure and the various ways in which it may be
practiced. In the drawings:
                                             11

[00029]         FIG. 1 shows an example of an EEDS made up of an electricity
generation and distribution system connected to customer loads, according to
principles of the disclosure;
[00030]         FIG. 2 shows an example of a voltage control and conservation (VCC)
system combined with an energy validation process (EVP) and an energy planning
process (EPP) that is being measured at the ESS meter point and the EUS meter point
made up of Advanced Metering Infrastructure (AMI) measuring voltage and energy,
according to the principles of the disclosure;
[00031]         FIG. 3 shows an example of how the EEDCS is represented as a linear
model for the calculation of the delivery voltages and the energy losses by just using a
linear model with assumptions within the limitations of the output voltages, according
to principles of the disclosure;
[00032]         FIG. 4 shows an example of a EEDS structure for an electric
distribution system with measuring points at the ESS delivery points and the EUS
metering points, showing the equipment and devices within the system and the
independent variables that can be used to accomplish the optimization of the EEDS,
according to principles of the disclosure;
[00033]         FIG. 5 shows an example of the measuring system for the AMI meters
used in the VCC, according to principles of the disclosure;
[00034]         FIG. 6 shows an example of the linear regression analysis relating the
control variables to the EUS voltages that determine the power loss, voltage level and
provide the input for searching for the optimum condition and recognizing the
abnormal voltage levels from the AMI voltage metering, according to principles of
the disclosure;
[00035]         FIG. 7 shows an example of the mapping of control meters to zones of
control and blocks of control, according to principles of the disclosure;
[00036]         FIG. 8 shows an example of how the voltage characteristics from the
independent variables are mapped to the linear regression models of the bellwether
meters, according to principles of the disclosure;
                                            12

[00037]         FIG. 9 shows the model used for the implementation of the
optimization solution for the VCC, including the linearization for the EEDCS and the
linearization of the two loss calculations, according to the principles of the disclosure;
[00038]         FIG. 10 shows a representation of the approach to applying the per unit
calculation to demonstrate the representation of the relative values of the impedances
and losses of the EEDCS during VCC operation, according to principles of the
disclosure;
[00039]         FIG. 11 shows the way the VCC displays the ESS voltage data and the
EUS monitored meter data for display to the operators;
[00040]         FIG. 12 is similar to FIG.16, except that it is a display for the capacitor
bank child control showing its bandwidth limits and the operating voltage in the top
graph and the monitored group of meters in the lower group that also searches the
boundary and the slope from the LTC transformer monitored to the capacitor bank
monitored is used to determine the optimum point in the loading to switch the
capacitor bank in to minimize the slope of the line connecting the two monitored
groups; and
[00041]         FIG. 13 is a chart of the overall VCC, EVP, and EPP processes,
showing optimization of the VCC process as well as optimization of the EEDS EPP
process and improvement of the VCC process that minimizes real time losses in the
EEDS and ED.
[00042]         The present disclosure is further described in the detailed description
that follows.
               DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE DISCLOSURE
[00043]         The disclosure and the various features and advantageous details
thereof are explained more fully with reference to the non-limiting embodiments and
examples that are described and/or illustrated in the accompanying drawings and
detailed in the following description. It should be noted that the features illustrated in
the drawings are not necessarily drawn to scale, and features of one embodiment may
be employed with other embodiments as the skilled artisan would recognize, even if
                                             13

not explicitly stated herein. Descriptions of well-known components and processing
techniques may be omitted so as to not unnecessarily obscure the embodiments of the
disclosure. The examples used herein are intended merely to facilitate an
understanding of ways in which the disclosure may be practiced and to further enable
those of skill in the art to practice the embodiments of the disclosure. Accordingly,
the examples and embodiments herein should not be construed as limiting the scope
of the disclosure. Moreover, it is noted that like reference numerals represent similar
parts throughout the several views of the drawings.
[00044]          A "computer", as used in this disclosure, means any machine, device,
circuit, component, or module, or any system of machines, devices, circuits,
components, modules, or the like, which are capable of manipulating data according
to one or more instructions, such as, for example, without limitation, a processor, a
microprocessor, a central processing unit, a general purpose computer, a super
computer, a personal computer, a laptop computer, a palmtop computer, a notebook
computer, a desktop computer, a workstation computer, a server, or the like, or an
array of processors, microprocessors, central processing units, general purpose
computers, super computers, personal computers, laptop computers, palmtop
computers, notebook computers, desktop computers, workstation computers, servers,
or the like.
[00045]          A "server", as used in this disclosure, means any combination of
software and/or hardware, including at least one application and/or at least one
computer to perform services for connected clients as part of a client-server
architecture. The at least one server application may include, but is not limited to, for
example, an application program that can accept connections to service requests from
clients by sending back responses to the clients. The server may be configured to run
the at least one application, often under heavy workloads, unattended, for extended
periods of time with minimal human direction. The server may include a plurality of
computers configured, with the at least one application being divided among the
computers depending upon the workload. For example, under light loading, the at
least one application can run on a single computer. However, under heavy loading,
multiple computers may be required to run the at least one application. The server, or
any if its computers, may also be used as a workstation.
                                              14

[00046]          A "database", as used in this disclosure, means any combination of
software and/or hardware, including at least one application and/or at least one
computer. The database may include a structured collection of records or data
organized according to a database model, such as, for example, but not limited to at
least one of a relational model, a hierarchical model, a network model or the like. The
database may include a database management system application (DBMS) as is
known in the art. At least one application may include, but is not limited to, for
example, an application program that can accept connections to service requests from
clients by sending back responses to the clients. The database may be configured to
run the at least one application, often under heavy workloads, unattended, for
extended periods of time with minimal human direction.
[00047]          A "communication link", as used in this disclosure, means a wired
and/or wireless medium that conveys data or information between at least two points.
The wired or wireless medium may include, for example, a metallic conductor link, a
radio frequency (RF) communication link, an Infrared (IR) communication link, an
optical communication link, or the like, without limitation. The RF communication
link may include, for example, WiFi, WiMAX, IEEE 802.11, DECT, OG, 1G, 2G, 3G
or 4G cellular standards, Bluetooth, and the like.
[00048]          The terms "including", "comprising" and variations thereof, as used in
this disclosure, mean "including, but not limited to", unless expressly specified
otherwise.
[00049]          The terms "a", "an", and "the", as used in this disclosure, means "one
or more", unless expressly specified otherwise.
[00050]          Devices that are in communication with each other need not be in
continuous communication with each other, unless expressly specified otherwise. In
addition, devices that are in communication with each other may communicate
directly or indirectly through one or more intermediaries.
[00051]          Although process steps, method steps, algorithms, or the like, may be
described in a sequential order, such processes, methods and algorithms may be
configured to work in alternate orders. In other words, any sequence or order of steps
                                             15

that may be described does not necessarily indicate a requirement that the steps be
performed in that order. The steps of the processes, methods or algorithms described
herein may be performed in any order practical. Further, some steps may be
performed simultaneously.
[00052]         When a single device or article is described herein, it will be readily
apparent that more than one device or article may be used in place of a single device
or article. Similarly, where more than one device or article is described herein, it will
be readily apparent that a single device or article may be used in place of the more
than one device or article. The functionality or the features of a device may be
alternatively embodied by one or more other devices which are not explicitly
described as having such functionality or features.
[00053]         A "computer-readable medium", as used in this disclosure, means any
medium that participates in providing data (for example, instructions) which may be
read by a computer. Such a medium may take many forms, including non-volatile
media, volatile media, and transmission media. Non-volatile media may include, for
example, optical or magnetic disks and other persistent memory. Volatile media may
include dynamic random access memory (DRAM). Transmission media may include
coaxial cables, copper wire and fiber optics, including the wires that comprise a
system bus coupled to the processor. Transmission media may include or convey
acoustic waves, light waves and electromagnetic emissions, such as those generated
during radio frequency (RF) and infrared (IR) data communications. Common forms
of computer-readable media include, for example, a floppy disk, a flexible disk, hard
disk, magnetic tape, any other magnetic medium, a CD-ROM, DVD, any other optical
medium, punch cards, paper tape, any other physical medium with patterns of holes, a
RAM, a PROM, an EPROM, a FLASH-EEPROM, any other memory chip or
cartridge, a carrier wave as described hereinafter, or any other medium from which a
computer can read.
[00054]         Various forms of computer readable media may be involved in
carrying sequences of instructions to a computer. For example, sequences of
instruction (i) may be delivered from a RAM to a processor, (ii) may be carried over a
wireless transmission medium, and/or (iii) may be formatted according to numerous
                                            16

formats, standards or protocols, including, for example, WiFi, WiMAX, IEEE 802.11,
DECT, OG, IG, 2G, 3G or 4G cellular standards, Bluetooth, or the like.
[00055]         According to one non-limiting example of the disclosure, a voltage
control and conservation (VCC) system 200 is provided (shown in FIG. 2) and the
EVP 600 is used to monitor the change in EEDS energy from the VCC 200. The
VCC 200, includes three subsystems, including an energy delivery (ED) system 300,
an energy control (EC) system 400, an energy regulation (ER) system 500. Also
shown in FIG. 2 are an energy validation (EVP) system 600 and an energy planning
process (EPP) system 1700. The VCC system 200 is configured to monitor energy
usage at the ED system 300 and determine one or more energy delivery parameters at
the EC system (or voltage controller) 400. The EC system 400 may then provide the
one or more energy delivery parameters    CED to  the ER system 500 to adjust the
energy delivered to a plurality of users for optimal maximum energy conservation.
The EVP system 600 monitors through communications link 610 all metered energy
flow and determines the change in energy resulting from a change in voltage control
at the ER system 500. The EVP system 600 also reads weather data information
through a communication link 620 from an appropriate weather station 640 to execute
the EVP process 630. One example of an EVP system 600 is more fully described in
the co-pending /P006 application, although other EVP systems may also be used.
[00056]         The EPP system 1700 reads the historical databases 470 via
communication link 1740 for the AMI data. The EPP system 1700 can process this
historical data along with measured AMI data to identify problems, if any, on the
EEDS system 700. The EPP system 1700 is also able to identify any outlier points in
the analysis caused by proposed optimal system modifications and to identify the
initial meters to be used for monitoring by VCC system 200 until the adaptive
process (discussed in the US 2013/0030591 publication) is initiated by the control
system.
[00057]         The VCC system 200 is also configured to monitor via communication
link 610 energy change data from EVP system 600 and determine one or more energy
delivery parameters at the EC system (or voltage controller) 400. The EC system 400
may then provide the one or more energy delivery parameters      CED to the ER system
500 to adjust the energy delivered to a plurality of users for maximum energy
                                             17

conservation. Similarly, the EC system 400 may use the energy change data to
control the EEDS 700 in other ways. For example, components of the EEDS 700 may
be modified, adjusted, added or deleted, including the addition of capacitor banks,
modification of voltage regulators, changes to end-user equipment to modify
customer efficiency, and other control actions.
[00058]         The VCC system 200 may be integrated into, for example, an existing
load curtailment plan of an electrical power supply system. The electrical power
supply system may include an emergency voltage reduction plan, which may be
activated when one or more predetermined events are triggered. The predetermined
events may include, for example, an emergency, an overheating of electrical
conductors, when the electrical power output from the transformer exceeds, for
example, 80% of its power rating, or the like. The VCC system 200 is configured to
yield to the load curtailment plan when the one or more predetermined events are
triggered, allowing the load curtailment plan to be executed to reduce the voltage of
the electrical power supplied to the plurality of users.
[00059]         FIG. 1 is similar to FIG. 1 of US publication 2013/0030591, with
overlays that show an example of an EEDS 700 system, including an ESS system 800,
an EUS system 900 and an EEDCS system 1000 based on the electricity generation
and distribution system 100, according to principles of the disclosure. The electricity
generation and distribution system 100 includes an electrical power generating station
110, a generating step-up transformer 120, a substation 130, a plurality of step-down
transformers 140, 165, 167, and users 150, 160. The electrical power generating
station 110 generates electrical power that is supplied to the step-up transformer 120.
The step-up transformer steps-up the voltage of the electrical power and supplies the
stepped-up electrical power to an electrical transmission media 125. The ESS 800
includes the station 110, the step-up transformer 120, the substation 130, the step
down transformers 140, 165, 167, the ER 500 as described herein, and the electrical
transmission media, including media 125, for transmitting the power from the station
110 to users 150, 160. The EUS 900 includes the ED 300 system as described herein,
and a number of energy usage devices (EUD) 920 that may be consumers of power, or
loads, including customer equipment and the like. The EEDCS system 1000 includes
                                             18

transmission media, including media 135, connections and any other equipment
located between the ESS 800 and the EUS 900.
[00060]         As seen in FIG. 1, the electrical transmission media may include wire
conductors, which may be carried above ground by, for example, utility poles 127,
137    and/or underground by, for example, shielded conductors (not shown). The
electrical power is supplied from the step-up transformer 120 to the substation 130 as
electrical power Ejn(t), where the electrical power Eln in MegaWatts (MW) may vary
as a function of time t. The substation 130 converts the received electrical power
Ej(t) to Esupply(t) and supplies the converted electrical power Esupply(t) to the plurality
of users 150, 160. The substation 130 may adjustably transform the voltage
component V1 n(t) of the received electrical power E1n(t) by, for example, stepping
down the voltage before supplying the electrical power Esupply(t) to the users 150, 160.
The electrical power Esupply(t) supplied from the substation 130 may be received by
the step-down transformers 140, 165, 167 and supplied to the users 150, 160 through
a transmission medium 142, 162, such as, for example, but not limited to,
underground electrical conductors (and/or above ground electrical conductors).
[00061]         Each of the users 150, 160 may include an Advanced Meter
Infrastructure (AMI) 330. The AMI 330 may be coupled to a Regional Operations
Center (ROC) 180. The ROC 180 may be coupled to the AMI 330, by means of a
plurality of communication links 175, 184, 188, a network 170 and/or a wireless
communication system 190. The wireless communication system 190 may include,
but is not limited to, for example, an RF transceiver, a satellite transceiver, and/or the
like.
[00062]         The network 170 may include, for example, at least one of the Internet,
a local area network (LAN), a wide area network (WAN), a metropolitan area
network (MAN), a personal area network (PAN), a campus area network, a corporate
area network, the electrical transmission media 125, 135 and transformers 140, 165,
167, a global area network (GAN), a broadband area network (BAN), or the like, any
of which may be configured to communicate data via a wireless and/or a wired
communication medium. The network 170 may be configured to include a network
topology such as, for example, a ring, a mesh, a line, a tree, a star, a bus, a full
connection, or the like
                                             19

[00063]          The AMI 330 may include any one or more of the following: A smart
meter; a network interface (for example, a WAN interface, or the like); firmware;
software; hardware; and the like. The AMI may be configured to determine any one or
more of the following: kilo-Watt-hours (kWh) delivered; kWh received; kWh delivered
plus kWh received; kWh delivered minus kWh received; interval data; demand data;
voltage; current; phase; and the like. If the AMI is a three phase meter, then the low
phase voltage may be used in the average calculation, or the values for each phase may
be used independently. If the meter is a single phase meter, then the single voltage
component will be averaged.
[00064]          The AMI 330 may further include one or more collectors 350 (shown
in FIG. 2) configured to collect AMI data from one or more AMIs 330 tasked with,
for example, measuring and reporting electric power delivery and consumption at one
or more of the users 150, 160. Alternatively (or additionally), the one or more
collectors may be located external to the users 150, 160, such as, for example, in a
housing holding the step-down transformers 140, 165, 167. Each of the collectors
may be configured to communicate with the ROC 180.
[00065]          The VCC system 200 plugs into the DMS and AMI systems to execute
the voltage control function. In addition the EVP system 600 collects weather data
and uses the AMI data from the ESS system 800 to calculate the energy savings level
achieved by the VCC system 200. In addition the EPP system 1700 provides a
process to continually improve the performance of the EEDS by periodically
reviewing the historical AMI voltage data and providing identification of problem
EUS voltage performance and the modifications needed to increase the efficiency and
reliability of the EEDS system 700, using the VCC system 200.
VCC SYSTEM 200
[00066]          FIG. 2 shows an example of the VCC system 200 with the EVP system
600 monitoring the change in energy resulting from the VCC controlling the EEDS in
the more efficient lower 5% band of voltage, according to principles of the disclosure.
The VCC system 200 includes the ED system 300, the EC system 400 and the ER
system 500, each of which is shown as a broken-line ellipse. The VCC system 200 is
configured to monitor energy usage at the ED system 300. The ED system 300
                                              20

monitors energy usage at one or more users 150, 160 (shown in FIG. 1) and sends
energy usage information to the EC system 400. The EC system 400 processes the
energy usage information and generates one or more energy delivery parameters                 CED,
which it sends to the ER system 500 via communication link 430. The ER system
500 receives the one or more energy delivery parameters           CED  and adjusts the
electrical power Esupply(t) supplied to the users 150, 160 based on the received energy
delivery parameters     CED.   The EVP system 600 receives the weather data and the
energy usage data and calculates the energy usage improvement from the VCC 200.
[00067]           The VCC system 200 minimizes power system losses, reduces user
energy consumption and provides precise user voltage control. The VCC system 200
may include a closed loop process control application that uses user voltage data
provided by the ED system 300 to control, for example, a voltage set point Vsp on a
distribution circuit (not shown) within the ER system 500. That is, the VCC system
200 may control the voltages Vsuvply(t) of the electrical power Esuvply(t) supplied to the
users 150, 160, by adjusting the voltage set point Vsp of the distribution circuit in the
ER system 500, which may include, for example, one or more load tap changing
(LTC) transformers, one or more voltage regulators, or other voltage controlling
equipment to maintain a tighter band for optimization of the operation of the voltages
VDelivered(t) of the electric power EDelivered(t) delivered to the users 150, 160, to lower
power losses and facilitate efficient use of electrical power       EDelivered(t) at the user
locations 150 or 160.
[00068]           The VCC system 200 optimally controls or adjusts the voltage
Vsupply(t) of the electrical power Esuvply(t) supplied from the EC system 500 based on
AMI data, which includes measured voltage          VMeter(t) data from the users 150, 160 in
the ED system 300, and based on validation data from the EVP system 600 and
information received from the EPP system 1700. The VCC system 200 may adjust
the voltage set point Vsp at the substation or line regulator level in the ER system 500
by, for example, adjusting the LTC transformer (not shown), circuit regulators (not
shown), or the like, to maintain the user voltages      VMeter(t)  in a target voltage band
VBand-n,  which may include a safe nominal operating range.
[00069]           The VCC system 200 is configured to maintain the electrical power
EDelivered(t) delivered to the users 150, 160 within one or more voltage bands VBand-n.
                                                21

For example, the energy may be delivered in two or more voltage bands VBand-n
substantially simultaneously, where the two or more voltage bands may be
substantially the same or different. The value          VBand-n may be determined by the
following expression [1]:
[1]      VBand-n =Vsp     + AV
where VBand-n is a range of voltages, n is a positive integer greater than zero
corresponding to the number of voltage bands VBand that may be handled at
substantially the same time, Vsp is the voltage set point value and AV is a voltage
deviation range.
[00070]           For example, the VCC system 200 may maintain the electrical power
EDelivered(t) delivered to the users 150, 160 within a band VBand-1 equal to, for example,
1I1V to 129V for rural applications, where Vsp is set to 120V and AV is set to a
deviation of seven-and-one-half percent (+/- 7.5%). Similarly, the VCC system 200
may maintain the electrical power        EDelivered(t) delivered to the users 150, 160 within a
band VBand-2 equal to, for example, 1 14V to 126V for urban applications, where Vsp is
set to 120V and AV is set to a deviation of five (+/- 5%).
[00071]           The VCC system 200 may maintain the electrical power             EDelivered(t)
delivered to the users 150, 160 at any voltage band VBand-n usable by the users 150,
160, by determining appropriate values for Vsp and AV. In this regard, the values Vsp
and AV may be determined by the EC system 400 based on the energy usage
information for users 150, 160, received from the ED system 300.
[00072]           The EC system 400 may send the Vsp and AV values to the ER system
500 as energy delivery parameters CED, which may also include the value VBand-n.
The ER system 500 may then control and maintain the voltage              VDelivered(t) of the
electrical power    EDelivered(t) delivered to the users 150, 160, within the voltage band
VBand-n.   The energy delivery parameters CED may further include, for example, load
tap-changer (LTC) control commands.
[00073]           The EVP system 600 may further measure and validate energy savings
by comparing energy usage by the users 150, 160 before a change in the voltage set
point value Vsp (or voltage band VBand-n) to the energy usage by the users 150, 160
                                                  22

after a change in the voltage set point value Vsp (or voltage band       VBand-n), according
to principles of the disclosure. These measurements and validations may be used to
determine the effect in overall energy savings by, for example, lowering the voltage
VDelivered(t) of the electrical power EDelivered(t) delivered to the users 150, 160, and to
determine optimal delivery voltage bands       VBand-n  for the energy power   EDelivered(t)
delivered to the users 150, 160.
ER SYSTEM 500
[00074]           The ER system 500 may communicate with the ED system 300 and/or
EC system 400 by means of the network 170. The ER system 500 is coupled to the
network 170 and the EC system 400 by means of communication links 510 and 430,
respectively. The EC system 500 is also coupled to the ED system 300 by means of
the power lines 340, which may include communication links.
[00075]           The ER system 500 includes a substation 530 which receives the
electrical power supply Ejn(t) from, for example, the power generating station 110
(shown in FIG. 1) on a line 520. The electrical power E1n(t) includes a voltage V1n(t)
component and a current I1 n(t) component. The substation 530 adjustably transforms
the received electrical power Ejn(t) to, for example, reduce (or step-down) the voltage
component Vjn(t) of the electrical power Ej,(t) to a voltage value Vsupply(t) of the
electrical power Esupply(t) supplied to the plurality of AMIs 330 on the power supply
lines 340.
[00076]           The substation 530 may include a transformer (not shown), such as, for
example, a load tap change (LTC) transformer. In this regard, the substation 530 may
further include an automatic tap changer mechanism (not shown), which is configured
to automatically change the taps on the LTC transformer. The tap changer
mechanism may change the taps on the LTC transformer either on-load (on-load tap
changer, or OLTC) or off-load, or both. The tap changer mechanism may be motor
driven and computer controlled. The substation 530 may also include a buck/boost
transformer to adjust and maximize the power factor of the electrical power
EDelivered(t) supplied to the users on power supply lines 340.
                                               23

[00077]          Additionally (or alternatively), the substation 530 may include one or
more voltage regulators, or other voltage controlling equipment, as known by those
having ordinary skill in the art, that may be controlled to maintain the output the
voltage component Vsupply(t) of the electrical power Esupply(t) at a predetermined
voltage value or within a predetermined range of voltage values.
[00078]          The substation 530 receives the energy delivery parameters   CED  from
the EC system 400 on the communication link 430. The energy delivery parameters
CED  may include, for example, load tap coefficients when an LTC transformer is used
to step-down the input voltage component Vjn(t) of the electrical power Ej,(t) to the
voltage component Vsupply(t) of the electrical power Esuvply(t) supplied to the ED
system 300. In this regard, the load tap coefficients may be used by the ER system
500 to keep the voltage component Vsuvply(t) on the low-voltage side of the LTC
transformer at a predetermined voltage value or within a predetermined range of
voltage values.
[00079]          The LTC transformer may include, for example, seventeen or more
steps (thirty-five or more available positions), each of which may be selected based on
the received load tap coefficients. Each change in step may adjust the voltage
component Vsupply(t) on the low voltage side of the LTC transformer by as little as, for
example, about five-sixteenths (0.3%), or less.
[00080]          Alternatively, the LTC transformer may include fewer than seventeen
steps. Similarly, each change in step of the LTC transformer may adjust the voltage
component Vsupply(t) on the low voltage side of the LTC transformer by more than, for
example, about five-sixteenths (0.3%).
[00081]          The voltage component Vsuvply(t) may be measured and monitored on
the low voltage side of the LTC transformer by, for example, sampling or
continuously measuring the voltage component Vsuvply(t) of the stepped-down
electrical power Esuvply(t) and storing the measured voltage component Vsuvply(t)
values as a function of time t in a storage (not shown), such as, for example, a
computer readable medium. The voltage component Vsuvply(t) may be monitored on,
for example, a substation distribution bus, or the like. Further, the voltage component
                                             24

Vsupply(t) may be measured at any point where measurements could be made for the
transmission or distribution systems in the ER system 500.
[00082]             Similarly, the voltage component V1n(t) of the electrical power E1n(t)
input to the high voltage side of the LTC transformer may be measured and
monitored. Further, the current component Isupply(t) of the stepped-down electrical
power Esuvply(t) and the current component 11(t) of the electrical power Ejr(t) may also
be measured and monitored. In this regard, a phase difference         ern(t) between the
voltage V1 n(t) and current I1 n(t) components of the electrical power E1n(t) may be
determined and monitored. Similarly, a phase difference Tsuvply(t) between the
voltage Vsupply(t) and current Isu'PPy(t) components of the electrical energy supply
Esupply(t) may be determined and monitored.
[00083]             The ER system 500 may provide electrical energy supply status
information to the EC system 400 on the communication links 430 or 510. The
electrical energy supply information may include the monitored voltage component
Vsupply(t). The electrical energy supply information may further include the voltage
component V1 n(t), current components I1 n(t), Isuvply(t), and/or phase difference values
 p1n(t), Tsupply(t), as a function of time t. The electrical energy supply status
information may also include, for example, the load rating of the LTC transformer.
[00084]             The electrical energy supply status information may be provided to the
EC system 400 at periodic intervals of time, such as, for example, every second, 5
sec., 10 sec., 30 sec., 60 sec., 120 sec., 600 sec., or any other value within the scope
and spirit of the disclosure, as determined by one having ordinary skill in the art. The
periodic intervals of time may be set by the EC system 400 or the ER system 500.
Alternatively, the electrical energy supply status information may be provided to the
EC system 400 or ER system 500 intermittently.
[00085]             Further, the electrical energy supply status information may be
forwarded to the EC system 400 in response to a request by the EC system 400, or
when a predetermined event is detected. The predetermined event may include, for
example, when the voltage component Vsuvply(t) changes by an amount greater (or
less) than a defined threshold value VSupplyThreshold (for example, 130V) over a
                                                 25

predetermined interval of time, a temperature of one or more components in the ER
system 500 exceeds a defined temperature threshold, or the like.
ED SYSTEM 300
[00086]          The ED system 300 includes a plurality of AMIs 330. The ED system
300 may further include at least one collector 350, which is optional. The ED system
300 may be coupled to the network 170 by means of a communication link 310. The
collector 350 may be coupled to the plurality of AMIs 330 by means of a
communication link 320. The AMIs 330 may be coupled to the ER system 500 by
means of one or more power supply lines 340, which may also include
communication links.
[00087]          Each AMI 330 is configured to measure, store and report energy usage
data by the associated users 150, 160 (shown in FIG. 1). Each AMI 330 is further
configured to measure and determine energy usage at the users 150, 160, including
the voltage component VMeter(t) and current component Iueter(t) of the electrical power
EMeter(t) used by the users 150, 160, as a function of time. The AMIs 330 may
measure the voltage component VMeter(t) and current component IMeter(t) of the
electrical power EMerer(t) at discrete times ts, where s is a sampling period, such as, for
example, s = 5 sec., 10 sec., 30 sec., 60 sec., 300 sec., 600 sec., or more. For
example, the AMIs 330 may measure energy usage every, for example, minute (t6o
see), five minutes (t3 oo see), ten minutes (t6 oo sec), or more, or at time intervals variably
set by the AMI 330 (for example, using a random number generator).
[00088]          The AMIs 330 may average the measured voltage VMeter(t) and/or
IWeter(t) values over predetermined time intervals (for example, 5 min., 10 min., 30
min., or more). The AMIs 330 may store the measured electrical power usage
EMerer(t), including the measured voltage component VMeter(t) and/or current
component IWeter(t) as AMI data in a local (or remote) storage (not shown), such as,
for example, a computer readable medium.
[00089]           Each AMI 330 is also capable of operating in a "report-by-exception"
mode for any voltage      VMeter(t), current IWeter(t), or energy usage EMerer(t) that falls
outside of a target component band. The target component band may include, a target
                                                  26

voltage band, a target current band, or a target energy usage band. In the "report-by
exception" mode, the AMI 330 may sua sponte initiate communication and send AMI
data to the EC system 400. The "report-by-exception" mode may be used to
reconfigure the AMIs 330 used to represent, for example, the lowest voltages on the
circuit as required by changing system conditions.
[00090]          The AMI data may be periodically provided to the collector 350 by
means of the communication links 320. Additionally, the AMIs 330 may provide the
AMI data in response to a AMI data request signal received from the collector 350 on
the communication links 320.
[00091]          Alternatively (or additionally), the AMI data may be periodically
provided directly to the EC system 400 (for example, the MAS 460) from the plurality
of AMIs, by means of, for example, communication links 320, 410 and network 170.
In this regard, the collector 350 may be bypassed, or eliminated from the ED system
300. Furthermore, the AMIs 330 may provide the AMI data directly to the EC system
400 in response to a AMI data request signal received from the EC system 400. In the
absence of the collector 350, the EC system (for example, the MAS 460) may carry
out the functionality of the collector 350 described herein.
[00092]          The request signal may include, for example, a query (or read) signal
and a AMI identification signal that identifies the particular AMI 330 from which
AMI data is sought. The AMI data may include the following information for each
AMI 330, including, for example, kilo-Watt-hours (kWh) delivered data, kWh
received data, kWh delivered plus kWh received data, kWh delivered minus kWh
received data, voltage level data, current level data, phase angle between voltage and
current, kVar data, time interval data, demand data, and the like.
[00093]          Additionally, the AMIs 330 may send the AMI data to the meter
automation system server MAS 460. The AMI data may be sent to the MAS 460
periodically according to a predetermined schedule or upon request from the MAS
460.
[00094]          The collector 350 is configured to receive the AMI data from each of
the plurality of AMIs 330 via the communication links 320. The collector 350 stores
                                             27

the received AMI data in a local storage (not shown), such as, for example, a
computer readable medium (e.g., a non-transitory computer readable medium). The
collector 350 compiles the received AMI data into a collector data. In this regard, the
received AMI data may be aggregated into the collector data based on, for example, a
geographic zone in which the AMIs 330 are located, a particular time band (or range)
during which the AMI data was collected, a subset of AMIs 330 identified in a
collector control signal, and the like. In compiling the received AMI data, the
collector 350 may average the voltage component VMeter(t) values received in the AMI
data from all (or a subset of all) of the AMIs 330.
[00095]         The EC system 400 is able to select or alter a subset of all of the AMIs
330 to be monitored for predetermined time intervals, which may include for example
15 minute intervals. It is noted that the predetermined time intervals may be shorter
or longer than 15 minutes. The subset of all of the AMIs 330 is selectable and can be
altered by the EC system 400 as needed to maintain minimum level control of the
voltage Vsupply(t) supplied to the AMIs 330.
[00096]         The collector 350 may also average the electrical power EMeter(t) values
received in the AMI data from all (or a subset of all) of the AMIs 330. The compiled
collector data may be provided by the collector 350 to the EC system 400 by means of
the communication link 310 and network 170. For example, the collector 350 may
send the compiled collector data to the MAS 460 (or ROC 490) in the EC system 400.
[00097]         The collector 350 is configured to receive collector control signals over
the network 170 and communication link 310 from the EC system 400. Based on the
received collector control signals, the collector 350 is further configured to select
particular ones of the plurality of AMIs 330 and query the meters for AMI data by
sending a AMI data request signal to the selected AMIs 330. The collector 350 may
then collect the AMI data that it receives from the selected AMIs 330 in response to
the queries. The selectable AMIs 330 may include any one or more of the plurality of
AMIs 330. The collector control signals may include, for example, an identification
of the AMIs 330 to be queried (or read), time(s) at which the identified AMIs 330 are
to measure the VMeter(t), IMeter(t), EMeter(t) and/or Meer(t) (TMeter(t) is the phase
difference between the voltage VMeter(t) and current IMeter(t) components of the
electrical power EMeter(t) measured at the identified AMI 330), energy usage
                                               28

information since the last reading from the identified AMI 330, and the like. The
collector 350 may then compile and send the compiled collector data to the MAS 460
(and/or ROC 490) in the EC system 400.
EC SYSTEM 400
[00098]         The EC system 400 may communicate with the ED system 300 and/or
ER system 500 by means of the network 170. The EC system 400 is coupled to the
network 170 by means of one or more communication links 410. The EC system 400
may also communicate directly with the ER system 500 by means of a
communication link 430.
[00099]         The EC system 400 includes the MAS 460, a database (DB) 470, a
distribution management system (DMS) 480, and a regional operation center (ROC)
490. The ROC 490 may include a computer (ROC computer) 495, a server (not
shown) and a database (not shown). The MAS 460 may be coupled to the DB 470
and DMS 480 by means of communication links 420 and 440, respectively. The
DMS 480 may be coupled to the ROC 490 and ER system 500 by means of the
communication link 430. The database 470 may be located at the same location as
(for example, proximate to, or within) the MAS 460, or at a remote location that may
be accessible via, for example, the network 170.
[000100]        The EC system 400 is configured to de-select, from the subset of
monitored AMIs 330, an AMI 330 that the EC system 400 previously selected to
monitor, and select the AMI 330 that is outside of the subset of monitored AMIs 330,
but which is operating in the report-by-exception mode. The EC system 400 may
carry out this change after receiving the sua sponte AMI data from the non-selected
AMI 330. In this regard, the EC system 400 may remove or terminate a connection to
the de-selected AMI 330 and create a new connection to the newly selected AMI 330
operating in the report-by-exception mode. The EC system 400 is further configured
to select any one or more of the plurality of AMIs 330 from which it receives AMI
data comprising, for example, the lowest measured voltage component VMeter(t), and
generate an energy delivery parameter CED based on the AMI data received from the
AMI(s) 330 that provide the lowest measured voltage component VMeer(t).
                                            29

[000101]         The MAS 460 may include a computer (not shown) that is configured
to receive the collector data from the collector 350, which includes AMI data
collected from a selected subset (or all) of the AMIs 330. The MAS 460 is further
configured to retrieve and forward AMI data to the ROC 490 in response to queries
received from the ROC 490. The MAS 460 may store the collector data, including
AMI data in a local storage and/or in the DB 470.
[000102]         The DMS 480 may include a computer that is configured to receive the
electrical energy supply status information from the substation 530. The DMS 480 is
further configured to retrieve and forward measured voltage component VMeer(t)
values and electrical power EMerer(t) values in response to queries received from the
ROC 490. The DMS 480 may be further configured to retrieve and forward measured
current component IMeter(t) values in response to queries received from the ROC 490.
The DMS 480 also may be further configured to retrieve all "report-by-exception"
voltages VMeter(t) from the AMIs 330 operating in the "report-by-exception" mode and
designate the voltages VMeter(t) as one of the control points to be continuously read at
predetermined times (for example, every 15 minutes, or less (or more), or at varying
times). The "report-by-exception voltages VMeter(t) may be used to control the EC
500 set points.
[000103]         The DB 470 may include a plurality of relational databases (not
shown). The DB 470 includes a large number of records that include historical data
for each AMI 330, each collector 350, each substation 530, and the geographic area(s)
(including latitude, longitude, and altitude) where the AMIs 330, collectors 350, and
substations 530 are located.
[000104]         For instance, the DB 470 may include any one or more of the
following information for each AMI 330, including: a geographic location (including
latitude, longitude, and altitude); a AMI identification number; an account number; an
account name; a billing address; a telephone number; a AMI type, including model
and serial number; a date when the AMI was first placed into use; a time stamp of
when the AMI was last read (or queried); the AMI data received at the time of the last
reading; a schedule of when the AMI is to be read (or queried), including the types of
information that are to be read; and the like.
                                             30

[000105]         The historical AMI data may include, for example, the electrical power
EMeter(t) used by the particular AMI 330, as a function of time. Time t may be
measured in, for example, discrete intervals at which the electrical power EMeter
magnitude (kWh) of the received electrical power EMeter(t) is measured or determined
at the AMI 330. The historical AMI data includes a measured voltage component
VMeer(t) of the electrical energy EMerer(t) received at the AMI 330. The historical AMI
data may further include a measured current component IMeter(t) and/or phase
difference (pmeter(t) of the electrical power EMeter(t) received at the AMI 330.
[000106]         As noted earlier, the voltage component VMeter(t) may be measured at a
sampling period of, for example, every five seconds, ten seconds, thirty seconds, one
minute, five minutes, ten minutes, fifteen minutes, or the like. The current component
IMeter(t) and/or the received electrical power EMeter(t) values may also be measured at
substantially the same times as the voltage component VMeer(t).
[000107]         Given the low cost of memory, the DB 470 may include historical data
from the very beginning of when the AMI data was first collected from the AMIs 330
through to the most recent AMI data received from the AMIs 330.
[000108]         The DB 470 may include a time value associated with each measured
voltage component VMeter(t), current component Iueter(t), phase component        Meter)
and/or electrical power EMerer(t), which may include a timestamp value generated at
the AMI 330. The timestamp value may include, for example, a year, a month, a day,
an hour, a minute, a second, and a fraction of a second. Alternatively, the timestamp
may be a coded value which may be decoded to determine a year, a month, a day, an
hour, a minute, a second, and a fraction of a second, using, for example, a look up
table. The ROC 490 and/or AMIs 330 may be configured to receive, for example, a
WWVB atomic clock signal transmitted by the U.S. National Institute of Standards
and Technology (NIST), or the like and synchronize its internal clock (not shown) to
the WWVB atomic clock signal.
[000109]         The historical data in the DB 470 may further include historical
collector data associated with each collector 350. The historical collector data may
include any one or more of the following information, including, for example: the
particular AMIs 330 associated with each collector 350; the geographic location
                                              31

(including latitude, longitude, and altitude) of each collector 350; a collector type,
including model and serial number; a date when the collector 350 was first placed into
use; a time stamp of when collector data was last received from the collector 350; the
collector data that was received; a schedule of when the collector 350 is expected to
send collector data, including the types of information that are to be sent; and the like.
[000110]         The historical collector data may further include, for example, an
external temperature value Tcouiector(t) measured outside of each collector 350 at time
t. The historical collector data may further include, for example, any one or more of
the following for each collector 350: an atmospheric pressure value Pcouector(t)
measured proximate the collector 350 at time t; a humidity value Hcouector(t) measured
proximate the collector 350 at time t; a wind vector value Wcoiector(t) measured
proximate the collector 350 at time t, including direction and magnitude of the
measured wind; a solar irradiant value Lcouector(t) (kW/m 2) measured proximate the
collector 350 at time t; and the like.
[000111]         The historical data in the DB 470 may further include historical
substation data associated with each substation 530. The historical substation data
may include any one or more of the following information, including, for example:
the identifications of the particular AMIs 330 supplied with electrical energy Esuply,(t)
by the substation 530; the geographic location (including latitude, longitude, and
altitude) of the substation 530; the number of distribution circuits; the number of
transformers; a transformer type of each transformer, including model, serial number
and maximum Megavolt Ampere (MVA) rating; the number of voltage regulators; a
voltage regulator type of each voltage regulator, including model and serial number; a
time stamp of when substation data was last received from the substation 530; the
substation data that was received; a schedule of when the substation 530 is expected
to provide electrical energy supply status information, including the types of
information that are to be provided; and the like.
[000112]         The historical substation data may include, for example, the electrical
power Esuvply(t) supplied to each particular AMI 330, where Esupply(t) is measured or
determined at the output of the substation 530. The historical substation data includes
a measured voltage component Vsuvply(t) of the supplied electrical power Esupplyt,
which may be measured, for example, on the distribution bus (not shown) from the
                                              32

transformer. The historical substation data may further include a measured current
component Isupply(t) of the supplied electrical power Esupply(t). As noted earlier, the
voltage component Vsupply(t), the current component Isupply(t), and/or the electrical
power Esupply(t) may be measured at a sampling period of, for example, every five
seconds, ten seconds, thirty seconds, a minute, five minutes, ten minutes, or the like.
The historical substation data may further include a phase difference value      esupply(t)
between the voltage Vsupply(t) and current Isupply(t) signals of the electrical power
Esupply(t), which may be used to determine the power factor of the electrical power
Esupply(t) supplied to the AMIs 330.
[000113]         The historical substation data may further include, for example, the
electrical power Ej(t) received on the line 520 at the input of the substation 530,
where the electrical power En(t) is measured or determined at the input of the
substation 530. The historical substation data may include a measured voltage
component V1 n(t) of the received electrical power Ej(t), which may be measured, for
example, at the input of the transformer. The historical substation data may further
include a measured current component I1 (t) of the received electrical power En(t).
As noted earlier, the voltage component V1n(t), the current component 11(t), and/or the
electrical power Ej(t) may be measured at a sampling period of, for example, every
five seconds, ten seconds, thirty seconds, a minute, five minutes, ten minutes, or the
like. The historical substation data may further include a phase difference      ern(t)
between the voltage component Vjn(t) and current component 11(t) of the electrical
power Ej(t). The power factor of the electrical power Ej(t) may be determined based
on the phase difference   ern(t).
[000114]         According to an aspect of the disclosure, the EC system 400 may save
aggregated kW data at the substation level, voltage data at the substation level, and
weather data to compare to energy usage per AMI 330 to determine the energy
savings from the VCC system 200, and using linear regression to remove the effects
of weather, load growth, economic effects, and the like, from the calculation.
[000115]         In the VCC system 200, control may be initiated from, for example,
the ROC computer 495. In this regard, a control screen 305 may be displayed on the
ROC computer 495, as shown, for example, in FIG. 3 of the US 2013/0030591
publication. The control screen 305 may correspond to data for a particular substation
                                             33

530 (for example, the TRABUE SUBSTATION) in the ER system 500. The ROC
computer 495 can control and override (if necessary), for example, the substation 530
load tap changing transformer based on, for example, the AMI data received from the
ED system 300 for the users 150, 160. The ED system 300 may determine the
voltages of the electrical power supplied to the user locations 150, 160, at
predetermined (or variable) intervals, such as, e.g., on average each 15 minutes, while
maintaining the voltages within required voltage limits.
[000116]        For system security, the substation 530 may be controlled through the
direct communication link 430 from the ROC 490 and/or DMS 480, including
transmission of data through communication link 430 to and from the ER 500, EUS
300 and EVP 600.
[000117]        Furthermore, an operator can initiate a voltage control program on the
ROC computer 490, overriding the controls, if necessary, and monitoring a time it
takes to read the user voltages VMeter(t) being used for control of, for example, the
substation LTC transformer (not shown) in the ER system 500.
EVP SYSTEM 600
[000118]        FIG. 3 of the co-pending /P006 application shows the energy
validation process 600 for determining the amount of conservation in energy per
customer realized by operating the VCC system in FIGS. 1-2 of the present
application. The process is started 601 and the data the ON and OFF periods is
loaded 602 by the process manager. The next step is to collect 603 the hourly voltage
and power (MW) data from the metering data points on the VCC system from the
DMS 480 which may be part of a supervisory control and data acquisition (SCADA)
type of industrial control system. Next the corresponding weather data is collected
604 for the same hourly conditions. The data is processed 605, 606, 607, 608 to
improve its quality using filters and analysis techniques to eliminate outliers that
could incorrectly affect the results, as describe further below. If hourly pairing is to
be done the hourly groups are determined 609 using the linear regression techniques.
The next major step is to determine 611, 612, 613, 614, 615, 616, 617 the optimal
pairing of the samples, as described further below.
                                             34

EPP SYSTEM 1700
[000119]        FIG. 2 of the present application also shows an example of the EPP
system 1700 applied to a distribution circuit, which also may include the VCC system
200 and the EVP system 600, as discussed previously. The EPP system 1700 collects
the historic energy and voltage data from the AMI system from database 470 and/or
the distribution management systems (DMS) 480 and combines this with the CVR
factor analysis from the EVP system 600 (an example calculation of a CVR factor is
discussed in detail in the co-pending /P006 application, although other methods of
calculation may also be used) to produce an optimized robust planning process for
correcting problems and improving the capability of the VCC system 200 to increase
the energy efficiency and demand reduction applications.
[000120]        FIG. 3 shows an example of how the EEDCS 1000 is represented as a
linear model for the calculation of the delivery voltages and the energy losses by just
using a linear model with assumptions within the limitations of the output voltages.
This model enables a robust model that can implement an optimization process and is
more accommodating to a secondary voltage measuring system (e.g., AMI-based
measurements). The two linear approximations for the power losses associated with
the voltage drops from the ESS 800 to the EUS 900 are shown and make up the
mathematical model for the performance criterion over limited model range of the
voltage constraints of the EUS AMI voltages. The energy losses in the EEDCS 1000
can be linearized based on the voltage drop from the ESS 800 to the EUS 900, as
represented by the equation: VS - V~m1    = BEEDCS  x PLossEEDCS, where VS is the ESS
voltage, VAm1 is the EUS voltage (as measured by AMI 330), BEEDCS represents the
slope of the linear regression, and PLossEEDCS represents the loss energy losses in the
EEDCS 1000. Similarly, the energy loss in an EUS 900 (e.g., the difference in energy
between when the load is in the ON and OFF states) can be linearized based on the
voltage difference between a measurement in the load-ON state and a measurement in
the load-OFF state, as represented by the equation: VArlon     - VArorff = BEUS x PLossEUS,
where VArlon is the EUS voltage in the ON state, VAroff is the EUS voltage in the
OFF state, BEUS represents the slope of the linear regression, and PLOssEUS represents
the difference in energy between the load-ON and load-OFF states. The relative loss
amounts between the primary and secondary EEDCS          (PLossEEDCS) to the CVR factor
                                            35

based losses of the EUS to ED (PLossEUS) are less than 5% and more than 95%. This
near order of magnitude difference allows more assumptions to be used in deriving
the smaller magnitude of the EEDCS losses and the more accurate model for
calculating the larger CVR factor losses of the EUS to ED.
[000121]        FIG. 4 shows an example of an EEDS control structure for an electric
distribution system with measuring points at the ESS delivery points and the EUS
metering points. The control points are the independent variables in the optimization
model that will be used to determine the optimum solution to the minimization of the
power losses in the EEDS 700. The blocks at the top of the FIG. 4 illustrate the
components of the various systems of the EEDS. 700, e.g., ESS 800, EEDCS 1000,
EUS 900 and ED system 300, where the controls or independent variables are located.
Below each box include examples of the independent variables that can be used to
accomplish the optimization of the EEDS 700. For example, the independent
variables to be used in the optimization may include the LTC transformer output
voltages, the regulator output voltages, the position of the capacitor banks, the voltage
level of the distributed generation, customer voltage control devices, the inverters for
electrical vehicle charging, direct load control devices that affect voltage. The AMI
meters 330 are placed at points where the independent variables and the output
voltages to the EUS 900 can be measured by the VCC 200.
[000122]        FIG. 5 shows an example of the measuring system for the AMI meters
330 used in the VCC 200. The key characteristic is that the meters 330 sample the
constantly changing levels of voltage at the EUS 900 delivery points and produce the
data points that can be compared to the linear model of the load characteristics. This
process is used to provide the 5-15 minute sampling that provides the basis to search
the boundary conditions of the EEDS 700 to locate the optimum point (discussed in
more detail below with reference to FIGs. 9-13). The independent variables are
measured to determine the inputs to the linear model for producing an expected state
of the output voltages to the EUS 900 for use in modeling the optimization and
determining the solution to the optimization problem.
[000123]        FIG. 6 shows an example of the linear regression analysis relating the
control variables to the EUS voltages that determine the power loss, voltage level and
provide the input for searching for the optimum condition and recognizing the
                                            36

abnormal voltage levels from the AMI voltage metering. The specifics of an example
linear regression analysis are discussed in more detail in co-pending patent
application nos. 61/794623 and 14/193,872, entitled ELECTRIC POWER SYSTEM
CONTROL WITH PLANNING OF ENERGY DEMAND AND ENERGY
EFFICIENCY USING AMI-BASED DATA ANALYSIS ("the co-pending /P008
application"), the entirety of which are incorporated herein, although other linear
regression analyses may also be used.
[000124]         FIG. 7 shows an example of the mapping of control meters to zones of
control and blocks of control. Each "zone" refers to all AMIs 330 downstream of a
regulator and upstream of the next regulator (e.g., LTC, regulator) and each "block"
refers to areas within the sphere of influence of features of the distribution system
(e.g., a specific capacitor). In the example shown in FIG. 7, the LTC Zone includes
all AMIs 330 downstream of the LTC and upstream of regulator 1402 (e.g., the AMIs
330 in BI and B2), the Regulator Zone includes all AMIs 330 downstream of
regulator 1402 (e.g., the AMIs 300 in B3), and Block 2 (B2) includes all AMIs 330
within the influence (upstream or downstream) of capacitor 1403. Each block
includes a specific set of meters 330 for monitoring. The particular meters 330 that
are monitored may be determined by the adaptive process within the VCC 200 (as
described in US publication 2013/0030591) with respective AMI meter populations.
[000125]         FIG. 8 shows an example of how the voltage characteristics from the
independent variables are mapped to the linear regression models of the monitored
meters 330. The primary loadflow model is used to determine how the general
characteristics of the LTC transformer, regulator, capacitor bank, distributed
generation and other voltage control independent variables affect the linear regression
model. This change is initiated and used to determine the decision point for operating
the independent variable so that the optimization process can be implemented to
determine the new limiting point from the boundary conditions. The model uses the
conversion of the electrical model to a per unit calculation that is then converted to a
set of models with nominal voltages of 120 volts. This is then used to translate to the
VCC process for implementing the linear regression models for both the ESS to EUS
voltage control and the calculation of the EEDS losses. An example modeling
                                            37

process is described in further detail with respect to FIG. 6 of the co-pending /P008
application, although other modeling processes may also be used.
[000126]        Tables 1-4 and FIG. 9 show the implementation of the optimization
control for the VCC 200. Table 1 shows the definition of the boundary conditions for
defining the optimization problem and solution process for the VCC 200. Table also
describes the boundaries where the model does not apply, for example, the model
does not represent the loading of the equipment within the EEDS 700. This modeling
is done, instead by more detailed loadflow models for the primary system of the
EEDS 700 and is accomplished in the more traditional distribution management
systems (DMS) not covered by this disclosure. The present voltage control process is
a voltage loss control process that can be plugged into the DMS 480 controls using
the VCC 200 process described in FIG. 2.
                            The Voltage Optimization Problem
  Problem Boundaries: EEDS System
         -Specifically the boundary is around control of two characteristics
         -Power flow from the ESS to the EUS
         -Power flow from the EUS to the EDS with CVR
         -The control of the secondary or EUS delivery voltages
         -The loading of the equipment is outside of the problem boundaries
                                          Table 1
[000127]        Table 2 shows the performance criterion (e.g., the values to be
optimized) and the independent variables (e.g., the values that are varied to gain the
optimized solution) of the optimization problem for the VCC 200. The performance
criterion are represented by the linear loss models for the EEDCS primary and
secondary as well as the CVR factor linear model of the EUS to ED. The use of these
linear models in the optimization allows a simple method of calculating the losses
within the constraints of the EUS voltages. It also takes advantage of the order of
magnitude difference between the two types of losses (as described above with
respect to FIG. 3) to make a practical calculation of the performance criterion for the
optimization problem.
                                             38

                           The Voltage Optimization Problem
  The Performance Criterion: EEDS System Losses
         -Power flow losses from the ESS to the EUS
         -Power flow from the EUS to the EDS from CVR
         -The losses in the EDS beyond CVR from loading of the equipment is not
         included
  The Independent Variables:
         -LTC Control Voltage setpoints
         -Capacitor Bank Voltage and/or VAR setpoints
         -Line Regulator Voltage setpoints
         -EUS Voltage Control
         -EDS level Voltage Control
                                          Table 2
[000128]        FIG. 9 shows the summary model used for the implementation of the
optimization solution for the VCC including the linearization for the EEDCS and the
linearization of the two loss calculations as well as the linearization model 1750 of the
control variables to the output EUS voltages in the bellwether group as well as the
general EUS voltage population. These models allow a direct solution to the
optimization to be made using linear optimization theory.
[000129]        Table 3 shows the operational constraints of the EUS voltages and the
specific assumptions and calculations needed to complete the derivation of the
optimization solution that determines the process used by the VCC 200 to implement
the optimization search for the optimum point on the boundary conditions determined
by the constraints by the EUS voltages. The assumptions are critical to understanding
the novel implementation of the VCC control 200 process. The per unit calculation
process develops the model basis where the primary and secondary models of the
EEDCS 1000 can be derived and translated to a linear process for the determination of
the control solution and give the VCC 200 its ability to output voltages at one
normalized level for clear comparison of the system state during the optimization
solution. The assumption of uniform block loading is critical to derive the constant
                                            39

decreasing nature of the voltage control independent variables and the slope variable
from the capacitor bank switching. Putting these assumptions together allows the
solution to the optimization problem to be determined. The solution is a routine that
searches the boundary conditions of the optimization, specifically the constraint levels
for the EUS to ED voltages to locate the boundary solution to the linear optimization
per linear optimization theory.
                            The Voltage Optimization Problem
 The System Model
          -Subject to constraints:
             * Vm 1    <+5%    of Nominal
             e   Vm <-5% of Nominal
 The Optimum is at a System Model Boundary
          -The Per Unit Calculation
          -Uniform Load Assumption
          -Calculation of EEDCS Losses and EUS to EDS losses
          -Decreasing Loss with Decreasing Control Variable
          -Decreasing Loss with Decreasing Voltage Slope
          -The Boundary Search Algorithm
                                          Table 3
[000130]        Table 4 shows the general form of the solution to the optimization
problem with the assumptions made in Table 3. The results show that the VCC 200
process must search the boundary conditions to find the lowest voltages in each block
and used the minimization of the slope of the average block voltages to search the
level of independent variables to find the optimal point of voltage operation where the
block voltages and block voltage slopes are minimized locating the solution to the
optimization problem where the EEDCS 1000 and the EUS 900 to ED 300 losses are
minimized satisfying the minimization of the performance criterion by linear
optimization theory.
                             Controlling Voltage Optimization
                                            40

 The Optimization Specification
          - Performance Criterion: Minimize Loss EEDCS and CVR factor EUS to
         EDS
 The EEDS Model Equations: Linear Voltage Relationships
         Vs -Vami= A+BIami
              *   I is ESS current levels
              *   Vs is the ESS source voltages
              *   Vami is the EUS to EDS output voltages
              *   A and B are linear regression constants
 Constraints:    -5% < Vami < +5%
          -The Boundary Condition solution
          -Voltage Centered in combined regression bands
          -Slope Minimization
                                           Table 4
[000131]         Table 5 is similar to Table 4, with an added practical solution step to
the VCC optimization of using the process of boundary searching to output the
setpoint change to the independent control variables with a bandwidth that matches
the optimization solution, allowing the control to precisely move the EEDS 700 to the
optimum point of operation. This also allows the VCC process 200 to have a local
failsafe process in case the centralized control loses its connection to the local
devices. If this occurs the local setpoint stays on the last setpoint and minimizes the
failure affect until the control path can be re-established.
                             Controlling Voltage Optimization
 The Optimization Specification
          - Performance Criterion: Minimize Loss EEDCS and CVR factor EUS to
         EDS
 The EEDS Model Equations: Linear Voltage Relationships
         Vs -Vami= A+BIami
               * I is ESS current levels
              *   Vs is the ESS source voltages
                                             41

             t
             .
                 Vami is the EUS to EDS output voltages
                 A and B are linear regression constants
 Constraints:   -5% < Vami < +5%
         -The Boundary Condition solution
         -Voltage Centered in combined regression bands
         -Slope Minimization
 -Setpoint control with bandwidths
                                           Table 5
[000132]        FIG. 10, which is similar to FIG. 8, shows a representation of the
approach to applying the per unit calculation to demonstrate the representation of the
relative values of the impedances and losses of the EEDCS 1000 during VCC 200
operation. This model also shows that the per unit values can be used to build a
model at the primary and secondary side that can translate the EEDS 700 and EUS
900 voltages to a common 120 volt base for comparison. This method is the method
that the VCC 200 uses to display information on voltage to the operators using a
familiar looking interface (e.g., the interface is made to look similar to what the
operator is accommodated to seeing with the older standard LTC transformer and
regulator in a DMS frame of reference, see e.g., FIG. 11). This has a practical benefit
of making the transition to using the VCC 200 an easy transition for the operators
because it reacts in a very intuitive way similar to the older type of controls.
[000133]        FIG. 11 shows the way the VCC 200 displays the ESS voltage data and
the EUS monitored meter data on the common 120 nominal voltage levels for display
to the operators. The average value of the lowest meters tracking the block lowest
voltages is displayed in the lower graph. This is the block method of searching for the
optimum condition by tracking the low voltage boundary conditions directly at the
block voltage limits. Between the two graphs it is simple and intuitive to determine
the expected operation of the VCC 200.
[000134]        FIG. 12 is the same diagram as FIG.1 1 except that it is for the
capacitor bank child control showing its bandwidth limits and the operating voltage in
the top graph and the monitored group of meters in the lower graph, that also searches
the boundary and the slope from the LTC transformer monitored meter to the
capacitor bank monitored meter is used to determine the optimum point in the loading
                                             42

at which to switch in the capacitor bank in order to minimize the slope of the line
connecting the two monitored groups. This display makes it easy for the operator to
see intuitively how the system is controlling the capacitor to implement the
optimization for the EEDS 700.
[000135]        FIG. 13 is the final chart of the overall VCC 200, EVP 600, and EPP
1700 processes used together that not only optimizes the VCC process but also
optimizes the EEDS EPP process by selecting the best improvements to be made to
improve the reliability of the EEDS voltage control and also improves the VCC
process that minimizes real-time losses in the EEDS and ED. This continuous
improvement process for the EEDS 700 optimizes the EEDS both continuously in
near time intervals as well as over longer periods of time allowing the optimization of
the EEDS over planning review cycles to focus on system modifications that allow
overall improvements in the EEDS optimization level by extending the ability to
operate on more efficient boundary conditions.
                                             43

What is claimed is:
1.       A control system for an electric power transmission and distribution grid
configured to supply electric power from a supply point to a plurality of user
locations, the system comprising:
a plurality of sensors, wherein each sensor is located at a respective one of a plurality
of distribution locations on the distribution grid at or between the supply point and at
least one of the plurality of user locations, and wherein each sensor is configured to
sense a component of the supplied electric power at the respective distribution
location and to generate measurement data based on the sensed component of the
power;
a controller configured to generate an energy delivery parameter based on a
comparison of the measurement data received from the sensors to a controller target
band;
a component adjusting device configured to adjust a component of the electric power
transmission and distribution grid in response to the energy delivery parameter;
wherein the controller target band has upper and lower limits, the upper and lower
limits defining a range of acceptable values for the component of electric power at the
distribution locations.
2.       The system of claim 1, wherein the component of the supplied electric power
is voltage and the controller target band is a controller target voltage band, the
controller is adapted to control in real time using the voltage measurement data, and
the component adjusting device includes at least one independent variable voltage
control device.
3.       The system of claim 2, wherein the controller target band upper and lower
limits define a lower portion of a range of acceptable voltage at distribution locations.
4.       The system of claim 2, wherein the controller is further configured to receive
measurement data from each sensor of a subset of the plurality of sensors, and to
                                              44

generate the energy delivery parameter based on a comparison of the measurement
data received from the subset to a controller target voltage band.
5.       The system of claim 4, wherein the subset is chosen based on a characteristic
of the sensor.
6.      The system of claim 5, wherein the characteristic is that the sensors are within
a specific block of the distribution grid.
7.       The system of claim 6, wherein the voltage component of electric power
includes both voltage magnitude and voltage angle, and there are a plurality of said
subsets, each corresponding to a respective block of the distribution grid, and the
controller is further adapted to determine for each subset the slope of the average
voltage of the subset as a function of the electric current at the supply point and as a
function of the at least one independent variable voltage control device, and to control
the voltage control device based on the average voltages and the slopes.
8.      The system of claim 7, wherein the voltage controller is further adapted to
control the voltage control device to minimize the average voltages and the slopes.
9.      The system of claim 8, wherein each of the subsets corresponds to a respective
zone of the distribution grid and each of the at least one independent variable voltage
control device corresponds to a respective block or zone of the distribution grid.
10.     The system of claim 1, wherein the voltage measurement data from a plurality
of portions of the grid is displayed to an operator of the system based on a per unit
value.
11.     The system as in claim 10, wherein the data from the supply point and the
distribution points are displayed based on a per unit value referenced to 120 volts.
12. The system of claim 1, wherein the controller is adapted to use linearization
techniques to implement the control and provide the basis for the fingerprinting of the
abnormal voltage operation indication for alarming and control.
13. The system of claim 1,wherein the controller is adapted to control the optimal
solution by deriving the two boundary conditions to simultaneously solve the
                                            45

boundary search using minimum voltages for the EUS to ED point and minimum
voltage slope from the capacitor bank position.
14.      The system of claim 1, wherein the component adjusting device is configured
to adjust a component of the electric power transmission and distribution grid in
response to the energy delivery parameter based on energy demand and energy
efficiency savings.
15.      A method for controlling electric power supplied to a plurality of distribution
locations located at or between a supply point and at least one user location, each of
the plurality of distribution locations including at least one sensor configured to sense
a component of the supplied electric power at the respective distribution location and
generate measurement data based on the sensed component, the method comprising:
generating an energy delivery parameter based on a comparison of the measurement
data received from the sensors to a controller target band, the controller target band
having upper and lower limits, the upper and lower limits defining a range of
acceptable value of the sensed component at distribution locations;
operating a component adjusting device configured to adjust a component of the
electric power transmission and distribution grid in response to the energy delivery
parameter.
16.      The method of claim 15, wherein the component of the supplied electric
power is voltage and the controller target band is a controller target voltage band.
17.      The method of claim 16, wherein the voltage component of the supplied
electric power includes the voltage magnitude and the voltage angle.
18.      The method of claim 16, wherein the controller is adapted to control to an
optimum level in real time using the voltage measurement, and the component
adjusting device includes at least one independent variable voltage control device.
19.      The method of claim 18, wherein the controller target band upper and lower
limits define a lower portion of a range of acceptable voltage at distribution locations.
                                             46

20.     The method of claim 18, wherein the controller receives measurement data
from each sensor of a subset of the plurality of sensors, and generates the energy
delivery parameter based on a comparison of the measurement data received from the
subset to a controller target voltage band.
21.      The method of claim 20, wherein the subset is chosen based on a
characteristic of the sensor.
22.     The method of claim 21, wherein the characteristic is that the sensors are
within a specific block of the distribution grid.
23.      The method of claim 22, wherein the voltage component of electric power
includes both voltage magnitude and voltage angle, and there are a plurality of said
subsets, each corresponding to a respective block of the distribution grid, and the
controller determines for each subset the slope of the average voltage of the subset as
a function of the electric current at the supply point and as a function of the at least
one independent variable voltage control device, and controls the voltage control
device based on the average voltages and the slopes.
24.     The method of claim 23, wherein the voltage controller further controls the
voltage control device to minimize the average voltages and the slopes.
25.     The method of claim 15, wherein each of the subsets corresponds to a
respective zone of the distribution grid, and each of the at least one independent
variable voltage control device corresponds to a respective block or zone of the
distribution grid.
26.     The method of claim 15, wherein the voltage measurement data from a
plurality of portions of the grid is displayed to an operator of the system based on a
per unit value.
27.     The method as in claim 26, wherein the data from the supply point and the
distribution points are displayed based on a per unit value referenced to 120 volts.
28. The method of claim 15, wherein the controller uses linearization techniques to
implement the control and provide the basis for the fingerprinting of the abnormal
voltage operation indication for alarming and control.
                                             47

29. The method of claim 15,wherein the controller controls the optimal solution by
deriving the two boundary conditions to simultaneously solve the boundary search
using minimum voltages for the EUS to ED point and minimum voltage slope from
the capacitor bank position.
30. The method of claim 15, wherein the component adjusting device is operated to
adjust a component of the electric power transmission and distribution grid in
response to the energy delivery parameter based on energy demand and energy
efficiency savings.
                                          48

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
