                          NATIVE APPLICATION TESTING
ABSTRACT
        In one embodiment, a method includes deploying an application to a plurality of client
system, providing a treatment of the application to a set of client systems by receiving a request
from the client system, determining whether the client system belongs in a treat group, remotely
activating the treatment, and synchronizing activation of the treatment in response to subsequent
requests, and receiving exposure data from the set of client system identifying exposure of the
users to the treatment.

                                           3/4
                                            300
         deploying an application to a
           plurality of client systems
    associated with a plurality of users,
310         respectively, wherein the
      application is installed on each of
    the client systems, and wherein one          F-    ~                       ~
    or more treatments can be remotely                    receiving a request from the
          activated on the application          1322   application installed on the client
                                                     system to access one or more of the
                                                               computing devices
                                                        determining whether the client
      providing a first treatment of the         324     system belongs in a treatment
      application to a.first set of client              group associated with the first
       systems of the plurality of client                            treatment
320      systems, the first set of client
       systems being associated with a
      first set of users of the plurality of              remotely activating the first
                users, respectively              326 treatment on the client system if the
                                                          client system belongs in the
                                                                 treatment group
      receiving exposure data from the           328 synchronizing activation of the first
     first set of client systems, wherein            treatment in response to subsequent
330   the exposure data for each client                    access by the client system
    system identifies an exposure of the                                          -
    user of the client system to the first
                    treatment
                                         FIG. 3

                                                    1
                           NATIVE APPLICATION TESTING
RELATED APPLICATIONS
         [1]    This application    is related    to U.S.   Patent Serial No. 13/948,893,      filed
23 July 2013, U.S. Patent Serial No. 15/006,477 filed 26 January 2016, International Application
No. PCT/US2014/047261        titled "Native application testing" filed 18 July 2014, Australian
Application No. 2014293451 filed 18 July 2014, and Australian Application No. <removed-apn>
filed 18 July 2014, the entire content of each of which is incorporated by reference as if fully set
forth herein.
TECHNICAL FIELD
         [2]    This disclosure generally relates to online social networks and launching features
or products in online environments.
BACKGROUND
         [3]    A social-networking system, which may include a social-networking website,
may enable its users (such as persons or organizations) to interact with it and with each other
through it. The social-networking system may, with input from a user, create and store in the
social-networking system a user profile associated with the user. The user profile may include
demographic information, communication-channel information, and information on personal
interests of the user. The social-networking system may also, with input from a user, create and
store a record of relationships of the user with other users of the social-networking system, as
well as provide services (e.g., wall posts, photo-sharing, event organization, messaging, games,
or advertisements) to facilitate social interaction between or among users.
         [4]    The social-networking system may send over one or more networks content or
messages related to its services to a mobile or other computing system of a user. A user may also
install software applications on a mobile or other computing system of the user for accessing a
user profile of the user and other data within the social-networking system. The social-

                                                     2
networking system may generate a personalized set of content objects to display to a user, such
as a newsfeed of aggregated stories of other users connected to the user.
A/B testing is a standard approach for evaluating the effects of online experiments. A/B testing
typically uses randomized experiments with two variants (typically referred to as A and B),
which represent the control and treatment in the experiment. Such experiments are commonly
used in web development and marketing, as well as in more traditional forms of advertising. In
online settings, the objective is typically to determine how changes to the online environment
affect user behavior with the environment. The control and treatment groups are compared,
which are generally identical except for a single variation that might impact a user's behavior.
SUMMARY OF PARTICULAR EMBODIMENTS
        [5]     A first aspect of the present disclosure provides a method comprising, by an
application server:
        deploying, by the application server, an application to a plurality of client systems
associated with a plurality of users, respectively, wherein the application is installed on each of
the client systems, and wherein one or more treatments can be remotely activated on the
application;
        receiving, from a first client system associated with a first user of the plurality of users, a
request from the application installed on the first client system to access the application server;
        determining, by the application server, whether the first user belongs in a treatment group
associated with a first treatment;
        remotely activating, by the application server, the first treatment on the first client system
associated with the first user if the first user belongs in the treatment group; and
        synchronizing, by the application server, remote activation of the first treatment in
response to subsequent access by the first client system, wherein synchronizing remote activation
of the first treatment comprises maintaining the first user in the first treatment group and
maintaining activation of the first treatment on the first client system through one or more
treatment-disabling events that occur on the first client system.
        [6]     A second aspect of the present disclosure provides one or more computer
readable non-transitory storage media embodying software that is operable when executed to:

                                                     3
         deploy, by an application server, an application to a plurality of client systems associated
with a plurality of users, respectively, wherein the application is installed on each of the client
systems, and wherein one or more treatments can be remotely activated on the application;
         receive, from a first client system associated with a first user of the plurality of users, a
request from the application installed on the first client system to access the application server;
         determine, by the application server, whether the first user belongs in a treatment group
associated with a first treatment;
         remotely activate, by the application server, the first treatment on the first client system
associated with the first user if the first user belongs in the treatment group; and
         synchronize, by the application server, remote activation of the first treatment in response
to subsequent access by the first client system, wherein synchronizing remote activation of the
first treatment comprises maintaining the first user in the first treatment group and maintaining
activation of the first treatment on the first client system through one or more treatment-disabling
events that occur on the first client system.
         [7]     A third aspect of the present disclosure provides a system comprising: one or
more processors; and a memory coupled to the processors comprising instructions executable by
the processors, the processors operable when executing the instructions to:
         deploy, by an application server, an application to a plurality of client systems associated
with a plurality of users, respectively, wherein the application is installed on each of the client
systems, and wherein one or more treatments can be remotely activated on the application;
         receive, from a first client system associated with a first user of the plurality of users, a
request from the application installed on the first client system to access the application server;
         determine, by the application server, whether the first user belongs in a treatment group
associated with a first treatment;
         remotely activate, by the application server, the first treatment on the first client system
associated with the first user if the first user belongs in the treatment group; and
         synchronize, by the application server, remote activation of the first treatment in response
to subsequent access by the first client system, wherein synchronizing remote activation of the
first treatment comprises maintaining the first user in the first treatment group and maintaining

                                                    4
activation of the first treatment on the first client system through one or more treatment-disabling
events that occur on the first client system.
         [8]    In particular embodiments, the social-networking system may improve how new
products, features, advertisements, or experiences ("treatments") are launched to users of the
online social network by providing users with native application that include treatments that can
be controlled and monitored remotely. A/B testing is a standard approach for evaluating the
effect of online experiments. The goal is typically to estimate the average treatment effect of a
new product, feature, or condition by exposing a sample of the overall population to it. In
particular embodiments, the experiments may also include measuring a matrix of parameters
(e.g., a number of likes, a number of comments, revenue generated, etc.) against a set of users to
determine the effectiveness of the particular treatment. The problem is that while a treatment
may be activated on a particular client system, particular events may cause the treatment to be
disabled. For example, a cache-clearing event (e.g., a clearing of settings files, temporary files,
cookies, or other cached objects that specify whether a particular treatment should be active on
the application) or a deletion event (e.g., the user deletes and re-installs the application) may
reset the application so that it does not provide the treatment to the user. By synchronizing
activation of the treatment between the client systems and the social-networking system, the
experiment can be run so that users are effectively maintained in the treatment group, even if
there is a cache-clearing or deletion event. In this way, the A/B experiment can be run so that
users are effectively maintained in the treatment group, even if there is a cache-clearing or
deletion event. Data received from this first set of users can then be analyzed to determine the
treatment effect of the treatment on those users. The treatment may then be modified before
being rolled out to users in the next set of users.

                                                 5
BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
         [9]    FIG. 1 illustrates an example network environment associated with a social
networking system.
         [10]   FIG. 2 illustrates an example social graph.
         [11]   FIG. 3 illustrates an example method for testing native applications on remote
clients.
         [12]   FIG. 4 illustrates an example computer system.
DESCRIPTION OF EXAMPLE EMBODIMENTS
         [13]   FIG. 1 illustrates an example network environment 100 associated with a social
networking system. Network environment 100 includes a client system 130, a social-networking
system 160, and a third-party system 170 connected to each other by a network 110. Although
FIG. 1 illustrates a particular arrangement of client system 130, social-networking system 160,
third-party system 170, and network 110, this disclosure contemplates any suitable arrangement
of client system 130, social-networking system 160, third-party system 170, and network 110. As
an example and not by way of limitation, two or more of client system 130, social-networking
system 160, and third-party system 170 may be connected to each other directly, bypassing
network 110. As another example, two or more of client system 130, social-networking system
 160, and third-party system 170 may be physically or logically co-located with each other in
whole or in part. Moreover, although FIG. I illustrates a particular number of client systems 130,
social-networking systems 160, third-party systems 170, and networks 110, this disclosure
contemplates any suitable number of client systems 130, social-networking systems 160, third
party systems 170, and networks 110. As an example and not by way of limitation, network
environment 100 may include multiple client system 130, social-networking systems 160, third
party systems 170, and networks 110.
         [14]   This disclosure contemplates any suitable network 110. As an example and not by
way of limitation, one or more portions of network 110 may include an ad hoc network, an
intranet, an extranet, a virtual private network (VPN), a local area network (LAN), a wireless
LAN (WLAN), a wide area network (WAN), a wireless WAN (WWAN), a metropolitan area

                                                6
network (MAN), a portion of the Internet, a portion of the Public Switched Telephone Network
(PSTN), a cellular telephone network, or a combination of two or more of these. Network 110
may include one or more networks 110.
         [15]   Links 150 may connect client system 130, social-networking system 160, and
third-party system 170 to communication network 110 or to each other. This disclosure
contemplates any suitable links 150. In particular embodiments, one or more links 150 include
one or more wireline (such as for example Digital Subscriber Line (DSL) or Data Over Cable
Service Interface Specification (DOCSIS)), wireless (such as for example Wi-Fi or Worldwide
Interoperability for Microwave Access (WiMAX)), or optical (such as for example Synchronous
Optical Network (SONET) or Synchronous Digital Hierarchy (SDH)) links. In particular
embodiments, one or more links 150 each include an ad hoc network, an intranet, an extranet, a
VPN, a LAN, a WLAN, a WAN, a WWAN, a MAN, a portion of the Internet, a portion of the
PSTN, a cellular technology-based network, a satellite communications technology-based
network, another link 150, or a combination of two or more such links 150. Links 150 need not
necessarily be the same throughout network environment 100. One or more first links 150 may
differ in one or more respects from one or more second links 150.
         [16]   In particular embodiments, client system 130 may be an electronic device
including hardware, software, or embedded logic components or a combination of two or more
such components and capable of carrying out the appropriate functionalities implemented or
supported by client system 130. As an example and not by way of limitation, a client system 130
may include a computer system such as a desktop computer, notebook or laptop computer,
netbook, a tablet computer, e-book reader, GPS device, camera, personal digital assistant (PDA),
handheld electronic device, cellular telephone, smartphone, other suitable electronic device, or
any suitable combination thereof. This disclosure contemplates any suitable client systems 130.
A client system 130 may enable a network user at client system 130 to access network 110. A
client system 130 may enable its user to communicate with other users at other client systems
 130.
         [17]   In particular embodiments, client system 130 may include a web browser 132,
such as MICROSOFT            INTERNET    EXPLORER,       GOOGLE CHROME           or MOZILLA
FIREFOX, and may have one or more add-ons, plug-ins, or other extensions, such as TOOLBAR

                                                 7
or YAHOO TOOLBAR. A user at client system 130 may enter a Uniform Resource Locator
(URL) or other address directing the web browser 132 to a particular server (such as server 162,
or a server associated with a third-party system 170), and the web browser 132 may generate a
Hyper Text Transfer Protocol (HTTP) request and communicate the HTTP request to server. The
server may accept the HTTP request and communicate to client system 130 one or more Hyper
Text Markup Language (HTML) files responsive to the HTTP request. Client system 130 may
render a webpage based on the HTML files from the server for presentation to the user. This
disclosure contemplates any suitable webpage files. As an example and not by way of limitation,
webpages may render from HTML files, Extensible Hyper Text Markup Language (XHTML)
files, or Extensible Markup Language (XML) files, according to particular needs. Such pages
may also execute scripts such as, for example and without limitation, those written in
JAVASCRIPT, JAVA, MICROSOFT SILVERLIGHT, combinations of markup language and
scripts such as AJAX (Asynchronous JAVASCRIPT and XML), and the like. Herein, reference
to a webpage encompasses one or more corresponding webpage files (which a browser may use
to render the webpage) and vice versa, where appropriate.
         [18]   In particular embodiments, social-networking system 160 may be a network
addressable computing system that can host an online social network. Social-networking system
 160 may generate, store, receive, and send social-networking data, such as, for example, user
profile data, concept-profile data, social-graph information, or other suitable data related to the
online social network. Social-networking system 160 may be accessed by the other components
of network environment 100 either directly or via network 110. In particular embodiments,
social-networking system 160 may include one or more servers 162. Each server 162 may be a
unitary server or a distributed server spanning multiple computers or multiple datacenters.
Servers 162 may be of various types, such as, for example and without limitation, web server,
news server, mail server, message server, advertising server, file server, application server,
exchange server, database server, proxy server, another server suitable for performing functions
or processes described herein, or any combination thereof. In particular embodiments, each
server 162 may include hardware, software, or embedded logic components or a combination of
two or more such components for carrying out the appropriate functionalities implemented or
supported by server 162. In particular embodiments, social-networking system 164 may include

                                                  8
one or more data stores 164. Data stores 164 may be used to store various types of information.
In particular embodiments, the information stored in data stores 164 may be organized according
to specific data structures. In particular embodiments, each data store 164 may be a relational,
columnar, correlation, or other suitable database. Although this disclosure describes or illustrates
particular types of databases, this disclosure contemplates any suitable types of databases.
Particular embodiments may provide interfaces that enable a client system 130, a social
networking system 160, or a third-party system 170 to manage, retrieve, modify, add, or delete,
the information stored in data store 164.
        [19]    In particular embodiments, social-networking system 160 may store one or more
social graphs in one or more data stores 164. In particular embodiments, a social graph may
include multiple nodes-which may include multiple user nodes (each corresponding to a
particular user) or multiple concept nodes (each corresponding to a particular concept)-and
multiple edges connecting the nodes. Social-networking system 160 may provide users of the
online social network the ability to communicate and interact with other users. In particular
embodiments, users may join the online social network via social-networking system 160 and
then add connections (e.g., relationships) to a number of other users of social-networking system
 160 whom they want to be connected to. Herein, the term "friend" may refer to any other user of
social-networking system 160 with whom a user has formed a connection, association, or
relationship via social-networking system 160.
        [20]    In particular embodiments, social-networking system 160 may provide users with
the ability to take actions on various types of items or objects, supported by social-networking
system 160. As an example and not by way of limitation, the items and objects may include
groups or social networks to which users of social-networking system 160 may belong, events or
calendar entries in which a user might be interested, computer-based applications that a user may
use, transactions that allow users to buy or sell items via the service, interactions with
advertisements that a user may perform, or other suitable items or objects. A user may interact
with anything that is capable of being represented in social-networking system 160 or by an
external system of third-party system 170, which is separate from social-networking system 160
and coupled to social-networking system 160 via a network 110.

                                                   9
         [21]   In particular embodiments, social-networking system 160 may be capable of
linking a variety of entities. As an example and not by way of limitation, social-networking
system 160 may enable users to interact with each other as well as receive content from third
party systems 170 or other entities, or to allow users to interact with these entities through an
application programming interfaces (API) or other communication channels.
         [22]   In particular embodiments, a third-party system 170 may include one or more
types of servers, one or more data stores, one or more interfaces, including but not limited to
APIs, one or more web services, one or more content sources, one or more networks, or any
other suitable components, e.g., that servers may communicate with. A third-party system 170
may be operated by a different entity from an entity operating social-networking system 160. In
particular embodiments, however, social-networking system 160 and third-party systems 170
may operate in conjunction with each other to provide social-networking services to users of
social-networking system 160 or third-party systems 170. In this sense, social-networking system
 160 may provide a platform, or backbone, which other systems, such as third-party systems 170,
may use to provide social-networking services and functionality to users across the Internet.
         [23]   In particular embodiments, a third-party system 170 may include a third-party
content object provider. A third-party content object provider may include one or more sources
of content objects, which may be communicated to a client system 130. As an example and not
by way of limitation, content objects may include information regarding things or activities of
interest to the user, such as, for example, movie show times, movie reviews, restaurant reviews,
restaurant menus, product information and reviews, or other suitable information. As another
example and not by way of limitation, content objects may include incentive content objects,
such as coupons, discount tickets, gift certificates, or other suitable incentive objects.
         [24]   In particular embodiments, social-networking system 160 also includes user
generated content objects, which may enhance a user's interactions with social-networking
system 160. User-generated content may include anything a user can add, upload, send, or "post"
to social-networking system 160. As an example and not by way of limitation, a user
communicates posts to social-networking system 160 from a client system 130. Posts may
include data such as status updates or other textual data, location information, photos, videos,

                                                    10
links, music or other similar data or media. Content may also be added to social-networking
system 160 by a third-party through a "communication channel," such as a newsfeed or stream.
         [25]    In particular embodiments, social-networking system 160 may include a variety
of servers, sub-systems, programs, modules, logs, and data stores. In particular embodiments,
social-networking system 160 may include one or more of the following: a web server, action
logger, API-request server, relevance-and-ranking engine, content-object classifier, notification
controller,     action     log,   third-party-content-object-exposure    log,    inference    module,
authorization/privacy server, search module, advertisement-targeting module, user-interface
module, user-profile store, connection store, third-party content store, or location store. Social
networking system 160 may also include suitable components such as network interfaces,
security mechanisms, load balancers, failover servers, management-and-network-operations
consoles, other suitable components, or any suitable combination thereof. In particular
embodiments, social-networking system 160 may include one or more user-profile stores for
storing user profiles. A user profile may include, for example, biographic information,
demographic information, behavioral information, social information, or other types of
descriptive information, such as work experience, educational history, hobbies or preferences,
interests, affinities, or location. Interest information may include interests related to one or more
categories. Categories may be general or specific. As an example and not by way of limitation, if
a user "likes" an article about a brand of shoes the category may be the brand, or the general
category of "shoes" or "clothing." A connection store may be used for storing connection
information about users. The connection information may indicate users who have similar or
common work experience, group memberships, hobbies, educational history, or are in any way
related or share common attributes. The connection information may also include user-defined
connections between different users and content (both internal and external). A web server may
be used for linking social-networking system 160 to one or more client systems 130 or one or
more third-party system 170 via network 110. The web server may include a mail server or other
messaging functionality for receiving and routing messages between social-networking system
 160 and one or more client systems 130. An API-request server may allow a third-party system
 170 to access information from social-networking system 160 by calling one or more APIs. An
action logger may be used to receive communications from a web server about a user's actions

                                                 11
on or off social-networking system 160. In conjunction with the action log, a third-party-content
object log may be maintained of user exposures to third-party-content objects. A notification
controller may provide information regarding content objects to a client system 130. Information
may be pushed to a client system 130 as notifications, or information may be pulled from client
system 130 responsive to a request received from client system 130. Authorization servers may
be used to enforce one or more privacy settings of the users of social-networking system 160. A
privacy setting of a user determines how particular information associated with a user can be
shared. The authorization server may allow users to opt in to or opt out of having their actions
logged by social-networking system 160 or shared with other systems (e.g., third-party system
 170), such as, for example, by setting appropriate privacy settings. Third-party-content-object
stores may be used to store content objects received from third parties, such as a third-party
system 170. Location stores may be used for storing location information received from client
systems 130 associated with users. Advertisement-pricing modules may combine social
information, the current time, location information, or other suitable information to provide
relevant advertisements, in the form of notifications, to a user.
         [26]    FIG. 2 illustrates example social graph 200. In particular embodiments, social
networking system 160 may store one or more social graphs 200 in one or more data stores. In
particular embodiments, social graph 200 may include multiple nodes-which may include
multiple user nodes 202 or multiple concept nodes 204--and multiple edges 206 connecting the
nodes. Example social graph 200 illustrated in FIG. 2 is shown, for didactic purposes, in a two
dimensional visual map representation. In particular embodiments, a social-networking system
 160, client system 130, or third-party system 170 may access social graph 200 and related social
graph information for suitable applications. The nodes and edges of social graph 200 may be
stored as data objects, for example, in a data store (such as a social-graph database). Such a data
store may include one or more searchable or queryable indexes of nodes or edges of social graph
200.
         [27]    In particular embodiments, a user node 202 may correspond to a user of social
networking system 160. As an example and not by way of limitation, a user may be an individual
(human user), an entity (e.g., an enterprise, business, or third-party application), or a group (e.g.,
of individuals or entities) that interacts or communicates with or over social-networking system

                                                  12
 160. In particular embodiments, when a user registers for an account with social-networking
system 160, social-networking system 160 may create a user node 202 corresponding to the user,
and store the user node 202 in one or more data stores. Users and user nodes 202 described
herein may, where appropriate, refer to registered users and user nodes 202 associated with
registered users. In addition or as an alternative, users and user nodes 202 described herein may,
where appropriate, refer to users that have not registered with social-networking system 160. In
particular embodiments, a user node 202 may be associated with information provided by a user
or information gathered by various systems, including social-networking system 160. As an
example and not by way of limitation, a user may provide his or her name, profile picture,
contact information, birth date, sex, marital status, family status, employment, education
background,     preferences,   interests,  or   other   demographic   information.   In   particular
embodiments, a user node 202 may be associated with one or more data objects corresponding to
information associated with a user. In particular embodiments, a user node 202 may correspond
to one or more webpages.
         [28]   In particular embodiments, a concept node 204 may correspond to a concept. As
an example and not by way of limitation, a concept may correspond to a place (such as, for
example, a movie theater, restaurant, landmark, or city); a website (such as, for example, a
website associated with social-network system 160 or a third-party website associated with a
web-application server); an entity (such as, for example, a person, business, group, sports team,
or celebrity); a resource (such as, for example, an audio file, video file, digital photo, text file,
structured document, or application) which may be located within social-networking system 160
or on an external server, such as a web-application server; real or intellectual property (such as,
for example, a sculpture, painting, movie, game, song, idea, photograph, or written work); a
game; an activity; an idea or theory; another suitable concept; or two or more such concepts. A
concept node 204 may be associated with information of a concept provided by a user or
information gathered by various systems, including social-networking system 160. As an
example and not by way of limitation, information of a concept may include a name or a title;
one or more images (e.g., an image of the cover page of a book); a location (e.g., an address or a
geographical location); a website (which may be associated with a URL); contact information
(e.g., a phone number or an email address); other suitable concept information; or any suitable

                                                 13
combination of such information. In particular embodiments, a concept node 204 may be
associated with one or more data objects corresponding to information associated with concept
node 204. In particular embodiments, a concept node 204 may correspond to one or more
webpages.
         [29]   In particular embodiments, a node in social graph 200 may represent or be
represented by a webpage (which may be referred to as a "profile page"). Profile pages may be
hosted by or accessible to social-networking system 160. Profile pages may also be hosted on
third-party websites associated with a third-party server 170. As an example and not by way of
limitation, a profile page corresponding to a particular external webpage may be the particular
external webpage and the profile page may correspond to a particular concept node 204. Profile
pages may be viewable by all or a selected subset of other users. As an example and not by way
of limitation, a user node 202 may have a corresponding user-profile page in which the
corresponding user may add content, make declarations, or otherwise express himself or herself.
As another example and not by way of limitation, a concept node 204 may have a corresponding
concept-profile page in which one or more users may add content, make declarations, or express
themselves, particularly in relation to the concept corresponding to concept node 204.
         [30]   In particular embodiments, a concept node 204 may represent a third-party
webpage or resource hosted by a third-party system 170. The third-party webpage or resource
may include, among other elements, content, a selectable or other icon, or other inter-actable
object (which may be implemented, for example, in JavaScript, AJAX, or PHP codes)
representing an action or activity. As an example and not by way of limitation, a third-party
webpage may include a selectable icon such as "like," "check in," "eat," "recommend," or
another suitable action or activity. A user viewing the third-party webpage may perform an
action by selecting one of the icons (e.g., "eat"), causing a client system 130 to send to social
networking system 160 a message indicating the user's action. In response to the message,
social-networking system 160 may create an edge (e.g., an "eat" edge) between a user node 202
corresponding to the user and a concept node 204 corresponding to the third-party webpage or
resource and store edge 206 in one or more data stores.
         [31]   In particular embodiments, a pair of nodes in social graph 200 may be connected
to each other by one or more edges 206. An edge 206 connecting a pair of nodes may represent a

                                                  14
relationship between the pair of nodes. In particular embodiments, an edge 206 may include or
represent one or more data objects or attributes corresponding to the relationship between a pair
of nodes. As an example and not by way of limitation, a first user may indicate that a second user
is a "friend" of the first user. In response to this indication, social-networking system 160 may
send a "friend request" to the second user. If the second user confirms the "friend request,"
social-networking system 160 may create an edge 206 connecting the first user's user node 202
to the second user's user node 202 in social graph 200 and store edge 206 as social-graph
information in one or more of data stores 164. In the example of FIG. 2, social graph 200
includes an edge 206 indicating a friend relation between user nodes 202 of user "A" and user
"B" and an edge indicating a friend relation between user nodes 202 of user "C" and user "B."
Although this disclosure describes or illustrates particular edges 206 with particular attributes
connecting particular user nodes 202, this disclosure contemplates any suitable edges 206 with
any suitable attributes connecting user nodes 202. As an example and not by way of limitation,
an edge 206 may represent a friendship, family relationship, business or employment
relationship, fan relationship, follower relationship, visitor relationship, subscriber relationship,
superior/subordinate relationship, reciprocal relationship, non-reciprocal relationship, another
suitable type of relationship, or two or more such relationships. Moreover, although this
disclosure generally describes nodes as being connected, this disclosure also describes users or
concepts as being connected. Herein, references to users or concepts being connected may,
where appropriate, refer to the nodes corresponding to those users or concepts being connected
in social graph 200 by one or more edges 206.
         [32]   In particular embodiments, an edge 206 between a user node 202 and a concept
node 204 may represent a particular action or activity performed by a user associated with user
node 202 toward a concept associated with a concept node 204. As an example and not by way
of limitation, as illustrated in FIG. 2, a user may "like," "attended," "played," "listened,"
"cooked," "worked at," or "watched" a concept, each of which may correspond to a edge type or
subtype. A concept-profile page corresponding to a concept node 204 may include, for example,
a selectable "check in" icon (such as, for example, a clickable "check in" icon) or a selectable
"add to favorites" icon. Similarly, after a user clicks these icons, social-networking system 160
may create a "favorite" edge or a "check in" edge in response to a user's action corresponding to

                                                 15
a respective action. As another example and not by way of limitation, a user (user "C") may
listen to a particular song ("Imagine") using a particular application (SPOTIFY, which is an
online music application). In this case, social-networking system 160 may create a "listened"
edge 206 and a "used" edge (as illustrated in FIG. 2) between user nodes 202 corresponding to
the user and concept nodes 204 corresponding to the song and application to indicate that the
user listened to the song and used the application. Moreover, social-networking system 160 may
create a "played" edge 206 (as illustrated in FIG. 2) between concept nodes 204 corresponding to
the song and the application to indicate that the particular song was played by the particular
application. In this case, "played" edge 206 corresponds to an action performed by an external
application (SPOTIFY) on an external audio file (the song "Imagine"). Although this disclosure
describes particular edges 206 with particular attributes connecting user nodes 202 and concept
nodes 204, this disclosure contemplates any suitable edges 206 with any suitable attributes
connecting user nodes 202 and concept nodes 204. Moreover, although this disclosure describes
edges between a user node 202 and a concept node 204 representing a single relationship, this
disclosure contemplates edges between a user node 202 and a concept node 204 representing one
or more relationships. As an example and not by way of limitation, an edge 206 may represent
both that a user likes and has used at a particular concept. Alternatively, another edge 206 may
represent each type of relationship (or multiples of a single relationship) between a user node
202 and a concept node 204 (as illustrated in FIG. 2 between user node 202 for user "E" and
concept node 204 for "SPOTIFY").
         [33]   In particular embodiments, social-networking system 160 may create an edge 206
between a user node 202 and a concept node 204 in social graph 200. As an example and not by
way of limitation, a user viewing a concept-profile page (such as, for example, by using a web
browser or a special-purpose application hosted by the user's client system 130) may indicate
that he or she likes the concept represented by the concept node 204 by clicking or selecting a
"Like" icon, which may cause the user's client system 130 to send to social-networking system
 160 a message indicating the user's liking of the concept associated with the concept-profile
page. In response to the message, social-networking system 160 may create an edge 206 between
user node 202 associated with the user and concept node 204, as illustrated by "like" edge 206
between the user and concept node 204. In particular embodiments, social-networking system

                                                  16
 160 may store an edge 206 in one or more data stores. In particular embodiments, an edge 206
may be automatically formed by social-networking system 160 in response to a particular user
action. As an example and not by way of limitation, if a first user uploads a picture, watches a
movie, or listens to a song, an edge 206 may be formed between user node 202 corresponding to
the first user and concept nodes 204 corresponding to those concepts. Although this disclosure
describes forming particular edges 206 in particular manners, this disclosure contemplates
forming any suitable edges 206 in any suitable manner.
         [34]   In particular embodiments, social-networking system 160 may improve how new
products, features, advertisements, or experiences ("treatments") are launched to users of the
online social network by providing users with native application that include treatments that can
be controlled and monitored remotely. A/B testing is a standard approach for evaluating the
effect of online experiments. The goal is typically to estimate the average treatment effect of a
new product, feature, or condition by exposing a sample of the overall population to it. In
particular embodiments, the experiments may also include measuring a matrix of parameters
(e.g., a number of likes, a number of comments, revenue generated, etc.) against a set of users to
determine the effectiveness of the particular treatment. The problem is that while a treatment
may be activated on a particular client system 130, particular events may cause the treatment to
be disabled. For example, a cache-clearing event (e.g., a clearing of settings files, temporary
files, cookies, or other cached objects that specify whether a particular treatment should be active
on the application) or a deletion event (e.g., the user deletes and re-installs the application) may
reset the application so that it does not provide the treatment to the user. By synchronizing
activation of the treatment between client systems 130 and social-networking system 160, the
experiment can be run so that users are effectively maintained in the treatment group, even if
there is a cache-clearing or deletion event. In this way, the A/B experiment can be run so that
users are effectively maintained in the treatment group, even if there is a cache-clearing or
deletion event. Data received from this first set of users can then be analyzed to determine the
treatment effect of the treatment on those users. The treatment may then be modified before
being rolled out to users in the next set of users. This stepwise approach to rolling out the
treatment may be taken until the treatment has been provided to all users of the online social
network. Although this disclosure describes providing treatments to users and determining

                                                  17
treatment effects in a particular manner, this disclosure contemplates providing treatments to
user or determining treatment effects in any suitable manner.
         [35]   In the A/B testing approach, it is important to make sure a user in the treatment
group is actually being exposed to the treatment. When a new product, feature, etc., is rolled out
in a desktop environment (e.g., via a web browser 132), social-networking system 160 can
determine user exposure to the treatment (or lack of it) as part of the user's viewing of the
webpage servers by social-networking system 160. However, where social-networking system
 160 is accessed via a native application installed on a client system 130 (e.g., from an app on a
mobile client), user exposure to the treatment is not necessarily certain because social
networking system 160 may not always be able to detect what the user is viewing or doing on the
native application, whether the native application has been deleted from client system 130,
whether usage data related to the native application has been cleared from a cache on client
system 130, and so on. These uncertainties in user exposure to the native application may reduce
accuracy in measuring the matrix of parameters for determining effectiveness of the treatment.
         [36]   In particular embodiments,      social-networking    system 160 may deploy an
application to a plurality of client systems 130 associated with a plurality of users, respectively.
The application may be installed on each of the client systems 130. As an example and not by
way of limitation, a native application may be installed on a mobile client system 130 that allows
the user to access social-networking system 160 via the native application rather than via a web
browser 132. In particular embodiments, one or more treatments may be remotely activated on
the application. For A/B randomized experiments, the treatment condition of an individual
decides whether or not they are subject to an intervention. This typically takes two values:
 'treatment' or 'control'. In most randomized experiments, the experimenter has explicit control
over how to randomize the treatment conditions, and generally individuals are assigned
independently. Meanwhile, the exposure condition of an individual determines how they
experience the intervention in full conjunction with how the world experiences the intervention.
As an example and not by way of limitation, the native application may include functionality so
that particular features or experiences are included with the application, but not necessarily
provided to the user. In other words, the native application may include one or more optional
treatments. These treatments may be activated, for example, in response to instructions from

                                                18
social-networking system 160 to activate a specific feature or experience in the native
application. The treatments may be remotely activated on a user-by-user basis, such that, for
example, particular user may be provided with a treatment, while others may not. Although this
disclosure describes deploying particular applications in a particular manner, this disclosure
contemplates deploying any suitable applications in any suitable manner.
         [37]   In particular embodiments,     social-networking system 160 may provide a
treatment to a first set of client systems 130 corresponding to a first set of users, respectively.
The treatment may be, for example, a particular advertisement, product, feature, experience,
other suitable treatment, or any combination thereof. Under ordinary randomized trials where the
stable unit treatment value assumption is a reasonable approximation (such as, for example,
when a search engine A/B tests the effect of their color scheme upon the visitation time of their
users) the population is divided into two groups: those in the "treatment" group (who see the new
color scheme A) and those in the control group (who see the default color scheme B). Assuming
there are negligible interference effects between users, each individual in the treated group
responds just as he or she would if the entire population were treated, and each individual in the
control group responds just as he or she would if the entire population were in control. In this
manner, we may imagine that we are observing results from samples of two distinct "parallel
universes" at the same time (for example, "Universe A" in which color scheme A is used for
everyone, and "Universe B" in which color scheme B is used for everyone) and we may make
inferences about the properties of user behavior in each of these universes. The treatment may be
provided via the online social network or via a third-party system 170. Social-networking system
 160 may then determine a treatment effect of the treatment for the users of the first set of users.
Although this disclosure described proving particular treatments in a particular manner, this
disclosure contemplates providing any suitable treatments in any suitable manner.
         [38]   In particular embodiments, social-networking system 160 may synchronize with
client systems 130 to provide a treatment to the client system 130. This may allow social
networking system 160 to accurately record exposure and usage of a native application locally
installed at a client system 130. Client system 130 may synchronize the states of the native
application with social-networking system 160 by sending back to social-networking system 160
events corresponding to changes in states of the native application on client system 130. As an

                                                  19
example and not by way of limitation, the events sent to social-networking system 160 may be a
deployment event, an exposure event, a cache-clearing event, or a conversion event associated
with the native application. By receiving those events from multiple client systems 130, social
networking system 160 may construct accurate logs of exposure and usage of the native app at
those client systems 130, and calculate the matrix of parameters accurately. As an example and
not by way of limitation, social-networking system 160 may receive a request from an
application installed on the client system 130 to access social-networking system 160. Social
networking system 160 may then determine whether the client system belongs in a treatment
group associated with the treatment. If the client system 130 belongs in the treatment group,
social-networking system 160 may remotely activate the treatment on the client system 130.
Similarly, if the client system 130 belongs in a control group, social-networking system 160 may
not activate any treatments (or, if the treatment was for some reason activated, social-networking
system 160 may at that point deactivate the treatment). In response to subsequent access by the
client system 130, social-networking system 160 may synchronize activation of the treatment.
The treatment may have been deactivated for a variety of reasons, such that social-networking
system 160 needs to determine whether the client system 130 is still providing the treatment to
the user. For example, in response to a subsequent access by the client system 130, social
networking system 160 may determine whether the treatment is still active on the client system
 130. If so, then no action may need to be taken. However, if the treatment is determined to be not
active on the client system 130, social-networking system 160 may remotely re-active the
treatment on the client system 130. In this way, the A/B experiment can be run so that users are
effectively maintained in the treatment group, even if there is a cache-clearing or deletion event.
Although this disclosure describes synchronizing particular treatments in a particular manner,
this disclosure contemplates synchronizing any suitable treatments in any suitable manner.
         [39]    In particular embodiments, social-networking system 160 may deactivate the
treatment on the first set of client systems 130 after a specified timeout period. Any suitable
timeout period may be used. As an example and not by way of limitation, the treatment on the
native application may timeout eight weeks after being activated on client system 130. As
another example and not by way of limitation, the treatment may timeout on a specified date.
The timeout period may be specified on a user-by-user basis (e.g., eight weeks after the

                                                 20
particular customer installed the application), or on a global basis (e.g., eight weeks after the
experiment began, regardless of when during that period a user entered the experiment).
Deactivating the treatment means that the product, feature, experience, etc. that comprised the
treatment would stop being provided to the user. After timing out, the user may then be provided
with the default (e.g., control) product/experience on the native application. In particular
embodiments, client system 130 may send a timeout event to social-networking system 160. In
this way, social-networking system 160 may not need to track all the experiments associated
with the native app, thus improving overall productivity and development efficiency. Although
this disclosure describes deactivating treatments in a particular manner, this disclosure
contemplates deactivating treatments in any suitable manner.
         [40]   In particular embodiments, social-networking system 160 may provide the
treatment to clusters of users in a network-aware manner. Social-networking system 160 may
identify a plurality of clusters in social graph 200 using graph cluster randomization. Each
identified cluster may comprise a discrete set of nodes from the plurality of nodes of social graph
200. In particular embodiments, social-networking system 160 may specify clusters such that a
threshold number of nodes in each cluster may be network exposed with respect to the other
nodes in the cluster. In particular embodiments, social-networking system 160 may identify
clusters based at least in part on the social-graph affinity of users with respect to each other.
Rather than just clustering users based on being neighbors in social graph 200 (i.e., being
connected by an edge 206), social-networking system 160 may cluster neighbors having a
relatively high social-graph affinity for each other. In other words, user i may be clustered with j
neighbors having above a threshold affinity with respect to user i, while neighbors having less
affinity for user i may not necessarily be included in the cluster. Although this disclosure
describes identifying clusters with network exposure in a particular manner, this disclosure
contemplates identifying clusters with network exposure in any suitable manner. In connection
with identifying and selecting user sets, particular embodiments may utilize one or more
systems, components, elements, functions, methods, operations, or steps disclosed in U.S. Patent
Application No. 13/939093, filed 10 July 2013, which is incorporated by reference.
         [41]   In particular embodiments, social-networking system 160 may receive treatment
data from the first set of client systems 130. Social-networking system 160 may calculate a

                                                  21
matrix of parameters based on the set of users that were exposed to a particular treatment of the
native application (as determined by the events sent back to social-networking system 160)
during a specified period of time. For the same period of time, social-networking system 160
may also construct a control group including users who were not exposed to the particular
treatment of the native application while accessing social-networking system 160 from their
client systems 130 during the same period of time. In particular embodiments, social-networking
system 160 may receive exposure data from the first set of client systems. The exposure data for
each client system 130 may identify an exposure of the user of the client system 130 the
treatment. As an example and not by way of limitation, if the treatment is a particular
advertisement, the exposure data may identify whether the advertisement was displayed to the
user of the native application. In particular embodiments, social-networking system 160 may
receive conversion data from the first set of client systems. The conversion data for each client
system 130 may identify user interactions with respect to the treatment. As an example and not
by way of limitation, continuing with the prior example, if the treatment was an advertisement,
the conversion data may identify whether clicked on or otherwise interacted with the
advertisement. Although this disclosure describes receiving particular treatment data in a
particular manner, this disclosure contemplates receiving any suitable treatment data in any
suitable manner.
        [42]    In particular embodiments, social-networking system 160 may determine a
treatment effect of a treatment for the users of a first set of users. Social-networking system 160
may test a treatment by providing it to a subset of users of the online social network. In particular
embodiments, the treatment may have a "social" component in that i's reaction to the treatment
depends on whether a neighbor     j in the online social network also has the treatment. This social
component may also be referred to as the network effect of the treatment. As an example and not
by way of limitation, particular treatments may exhibit social components, such as, for example,
social advertisements, text/video chat, messaging, social networking, etc. For example, for
text/video chatting features, those features are only useful if user i has one or more neighbors j to
chat with. An individual/user is considered to be in the treatment group if the individual is
provided with the treatment for the test, and in the control group otherwise. There may be an
underlying numerical response variable of interest (for example, the user's time-on-site in each

                                                     22
condition), and social-networking system 160 may estimate the average of this response in both
the universe where everyone has the service, and the universe where no one has the service. Let
 - e {0j,1}" be the treatment assignment vector, where              means that user i is in the treatment
group and Zi         0 means the user i is in the control. Let Yj (c) e R be the potential outcome of
user i under the treatment assignment vector Z . We are interested in is the average treatment
effect, r , between the two groups        =   , and   ' = 0 , where the average treatment effect may be
                      Zr(i =,     0=
                                   -'=          [Y (-=        YI
                                                              Y(l'
calculated     as:                      n j=1                           . In particular embodiments,
social-networking system 160 may determine both an individual effect of the treatment for the
users and the network effect of the treatment for the users. The treatment effect of a particular
treatment may be a function of both the network effect and the individual effect. The non-social
component of the treatment may be referred to as the individual effect of the treatment. A
treatment has an individual component in that i's reaction to the treatment does not depend on
whether a neighbor j in the online social network also has the treatment. As an example and not
by way of limitation, a social advertisement to user i may have an individual effect with respect
to user i that is independent of whether one or more neighbors            j  are also exposed to social
advertisements (although, of course, social advertisements may also have a network effect).
Distinguishing and measuring both the individual and network effects of a particular treatment
may be useful for determining how to best modify a treatment in order to increase or improve
user engagement with the treatment. Although this disclosure describes determining treatment
effects in a particular manner, this disclosure contemplates determining treatment effects in any
suitable manner.
          [43]     In particular embodiments, social-networking system 160 may provide the
treatment to a second set of users. The processed described herein may then be repeated as
necessary until the treatment has been provided to all users of the online social network. In this
way, an advertisement, feature, or product may be rolled-out out to users of the online social
network. In particular embodiments, after the treatment effect has been determined for the first

                                                 23
set of users, social-networking system 160 may modify the treatment based on the determined
treatment effect of the treatment. The advertisement, feature, or product may be modified based
on the determined treatment effect to, for example, optimize a user's interactions or experience
with the treatment. The modified treatment may then be provided to an additional set of users,
and successively modified and rolled-out to additional users until, for example, it has been
sufficiently improved and can be launched to the entire online social network. Although this
disclosure describes providing a treatment and determining treatment effects in a particular
manner, this disclosure contemplates providing a treatment or determining treatment effects in
any suitable manner.
         [44]   FIG. 3 illustrates an example method 300 for testing native applications on
remote clients. The method may begin at step 310, where social-networking system 160 may
deploy an application to a plurality of client systems 130 associated with a plurality of users,
respectively. The application may be installed on each of the client systems 130. Furthermore,
one or more treatments may be able to be remotely activated on the application. At step 320,
social-networking system 160 may provide a first treatment of the application to a first set of
client systems 130 of the plurality of client systems 130. The first set of client systems 130 may
be associated with a first set of users of the plurality of users, respectively. In particular
embodiments, step 320 may comprise one or more of the following sub-steps: At step 322,
social-networking system 160 may receive a request from the application installed on the client
system 130 to access one or more of the computing devices of social-networking system 160. At
step 324, social-networking system 160 may determine whether the client system 130 belongs in
a treatment group associated with the first treatment. At step 326, social-networking system 160
may remotely activate the first treatment on the client system 130 if the client system 130
belongs in the treatment group. At step 328, social-networking system 160 may synchronize
activation of the first treatment in response to subsequent access by the client system 130. At
step 330, social-networking system 160 may receive exposure data from the first set of client
systems 130. The exposure data for each client system 130 may identify an exposure of the user
of the client system 130 to the first treatment. Particular embodiments may repeat one or more
steps of the method of FIG. 3, where appropriate. Although this disclosure describes and
illustrates particular steps of the method of FIG. 3 as occurring in a particular order, this

                                                24
disclosure contemplates any suitable steps of the method of FIG. 3 occurring in any suitable
order. Moreover, although this disclosure describes and illustrates an example method for testing
native applications on remote clients including the particular steps of the method of FIG. 3, this
disclosure contemplates any suitable method for testing native applications on remote clients
including any suitable steps, which may include all, some, or none of the steps of the method of
FIG. 3, where appropriate. Furthermore, although this disclosure describes and illustrates
particular components, devices, or systems carrying out particular steps of the method of FIG. 3,
this disclosure contemplates any suitable combination of any suitable components, devices, or
systems carrying out any suitable steps of the method of FIG. 3.
        [45]    In particular embodiments, an advertisement may be text (which may be HTML
linked), one or more images (which may be HTML-linked), one or more videos, audio, one or
more ADOBE FLASH files, a suitable combination of these, or any other suitable advertisement
in any suitable digital format presented on one or more webpages, in one or more e-mails, or in
connection with search results requested by a user. In addition or as an alternative, an
advertisement may be one or more sponsored stories (e.g., a news-feed or ticker item on social
networking system 160). A sponsored story may be a social action by a user (such as "liking" a
page, "liking" or commenting on a post on a page, RSVPing to an event associated with a page,
voting on a question posted on a page, checking in to a place, using an application or playing a
game, or "liking" or sharing a website) that an advertiser promotes, for example, by having the
social action presented within a pre-determined area of a profile page of a user or other page,
presented with additional information associated with the advertiser, bumped up or otherwise
highlighted within news feeds or tickers of other users, or otherwise promoted. The advertiser
may pay to have the social action promoted. As an example and not by way of limitation,
advertisements may be included among the search results of a search-results page, where
sponsored content is promoted over non-sponsored content. In particular embodiments, one or
more advertisements may be tested on one or more clusters of users of the online social network
using network-aware product rollout techniques described previously.
        [46]    In particular embodiments, an advertisement may be requested for display within
social-networking-system webpages, third-party webpages, or other pages. An advertisement
may be displayed in a dedicated portion of a page, such as in a banner area at the top of the page,

                                                  25
in a column at the side of the page, in a GUI of the page, in a pop-up window, in a drop-down
menu, in an input field of the page, over the top of content of the page, or elsewhere with respect
to the page. In addition or as an alternative, an advertisement may be displayed within an
application. An advertisement may be displayed within dedicated pages, requiring the user to
interact with or watch the advertisement before the user may access a page or utilize an
application. The user may, for example view the advertisement through a web browser.
         [47]   A user may interact with an advertisement in any suitable manner. The user may
click or otherwise select the advertisement. By selecting the advertisement, the user may be
directed to (or a browser or other application being used by the user) a page associated with the
advertisement. At the page associated with the advertisement, the user may take additional
actions, such as purchasing a product or service associated with the advertisement, receiving
information associated with the advertisement, or subscribing to a newsletter associated with the
advertisement. An advertisement with audio or video may be played by selecting a component of
the advertisement (like a "play button"). Alternatively, by selecting the advertisement, social
networking system 160 may execute or modify a particular action of the user.
         [48]   An advertisement may also include social-networking-system functionality that a
user may interact with. As an example and not by way of limitation, an advertisement may
enable a user to "like" or otherwise endorse the advertisement by selecting an icon or link
associated with endorsement. As another example and not by way of limitation, an advertisement
may enable a user to search (e.g., by executing a query) for content related to the advertiser.
Similarly, a user may share the advertisement with another user (e.g., through social-networking
system 160) or RSVP (e.g., through social-networking system 160) to an event associated with
the advertisement. In addition or as an alternative, an advertisement may include social
networking-system context directed to the user. As an example and not by way of limitation, an
advertisement may display information about a friend of the user within social-networking
system 160 who has taken an action associated with the subject matter of the advertisement.
         [49]   FIG. 4 illustrates an example computer system 400. In particular embodiments,
one or more computer systems 400 perform one or more steps of one or more methods described
or illustrated herein. In particular embodiments, one or more computer systems 400 provide
functionality described or illustrated herein. In particular embodiments, software running on one

                                                   26
or more computer systems 400 performs one or more steps of one or more methods described or
illustrated   herein  or provides     functionality   described  or illustrated herein. Particular
embodiments include one or more portions of one or more computer systems 400. Herein,
reference to a computer system may encompass a computing device, and vice versa, where
appropriate. Moreover, reference to a computer system may encompass one or more computer
systems, where appropriate.
         [50]    This disclosure contemplates any suitable number of computer systems 400. This
disclosure contemplates computer system 400 taking any suitable physical form. As example and
not by way of limitation, computer system 400 may be an embedded computer system, a system
on-chip (SOC), a single-board computer system (SBC) (such as, for example, a computer-on
module (COM) or system-on-module (SOM)), a desktop computer system, a laptop or notebook
computer system, an interactive kiosk, a mainframe, a mesh of computer systems, a mobile
telephone, a personal digital assistant (PDA),         a server, a tablet computer system, or a
combination of two or more of these. Where appropriate, computer system 400 may include one
or more computer systems 400; be unitary or distributed; span multiple locations; span multiple
machines; span multiple data centers; or reside in a cloud, which may include one or more cloud
components in one or more networks. Where appropriate, one or more computer systems 400
may perform without substantial spatial or temporal limitation one or more steps of one or more
methods described or illustrated herein. As an example and not by way of limitation, one or more
computer systems 400 may perform in real time or in batch mode one or more steps of one or
more methods described or illustrated herein. One or more computer systems 400 may perform
at different times or at different locations one or more steps of one or more methods described or
illustrated herein, where appropriate.
         [51]    In particular embodiments, computer system 400 includes a processor 402,
memory 404, storage 406, an input/output (I/O) interface 408, a communication interface 410,
and a bus 412. Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular computer system
having a particular number of particular components in a particular arrangement, this disclosure
contemplates any suitable computer system having any suitable number of any suitable
components in any suitable arrangement.

                                                 27
         [52]   In particular embodiments, processor 402 includes hardware for executing
instructions, such as those making up a computer program. As an example and not by way of
limitation, to execute instructions, processor 402 may retrieve (or fetch) the instructions from an
internal register, an internal cache, memory 404, or storage 406; decode and execute them; and
then write one or more results to an internal register, an internal cache, memory 404, or storage
406. In particular embodiments, processor 402 may include one or more internal caches for data,
instructions, or addresses. This disclosure contemplates processor 402 including any suitable
number of any suitable internal caches, where appropriate. As an example and not by way of
limitation, processor 402 may include one or more instruction caches, one or more data caches,
and one or more translation lookaside buffers (TLBs). Instructions in the instruction caches may
be copies of instructions in memory 404 or storage 406, and the instruction caches may speed up
retrieval of those instructions by processor 402. Data in the data caches may be copies of data in
memory 404 or storage 406 for instructions executing at processor 402 to operate on; the results
of previous instructions executed at processor 402 for access by subsequent instructions
executing at processor 402 or for writing to memory 404 or storage 406; or other suitable data.
The data caches may speed up read or write operations by processor 402. The TLBs may speed
up virtual-address translation for processor 402. In particular embodiments, processor 402 may
include one or more internal registers for data, instructions, or addresses. This disclosure
contemplates processor 402 including any suitable number of any suitable internal registers,
where appropriate. Where appropriate, processor 402 may include one or more arithmetic logic
units (ALUs); be a multi-core processor; or include one or more processors 402. Although this
disclosure describes and illustrates a particular processor, this disclosure contemplates any
suitable processor.
         [53]   In particular embodiments, memory 404 includes main memory for storing
instructions for processor 402 to execute or data for processor 402 to operate on. As an example
and not by way of limitation, computer system 400 may load instructions from storage 406 or
another source (such as, for example, another computer system 400) to memory 404. Processor
402 may then load the instructions from memory 404 to an internal register or internal cache. To
execute the instructions, processor 402 may retrieve the instructions from the internal register or
internal cache and decode them. During or after execution of the instructions, processor 402 may

                                               28
write one or more results (which may be intermediate or final results) to the internal register or
internal cache. Processor 402 may then write one or more of those results to memory 404. In
particular embodiments, processor 402 executes only instructions in one or more internal
registers or internal caches or in memory 404 (as opposed to storage 406 or elsewhere) and
operates only on data in one or more internal registers or internal caches or in memory 404 (as
opposed to storage 406 or elsewhere). One or more memory buses (which may each include an
address bus and a data bus) may couple processor 402 to memory 404. Bus 412 may include one
or more memory buses, as described below. In particular embodiments, one or more memory
management units (MMUs) reside between processor 402 and memory 404 and facilitate
accesses to memory 404 requested by processor 402. In particular embodiments, memory 404
includes random access memory (RAM). This RAM may be volatile memory, where appropriate
Where appropriate, this RAM may be dynamic RAM (DRAM) or static RAM (SRAM).
Moreover, where appropriate, this RAM may be single-ported or multi-ported RAM. This
disclosure contemplates any suitable RAM. Memory 404 may include one or more memories
404, where appropriate. Although this disclosure describes and illustrates particular memory, this
disclosure contemplates any suitable memory.
         [54]  In particular embodiments, storage 406 includes mass storage for data or
instructions. As an example and not by way of limitation, storage 406 may include a hard disk
drive (HDD), a floppy disk drive, flash memory, an optical disc, a magneto-optical disc,
magnetic tape, or a Universal Serial Bus (USB) drive or a combination of two or more of these.
Storage 406 may include removable or non-removable (or fixed) media, where appropriate.
Storage 406 may be internal or external to computer system 400, where appropriate. In particular
embodiments, storage 406 is non-volatile, solid-state memory. In particular embodiments,
storage 406 includes read-only memory (ROM). Where appropriate, this ROM may be mask
programmed ROM, programmable ROM (PROM), erasable PROM (EPROM), electrically
erasable PROM (EEPROM), electrically alterable ROM (EAROM), or flash memory or a
combination of two or more of these. This disclosure contemplates mass storage 406 taking any
suitable physical form. Storage 406 may include one or more storage control units facilitating
communication between processor 402 and storage 406, where appropriate. Where appropriate,

                                                   29
storage 406 may include one or more storages 406. Although this disclosure describes and
illustrates particular storage, this disclosure contemplates any suitable storage.
         [55]    In particular embodiments, 1/0 interface 408 includes hardware, software, or both,
providing one or more interfaces for communication between computer system 400 and one or
more I/O devices. Computer system 400 may include one or more of these I/O devices, where
appropriate. One or more of these I/O devices may enable communication between a person and
computer system 400. As an example and not by way of limitation, an 1/0 device may include a
keyboard, keypad, microphone, monitor, mouse, printer, scanner, speaker, still camera, stylus,
tablet, touch screen, trackball, video camera, another suitable 1/0 device or a combination of two
or more of these. An 1/0 device may include one or more sensors. This disclosure contemplates
any suitable 1/0 devices and any suitable 1/0 interfaces 408 for them. Where appropriate, 1/0
interface 408 may include one or more device or software drivers enabling processor 402 to
drive one or more of these 1/0 devices. 1/0 interface 408 may include one or more 1/0 interfaces
408, where appropriate. Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular 1/0
interface, this disclosure contemplates any suitable 11O interface.
         [56]    In particular embodiments, communication interface 410 includes hardware,
software, or both providing one or more interfaces for communication (such as, for example,
packet-based communication) between computer system 400 and one or more other computer
systems 400 or one or more networks. As an example and not by way of limitation,
communication interface 410 may include a network interface controller (NIC) or network
adapter for communicating with an Ethernet or other wire-based network or a wireless NIC
(WNIC) or wireless adapter for communicating with a wireless network, such as a WI-FI
network. This disclosure contemplates any suitable network and any suitable communication
interface 410 for it. As an example and not by way of limitation, computer system 400 may
communicate with an ad hoc network, a personal area network (PAN), a local area network
(LAN), a wide area network (WAN), a metropolitan area network (MAN), or one or more
portions of the Internet or a combination of two or more of these. One or more portions of one or
more of these networks may be wired or wireless. As an example, computer system 400 may
communicate with a wireless PAN (WPAN) (such as, for example, a BLUETOOTH WPAN), a
WI-FI network, a WI-MAX network, a cellular telephone network (such as, for example, a

                                                  30
Global System for Mobile Communications (GSM) network), or other suitable wireless network
or a combination of two or more of these. Computer system 400 may include any suitable
communication interface 410 for any of these networks, where appropriate. Communication
interface 410 may include one or more communication interfaces 410, where appropriate.
Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular communication interface, this
disclosure contemplates any suitable communication interface.
         [57]   In particular embodiments, bus 412 includes hardware, software, or both coupling
components of computer system 400 to each other. As an example and not by way of limitation,
bus 412 may include an Accelerated Graphics Port (AGP) or other graphics bus, an Enhanced
Industry Standard Architecture (EISA) bus, a front-side bus (FSB), a HYPERTRANSPORT
(HT) interconnect, an Industry Standard Architecture (ISA) bus, an INFINIBAND interconnect,
a low-pin-count (LPC) bus, a memory bus, a Micro Channel Architecture (MCA) bus, a
Peripheral Component Interconnect (PCI) bus, a PCI-Express (PCIe) bus, a serial advanced
technology attachment (SATA) bus, a Video Electronics Standards Association local (VLB) bus,
or another suitable bus or a combination of two or more of these. Bus 412 may include one or
more buses 412, where appropriate. Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular
bus, this disclosure contemplates any suitable bus or interconnect.
Further Embodiments
         [58]   One embodiment provides a method comprising, by one or more processors
associated with one or more computing systems:
        deploying an application to a plurality of client systems associated with a plurality of
users, respectively, wherein the application is installed on each of the client systems, and
wherein one or more treatments can be remotely activated on the application;
        providing a first treatment of the application to a first set of client systems of the plurality
of client systems, the first set of client systems being associated with a first set of users of the
plurality of users, respectively, wherein providing the first treatment of the application to each
client system comprises:
                receiving a request from the application installed on the client system to access
        one or more of the computing devices;

                                                  31
                determining whether the client system belongs in a treatment group associated
        with the first treatment;
                remotely activating the first treatment on the client system if the client system
        belongs in the treatment group; and
                synchronizing activation of the first treatment in response to subsequent access by
        the client system; and
        receiving exposure data from the first set of client systems, wherein the exposure data for
each client system identifies an exposure of the user of the client system to the first treatment.
        [59]    In one arrangement, the method further comprises:
        determining a treatment effect of the first treatment for the users of the first set of users.
        [60]    In one arrangement, the method further comprises:
        deactivating the first treatment on the first set of client systems after a specified timeout
period.
        [61]    In one arrangement, the method further comprises:
        receiving conversion data from the first set of client system, wherein the conversion data
for each client system identifies user interaction with respect to the first treatment.
        [62]    In one arrangement, synchronizing activation of the treatment in response to
subsequent access by the client system comprises:
        determining whether the first treatment is active on the client system; and
        remotely re-activating the first treatment on the client system if the first treatment is
determined to be not active on the client system.
        [63]    In one arrangement, the method further comprises:
        accessing a social graph comprising a plurality of nodes and a plurality of edges
connecting the nodes, each of the edges between two of the nodes representing a single degree of
separation between them, the plurality of nodes corresponding to a plurality of users associated
with an online social network, respectively.
        [64]    In one arrangement, the method further comprises:
        identifying a plurality of clusters in the social graph using graph cluster randomization,
each cluster comprising a discrete set of nodes from the plurality of nodes, wherein a threshold
number of nodes in each cluster is network exposed with respect to the other nodes in the cluster.

                                                  32
         [65]    In one arrangement, the first set of users corresponds to a first set of clusters of
the plurality of clusters.
         [66]    In one arrangement, the method further comprises modifying the treatment based
on the determined treatment effect of the treatment.
         [67]    In one arrangement, the method further comprises applying the treatment to a
second set of client systems, the second set of client systems being discrete from the first set of
client systems.
         [68]    In one arrangement, providing the treatment comprises randomizing between
treatment and control to sets of users of the plurality of users.
         [69]    In one arrangement, the treatment is a particular advertisement.
         [70]    In one arrangement, the treatment is a particular product or feature associated
with the application.
         [71]    In one arrangement, the client systems are mobile client systems.
         [72]    In one arrangement, the one or more computing systems are servers associated
with an online social network.
         [73]    Another embodiment provides one or more computer-readable non-transitory
storage media embodying software that is operable when executed to:
        deploy an application to a plurality of client systems associated with a plurality of users,
respectively, wherein the application is installed on each of the client systems, and wherein one
or more treatments can be remotely activated on the application;
        provide a first treatment of the application to a first set of client systems of the plurality
of client systems, the first set of client systems being associated with a first set of users of the
plurality of users, respectively, wherein providing the first treatment of the application to each
client system comprises:
                 receive a request from the application installed on the client system to access one
        or more of the computing devices;
                 determine whether the client system belongs in a treatment group associated with
        the first treatment;
                 remotely activate the first treatment on the client system if the client system
        belongs in the treatment group; and

                                                  33
                 synchronize activation of the first treatment in response to subsequent access by
        the client system; and
        receive exposure data from the first set of client systems, wherein the exposure data for
each client system identifies an exposure of the user of the client system the first treatment.
         [74]    Another embodiment provides a system comprising: one or more processors; and
a memory coupled to the processors comprising instructions executable by the processors, the
processors operable when executing the instructions to:
        deploy an application to a plurality of client systems associated with a plurality of users,
respectively, wherein the application is installed on each of the client systems, and wherein one
or more treatments can be remotely activated on the application;
        provide a first treatment of the application to a first set of client systems of the plurality
of client systems, the first set of client systems being associated with a first set of users of the
plurality of users, respectively, wherein providing the first treatment of the application to each
client system comprises:
                 receive a request from the application installed on the client system to access one
        or more of the computing devices;
                 determine whether the client system belongs in a treatment group associated with
        the first treatment;
                 remotely activate the first treatment on the client system if the client system
        belongs in the treatment group; and
                 synchronize activation of the first treatment in response to subsequent access by
        the client system; and
        receive exposure data from the first set of client systems, wherein the exposure data for
each client system identifies an exposure of the user of the client system the first treatment.
         [75]    Herein, a computer-readable non-transitory storage medium or media may include
one or more semiconductor-based or other integrated circuits (ICs) (such, as for example, field
programmable gate arrays (FPGAs) or application-specific ICs (ASICs)), hard disk drives
(HDDs), hybrid hard drives (HHDs), optical discs, optical disc drives (ODDs), magneto-optical
discs, magneto-optical drives, floppy diskettes, floppy disk drives (FDDs), magnetic tapes, solid
state drives (SSDs), RAM-drives, SECURE DIGITAL cards or drives, any other suitable

                                                 34
computer-readable non-transitory storage media, or any suitable combination of two or more of
these, where appropriate. A computer-readable non-transitory storage medium may be volatile,
non-volatile, or a combination of volatile and non-volatile, where appropriate.
         [76]   Herein, "or" is inclusive and not exclusive, unless expressly indicated otherwise
or indicated otherwise by context. Therefore, herein, "A or B" means "A, B, or both," unless
expressly indicated otherwise or indicated otherwise by context. Moreover, "and" is both joint
and several, unless expressly indicated otherwise or indicated otherwise by context. Therefore,
herein, "A and B" means "A and B, jointly or severally," unless expressly indicated otherwise or
indicated otherwise by context.
         [77]   The scope of this disclosure encompasses all changes, substitutions, variations,
alterations, and modifications to the example embodiments described or illustrated herein that a
person having ordinary skill in the art would comprehend. The scope of this disclosure is not
limited to the example embodiments described or illustrated herein. Moreover, although this
disclosure describes and illustrates respective embodiments herein as including particular
components, elements, feature, functions, operations, or steps, any of these embodiments may
include any combination or permutation of any of the components, elements, features, functions,
operations, or steps described or illustrated anywhere herein that a person having ordinary skill
in the art would comprehend. Furthermore, reference in the appended claims to an apparatus or
system or a component of an apparatus or system being adapted to, arranged to, capable of,
configured to, enabled to, operable to, or operative to perform a particular function encompasses
that apparatus, system, component, whether or not it or that particular function is activated,
turned on, or unlocked, as long as that apparatus, system, or component is so adapted, arranged,
capable, configured, enabled, operable, or operative.

                                                    35
The claims defining the invention are as follows:
     1. A method comprising, by an application server:
        deploying, by the application server, an application to a plurality of client systems
associated with a plurality of users, respectively, wherein the application is installed on each of
the client systems, and wherein one or more treatments can be remotely activated on the
application;
        receiving, from a first client system associated with a first user of the plurality of users, a
request from the application installed on the first client system to access the application server;
        determining, by the application server, whether the first user belongs in a treatment group
associated with a first treatment;
        remotely activating, by the application server, the first treatment on the first client system
associated with the first user if the first user belongs in the treatment group; and
        synchronizing, by the application server, remote activation of the first treatment in
response to subsequent access by the first client system, wherein synchronizing remote activation
of the first treatment comprises maintaining the first user in the first treatment group and
maintaining activation of the first treatment on the first client system through one or more
treatment-disabling events that occur on the first client system.
    2. The method of Claim 1, further comprising:
        receiving, from the first client system, exposure data identifying an exposure of the first
user to the first treatment.
    3. The method of either one of Claim 1 and Claim 2, further comprising:
        determining a treatment effect of the first treatment for the first user based on exposure
data received from the first client system.
    4. The method of Claim 3, further comprising:
        modifying the first treatment based on the determined treatment effect of the first
treatment.

                                                    36
    5. The method of any one of Claims 1 to 4, further comprising:
         deactivating the first treatment on the first client system after a specified timeout period.
    6. The method of any one of Claims 1 to 5, further comprising:
         receiving, from the first client system, conversion data identifying user interactions with
respect to the first treatment.
    7. The method of any one of Claims 1 to 6, wherein synchronizing activation of the first
treatment in response to subsequent access by the first client system comprises:
         determining whether the first treatment is active on the first client system; and
         remotely re-activating the first treatment on the first client system if the first treatment is
determined to be not active on the first client system.
    8. The method of any one of Claims 1 to 7, further comprising:
         accessing a social graph comprising a plurality of nodes and a plurality of edges
connecting the nodes, each of the edges between two of the nodes representing a single degree of
separation between them, the plurality of nodes corresponding to a plurality of users associated
with an online social network, respectively.
    9. The method of Claim 8, further comprising:
         identifying a plurality of clusters in the social graph using graph cluster randomization,
each cluster comprising a discrete set of nodes from the plurality of nodes, wherein a threshold
number of nodes in each cluster is network exposed with respect to the other nodes in the cluster.
     10. The method of Claim 9, wherein the first user corresponds to a node in a first cluster of
the plurality of clusters.
     11. The method of Claim 10, further comprising:
         remotely activating the first treatment on one or more second client systems associated
with one or more second users of the plurality of users, respectively, the one or more second

                                                   37
client systems corresponding to one or more nodes in a second cluster of the plurality of clusters,
the first cluster being discrete from the second cluster.
     12. The method of any one of Claims 1 to 11, wherein determining whether the first user
belongs in the treatment group associated with a first treatment comprises determining whether
the first user belongs in a treatment set of users or a control set of users.
     13. The method of any one of Claims 1 to 12, wherein the first treatment is a particular
advertisement.
     14. The method of any one of Claims I to 12, wherein the first treatment is a particular
product or feature associated with the application.
     15. The method of any one of Claims 1 to 14, wherein the client systems are mobile client
systems.
     16. The method of any one of Claims I to 15, wherein the application server is a server
associated with an online social network.
     17. The method of any one of Claims 1 to 16, wherein the application is a mobile application
for accessing an online social network.
     18. The method of any one of Claims 1 to 17, wherein the one or more treatment-disabling
events comprises one or more of:
         a cache-clearing event;
         a deletion event; or
         a deployment event.

                                                    38
     19. The method of any one of Claims 1 to 18, wherein maintaining activation of the first
treatment on the first client system through one or more treatment-disabling events comprises
remotely reactivating the treatment of the application responsive to determining the treatment is
inactive on the first client system following a treatment-disabling event.
     20. One or more computer-readable non-transitory storage media embodying software that is
operable when executed to:
         deploy, by an application server, an application to a plurality of client systems associated
with a plurality of users, respectively, wherein the application is installed on each of the client
systems, and wherein one or more treatments can be remotely activated on the application;
         receive, from a first client system associated with a first user of the plurality of users, a
request from the application installed on the first client system to access the application server;
         determine, by the application server, whether the first user belongs in a treatment group
associated with a first treatment;
         remotely activate, by the application server, the first treatment on the first client system
associated with the first user if the first user belongs in the treatment group; and
         synchronize, by the application server, remote activation of the first treatment in response
to subsequent access by the first client system, wherein synchronizing remote activation of the
first treatment comprises maintaining the first user in the first treatment group and maintaining
activation of the first treatment on the first client system through one or more treatment-disabling
events that occur on the first client system.
     21. A system comprising: one or more processors; and a memory coupled to the processors
comprising instructions executable by the processors, the processors operable when executing
the instructions to:
         deploy, by an application server, an application to a plurality of client systems associated
with a plurality of users, respectively, wherein the application is installed on each of the client
systems, and wherein one or more treatments can be remotely activated on the application;
         receive, from a first client system associated with a first user of the plurality of users, a
request from the application installed on the first client system to access the application server;

                                                    39
         determine, by the application server, whether the first user belongs in a treatment group
associated with a first treatment;
         remotely activate, by the application server, the first treatment on the first client system
associated with the first user if the first user belongs in the treatment group; and
         synchronize, by the application server, remote activation of the first treatment in response
to subsequent access by the first client system, wherein synchronizing remote activation of the
first treatment comprises maintaining the first user in the first treatment group and maintaining
activation of the first treatment on the first client system through one or more treatment-disabling
events that occur on the first client system.
                                          Facebook, Inc.
                                By Patent Attorneys for the Applicant
                                      QCOTTERS
                                    Patent & Trade Mark Attorneys

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           1/4

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           2/4

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           3/4

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           4/4

