                             ABSTRACT OF THE DISCLOSURE
        An espresso making machine has a short wave heating element, selected from
a halogen lamp and an infrared lamp, that is semi-extemal. The heating element is
inside the water tank yet not exposed to water since it is encased in a heat conducting
sleeve that crosses the water tank.

     Sheet 1/7
  An
  g,
InUL
 U)~

      Coffee-Making Machine With Semi-External High Voltage Halogen or Infrared
                                       Heating Element
 5 FIELD AND BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
           The present invention relates to apparatuses and methods for coffee-making
   machines and, more particularly to coffee-making machines that have semi-external
   heating elements.
           Coffee-making machines, a term which is understood to include within it
10 espresso-making machines, require heating water used for making the coffee or
   espresso, and also for making other hot beverages (e.g., tea) and steam (to foam milk).
   The water used in coffee-making machines is water in which there are a significant
   amount of dissolved minerals. This may be tap water or it may be bottled water
   containing minerals.
15         It is well known that heating water causes at least some of the minerals to
   precipitate out of solution either through evaporation of the water solvent due to the
   heat or through precipitation of the solute out of solution as fine particles. In either
   case, the particles that come out of solution gravitate to the bottom or side of the
   container or get accrued on devices dipped in the water, holding the solution as
20 sediment. For example, calcium deposits are a common outcome of heating water.
           When rain falls to the ground it dissolves limestone and chalk. Soluble
   bicarbonate of calcium and magnesium are dissolved in the water. When the water is
   heated, the soluble bicarbonates release insoluble calcium carbonate, which causes
   lime-scale.
25         It is well known that calcification and the deposit of lime scale are a
   continuing problem for coffee-making machines for several reasons. The calcium and
   lime sticks to everything that touches water. This includes the heating element, the
                                               1

   water quantity measuring element and other sensors and other critical components.
   The build-up of scale reduces thermal efficiency by increasing the time it takes to
   reach the desired temperature. More importantly, the lime or calcium deposits
   interfere with proper functioning of the heating element. Heat transfer is impaired and
 5 energy efficiency is reduced. When the heating element malfunctions from the build
   up of the scaly deposits, the heating element tends to overheat and be in a state of
   short circuit. As a result of the short circuit, the entire coffee-making or espresso
   making apparatus may cease to function and even other systems connected to the
   same electricity line may be adversely affected by the short circuit.
10         As a result, machines that are supposed to last 10 to 20 years end up lasting 2
   to 4 years. Accordingly, equipment replacement costs are astronomical. Labor costs
   for maintaining these coffee making machines are also high since a certified espresso
   machine technician is required in order to replace these heating elements. Their work
   takes several hours and the machine is down during that time, affecting business.
15         One thing that can be done to try to prevent build-up of lime and calcium on
   the heating element is to increase the frequency of maintenance checks. Chemicals for
   cleaning the lime and calcium also cost money. Consequently, increasing the
   frequency of maintenance checks increases labor costs and generates a significant
   increase in overall maintenance costs.
20         Prior attempts to solve this problem include the use of water softeners that are
   placed into the water. Water softeners exchange calcium and magnesium ions with
   twice as many sodium ions. This exchange is expensive to maintain, requires a lot of
   sale to operate and can require a lot of extra water. Environmentalists also maintain
   that water softeners pollute our environment by depositing chloride into our water
25 supply. They may also harm people on salt restricted diets. The environmental
                                               2

   objections has led to legislation - at the state or local level - by one count in
   approximately 34 states of the United States restricting the use of water softeners in
   sanitary sewage systems. In some countries, moreover, water softeners may be banned
   in the near future for environmental reasons. Water softeners allegedly also speed up
 5 pipe damage as more salty water flows through the piping.
           An additional prior art attempt to solve the problem involves the use of filters
   in the coffee-making machines. Filters are expensive. In addition, the filters must be
   maintained properly, however, in order to be effective. In fact, the filters need to be
   replaced every couple of months. Applicant's experience in servicing coffee making
10 machines over decades is that filters are simply not maintained properly. They are not
   replaced when they should be. A common reason, besides laziness, is that there is a
   frequent labor changeover in the retail outlets that use coffee-making machines and
   there is a constant shortage of trained personnel able to change the filters.
           Another prior art solution is a dry external heating element installed around
15 the water tank as an integral part of the water tank. This solves the problem of scaly
   deposits building up. However, it causes other problems. For example, in case of
   malfunction, the entire water tank utilizing the dry external heating element needs to
   be replaced. These heating elements are also expensive since they require very high
   power to compensate for the fact that the heat they emit is emitted away from the
20 water tank. In addition, a certified espresso-machine technician is needed to service
   the heating element. Labor costs for servicing these dry external heating elements can
   take several days since these heating elements are extremely difficult to maintain. The
   heating element must also be fully in contact with the metal tank surface or a gap will
   be filled by air pockets that decreases the life of the heating element. However, to be
25 fully in contact with the metal tank surface often results in the envelope that the
                                                3

   heating element is encased in being expanded out of shape during use, which
   complicates replacement by the technician.
           Applicant has also heard of a company on the Internet calling itself
   "Scalebusters" that offers a computerized system installed on the incoming water line
 5 of a facility. The computer system uses an oscillating electronic field that claims to
   change the physical size, shape and charge of calcium molecules. Although alleged to
   be less expensive than water softeners, this computer system is expensive to install
   and maintain.
           There is a compelling need to have a method and apparatus for solving the
10 build-up of lime and calcium deposits from water that adversely affects coffee
   making machines.
                       SUMMARY OF THE PRESENT INVENTION
15         One aspect of the present invention is an espresso-making machine having a
   short wave heating element that is inside a water tank, the water tank housing heated
   water that flows to a pod/capsule or espresso handle, the pod/capsule or espresso
   handle containing ground coffee beans, the short wave heating element encased in a
   heat conducting sleeve so as not to be in contact with water inside the water tank, the
20 water containing minerals.
           A further aspect of the present invention is directed to an assembly for a
   coffee-making machine including a semi-external heating element, comprising a first
   water tank for generating hot water for beverages a first heat conducting sleeve
   crossing the first water tank and enclosed so that an inner wall of the first heat
25 conducting sleeve is not in contact with water from the first water tank; a first short
                                               4

   wave heating element not in contact with water from the first water tank, the first
   short wave heating element encased in the first heat conducting sleeve, the first short
   wave heating element selected from the group comprising a halogen lamp and an
   infrared lamp, the short wave heating element connected to a controller that
 5 determines when and for how long the short wave heating element is actuated; a
   second water tank as an integral part of an espresso group head for generating hot
   water for coffee; a second heat conducting sleeve crossing the second water tank, a
   second inner wall of the second heat conducting sleeve not be in contact with water
   from the water tank; and a second short wave heating element not in contact with
10 water, the second short wave heating element encased in the second heat conducting
   sleeve, the second short wave heating element selected from the group comprising a
   halogen lamp and an infrared lamp, the second short wave heating element connected
   to a controller that determines when and for how long the second short wave heating
   element is actuated, hot water heated by the second short wave heating element
15 exiting the second water tank to a pod/capsule or espresso handle the pod/capsule or
   espresso handle containing ground coffee beans and the hot water heated by the
   second short wave heating element sufficiently to brew the ground coffee beans into
   espresso.
           A still further aspect of the present invention involves a method of operating
20 an espresso-making machine having a water tank, comprising providing an espresso
   making machine with a short wave heating element that is inside the water tank but is
   not in contact with the water in the water tank; operating the espresso-making
   machine while the short wave heating element is disconnected from other electrical
   components of the espresso-making machine until the short wave heating element is
                                                 5

   burned out without causing a short circuit; and replacing the short wave heating
   element with a new short wave heating element.
           A still further aspect of the present invention is directed to a method of
   operating an espresso-making machine, comprising providing the espresso-making
 5 machine with a water tank, the water tank holding water and having a water outlet in
   communication through a communication channel with a pod/capsule or espresso
   handle, the pod/capsule or espresso handle containing ground coffee beans , the
   communication channel governed by a controller; installing a heat conducting sleeve
   that crosses the water tank, the heat conducting sleeve having a short wave heating
10 element encased therein, the short wave heating element not in contact with the water,
   the short wave heating element selected from a halogen lamp and an infrared lamp
   and capable of heating the heat conducting sleeve so as to heat the water in the water
   tank to a boiling temperature; using a controller to actuate the short wave heating
   element to heat the water to the boiling temperature, the temperature of the water
15 heated by the short wave heating element calculated to be suitable for making
   espresso when the heated water flows from the water tank to the pod/capsule or
   espresso handle containing ground coffee beans, and extracts coffee; subjecting coffee
   granules in the pod/capsule or espresso handle to a flow of heated water exiting the
   water tank through the water outlet and traveling through the communication channel,
20 the heated water having been heated by the short wave heating element; and
   maintaining the short wave heating element free of lime and deposits of minerals from
   the water during the life of the espresso-making machine.
           These and other features, aspects and advantages of the present invention will
   become better understood with reference to the following drawings, descriptions and
25 claims.
                                                 6

                       BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
           Various embodiments are herein described, by way of example only, with
 5 reference to the accompanying drawings, wherein:
           FIG. 1 is a front plan view of an espresso making machine, with a water tank
   containing a heating element and having a heat exchange pathway, in accordance with
   one embodiment of the present invention;
           FIG. 2 is a front plan view of a water tank containing a heating element and
10 having a heat exchange pathway wherein the heat conducting sleeve crosses the water
   tank but not so as to reach a second side of the water tank, in accordance with a
   further embodiment of the present invention;
           FIG. 3 is a front plan view of a water tank containing a heating element, in
   accordance with one embodiment of the present invention;
15         FIG. 4 is a front plan view of an assembly for use with an espresso-making
   machine including a system water tank having a heating element, and an espresso
   group head having a heating element, in accordance with one embodiment of the
   present invention;
           FIG. 5 is a flow chart showing a method in accordance with one embodiment
20 of the present invention; and
           FIGS. 6A-6B is a flow chart showing a further method in accordance with one
   embodiment of the present invention.
                                              7

                     DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION
            The following detailed description is of the best currently contemplated modes
   of carrying out the invention. The description is not to be taken in a limiting sense, but
 5 is made merely for the purpose of illustrating the general principles of the invention,
   since the scope of the invention is best defined by the appended claims.
            The present invention generally provides an espresso-making machine that
   utilizes a semi-external heating element. An assembly, which may be constructed to
   fit existing espresso machines may include a short wave heating element selected
10 from a halogen lamp and an infrared lamp encased in a heat conducting sleeve that
   may cross a water tank either entirely or less than entirely. The short wave heating
   element may be operationally engaged to a controller that may determine when the
   heating element is actuated. The water tank may have an outlet for heated water that
   may be in flow communication with a pod/capsule or espresso handle containing
15 ground coffee beans so that actuation of the heating element may heat the heat
   conducting sleeve which may directly heat the water in the water tank. When heated
   water from the water tank is allowed to flow to the pod/capsule or espresso handle
   containing ground coffee beans, coffee may be extracted at a rate suitable for making
   espresso. The water tank may have an outlet for heated water that may be in flow
20 communication with a hot water tap and an outlet for steam that may be in flow
   communication with a steam spout so that actuation of the heating element may heat
   the heat conducting sleeve which may directly heat the water in the water tank. When
   heated water from the water tank is allowed to flow to the hot water tap, hot beverage
   may be made; when steam from the water tank is allowed to flow to the steam spout,
25 milk may be foamed at a rate suitable for making cappuccino.The heating element
                                                8

   may be utilized and maintained free of lime or calcium deposits since the heating
   element may be kept dry at all times.
            In contrast to prior art coffee-making machines in which the heating element is
   typically in contact with water and accumulates scale from lime or calcium during
 5 ordinary use, the coffee-making machine of the present invention and the assemblies
   used for such machines may utilize a heating element that may be kept dry by being
   encased in a heat conducting sleeve. Accordingly, no build-up of lime or calcium may
   occur on the heating element during use of the machine. In further contrast to the prior
   art, in which the conventional coffee-making machine uses a heating element that is
10 constantly breaking down from lime deposits or other scale, the coffee making
   machine of the present invention may break down much less frequently. In further
   contrast to the prior art coffee-making machines in which the heating element needs
   constant maintenance, the coffee-making machine of the present invention including
   the assembly of the present invention, may not need nearly as much maintenance.
15 Whenever the heating element needs to be replaced, the sleeve is removed or the
   heating element is removed from the sleeve and simply replaced. In further contrast to
   the prior art heating elements used for coffee-making machines, in which it takes a
   while for the water to be heated to a temperature suitable for making espresso, the
   present invention may utilize a short wave heating element that heats much more
20 rapidly. In still further contrast to the prior art, in which the coffee-making machine
   heating element is not very efficient, the heating element of the coffee-making
   machine of the present invention may be about 50% more efficient. In still further
   contrast to coffee-making machines of the prior art, wherein when the heating element
   inside the machine accumulates lime impairing heat transfer and burns out this causes
25 a short circuit shutting down the whole machine and possibly other appliances
                                                  9

   connected to the same electric line, the coffee-making machine of the present
   invention may utilize a short wave heating element that may be in a state of
   disconnection when the lamp gets burned. In this case, unlike the short circuit
   described for the prior art, other components of the coffee-making machine may
 5 remain unaffected. In contrast to the prior art coffee-making machines, which may
   last only two to four years, the coffee-making machine of the present invention or
   which utilizes an assembly of the present invention, may last ten to twenty years. In
   still further contrast to other prior art coffee-making machines that may utilize a fully
   external heating element, the short wave heating element of the present invention may
10 be semi-external in that it may be external to the water in the water tank but it may be
   internal to the water tank of the espresso machine. The efficiency may be greater than
   that of external heating elements and they are not adversely affected by air pockets
   between the actual heating element and the surface of the water tank. In further
   contrast to prior art espresso-making machines, in which a certified espresso machine
15 technician is needed to service or replace the heating element, the assembly or
   espresso-making machine of the present invention may not require a certified espresso
   machine technician to service or replace the short wave heating element used.
            The principles and operation of an apparatus and a method for a coffee
   making machine with semi-external high voltage heating element, according to the
20 present invention may be better understood with reference to the drawings and the
   accompanying description.
            As seen from FIG. 1, an espresso-making machine 10 may have a short wave
   heating element 20 that may be inside a water tank 40 by being encased within a heat
   conducting sleeve 30 that crosses the water tank 40. The water tank may contain
25 heated water (when the heating element is on or was on) that flows to an espresso
                                                  10

   group head 50 having a pod/capsule or espresso handle 5 containing ground coffee
   beans.
           Heat conducting sleeve 30 shall be defined to mean a metal sleeve and shall be
   defined to also mean a non-metal sleeve that has a high thermal conductivity. A high
 5 thermal conductivity means (in units of Btu/(hr F ft)) at least 15, or at least 40 or
   more preferred embodiments at least 100 or at least 200. This would also include, for
   example, a sleeve made of graphene, a recently discovered strong carbon material
   having a very high thermal conductivity.
            Heat conducting sleeve 30 may cross the water tank at a level below the level
10 43 of the water 42 in the water tank 40. The term "short wave heating element" 20 as
   used in this patent application shall be defined to mean either a halogen lamp or an
   infrared lamp. Applicant has chosen this phrase merely because the halogen or
   infrared lamp will often be in the short wave of the light spectrum. However, the term
   "short wave wave heating element" as used herein is not necessarily limited to a
15 particular portion of the light spectrum other as dictated by being a halogen lamp or
   an infrared lamp Short wave heating element 20 (in any embodiment of the present
   invention) may be a high voltage heating element, which means it may have a voltage
   of 110 or higher. Short wave heating element 20 may be encased in heat conducting
   sleeve 30 so as not to be in contact with water 42 inside the water tank 40. This water
20 in the water tank may contain minerals that may precipitate or evaporate out of
   solution upon the water being heated. In this version, a heat exchanger 70 may
   traverse the water tank 40 in a substantially vertical direction.
           FIG. 1 also shows a controller 60 that may be operationally engaged to the
   short wave heating element 20. Controller 60 may determine the timing of the
25 actuation of the short wave heating element 20. The controller 60, or another
                                                11

   controller, may also control flow channels of heated water from the water tank to
   selected outlets, for example flow channels from the water tank 40: flow channel 77
   (connected to heat exchanger 70 that has inlet 71) of heated water crossing the water
   tank 40 to the pod/capsule or espresso handle containing ground coffee beans 51; flow
 5 channel 79 of heated water from the water tank 40 to the hot water tap 59; flow
   channel 78 of steam 47 from the water tank 40 to the steam spout 58.
            FIG. 2 shows a version in which the heat conducting sleeve 30 does not cross
   the entire length of the water tank 40. Rather, the heat conducting sleeve 30 crosses
   enough of the water tank to ensure that the short wave heating element 20 encased in
10 the heat conducting sleeve is capable of heating the water in water tank 40 rapidly. It
   is the intention of the present invention that the short wave heating element may heat
   the entire amount of water in water tank 40.
            FIG. 3 shows a water tank 40 in accordance with one embodiment of the
   present invention having an elongated or tubular water inlet 49 and having an
15 elongated water outlet 36 that may become flow channel 37 in communication with a
   pod/capsule or espresso handle containing ground coffee beans (not shown), a hot
   water tap (not shown) or a steam spout (not shown). Short wave heating element 20
   may be positioned inward of the first side 45 of water tank 40 and inward of the
   second side 46 of water tank 40 so as to have the maximum effect on the heating of
20 the water 42 in water tank 40. Accordingly, heat conducting sleeve 30 may traverse
   water tank 40 from a first side 45 of water tank 40 to a second side 46 of water tank
   40.
            FIG. 4 shows an assembly 100 that includes a system water tank 40 having
   heat conducting sleeve 30 with short wave heating element 20 and that also includes a
25 smaller espresso tank 44 integrated into an espresso group head 50. The espresso
                                                12

   making machine includes a system water tank having a heating element, and an
   espresso group head having an integral heating element.
           An assembly 100 for a coffee-making machine in accordance with the present
   invention may include a semi-external heating element. As seen in FIG. 4, the
 5 assembly 100 for a coffee-making machine, especially an espresso-making machine,
   may include a first water tank 40 for heating water that flows to the hot water tap 59
   and for steaming water that flows to the steam spout 58; and a second water tank 44
   for heating water that flows to the coffee pod/capsule or espresso handle 51
   containing ground coffee beans to make espresso coffee.
10         The first short wave heating element 20 may be inside the first water tank but
   may be encased in first heat conducting sleeve 30 that may cross the first water tank
   and be enclosed so that an inner wall 30A of first heat conducting sleeve 30 may not
   be in contact with water 42 from the first water tank 40. Accordingly, the first short
   wave heating element 20 may not be in contact with water from the first water tank.
15 The first short wave heating element may be selected from the group comprising a
   halogen lamp and an infrared lamp. Short wave heating element may be connected to
   a controller 60 that determines when and for how long the short wave heating element
   is actuated;
           The assembly for the espresso-making machine may further include a second
20 water tank44 smaller than and not connected to the first water tank 40. A second short
   wave heating element 22 may be semi-external in that it may be inside the second
   water tank 44 yet may be not in contact with water in the second water tank, for
   example by being encased in a second heat conducting sleeve 32that may cross the
   second water tank below the water level in the tank. The inner wall 32A of the second
25 heat conducting sleeve 32 (sometimes called the second inner wall) may not be in
                                               13

   contact with water from the water tank 44. As before, the second short wave heating
   element 22 may be kept dry and may be selected from the group comprising a halogen
   lamp and an infrared lamp.
           FIG. 4 show how the second water tank may be connected to the controller.
 5 The second short wave heating element 22 may be connected to a controller 60 that
   may determine when and for how long the second short wave heating element is
   actuated. For example, the controller may determine that the heating element 22 may
   be actuated so as to cause water in the water to boil at a temperature sufficient that
   when it flows to the espresso head to contact the ground coffee beans it cools down to
10 the temperature of water known in the art to be suitable for extracting coffee for
   making espresso, Hot water heated by the second short wave heating element 22 may
   exit the second water tank 44 and may flow to the pod/capsule or espresso handle
   containing ground coffee beans 51 after being heated by the second short wave
   heating element sufficiently to brew the ground coffee beans into espresso.
15         In any embodiment, the first and second heat conducting sleeves may entirely
   cross the water tank or instead may cross less than the entire water tank. For example,
   as shown in FIG. 2, heat conducting sleeve 30 may cross at least two-thirds of a
   length of the entire water tank. In assembly 100, first and second heat conducting
   sleeves may cross at least two-thirds of the length of the entire water tanks that the
20 sleeves are in.
           Typically, the first short wave heating element 20 may be adjacent the first
   heat conducting sleeve or in some cases may be separated by a cushion/pocket of air
   (as seen from Fig. 3). However, unlike other heating elements, the air cushion 27
   between the sleeve and the heating element 20 (or 22) will not cause a problem and
25 will not impact how long it takes for the short wave heating element to heat the heat
                                                14

   conducting sleeve. In assembly 100, the second short wave heating element 22 may
   be adjacent or separated by an air cushion/pocket from the second heat conducting
   sleeve and independently of this the first short wave heating element may be adjacent
   or may be separated by an air cushion/pocket from the first heat conducting sleeve.
 5         In any embodiment, as seen from FIG. 2, a heat exchange pathway 70 may
   interrupt the water tank 40 in which a heat conducting sleeve 30 containing a short
   wave heating element 20 is encased. The heat exchange pathway 70 may run from the
   bottom of the water tank to the top of the water tank. A cooling fluid 77 may be
   placed through the heat exchange pathway 70. Any such heat exchange pathway 70
10 may not interrupt the heat conducting sleeve 30 itself containing the halogen lamp or
   infrared lamp.
           As seen from FIG. 5, the present invention may also be expressed as a method
   of operating an espresso-making machine having a water tank. Method 100 may
   include a step 110 of providing an espresso-making machine with a short wave
15 heating element that is inside the water tank of the coffee-making machine but is not
   in contact with the water in the water tank. This may be seen from any one of FIGS. 1
   through 5 where the short wave heating element is encased in a heat conducting
   sleeve that is under water inside the water tank.
           A further step 120 of method 100 may include operating the espresso-making
20 machine while the short wave heating element is disconnected from other electrical
   components of the expresso-making machine until the short wave heating element is
   burned out without causing a short circuit.
           Method 100 may also comprise a step 130 of replacing the short wave heating
   element with a new short wave heating element.
                                               15

   In some versions, the method may further comprise servicing the short wave heating
   element without requiring that the servicing be perfomred by a certified espresso
   machine technician.
           As shown in FIG. 6A-6B, the present invention may be described as a further
 5 method of operating an espresso-making machine. Method 200 may include a step
   210 of providing the espresso-making machine with a water tank, the water tank
   holding water and having a water outlet in communication with a pod/capsule or
   espresso handle containing ground coffee beans through a communication channel,
   the communication channel governed by a controller. Method 200 may have a step
10 220 of installing a heat conducting sleeve that crosses the water tank. Crossing the
   water tank may in some embodiments mean crossing it from side to side, i.e. the full
   length of the water tank as seen in FIG. 1. In other embodiments, crossing the water
   tank may involve crossing it through less than its full length, such as in FIG. 2. The
   heat conducting sleeve may have a short wave heating element encased therein. The
15 encasing may be such as to have the short wave heating element adjacent the inner
   walls of the heat conducting sleeve. In other cases, the encasing may be such as to
   allow an air space between the outer surface of the short wave heating element and
   the inner walls of the heat conducting sleeve. In all embodiments, the short wave
   heating element is not in contact with the water and may be selected from a halogen
20 lamp and an infrared lamp.
           Short wave heating element 20 (or 22) may be capable of heating the heat
   conducting sleeve so as to heat the water in the water tank to a boiling temperature. In
   fact, halogen lamps heat very rapidly and the water in the water tank may be brought
   to boiling and higher quite rapidly. In some cases, this may occur in a matter of
25 seconds.
                                               16

           Method 200 may include a step 230 of using a controller to control when to
   actuate the short wave heating element to heat the water. The water may be heated to
   a boiling temperature calculated such that when the heated water flows through to the
   espresso head and is in contact with the ground coffee beans therein, the heated water
 5 has cooled down to the temperature known in the art as being suitable for making
   espresso, which may be about 85 to 92 degrees Celsius The term "near boiling
   temperature" refers to the temperature of the heated water as it makes contact with the
   pod/capsule or espresso handle holding the ground coffee beans. In some
   embodiments, this temperature may be 92 degrees Celsius. Accordingly, the
10 temperature of the water heated by the short wave heating element may be higher than
   near boiling temoperature and may be boiling or higher. Such temperature may be
   calculated to make espresso when the heated water flows from the water tank flows to
   the pod/capsule or espresso handle containing ground coffee beans and extracts
   coffee.
15         Method 200 may include a step 240 of subjecting ground coffee beans in the
   pod/capsule or espresso handle containing ground coffee beans to a flow of heated
   water, which may be near boiling water, from the boiling water exiting the water tank
   through the water outlet and traveling through the communication channel, the heated
   water (which may be near boiling) having been heated by the short wave heating
20 element. A further step of method 200 may include that the short wave heating
   element may be maintained free of lime and deposits of minerals from the water
   during the life of the espresso-making machine. This may be accomplished by
   operating the espresso machine over its entire life while the heating element is
   encased in the heat conducting sleeve so that it is protected from lime and mineral
25 deposits. This may also be accomplished by performance maintenance on the heating
                                              17

   element and/or replacing it without having to subject the heating element to contact
   with water from the water tank.
           In some versions of the method the method further comprises removing the
   short wave heating element when necessary for maintenance and replacement of the
 5 short wave heating element without wetting the short wave heating element.
           The term "powder" and the term "granules" contained in a pod/capsule or
   handle used for making espresso or coffee are broad terms that include any substance
   from which is extracted coffee used for making espresso or for making another kind
   of coffee. The phrase "pod/capsule or espresso handle" includes a pod, a capsule and
10 includes an espresso handle.
           "Water containing minerals" means ordinary tap water or water that is sold in
   bottles and that may contain minerals such as mineral water. It does not include water
   sold in bottles and specifically sold as "filtered water" where the minerals have been
   removed. Water containing minerals is suitable for use in making coffee or espresso.
15         While the invention has been described with respect to a limited number of
   embodiments, it will be appreciated that many variations, modifications and other
   applications of the invention may be made. Therefore, the claimed invention as
   recited in the claims that follow is not limited to the embodiments described herein.
                                                 18

WHAT IS CLAIMED IS:
        1. A water tank comprising a water inlet and an outlet for water or steam,
        a non-transparent heat conducting sleeve sealingly integrated with the water
tank and extending within the water tank so as to define an externally accessible dry
passageway extending within the water tank, an external surface of said heat
conducting sleeve providing a water-contacting surface,
        a radiant heating element selected from the group consisting of: a halogen
lamp and an infrared lamp, the radiant heating element being deployed within said
heat conducting sleeve for heating water inside the water tank, said radiant heating
element being removable from heat conducting sleeve for replacement without said
radiant heating element contacting water within the water tank, and
        a controller associated with said radiant heating element for controlling
actuation of said radiant heating element.
        2. The water tank of claim 1, wherein the heat conducting sleeve is formed
from metal.
        3. The water tank of claim 1, wherein the heat conducting sleeve crosses the
water tank at a level below a water filling level of the water tank.
        4. The water tank of claim 1, wherein the radiant heating element is a halogen
lamp.
        5. The water tank of claim 1, wherein the radiant heating element is an
infrared lamp.
                                            19

         6. The water tank of claim 1, wherein the controller controls a timing of
actuation of the radiant heating element.
         7. The water tank of claim 6, wherein the controller operates a valve for
controlling a flow channel of heated water or steam from the outlet.
         8. The water tank of claim 1, further including a heat exchanger that traverses
the water tank substantially vertically.
         9. The water tank of claim 1, wherein the radiant heating element is inward of
a first side of the water tank and is inward of a second side of the water tank.
         10. The water tank of claim 1, wherein the heat conducting sleeve traverses
the water tank from a first side of the water tank to a second side of the water tank.
         11. An assembly for a coffee-making machine comprising:
         a first water tank according to claim 1 for generating hot water for beverages,
and
         a second water tank, as an integral part of an espresso group head, for
generating hot water for coffee,
         the second water tank comprising a second heat conducting sleeve sealingly
integrated with the second water tank and extending within the water tank across at
least two-thirds of a dimension of the water tank so as to define an externally
accessible dry passageway extending within the water tank, an external surface of said
heat conducting sleeve providing a water-contacting surface, and
                                             20

        a second radiant heating element selected from the group consisting of: a
halogen lamp and an infrared lamp, the second radiant heating element being
deployed within said second heat conducting sleeve for heating water inside the
second water tank, said second radiant heating element being removable for
replacement without opening the second water tank.
         12. The assembly of claim 11, wherein the first water tank and the second
water tank are not connected one to the other and wherein the first water tank is larger
than the second water tank.
         13. The assembly of claim 11, wherein the heat conducting sleeve of the first
water tank crosses at least two-thirds of a length of the entire first water tank and
wherein the second heat conducting sleeve crosses at least two-thirds of a length of
the entire second water tank.
         14. The assembly of claim 11, further comprising a heat exchange pathway
interrupting the second water tank from the bottom of the second water tank to the top
of the second water tank, a cooling fluid placed through the heat exchange pathway,
the heat exchange pathway not interrupting the second heat conducting sleeve.
         15. The assembly of claim 14, further comprising a first heat exchange
pathway interrupting the first water tank from the bottom of the first water tank to the
top of the first water tank, a cooling fluid placed through the first heat exchange
pathway, the first heat exchange pathway not interrupting the first heat conducting
sleeve.
                                              21

         16. A method of operating a water tank, comprising:
         providing a water tanks according to claim 1;
         operating the water tank until the radiant heating element is burned out
without causing a short circuit; and
         replacing the radiant heating element with a new radiant heating element.
         17. An assembly for a coffee-making machine including a semi-external
heating element, comprising:
         a first water tank for generating hot water for beverages
         a first heat conducting sleeve crossing the first water tank and enclosed so that
an inner wall of the first heat conducting sleeve is not in contact with water from the
first water tank;
         a first radiant heating element not in contact with water from the first water
tank, the first radiant heating element encased in the first heat conducting sleeve, the
first radiant heating element selected from the group comprising a halogen lamp and
an infrared lamp, the radiant heating element connected to a controller that determines
when and for how long the radiant heating element is actuated;
         a second water tank, as an integral part of an espresso group head, for
generating hot water for coffee;
         a second heat conducting sleeve crossing the second water tank, a second
inner wall of the second heat conducting sleeve not be in contact with water from the
water tank; and
         a second radiant heating element not in contact with water, the second radiant
heating element encased in the second heat conducting sleeve, the second radiant
heating element selected from the group comprising a halogen lamp and an infrared
                                              22

lamp, the second radiant heating element connected to a controller that determines
when and for how long the second radiant heating element is actuated,
         hot water heated by the second radiant heating element exiting the second
water tank to a pod/capsule or espresso handle, the pod/capsule or espresso handle
containing ground coffee beans, and the hot water heated by the second radiant
heating element sufficiently to brew the ground coffee into espresso.
         18. The assembly of claim 17, wherein the first water tank and the second
water tank are not connected one to the other and wherein the first water tank is larger
than the second water tank.
         19. The assembly of claim 17, wherein the first heat conducting sleeve crosses
at least two-thirds of a length of the entire first water tank and wherein the second
heat conducting sleeve crosses at least two-thirds of a length of the entire second
water tank.
         20. The assembly of claim 17, wherein either (i) the first radiant heating
element is adjacent the first heat conducting sleeve or (ii) the second radiant heating
element is adjacent the second heat conducting sleeve or (iii) both the first radiant
heating element is adjacent the first heat conducting sleeve and the second radiant
heating element is adjacent the second heat conducting sleeve.
         21. The assembly of claim 17, further comprising a heat exchange pathway
interrupting the second water tank from the bottom of the second water tank to the top
of the second water tank, a cooling fluid placed through the heat exchange pathway,
the heat exchange pathway not interrupting the second heat conducting sleeve.
                                              23

        22. The assembly of claim 21, further comprising a first heat exchange
pathway interrupting the first water tank from the bottom of the first water tank to the
top of the first water tank, a cooling fluid placed through the first heat exchange
pathway, the first heat exchange pathway not interrupting the first heat conducting
sleeve.
                                              24

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                  <U+2701><U+2702><U+2702><U+2704> <U+260E><U+2706><U+271D>

<removed-apn>        <removed-date>
             <U+2701><U+2702><U+2702><U+2704> <U+260E><U+2706><U+271D>

<removed-apn>          <removed-date>
         <U+2701><U+2702><U+2702><U+2704> <U+260E><U+2706><U+271D>

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                 <U+2701><U+2702><U+2702><U+2704> <U+260E><U+2706><U+271D>

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
               <U+2701><U+2702><U+2702><U+2704> <U+260E><U+2706><U+271D>

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                    <U+2701><U+2702><U+2702><U+2704> <U+260E><U+2706><U+271D>

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                   <U+2701><U+2702><U+2702><U+2704> <U+260E><U+2706><U+260E>

