                                                    Abstract
      The present disclosure relates to a movable article inspection system comprising: a portal frame and
a ray-based inspection assembly. The portal frame comprises: a portal frame, comprising: a transverse
beam (1) located at a top of the portal frame; and vertical beams (2) located on opposite sides of the transverse
beam (1) and connected with the transverse beam (1); a wheeled travelling device provided at lower ends of the
vertical beams (2), for moving the portal frame; and a ray-based inspection assembly for carrying out an
inspection of an article passing through the portal frame. With the movement of the wheeled travelling
device, the position adjustment and the transition of the inspection assembly are realized. On one hand,
there are fewer site restrictions and basically no civil construction for the inspection site, which reduces
the pre-construction investment. On the other hand, the wheeled travelling device can achieve a
long-distance transition and therefore has better applicability.

S           2
  |Fg     I
      20.

                          MOVABLE ARTICLE INSPECTION SYSTEM
RELATED APPLICATION
[0001]     This disclosure claims the priority of the Chinese patent application No. <removed-apn>83.X
submitted to the Chinese Patent Office on DEC.29, 2016, the title of which is "MOVABLE ARTICLE
INSPECTION SYSTEM", and the entire disclosure of which is hereby incorporated by reference.
FIELD OF THE INVENTION
[0002]     The present disclosure relates to the field of safety detection, and especially relates to a
movable article inspection system.
BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
[0003]     Existing mobile article inspection systems mainly include two types: vehicle-mounted article
inspection systems and mobile gantry inspection systems. A vehicle-mounted article inspection system uses a
universal truck chassis for load bearing and utilizes the movement of the chassis to carry out scanning
inspection of articles to realize mobility of the inspection system. A mobile gantry article inspection system
uses a track device which drives a mobile gantry equipped with an article inspection system to move on the
tracks to realize scanning inspection of an article between the straight tracks.
[0004]     These two types of mobile article inspection system both have certain limitations. Wherein, the
vehicle-mounted article inspection system is confined by chassis emission, left rudder/right rudder and other
related road laws and regulations. The mobile gantry article inspection system requires construction of tracks
on the inspection site, therefore are subject to certain site limitations. Since pre-investment for civil
construction is required, the cost is relatively high. On the other hand, this kind of article inspection system
cannot realize long-distance transition, so it is less applicable.
[0005]     Any discussion of documents, acts, materials, devices, articles or the like which has been included in
the present specification is not to be taken as an admission that any or all of these matters form part of the prior
art base or were common general knowledge in the field relevant to the present disclosure as it existed before
the priority date of each of the appended claims.
SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
[0006]     The present disclosure is to propose a movable article inspection system, which is operated and used
in common sites and is capable of long-distance transition.
[0007]     In one aspect, the present disclosure provides a movable article inspection system, comprising:
      a portal frame, comprising:
      a transverse beam located at a top of the portal frame; and
      vertical beams located on opposite sides of the transverse beam and connected with the transverse
beam;
      a wheeled travelling device provided at lower ends of the vertical beams, for moving the portal
frame; and

      a ray-based inspection assembly for carrying out an inspection of an article passing through the
portal frame.
[0008]     In certain implementations, the wheeled travelling device comprises:
      a wheel carrier connected with the lower end of the vertical beams of the portal frame;
     wheels;
      a travelling drive mechanism for rotating the wheels; and
     wherein the wheels and the travelling drive mechanism are mounted on the wheel carrier, and the
wheels is rotatable and steerable with respect to the wheel carrier.
[0009]     In certain implementations, the wheel carrier are provided with at least two of the wheels.
[0010]     In certain implementations, the travelling drive mechanism comprises a plurality of motors,
each of which for driving one of the wheels correspondingly; or each of the motors for rotating one or
more of the wheels through a transmission mechanism.
[0011]     In certain implementations, the inspection assembly comprises:
      a radiation source, for emitting rays to form a fan-shaped scanning surface so as to scan the article
passing through the portal frame; and
      a detection unit mounted on the portal frame, for detecting the rays reflected or transmitted on the
article.
[0012]     In certain implementations, the wheeled travelling device comprises a wheel carrier, wheels
and a travelling drive mechanism, the wheel carrier is connected with the lower end of the vertical
beams of the portal frame, the wheel carrier is provided with a downwardly protruding frame structure,
and the radiation source is mounted within the downwardly protruding frame structure.
[0013]     In certain implementations, the wheeled travelling device comprises a generator for supplying
power to the inspection assembly and the wheeled travelling device.
[0014]     In certain implementations, further comprising a remote controller and a remote control
command transmission assembly, the remote controller for communicating with the remote control
command transmission assembly so as to remotely control the wheeled travelling device or/and the
inspection assembly.
[0015]     In certain implementations, a braking mechanism is provided on the wheeled travelling device,
for holding the movable article inspection system at a preset inspection position.
[0016]     In certain implementations, further comprising a route correction mechanism for enabling the
wheeled travelling device to travel along a preset track.
[0017]     Embodiments of the disclosure may include one or more of the following advantages. With the
movement of the wheeled travelling device, the position adjustment and the transition of the inspection
assembly are realized. On one hand, there are fewer site restrictions and basically no civil construction
for the inspection site, which reduces the pre-construction investment. On the other hand, the wheeled
travelling device can achieve a long-distance transition and therefore has better applicability.
[0018]     Throughout this specification the word "comprise", or variations such as "comprises" or
"comprising", will be understood to imply the inclusion of a stated element, integer or step, or group of
elements, integers or steps, but not the exclusion of any other element, integer or step, or group of

elements, integers or steps.
BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE ACCOMPANYING DRAWINGS
 [0019]    The drawings illustrated here are for providing further understanding of the present disclosure and
thus constitute part of the present application. The exemplary embodiments of the present disclosure and
descriptions thereof are for interpreting the present disclosure, not constituting improper limitations of the
present disclosure. In the drawings:
[0020]     FIG. 1 is a schematic view of the structure of an embodiment of the movable article inspection
system of the present disclosure.
 [0021]    FIG. 2 is a schematic view of the structure of an embodiment of the movable article inspection
system of the present disclosure from another angle of view.
 [0022]    FIG. 3 is a schematic view of the structure of another embodiment of the movable article inspection
system of the present disclosure.
DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE PREFERRED EMBODIMENTS
 [0023]    Thereinafter, the technical solution of the present disclosure will be further described in detail
through drawings and embodiments.
 [0024]    FIG. 1 is a schematic view of the structure of an embodiment of the movable article inspection
system of the present disclosure. In this embodiment, the movable article inspection system comprises: a portal
frame, a wheeled travelling device and a ray-based inspection assembly for carrying out an inspection of an
article 13 passing through the portal frame. The portal frame comprises a transverse beam 1 located at a top of
the portal frame and vertical beams 2 located on opposite sides of the transverse beam 1 and connected with the
transverse beam 1. The wheeled travelling device is provided at the lower end of the vertical beams 2.The
portal frame realize position adjustment and transition of the inspection assembly by movement of the wheeled
travelling device.
 [0025]    According to the embodiment, the position adjustment and the transition of the inspection assembly
are realized with the movement of the wheeled travelling device. On one hand, there are fewer site restrictions
and basically no civil construction for the inspection site, which reduces the pre-construction investment. On
the other hand, the wheeled travelling device can achieve a long-distance transition and therefore has better
applicability.
 [0026]    In combination with another view shown in FIG. 2, the wheeled travelling device comprises a wheel
carrier 6, wheels 5 and a travelling drive mechanism for rotating the wheels 5. The wheel carrier 6 is connected
with the lower end of the vertical beams 2 of the portal frame, and the wheels 5 and the travelling drive
mechanism are mounted on the wheel carrier 6. The wheels 5 is rotatable and steerable with respect to the
wheel carrier 6. The travelling drive mechanism can drive the wheels 5 to rotate about an axle to realize the
travelling function of the wheeled travelling device. The wheels 5 can also steer with respect to the wheel
carrier 6. The wheels 5 may take the form of wheels with tires, so as to apply to more forms of ground, such as
a smooth cement site or a highway pavement.
 [0027]    As can be seen from FIG. 2, there may be two or more vertical beams 2 on opposite sides of the

portal frame, so as to form a stable supporting structure. The inspection assembly comprises a radiation source
3 and a detection unit 4. The radiation source 3 is mounted on the wheeled travelling device or the portal frame.
As can be seen from FIG. 1, the rays emitted by the radiation source 3 form a fan-shaped scanning surface (i.e.,
an angle range 01 radiated by the rays emitted from the radiation source 3 in FIG. 1) to scan the article 13
passing through the portal frame. The detection unit 4 may be mounted on the transverse beam 1 and/or the
vertical beam 2 of the portal frame. The distribution position of the detection unit 4 may be arranged based on
the fan-shaped scanning surface. A scattering rays or transmission rays on the article is detected by the
detection unit 4, so as to realize scanning imaging of the inside of the article.
 [0028]      In FIG. 2, the radiation source 3 and related devices may be contained in a box 8. In consideration of
the height of the article 13 when the article 13 passes and the coverage of the fan-shaped scanning surface,
preferably the wheel carrier 6 is provided with a downwardly protruding frame structure 12, and the box 8
(including the radiation source 3) is mounted within the downwardly protruding frame structure 12. A lower
ray edge of the fan-shaped scanning surface is not higher than a lower surface of the article 13 (for example, the
angle between the lower ray of the fan-shaped scanning plane in FIG. 1 and the horizontal plane is a negative
angle   02),   so as to ensure more sufficient scanning and eliminate blind spots of scanning. In another
embodiment, the radiation source 3 and the box 8 may also be mounted on the portal frame, and they are
preferably disposed at a lower position.
[0029]       Referring to FIG. 2, the wheel carrier 6 may be provided with at least two of the wheels 5. The
wheels 5 are disposed symmetrically with respect to a center plane of the portal frame. The plurality of wheels
5 can achieve a greater carrying capacity, and the symmetrical arrangement can ensure the stability of the
inspection system during travelling. The travelling drive mechanism can take many forms, including a motor
driven by various types of energy sources (such as electric energy, solar energy, fossil energy and the like), and
a transmission mechanism may be provided according to the transmission needs.
[0030]       In FIG. 2, the travelling drive mechanism includes a plurality of motors 7, each of which drives one
of the wheels 5 correspondingly, thereby achieving good steering and driving performance. As can be seen
from the drawing, the output shaft of the motor 7 can drive the corresponding wheel 5 to rotate about the
rotating shaft by a belt or a chain. In another embodiment, each motor 7 can also drive one or more of the
wheels 5 by a transmission mechanism to reduce the number of motors.
[0031]       The space between the vertical beams can be determined according to the various devices mounted.
The space between two vertical beams in FIG. 2 is smaller. Preferably, the inspection assembly is arranged in
the outer space of the vertical beams. In the embodiment shown in FIG. 3, the space between two vertical
beams is larger, which allows to provide other working devices and systems in this space, such as a generator, a
hydraulic pump station and/or an electric control system 11. The generator can supply power to the inspection
assembly and the wheeled travelling device so as to realize independent power supply and ensure long-term
operation and long-distance transition of the movable article inspection system.
[0032]       Considering that rays are harmful to the human body, the wheeled travelling device may be provided
thereon with a remote control command transmission assembly which is electrically connected with the electric
control system 11, and the operator can perform remote communications with the remote control command
transmission assembly by means of the remote controller, so as to remotely control the wheeled travelling
                                                          A

device and the inspection assembly.
 [0033]     In the operating mode, a braking mechanism may be provided on the wheeled travelling device, for
holding the movable article inspection system at a preset inspection position. That is to say, the wheeled
travelling device of the movable article inspection device is used only for the transition and stays in the
inspection position. At this time, the article moves through the portal frame on its own to perform the active
scanning inspection. In this operating mode, the inspection assembly operates very stably and isn't easily
affected by the flatness of the site, which is different from the manner in which the gantry of a mobile gantry
inspection system moves along a fixed track and makes the article be checked passively.
[0034]      In another feasible operating mode, a route correction mechanism may be provided on the wheeled
travelling device, which enable the movable article inspection system to travel along a preset track (such as a
straight line or a curved line), so that the article which have no movement relative to the ground passively
passes for scanning inspection.
[0035]      Finally, it should be noted that: the above-mentioned embodiments are only used for explaining the
technical solutions of the present disclosure instead of limiting the same; while the present disclosure has been
described in detail with reference to the preferred embodiments, those skilled in the art should understand that:
modifications can still be made to the embodiments of the present disclosure, or equivalent replacement can be
made to part of the technical features thereof; and these modifications or replacement, not departing from the
spirit of the technical solutions of the present disclosure, should all be contained in the scope of the technical
solutions defined in the present disclosure.
                                                        Iz

                                                       Claims
      1. A movable article inspection system, comprising:
      a portal frame, comprising:
            a transverse beam located at a top of the portal frame; and
            vertical beams located on opposite sides of the transverse beam and connected with the transverse
beam;
      a wheeled travelling device provided at lower ends of the vertical beams, for moving the portal frame; and
      a ray-based inspection assembly for carrying out an inspection of an article passing through the portal
frame.
      2, The movable article inspection system according to claim 1, wherein the wheeled travelling device
comprises:
      a wheel carrier connected with the lower end of the vertical beams of the portal frame;
      wheels ;
      a travelling drive mechanism for rotating the wheels ; and
      wherein the wheels and the travelling drive mechanism are mounted on the wheel carrier (6), and the
wheels is rotatable and steerable with respect to the wheel carrier.
      3. The movable article inspection system according to claim 2, wherein the wheel carrier are provided with
at least two of the wheels.
      4. The movable article inspection system according to claim 2 or claim 3, wherein the travelling drive
mechanism comprises a plurality of motors, each of which for driving one of the wheels correspondingly; or
each of the motors for rotating one or more of the wheels through a transmission mechanism.
      5. The movable article inspection system according to any one of claims 1 to 5, wherein the inspection
assembly comprises:
      a radiation source, for emitting rays to form a fan-shaped scanning surface so as to scan the article passing
through the portal frame; and
      a detection unit mounted on the portal frame, for detecting the rays reflected or transmitted on the article.
      6. The movable article inspection system according to claim 5, wherein the wheeled travelling device
comprises a wheel carrier, wheels and a travelling drive mechanism, the wheel carrier is connected with the
lower end of the vertical beams of the portal frame, the wheel carrier is provided with a downwardly protruding
frame structure, and the radiation source is mounted within the downwardly protruding frame structure.

     7. The movable article inspection system according to any one of claims 1 to 6, wherein the wheeled
travelling device comprises a generator for supplying power to the inspection assembly and the wheeled
travelling device.
     8. The movable article inspection system according to claim 7, further comprising a remote controller and
a remote control command transmission assembly, the remote controller for communicating with the remote
control command transmission assembly so as to remotely control the wheeled travelling device or/and the
inspection assembly.
     9. The movable article inspection system according to any one of claims 1 to 8, wherein a braking
mechanism is provided on the wheeled travelling device, for holding the movable article inspection system at a
preset inspection position.
      10. The movable article inspection system according to any one of claims 1 to 9, further comprising a
route correction mechanism for enabling the wheeled travelling device to travel along a preset track.

        <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                                   1/2
Fig.1

                    <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
1                                              2/2
    Fig.3   Fig.2

