                                          ABSTRACT
An anatomical model for surgical training includes a first layer simulating a liver and a
second layer including a simulated gallbladder. A third layer having an inner surface and
an outer surface is provided between the first and second layer. The outer surface of
the third layer is adhered to the first layer at location around the simulated gallbladder
and the simulated gallbladder is adhered to the inner surface of the third layer. A fourth
layer is provided that overlays both the second layer and the simulated gallbladder. A
frame is embedded within the first layer and is connectable to a support. The model
provides a substantially upright projection of a simulated gallbladder and liver in a
retracted orientation ideally suited for practicing laparoscopic cholecystectomy when
inserted inside a simulated insufflated cavity of laparoscopic trainer.

          1/4
             12         10
                Fig. 1
                 78
                       76
                           76
Fig. 6
                              70
                              72
       74

                                  GALLBLADDER MODEL
                         Cross-Reference to Related Applications
       [0001]         This application claims priority to and benefit of U.S. Provisional
Patent Application Serial No. 61/836,512 entitled "Gallbladder model" filed on June 18,
2013 which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.
       [0002]         This application is a divisional application of Australian Application
No. 2014281483, the disclosure of all of which is incorporated herein by reference.
Most of the disclosure of these applications is also included herein, however, reference
may be made to the specification of Application No. 2014281483 as filed to gain further
understanding of the invention claimed herein.
                                    Field of the Invention
       [0003]         This application relates to surgical training tools, and in particular,
to simulated tissue structures and models for teaching and practicing surgical
procedures involving a gallbladder.
                                Background of the Invention
       [0004]         A common treatment for gallstones and other gallbladder conditions
is a cholecystectomy which is the surgical removal of the gallbladder from the liver bed.
Laparoscopic cholecystectomy is the most common laparoscopic procedure and has
replaced open cholecystectomy as the first-choice of treatment for gallstones and
inflammation of the gallbladder. Laparoscopic cholecystectomy advantageously
requires smaller incisions, resulting in less pain, improved cosmetic results, quicker
healing, and fewer complications such as infection and adhesions.
       [0005]         Laparoscopic cholecystectomy requires several small incisions in
the abdomen to allow the insertion of trocars or small cylindrical tubes approximately 5
to 10 millimeters in diameter through which surgical instruments and a laparoscope are
placed into the abdominal cavity. The laparoscope illuminates the surgical field and
sends a magnified image from inside the body to a video monitor giving the surgeon a
close-up view of the organs and tissues. The surgeon watches the live video feed and
                                               1

performs the operation by manipulating the surgical instruments placed through the
trocars.
        [0006]         In a laparoscopic cholecystectomy, a patient is placed in a supine
position on the operating table and anesthetized. A scalpel can be used to make a
small incision at the umbilicus. Using a trocar, the abdominal cavity is entered and
enlarged by delivering carbon dioxide gas to insufflate the cavity to create a working
space inside the patient's abdominal region. The trocar may include an inserted
laparoscope for observing the penetration, insertion, and insufflation of the abdominal
space. Additional trocars are inserted at a location inferior to the ribs. Using the
laparoscope, the fundus of the gallbladder, which is covered by the peritoneum, is
identified, grasped with a surgical grasper extending through one of the trocars, and
retracted. A second surgical grasper may be used to retract the rest of the gallbladder
in a lateral direction to expose Calot's triangle. Calot's triangle is that portion of the
gallbladder anatomy that is bound by the cystic duct, cystic artery, the hepatic duct and
the border of the liver. The surgeon identifies the cystic duct and cystic artery. In this
area, the underlying structures are carefully skeletonized from the peritoneum
separating the peritoneum from the both the cystic duct and the cystic artery. A surgical
clip applier is introduced through one of the trocars and clips are applied in two
locations to both the cystic duct and the cystic artery. The cystic duct and the cystic
artery are then divided with surgical scissors between the two locations of clips freeing
the gallbladder for removal. The gallbladder is dissected from the bed of the liver and
removed through one of the trocars. During laparoscopic cholecystectomy,
complications may arise due to gallbladder perforation which can occur due to
excessive traction during retraction or during dissection of the gallbladder from the liver
bed or extraction from the abdomen. The outcome of laparoscopic cholecystectomy is
greatly influenced by the training, experience and skill of the surgeon performing the
procedure. In order for residents and surgeons to learn and practice these surgical
techniques, a realistic, functional, and anatomically correct model for use in a
laparoscopic training device is needed.
        [0007]         A gallbladder model is not only useful for training residents and
surgeons in laparoscopic cholecystectomy, but also, desirable for training residents and
                                               2

surgeons in laparoscopic common bile duct exploration. The common bile duct is a
tube that connects the liver, gallbladder and pancreas to the small intestine and delivers
fluid to aid in digestion. Common bile duct exploration is a procedure used to see if a
gallbladder stone or some other obstruction is blocking the flow of bile from the
gallbladder or liver to the intestine which can cause jaundice. In a laparoscopic
common bile duct exploration procedure, the abdominal cavity is approached as in a
cholecystectomy described above. The surgeon identifies the common bile duct and a
small hemi-circumferential incision is made in the common bile duct. A cholangiography
catheter is inserted into the insufflated abdominal cavity through one of the trocars and
into the incision made in the common bile duct. Contrast media or radiopaque fluid is
introduced into the cystic and common bile ducts and an X-ray is taken to reveal the
location of any gallstones in the common bile duct. If there are gallstones, the
obstructions will appear as discontinuities in the flow of contrast media. The gallstones
are then surgically extracted.
         [0008]         In order to help patient outcomes and recoveries, surgeons need a
way to practice laparoscopic cholecystectomies and common bile duct explorations
outside of the operating room. The practice model needs to be anatomically correct and
include all important landmarks normally seen during surgery in order to give the
surgeon or resident the most realistic practice possible.
                                    Summary of the Invention
         [0009]        According to one aspect of the invention, an anatomical model for
surgical training is provided. The model includes a first layer having an inner surface
and an outer surface. The first layer has a substantially uniform thickness defined
between the inner surface and the outer surface. The first layer has a first perimeter
and is configured to simulate at least a portion of a first anatomical structure. The
model includes a second layer having an inner surface and an outer surface. The
second layer has a thickness between the inner surface and the outer surface. The
second layer defines a second perimeter and overlays the first layer such that the outer
surface of the second layer faces the inner surface of the first layer. The model
includes at least one second simulated anatomical structure which has a third perimeter
                                                 3

around the at least one simulated anatomical structure. The at least one simulated
anatomical structure is connected to the inner surface of the second layer. The outer
surface of the second layer is connected to the inner surface of the first layer at least
partially around the location of the at least one second simulated anatomical structure.
         [00010]        According to another aspect of the invention, an anatomical model
for surgical training is provided. The model includes an anatomical portion and a
support removably connectable to the anatomical portion. The anatomical portion
includes at least a first layer having an inner surface and an outer surface
interconnected by a top side and a bottom side and a left side and a right side. The first
layer has a thickness defined between the inner surface and the outer surface. The first
layer is configured to simulate at least a portion of a liver. The top side of the first layer
has a peak. The model includes a simulated gallbladder positioned in the location of
the peak and facing the inner surface of the first layer. The model includes a frame
connected to at least the first layer. The frame has a first end interconnected to a
second end by a central portion. The first end and the second end of the frame are
removably connectable to the support to hold the anatomical portion in a substantially
upright position. The frame does not extend into the location of the peak such that the
first layer in the location of the peak is capable of flexing inwardly and outwardly relative
to the frame.
         [00011]        According to another aspect of the invention, an anatomical model
for surgical training is provided. The model includes an anatomical portion having a first
layer. The first layer includes an inner surface and an outer surface interconnected by a
top side and a bottom side and a left side and a right side. The first layer has a
thickness defined between the inner surface and the outer surface. The first layer is
configured to simulate at least one anatomical structure. The anatomical portion
includes a second layer that includes at least one anatomical structure overlaying the
first layer. The anatomical portion also includes a frame having a first end
interconnected to a second end by a central portion. At least part of the frame is
embedded within the first layer with the first end and the second end of the frame
extending out from the first layer. The model includes a support to which the first end
and the second end of the frame are removably connectable to the support to hold the
                                               4

anatomical portion in a substantially upright position with respect to a supporting
surface.
        [00012]        According to another aspect of the invention, a surgical simulation
system is provided. The system includes an anatomical model. The model includes an
anatomical portion. The anatomical portion includes a first layer having an inner surface
and an outer surface interconnected by a top side and a bottom side and a left side and
a right side. The first layer has a substantially uniform thickness defined between the
inner surface and the outer surface. The first layer is configured to simulate at least one
anatomical structure and defines a substantially planar configuration. The model
includes a second layer having a plurality of anatomical structures connected to and
overlaying the inner surface of the first layer. A support is connectable to the
anatomical portion and configured to hold the anatomical portion in a substantially
perpendicular orientation with respect to a supporting surface. The system further
includes a surgical training device. The surgical training device includes a base and a
top cover connected to and spaced apart from the base to define a simulated insufflated
internal cavity between the top cover and the base. The internal cavity is at least
partially obstructed from direct observation by a user. The top cover includes an
aperture or penetrable simulated tissue region. The top cover of the surgical training
device is angled to form an acute angle with respect to a horizontal plane as measured
from inside the cavity. The anatomical model is positioned inside the internal cavity a
distance opposite the acute angle such that the inner surface of the first layer faces the
acute angle and the aperture or penetrable simulated tissue region.
        [00013]        According to another aspect of the invention, an anatomical model
for surgical training is provided. The model includes an anatomical portion. The
anatomical portion includes a first layer having an inner surface and an outer surface
interconnected by a top side, a bottom side, a left side and a right side. The inner
surface is substantially planar and flat and the first layer defines a thickness between
the inner surface and the outer surface. The first layer is configured to simulate at least
a portion of a liver. The top side of the first layer has a peak. The anatomical portion
includes a second layer having an inner surface and an outer surface interconnected by
a top side, a bottom side, a left side and a right side. The second layer overlays the first
                                                5

layer such that the outer surface of the second layer faces the inner surface of the first
layer. The outer surface of the second layer is connected to the inner surface of the first
layer along at least part of a first perimeter. The second layer defines a thickness
between the inner surface and the outer surface and the thickness of the second layer
is smaller than the thickness of the first layer. The anatomical portion includes a third
layer having at least one simulated anatomical structure. The at least one simulated
anatomical structure is connected to the inner surface of the second layer. The
anatomical portion further includes a fourth layer having an inner surface and an outer
surface interconnected by a top side, a bottom side, a left side and a right side. The
fourth layer overlays the second layer and the third layer such that the outer surface of
the fourth layer faces the inner surface of the second layer and the at least one
simulated anatomical structure. The outer surface of the fourth layer is connected to the
inner surface of the second layer along at least part of a second perimeter. The fourth
layer defines a thickness between the inner surface and the outer surface and the
thickness of the fourth layer is smaller than the thickness of the first layer. The
anatomical portion further includes a frame at least partially embedded inside the first
layer. The model includes a support connectable to the frame to hold the anatomical
portion in a substantially upright position.
        [00014]        According to another aspect of the invention, a gallbladder model is
provided. The model allows users to practice open and laparoscopic cholecystectomies
and common bile duct explorations. The gallbladder model includes an anatomical
portion connected to a support. The anatomical portion includes a liver layer, a fascia
layer, a gallbladder layer, a peritoneum layer, and a frame connected together and held
in an upright orientation by the support.
        [00015]        According to another aspect of the invention, an anatomical model
for surgical training is provided. The model comprises an artificial liver layer having a flat
inner surface and an outer surface. The model also comprises an artificial fascia layer
having a flat inner surface and a flat outer surface. The fascia layer being attached to
the liver layer such that the flat outer surface of the fascia layer overlays the flat inner
surface of the liver layer. A first pocket is formed between the fascia layer and the liver
                                                 6

layer. The model also comprises an artificial gallbladder attached to the fascia layer in
the location of the first pocket.
                               Brief Description of the Drawings
        [00016]        FIG. 1 is a top perspective view of an anatomical model according
to the present invention.
        [00017]        FIG. 2 is an exploded, top perspective view of an anatomical model
according to the present invention.
        [00018]        FIG. 3 is a side view of a liver layer of an anatomical portion of the
anatomical model according to the present invention.
        [00019]        FIG. 4 is a partial side view of a prong of a frame of an anatomical
portion of the anatomical model according to the present invention.
        [00020]        FIG. 5 is a side, cross-sectional view of a support for an anatomical
portion of an anatomical model according to the present invention.
        [00021]        FIG. 6 is a top perspective view of a laparoscopic trainer for use
with an anatomical model according to the present invention.
        [00022]        FIG. 7 is a top perspective view of a frame and support of an
anatomical model according to the present invention.
                              Detailed Description of the Invention
        [00023]        Turning now to FIG. 1, there is shown a gallbladder model 10
according to the present invention. The gallbladder model 10 includes an anatomical
portion 12 removably connected to a support 14. The substantially planar anatomical
portion 12 is maintained in an upright configuration by the support 14. In a
cholecystectomy, as described above in the background section of this application, the
fundus of the gallbladder is visible and retracted. In doing so, the remainder of the
gallbladder underlying the liver toward the posterior of the patient is uncovered and
made visible along with the triangle of Calot in the insufflated cavity. This retraction
involves lifting part of the lower or inferior portion of the right lobe of the liver. With the
liver and gallbladder lying substantially in the X-Z plane or frontal plane of the patient,
and the retraction lifting the liver and gallbladder substantially into the Y plane or
                                                 7

transverse plane of the patient, the gallbladder model 10 of the present invention is a
substantial or partial projection of at least a portion of the retracted liver and gallbladder
onto the X-Y plane or transverse plane of a patient. Hence, the gallbladder model 10
represents a substantial planar projection of a retracted liver and gallbladder in a
simulated insufflated cavity. As such, the gallbladder model 10 configuration
advantageously provides a surgical approach to a simulated gallbladder already in a
retracted perpendicular orientation when viewed by the user approaching the
gallbladder from the location of the umbilicus. Also, the gallbladder model 10
configuration permits practice by the user without requiring a second user to hold
portions of the model with graspers in a retracted position and as such, the model 10 is
advantageously designed to be used by one person at a time. Furthermore, in the
model 10, only a portion of the liver is simulated, in particular, the right lobe of the liver.
Together, with the right lobe, the entirety of the biliary structure including the gallbladder
is included in the model.
        [00024]        Turning now to FIG. 2, there is shown an exploded view of the
gallbladder model 10 comprising an anatomical portion 12 connected to a support 14.
The anatomical portion 12 includes a liver layer 16, a fascia layer 18, a gallbladder layer
20, a peritoneum layer 22, and a frame 24 connected together. Each layer will now be
described in greater detail.
        [00025]        Still referencing FIG. 2, the liver layer or first layer 16 is molded
from silicone or thermoplastic elastomer that is dyed with a red color and configured to
simulate a retracted portion of a liver. In particular, the liver layer 16 is shaped to
represent a portion of the right lobe of a human liver that is retracted to expose the
gallbladder and triangle of Calot. Referring to FIG. 3, the liver layer 16 includes a flat
planar inner surface 26 and a convex curved outer surface 28. The inner and outer
surfaces 26 interconnect along four sides--a curved top side, a straight bottom side, and
a left side and right side that interconnect the top and bottom sides. The curved top
side includes a peak 30 near or at the left side of the model. The top side curves
downward from the peak 30 to a lower portion that interconnects with the right side.
This peaked shape resembles a substantially planar projection of a retracted right lobe
of a human liver. The peak 30 has a longer length relative to other portions of the liver
                                                8

layer 16. The thickest portion of the liver layer 16 is approximately 0.5 inches and
located approximately at the middle. In one variation, the frame 24 is molded directly
into the liver layer 16 such that at least a portion of the frame 24 resides inside the liver
layer 16 and a portion of the frame 24 resides outside of the liver layer 16 as shown in
FIG. 3. The frame 24 will be described in greater detail below.
        [00026]        Still referencing FIG. 2, the fascia layer or second layer 18 is a thin
approximately 0.01-0.03 inches thick layer made of a thermoplastic elastomer or
silicone that is partially translucent, clear or dyed with a slight yellow color. The fascia
layer 18 has the same peaked shape as the liver layer 16 and is sized and configured to
overlay the liver layer 16. The fascia layer 18 has an inner surface and an outer surface
with the outer surface overlaying a portion of the inner surface 26 of the liver layer 16.
The fascia layer 18 is attached to the liver layer 16 with adhesive that is placed at least
along the perimeter such that the majority of the middle portion or portions interior from
the perimeter of the fascia layer 18 are not attached to the liver layer 16, but instead,
are free to remain mobile and separate away from the liver layer 16. While this fascia
layer 18 does not exist in real life, that is, there is no tissue layer located between the
gallbladder and the liver, the gallbladder model 10 of the present invention includes a
fascia layer 18 which advantageously simulates the dissection and removal of the
gallbladder away from the liver. This advantage will be described in greater detail
below.
        [00027]        Still referencing FIG. 2, the gallbladder layer or third layer 20
includes at least one body component. In FIG. 2, the at least one body component is a
plurality of anatomical structures. For example, the gallbladder layer 20 includes a
gallbladder 32 connected to a cystic duct 34, a common hepatic duct 36 connected to a
common bile duct 38, a cystic artery 40, and a common hepatic artery 42 connected to
and branching into the right hepatic artery 44 and left hepatic artery 46. All of these
anatomical structures are configured to simulate actual human anatomy and arranged
within the gallbladder layer 20 in an anatomically correct fashion. The gallbladder 32 is
a hollow bulbous structure molded out of silicone or other thermoplastic material dyed
with a light green or yellow color to simulate bile. In another variation, the gallbladder
32 is a solid and not hollow structure. The cystic duct 34, common hepatic duct 36 and
                                                 9

common bile duct 38 are also made of silicone or thermoplastic material that is dyed
with a light green color. The cystic duct 34 is tubular in shape having a tapered end and
a diameter of approximately 0.15-0.25 inches. In one variation, the cystic duct 34 has a
lumen with a minimum inner diameter of 0.15 inches and a maximum outer diameter of
0.25 inches making it small enough to clip and large enough to permit insertion of
catheter. In yet another variation, the cystic duct 34 includes a lumen having an inner
surface that is lubricated with lubricant. In yet another variation, the cystic duct 34 is
larger in outer diameter relative to dimension of a real life cystic duct 34 to facility
training and insertion of a catheter into the lumen. The common hepatic duct 36 and
common bile duct 38 are also tubular in shape having a diameter of approximately 0.15
inches. In one variation, the cystic duct 34, common hepatic duct 36 and common bile
duct 38 are hollow and in another variation they are solid. The cystic artery 40, the
common hepatic artery 42, the right hepatic artery 44 and the left hepatic artery 46 are
made from silicone or thermoplastic material that is dyed a red color and molded into a
tubular shape having a diameter of approximately 0.15 inches. In one variation, the
cystic artery 40, common hepatic artery 42, the right hepatic artery 44 and the left
hepatic artery 46 are hollow and in another variation they are solid structures. The
gallbladder layer 20 is connected to the fascia layer 18 with selectively-placed adhesive.
The gallbladder layer 20 may be formed from multiple pieces joined together or as a unit
with no disconnects. To form a unitary gallbladder layer 20, the manufacturing process
consists of a wax form that is dipped in molten plastic and melted out once the plastic
has set.
         [00028]       In one variation, the gallbladder model 10 is configured for
practicing bile duct exploration. In such a variation, the biliary structures of the
gallbladder layer 20 are hollow and filled with fluid that resembles bile. An exemplary
fluid is green-colored dishwashing liquid. The inner diameter of the hollow biliary
structures is approximately 0.09 inches and the outer diameter is approximately 0.15
inches. The gallbladder model 10 that is configured for biliary exploration includes a
hollow gallbladder 32 filled with fluid that resembles bile. So that the simulated bile fluid
is not lost, the free ends of the cystic duct 34, common hepatic duct 36, and common
bile duct 38 are closed or capped with standard tubing caps, solid connectors or barbed
                                               10

connectors that retain fluid inside the ducts. If not molded as a single unit, biliary
structures made of multiple tubular structures are connected together with connectors.
For example, the junction between the common hepatic duct 36 and common bile duct
38 is connected with a connector such as a Y-shaped split that permits fluid to flow
therebetween. In one variation, the cystic duct 34 and the common bile duct 38 are
connected via a connector or molded as a unitary structure such that fluid is allowed to
flow between the cystic duct 34 and the common bile duct 38. The employ of
connectors is advantageous in that after practice scenarios in which the ducts are cut,
such as in a cholecystectomy, the severed ducts are replaceable with new ducts that
are reconnected at the same locations using the same connectors so that training
scenarios can be repeated. In the gallbladder model 10 that is adapted for biliary duct
exploration, any one or more of the gallbladder 32, bile duct 34, common hepatic duct
36, and common bile duct 38, may include one or more simulated gallstones (not
shown). A simulated gallstone is a small bead-like structure made of plastic or other
material. The simulated gallstones are placed inside the hollow space of the gallbladder
32 and/or inside the lumen of one or more of the cystic duct 34, common hepatic duct
36, and common bile duct 38. These simulated gallstones are shaped and configured
such that they are not visible to the user when the model is received but become visible
when a syringe and/or catheter is used to inject simulated contrast media fluid such as
colored water into one or more of the ducts and the continuous flow of contrast media
fluid is visibly interrupted or blocked by the gallstones as the simulated contrast media
fluid fills the biliary structures. In another variation, a kit is provided that includes a
syringe with which the gallbladder 32 is injected with fluid and/or simulated gallstones.
In another variation, the gallbladder 32 is not filled with liquid but is filled with air which
may be injectable into the open cavity of the gallbladder 32 with a syringe or other
similar device. The cavity of the gallbladder 32 may be pressurized to a pressure
greater than ambient such that when the gallbladder 32 is inadvertently punctured, as if
by an improper surgical technique, the gallbladder 32 noticeably deflates and as such
provides a visual indication to the trainee. In such a variation, the gallbladder 32 has a
wall thickness configured to permit observation of deflation of the gallbladder 32.
                                                11

        [00029]        Still referencing FIG. 2, the peritoneum layer or fourth layer 22 is a
thin layer approximately 0.01-0.03 inches thick made of a thermoplastic elastomer or
silicone that is clear or partially translucent and/or dyed with a slightly yellow color. The
peritoneum layer 22 is nearly identical to the fascia layer 18 and has the same peaked
shape as the underlying fascia layer 18 and liver layer 16. The peritoneum layer 22
includes an inner surface and an outer surface overlaying the gallbladder layer 20 and
overlaying at least a portion of the inner surface of the second layer 18. In one
variation, both the fascia layer 18 and the peritoneum layer 22 are each formed by
molding liquid silicone on a layer of foam such as packaging foam or other spongiform
structure and then peeled off the foam after it has set to impart at least one textured
surface to the fascia and peritoneum layers 18, 22. The peritoneum layer 22 is sized
and configured to overlay the gallbladder layer 20. The peritoneum layer 22 is attached
to the fascia layer 18 with adhesive that is placed in locations that are capable of direct
contact with the fascia layer 18 without interference from the intervening gallbladder
layer 20. Hence, only portions of the peritoneum layer 22 are adhered to the fascia
layer 18 and in one variation, the peritoneum layer 22 is only adhered to the fascia layer
18 and not to the gallbladder layer 20. In another variation, portions of the peritoneum
layer 22 are adhered to portions of the gallbladder layer 20 as well as the fascia layer
18. In yet in another variation, portions of the peritoneum layer 22 are adhered only to
portions of the gallbladder layer 20. The layers are adhered with adhesive or by the
inherent tackiness of the material composing the layers. In essence, the peritoneum
layer 22 is selectively adhered to one or more of the underlying gallbladder layer 20 and
fascia layer 18 with adhesive.
        [00030]        Still referencing FIG. 2, the anatomical portion 12 includes a frame
24 that is configured to support the entire anatomical portion 12 in a substantially
upright orientation with respect to a table top or other substantially flat surface including
an organ-receiving tray or other surface inside a laparoscopic training simulator. The
frame 24 includes a left leg 48 and a right leg 50 interconnected by a central portion 52.
The central portion 52 is curved and mimics the generally peaked-shape of the other
layers 16, 18, 22. The frame 24 is sized smaller than the liver, fascia and peritoneum
layers 16,18, 22. The frame 24 is made of rigid metal, plastic or other polymer or
                                                12

material that is capable and strong enough to support the layers of silicone and plastic
comprising the anatomical portion 12 of the model 10 in an upright orientation. The left
leg 49 is at or adjacent to the peak and is approximately 3.5-4.0 inches long and the
shorter right leg 50 is approximately 2.5-3.0 inches long. The curved central portion 52
is approximately 4.0-4.5 inches long and follows the curvature of the layers 16, 18, 22.
The overall height of the gallbladder model 10 is approximately 5-6 inches and the
length of the model 10 is approximately 5-6 inches. The left leg 48 defines a left prong
54 at its free end and the right leg 50 defines a right prong 56 at the free end of the right
leg 50. The left and right prongs 54, 56 extend beyond the anatomical portion 12 for
insertion into a support 14. The cross-section of the frame 24 is substantially circular
with a diameter of approximately 0.15 inches with the prongs 54, 56 having a slightly
larger diameter. Each prong 54, 56 includes a curved, ball-shaped, or spherical-shaped
or angled detent 58 as illustrated in FIG. 4 which shows a sectional view of a the left leg
48. The prongs 54, 56 have angled distal tips. The frame 24 is connected to the
anatomical portion 12 such that the prongs 54, 56 protrude out from the layers for
connection with the support 14. As described above, in one variation, the frame 24 is
molded directly into the liver layer 16 and is clear or transparent in color or substantially
the same color as the liver layer 16 in which it is embedded so that it is not readily
visible to the user.
        [00031]        In another variation, the frame 24 does not have a peaked portion
and is substantially U-shaped. As shown in FIG. 7, the central portion 52 of the frame
24 is straight and does not follow the peaked-shaped of the other layers 16, 18, 22.
This variation provides less support to the other layers 16, 18, 22 in the location of the
peak 30 advantageously permitting all of these layers to be more flexible and to be
more easily pushed distally or proximally relative to areas adjacent to the frame 24 to
practice the retraction of the liver 16 from the gallbladder 32 while still providing support
to the overall model 10 in the support 14. In this variation, both the right leg 50 and left
leg 48 are the same length approximately 2.5-3.0 inches long instead of the left leg 48
in the location of the peak 30 being longer. The peak 30 formation in the layers 16, 18,
22 represents only a portion of the liver, in particular, the right lobe of the liver with all of
the anatomical structures of the gallbladder layer 20 being presented in the model 10.
                                               13

        [00032]        With additional reference to FIG. 5, the support 14 is configured to
connect with the anatomical portion 12 and hold the anatomical portion 12 in a
substantially upright orientation with respect to a table top or other surface. The support
14 includes a base 60 interconnected with an upright portion 62. The upright portion 62
includes at least two sockets 64 that are sized and configured to receive the prongs 54,
56 of the frame 24. The upright portion 62 further includes a spring-biased plunger 66
in communication with each socket 64. To connect the anatomical portion 12 to the
support 14, the prongs 54, 56 are inserted into the sockets 64 of the support 14. The
angled distal tips of the prongs 54, 56 cam against the plungers 66 until they snap into
the detents 58 on each prong 54, 56 to securely lock the anatomical portion 12 to the
support 14. The anatomical portion 12 may be removed from the support 14 by
releasing the plungers 66 from each detent 58 or by pulling with force such that the
detent 58 cams against the plunger 66 moving it out of the way. The anatomical portion
12 can be snapped into the support 14 or into sockets formed as a removable part of a
larger anatomical model, organ tray or laparoscopic trainer. Any type of connection fit is
within the scope of the present invention for connecting the anatomical portion 12 to the
support 14 including left and right prongs 54, 56 that are split and splay outwardly as
shown in FIG. 7. The prongs 54, 56 are further biased outwardly and ramped to flex
past and snap behind a detent to secure the anatomical portion 12 to the support 14.
To remove the anatomical portion 12, the slit end of the prongs 54, 56 are squeezed
together by a user from underneath the support 14 to permit the prongs 54, 56 to slide
past the detent. The frame 24 and the anatomical portion 12 are separated from the
support 14.
        [00033]        The gallbladder model 10 can be used to practice open procedures
that involve gallbladder anatomy. Also, the gallbladder model 10 is particularly well
suited for practicing laparoscopic gallbladder procedures. To practice laparoscopic
gallbladder procedures, the model 10 is placed inside a laparoscopic trainer 68 such as
the trainer 68 shown in FIG. 6 and described in co-pending U.S. Patent Application
Serial No. 13/248,449 entitled "Portable laparoscopic trainer" and filed on September
29, 2011 by Pravong et al. to Applied Medical Resources Corporation and published as
                                              14

U.S. Patent Application Publication No. 2012/0082970, hereby incorporated by
reference in its entirety herein.
        [00034]        Still referencing FIG. 6, the laparoscopic trainer 68 includes a top
cover 70 connected to a base 72 by a pair of legs 74 spacing the top cover 70 from the
base 72. The laparoscopic trainer 68 is configured to mimic the torso of a patient such
as the abdominal region. The top cover 70 is representative of the anterior surface of
the patient and the space between the top cover 70 and the base 72 is representative of
an interior of the patient or body cavity where organs reside. The laparoscopic trainer
68 is a useful tool for teaching, practicing and demonstrating various surgical
procedures and their related instruments in simulation of a patient. Surgical instruments
are inserted into the cavity through pre-established apertures 76 in the top cover 48.
These pre-established apertures 76 may include seals that simulate trocars or may
include simulated tissue region(s) that simulates the patient's skin and abdominal wall
portions. Various tools and techniques may be used to penetrate the top cover 70 to
perform mock procedures on model organs placed between the top cover 70 and the
base 72 such as the gallbladder model 10. When placed inside the cavity of the trainer
68, the gallbladder model 10 is generally obscured from the perspective of the user who
can then practice performing surgical techniques laparoscopically by viewing the
surgical site indirectly via a video feed displayed on a video monitor 78. The video
display monitor 78 is hinged to the top cover 70 and is shown in an open orientation in
FIG. 6. The video monitor 78 is connectable to a variety of visual systems for delivering
an image to the monitor 78. For example, a laparoscope inserted through one of the
pre-established apertures 76 or a webcam located in the cavity and used to observe the
simulated procedure can be connected to the video monitor 78 and/or a mobile
computing device to provide an image to the user.
        [00035]        When assembled, the top cover 70 is positioned above the base 72
with the legs 74 located substantially at the periphery and interconnected between the
top cover 70 and base 72. The top cover 70 and base 72 are substantially the same
shape and size and have substantially the same peripheral outline. The laparoscopic
trainer 68 includes a top cover 48 that angulates with respect to the base 50. The legs
52 are configured to permit the angle of the top cover 70 with respect to the base 72 to
                                               15

be adjusted. FIG. 6 illustrates the trainer 68 adjusted to an angulation of approximately
30-45 degrees with respect to the base 72. The selected angulation of the top cover 70
is locked by tightening thumbscrews provided on the legs 74. The angulation of the top
cover 70 of the trainer 68 with respect to the base 72 is particularly advantageous with
respect to accommodating the gallbladder model 10 of the present invention.
        [00036]       With the top cover 70 angled as shown in FIG. 6, the gallbladder
model 10 is inserted into the cavity of the trainer 68 and positioned between the top
cover 70 and base 72. With the gallbladder model 10 inserted into the trainer 68, the
peritoneum layer 20 faces the front of the trainer 68. In particular, the inner surface of
the gallbladder model 10 substantially faces the apertures or tissue simulation region
76. The model 10 shares a vertical component with the top cover 70 in the angled
orientation. The top cover 70 is angled such that the top cover 70 is positioned between
the user and the gallbladder model 10. The direction of approach by the user is through
the apertures, or simulated tissue region(s) 76 in the top cover 70. Instruments are
inserted through locations 76 in the top cover 70 to access the gallbladder model 10 for
practicing surgical procedures. Also, a scope is inserted into the trainer cavity between
the top cover 70 and base 72 via one of the apertures 76 to capture video images of the
obscured gallbladder model 10 and display them to the user via the video monitor 78.
        [00037]       Users practicing laparoscopic cholecystectomy will pass other
instruments in addition to the scope into the cavity of the laparoscopic trainer 68 to
access the gallbladder model 10 inside the trainer 68. Because the model 10
advantageously portrays a retracted gallbladder, the user is not required to use surgical
graspers to retract the simulated liver, nor is it required to have an assistant hold one or
more of the graspers to maintain the retracted position. Instead, the gallbladder model
10 is designed to be used by one person.
        [00038]       In the practice of laparoscopic cholecystectomy, the user will
practice identifying the triangle of Calot by using an inserted scope to view an image on
the monitor 78. After the triangle of Calot is identified, the peritoneum layer 22 is
dissected and the cystic duct 34 and cystic artery 40 are approached. Advantageously,
because only select portions of the peritoneum layer 22 are adhered to the underlying
layer 18 or layers 18 and 20, the cystic duct 34 and cystic artery 40 are easily
                                              16

skeletonized or separated from the peritoneum layer 22. Also, because portions of the
cystic duct 34 and cystic artery 40 and other elements of the gallbladder layer 20 are
selectively attached to the underlying layer, they advantageously maintain their
anatomical layout and are still relatively mobile as they would be in vivo. The mobility of
the elements comprising the gallbladder layer 20 relative to the liver layer 16 or one or
more adjacent fascia or peritoneum layers 18, 22 is advantageously enhanced not only
by the mere existence of such layers 18, 22 in the model 10 and the select adhesion of
said gallbladder layer elements to one or more of the fascia layer 18 and peritoneum
layer 22, but also, by mobility of the underlying fascia layer 18 which itself is selectively
adhered to the underlying liver layer 16. Selective adherence of one layer to an
adjacent layer typically results from the application of adhesive in pre-selected areas
and the avoidance of adhesive in strategic areas of the anatomy that demand greater
mobility and/or removal relative to the adjacent layer(s). With regards to the gallbladder
32, the gallbladder 32 is attached to the fascia layer 18 that is located above the liver
layer 16. This allows the gallbladder 32 to be removed from the model 10 without
damaging the liver layer 16 or only slightly damaging the liver layer 16 either of which is
a more realistic outcome to the procedure. The liver is a vascular and sensitive
structure and removing the gallbladder without taking too much of the liver is key to the
success of a cholecystectomy and the model 10 advantageously allows realization of
such outcomes in practice. While the fascia layer 18 does not exist in reality, it aids in
the simulation because without the fascia layer 18, adhesive cannot be dissected in the
same manner as the real-life connective tissue between the gallbladder and liver. In
one variation, the outer surface of the peritoneum layer 22 is adhered to the gallbladder
layer 20 with adhesive. In the same variation, the peritoneum layer 22 is also adhered
to the inner surface of the second layer 18 with adhesive only along at least part of the
perimeter. Also, in the same variation, the outer surface of the second layer 18 is
adhered to the inner surface of the liver layer 16 with adhesive only along at least part
of the perimeter. As a result of this configuration, pulling of the peritoneum layer 22 will
result in the pulling of the gallbladder layer 20 along with the peritoneum layer 22 and a
resulting tenting of the combined peritoneum layer 22 and gallbladder layer 20 relative
to the second layer 18 and the liver layer 16 because the peritoneum layer 22 is
                                               17

attached to the second layer 18 only at the perimeter and the second layer 18 is in turn
attached to the liver layer 16 only along at least part of the perimeter allowing for
advantageous tenting effect. In a version of this variation, the gallbladder 32 is adhered
to the inner surface of the second layer 32. Therefore, pulling of the gallbladder layer
20 and/or the peritoneum layer 22 and/or gallbladder 32 in a direction substantially
perpendicular to the layers 16, 18, 20, 22 or away from the liver layer 16 will result in a
further tenting of the second layer 18 relative to the liver layer 16 at the location of the
gallbladder 32. Because the layers 18, 22 are stretchy and selectively adhered as
described, tenting of the layers 18, 20, 22 will readily occur. Hence, when the
peritoneum layer 22 is pulled in a direction away from the liver layer 16 a first gap or
pocket is formed between the peritoneum layer 22 and the fascia layer 18 by the tenting
of the peritoneum layer 22 as a result of the predetermined and selective adherence.
Also, a second gap or pocket is formed between the fascia layer 18 and the liver layer
16 as the fascia layer 18 tents with respect to the liver layer 18 as the fascia layer 18 is
pulled due to the predetermined and selective adherence of the gallbladder 32 to the
second layer 18. Wherein the second gap or pocket is smaller than the first gap or
pocket when the peritoneum layer 22 is pulled away from the liver layer 16. Also, the
second layer 18 can be made slightly thicker than the peritoneum layer 22. The
peritoneum layer 22 and the second layer 18 are thicker than the liver layer 16.
        [00039]        Prior to removal of the gallbladder 32, the user will practice
introducing a surgical clip applier through one of the apertures 76 of the trainer 68 and
applying clips in two locations to both the cystic duct 34 and the cystic artery 40. The
vasculature and biliary structures are made of materials that allow the simulated tissue
structures to function similarly to human anatomy and be pliable, dissectable, and
withstand the application of real clips from a surgical clip applier such that when the
clips are closed on the structures of the gallbladder layer 20, they do not sever the
structures. The user then inserts laparoscopic scissors through one of the apertures 76
and cuts the cystic duct 34 and the cystic artery 40 between the two locations of clips.
The gallbladder 32 is then dissected from the bed of the liver and removed through one
of the trocars inserted in one of the apertures 76. The gallbladder 32 is advantageously
attached to the fascia layer 18 and not directly to the liver layer 16. The presence of a
                                               18

fascia layer 18 makes removal of the gallbladder 32 more realistic as described above
providing a situs for incision.
         [00040]        The gallbladder model 10 is also useful for training residents and
surgeons in laparoscopic common bile duct exploration. Common bile duct exploration
is a procedure used to see if a gallbladder stone or some other obstruction is blocking
the flow of bile from the gallbladder or liver to the intestine which can cause jaundice. In
the practice of this procedure, the gallbladder model 10 is placed in the cavity of the
laparoscopic trainer 68 and the abdominal cavity is approached as in a cholecystectomy
described above with a scope inserted through one of the apertures 76 in the
laparoscopic trainer 68 and the resulting live image displayed on the video monitor 78.
The user identifies the common bile duct 38 on the monitor 78. A bladed instrument is
introduced into the cavity of the trainer 68 and a small hemicircumferential incision is
made in the common bile duct 38. A cholangiography catheter (not shown) such as the
AEROSTAT@ manufactured by Applied Medical Resources Corporation in California is
inserted into the laparoscopic trainer 68 cavity through one of the apertures 76 and into
the incision made in the common bile duct 38. Instead of contrast media or radiopaque
fluid, colored water is injected with a syringe into the proximal end of the catheter and
allowed to flow into the cystic and common bile ducts 34, 38. The colored water will fill
the one or more biliary structures allowing the simulated gallstones to be seen. Hence,
in training for biliary duct exploration, no fluoroscopy is required to identify the presence
of gallstones in the training procedure employing the gallbladder model 10 of the
present invention. If there are gallstones, the obstructions will appear as discontinuities
in the flow of colored water. The user can then practice locating the simulated
gallstones at the location of fluid flow obstruction or color discontinuity. Once the
simulated gallstones are located the user practices removing the gallstones from the
hollow biliary structures.
         [00041]        The present invention further includes a kit for practicing common
bile duct exploration. A kit for common bile duct exploration comprises a gallbladder
model 10 and a syringe of colored water. The kit further comprises a catheter and/or a
plurality of simulated gallstones which can be inserted into the biliary structures of the
gallbladder layer 20. The kit may further include replacement sections of any one or
                                                19

more ducts 34, 36, 38 and arteries 40, 42, 44, 46 and/or connectors. The replacement
ducts have hollow lumens for practicing common bile duct exploration. Other
replacement ducts and/or arteries in the kit are solid diameter structures for replacing
ducts and/or arteries that have been previously severed in practice of previous
procedures.
        [00042]      The gallbladder model 10 of the present invention is particularly
suited for laparoscopic procedures; however, the invention is not so limited and the
gallbladder model of the present invention can be used in open surgical procedures
equally effectively.
        [00043]      It is understood that various modifications may be made to the
embodiments of the gallbladder model 10 disclosed herein. Therefore, the above
description should not be construed as limiting, but merely as exemplifications of
preferred embodiments. Those skilled in the art will envision other modifications within
the scope and spirit of the present disclosure.
                                             20

                                             Claims
We claim:
1.      An anatomical model for surgical training, comprising:
        a first layer having an inner surface and an outer surface; the first layer having a
thickness defined between the inner surface and the outer surface; the first layer being
configured to simulate at least a portion of a first anatomical structure and having a first
perimeter;
        a second layer having an inner surface and an outer surface; the second layer
defining a thickness between the inner surface and the outer surface; the second layer
having a second perimeter; the second layer overlaying the first layer such that the
outer surface of the second layer faces the inner surface of the first layer; and
        at least one second simulated anatomical structure; the at least one second
simulated anatomical structure defining a third perimeter around the at least one
simulated anatomical structure; the at least one simulated anatomical structure being
connected to the inner surface of the second layer; and
        wherein the outer surface of the second layer is connected to the inner surface of
the first layer at least partially around the location of the at least one second simulated
anatomical structure.
2.      The anatomical model of claim 1 wherein the second layer is not connected to
the first layer inside the third perimeter such that the second layer is permitted to tent
with respect to the first layer when the second layer is pulled away from the first layer at
a location inside the third perimeter.
3.      The anatomical model of claim 1 further including a fourth layer having an inner
surface and an outer surface; the fourth layer defining a thickness between the inner
surface and the outer surface and having a fourth perimeter; the fourth layer overlays
the second layer and the at least one second simulated anatomical structure such that
the outer surface of the fourth layer faces the inner surface of the second layer and the
                                                21

at least one second simulated anatomical structure; wherein the outer surface of the
fourth layer is connected to the inner surface of the second layer.
4.     The anatomical model of claim 3 wherein the outer surface of the second layer is
connected to the inner surface of the first layer at a location outside the third perimeter
as projected onto the first layer; and
       wherein the outer surface of the fourth layer is connected to the inner surface of
the second layer at a location outside the third perimeter as projected onto the second
layer.
5.     The anatomical model of claim 3 wherein the outer surface of the second layer is
connected to the inner surface of the first layer at a location along at least part of third
perimeter as projected onto the first layer; and
       wherein the outer surface of the fourth layer is connected to the inner surface of
the second layer at a location along at least part of the third perimeter or outside the
third perimeter as projected onto the second layer.
6.     The anatomical model of claim 3 wherein the thickness of the second layer and
the fourth layer are smaller than the thickness of the first layer.
7.     The anatomical model of claim 3 wherein the outer surface of the second layer is
connected to the inner surface of the first layer along at least a part of the first perimeter
and the outer surface of the fourth layer is connected to the inner surface of the second
layer along at least a part of the first perimeter or second perimeter.
8.     The anatomical model of claim 1 wherein the first layer simulates at least a
portion of a liver and the at least one second simulated anatomical structure includes a
simulated gallbladder.
9.     The anatomical model of claim 1 wherein the first layer is thicker than the second
layer.
                                               22

10.     The anatomical model of claim 1 wherein the inner surface of the first layer is flat.
11.     The anatomical model of claim 1 wherein the outer surface of the second layer is
connected to the inner surface of the first layer along at least a part of the first
perimeter.
12.     The anatomical model of claim 1 wherein the second layer is not connected to
the first layer at a location inside the third perimeter as projected onto the overlayed
second layer.
13.     The anatomical model of claim 1 wherein the third layer is connected to the
second layer at or inside the third perimeter.
14.     The anatomical model of claim 1 wherein the outer surface of the second layer is
connected to the inner surface of the first layer at a location along at least part of the
third perimeter or outside the third perimeter as projected onto the first layer.
15.     An anatomical model for surgical training, comprising:
        a support; and
        an anatomical portion removably connectable to the support; the anatomical
portion including:
        at least a first layer having an inner surface and an outer surface interconnected
by a top side and a bottom side and a left side and a right side; the first layer having a
thickness defined between the inner surface and the outer surface; the first layer being
configured to simulate at least a portion of a liver; the top side having a peak; and
        a simulated gallbladder positioned above the location of the peak;
        a frame connected to at least the first layer; the frame having a first end
interconnected to a second end by a central portion;
        wherein the first end and the second end of the frame are removably connectable
to the support to hold the anatomical portion in a substantially upright position; and
                                                23

         wherein the frame does not extend into the location of the peak such that the first
layer in the location of the peak is capable of flexing relative to the frame.
16.      The anatomical model of 15 wherein the first layer defines a substantially planar
configuration.
17.      The anatomical model of claim 15 wherein the inner surface of the first layer is
flat.
18.      The anatomical model of claim 15 wherein the frame is at least partially
embedded inside the first layer; and the first end and the second end of the frame
extend out from the first layer.
19.      The anatomical model of claim 15 wherein the frame includes a first leg
substantially parallel to the left side and a second leg substantially parallel to the right
side; the central portion being interconnected between the first leg and the second leg.
20.      The anatomical model of claim 15 further including a second layer having an
outer surface and an inner surface defining a thickness; the second layer overlaying the
first layer such that the outer surface of the second layer faces the inner surface of the
first layer; the outer surface of the second layer being connected to the inner surface of
the first layer at least partially around the location of the simulated gallbladder.
21.      The anatomical model of claim 20 wherein the simulated gallbladder is adhered
to the inner surface of the second layer.
22.      An anatomical model for surgical training, comprising:
         an anatomical portion, including:
         a first layer having an inner surface and an outer surface interconnected by a top
side and a bottom side and a left side and a right side; the first layer having a thickness
defined between the inner surface and the outer surface; the first layer being configured
                                                24

to simulate at least one anatomical structure; and
        a second layer including at least one anatomical structure overlaying the first
layer;
        a frame having a first end interconnected to a second end by a central portion; at
least part of the frame being embedded within the first layer with the first end and the
second end of the frame extending out from the first layer; and
        a support; the first end and the second end of the frame being removably
connectable to the support to hold the anatomical portion in a substantially upright
position with respect to a supporting surface.
23.     The anatomical model of claim 22 wherein the first and second ends extend out
of the bottom side of the first layer.
24.     The anatomical model of claim 22 wherein the frame includes a first leg
connected to the first end and a second leg connected to the second end; the central
portion being located between the first leg and the second leg.
25.     The anatomical model of claim 24 wherein the first leg and the second leg are
parallel.
26.     The anatomical model of claim 24 wherein the central portion is substantially
perpendicular to the first leg and the second leg to define a substantially U-shaped
configuration for the frame.
27.     The anatomical model of claim 24 wherein the first leg is substantially parallel to
the left side and the second leg is substantially parallel to the right side.
28.     The anatomical model of claim 22 wherein the first layer includes a peak
projecting from the top side and the frame does not extend into the projection.
29.     The anatomical model of claim 22 wherein the first layer simulates at least a
                                             25

portion of a liver and the second layer includes a simulated gallbladder.
30.     The anatomical model of claim 22 further including a third layer having an inner
surface and an outer surface; the third layer overlaying the first layer such that the outer
surface of the third layer faces the inner surface of the first layer; the outer surface of
the third layer being connected to the perimeter of the first layer; the second layer being
connected to the inner surface of the third layer inside the perimeter of the first layer.
31.     The anatomical model of claim 30 further including a fourth layer having an inner
surface and an outer surface; the fourth layer overlaying the third layer and the second
layer such that the outer surface of the fourth layer faces the second layer and the third
layer; the fourth layer being connected to the third layer.
32.     A surgical simulation system, comprising:
        an anatomical model including:
               an anatomical portion including:
                       a first layer having an inner surface and an outer surface
                interconnected by a top side and a bottom side and a left side and a right
               side; the first layer having a thickness defined between the inner surface
               and the outer surface; the first layer being configured to simulate at least
               one anatomical structure and defining a substantially planar configuration;
                       a second layer including a plurality of anatomical structures
               connected to and overlaying the inner surface of the first layer; and
               a support connectable to the anatomical portion and configured to hold the
        anatomical portion in a substantially perpendicular orientation with respect to a
        supporting surface; and
        a surgical training device including:
               a base;
               a top cover connected to and spaced apart from the base to define a
        simulated insufflated internal cavity between the top cover and the base; the
        internal cavity being at least partially obstructed from direct observation by a
                                                26

         user; the top cover including an aperture or penetrable simulated tissue region;
         wherein the top cover of the surgical training device is angled to form an acute
angle with respect to a horizontal plane and the anatomical model is positioned inside
the internal cavity a distance opposite the acute angle such that the inner surface of the
first layer faces the acute angle and the aperture or penetrable simulated tissue region.
33.      The surgical simulation system of claim 32 wherein the first layer simulates at
least a portion of a liver and the second layer includes a simulated gallbladder.
34.      The anatomical model of claim 32 further including a third layer having an inner
surface and an outer surface; the third layer overlaying the first layer such that the outer
surface of the third layer faces the inner surface of the first layer; the outer surface of
the third layer being connected to the perimeter of the first layer; the second layer being
connected to the inner surface of the third layer inside the perimeter of the first layer.
35.      The anatomical model of claim 34 further including a fourth layer having an inner
surface and an outer surface; the fourth layer overlaying the third layer and the second
layer such that the outer surface of the fourth layer faces the second layer and the third
layer; the fourth layer being connected to the third layer.
36.      The anatomical model of claim 32 wherein the anatomical model is a substantial
planar projection of a retracted liver and gallbladder in the simulated insufflated internal
cavity.
37.      An anatomical model for surgical training, comprising:
         an anatomical portion comprising:
         a first layer having an inner surface and an outer surface interconnected by a top
side, a bottom side, a left side and a right side; the inner surface being substantially
planar; the first layer having a thickness defined between the inner surface and the
outer surface; the first layer being configured to simulate at least a portion of a liver;
         a second layer having an inner surface and an outer surface interconnected by a
                                               27

top side, a bottom side, a left side and a right side; the second layer overlays the first
layer such that the outer surface of the second layer faces the inner surface of the first
layer; the outer surface of the second layer being connected to the inner surface of the
first layer along at least part of a first perimeter; the second layer defining a thickness
between the inner surface and the outer surface; wherein the thickness of the second
layer is smaller than the thickness of the first layer;
         a third layer including at least one simulated anatomical structure; the at least
one simulated anatomical structure being connected to the inner surface of the second
layer; and
         a fourth layer having an inner surface and an outer surface interconnected by a
top side, a bottom side, a left side and a right side; the fourth layer overlaying the
second layer and the third layer such that the outer surface of the fourth layer faces the
inner surface of the second layer and the at least one simulated anatomical structure;
the outer surface of the fourth layer being connected to the inner surface of the second
layer along at least part of a second perimeter; the fourth layer defining a thickness
between the inner surface and the outer surface; wherein the thickness of the fourth
layer is smaller than the thickness of the first layer.
38.      The anatomical model of claim 37 wherein the first perimeter is defined around
one or more anatomical structure of the third layer.
39.      The anatomical model of claim 37 wherein the first perimeter is defined around
the edge of the first layer.
40.      The anatomical model of claim 37 wherein the second layer is connected to the
first layer with adhesive.
41.      The anatomical model of claim 37 wherein the at least one anatomical structure
is connected to the inner surface of the second layer with adhesive.
42.      The anatomical model of claim 37 further including a peak projecting from the top
                                                28

side of the first layer.
43.     The anatomical model of claim 42 wherein the top side of the second layer
includes a peak that substantially matches the shape of the peak of the first layer such
that the peak in the second layer conformingly overlays the peak in the first layer.
44.     The anatomical model of claim 42 wherein the fourth layer includes a peak that
conforms to the peak in the first layer and substantially overlays the peak in the first
layer.
45.     The anatomical model of claim 37 further including a frame at least partially
embedded inside the first layer; and a support connectable to the frame to hold the
anatomical portion in a substantially upright position.
46.     The anatomical model of claim 45 wherein the frame includes a left leg and a
right leg interconnected by a central portion wherein the frame does not extend into the
peak of the first layer leaving it capable of flexing inwardly and outwardly.
47.     The anatomical model of claim 45 wherein the frame is substantially U-shaped
and extends along the top side but not inside the peak of the first layer; the frame
having a right leg and a left leg interconnected by a central portion; wherein the distal
portions of the right leg and left leg protrude outwardly from the first layer.
48.     An anatomical model for surgical training, comprising:
        an anatomical portion, including:
        a first layer having an inner surface and an outer surface interconnected by a top
side and a bottom side and a left side and a right side; the first layer having a thickness
defined between the inner surface and the outer surface; the first layer being configured
to simulate at least one anatomical structure; and
        a second layer including at least one simulated anatomical structure overlaying
the first layer;
                                               29

        a frame having a first end interconnected to a second end by a central portion; at
least part of the frame being embedded within the first layer with the first end and the
second end of the frame extending out from the first layer; and
        a support; the first end and the second end of the frame being removably
connectable to the support to hold the anatomical portion in a substantially upright
position with respect to a supporting surface.
49.     The anatomical model of 48 wherein the first layer defines a substantially planar
configuration.
50.     The anatomical model of claim 48 wherein the top side of the first layer is flat.
51.     The anatomical model of claim 48 wherein the first and second ends extend out
of the bottom side of the first layer.
52.     The anatomical model of claim 48 wherein the frame includes a first leg
connected to the first end and a second leg connected to the second end; the central
portion being located between the first leg and the second leg.
53.     The anatomical model of claim 52 wherein the first leg and the second leg are
parallel.
54.     The anatomical model of claim 48 wherein the first layer simulates at least a
portion of a liver and the second layer includes a simulated gallbladder.
55.     The anatomical model of claim 48 further including a third layer having an inner
surface and an outer surface; the third layer overlaying the first layer such that the outer
surface of the third layer faces the inner surface of the first layer; the outer surface of
the third layer being connected to the perimeter of the first layer; the second layer being
connected to the inner surface of the third layer inside the perimeter of the first layer.
                                             30

56.      The anatomical model of claim 55 further including a fourth layer having an inner
surface and an outer surface; the fourth layer overlaying the third layer and the second
layer such that the outer surface of the fourth layer faces the second layer and the third
layer; the fourth layer being connected to the third layer.
57.      The anatomical model of claim 56 wherein the third layer and the fourth layer are
planar layers each having a perimeter coincident with a perimeter of the first layer.
58. The anatomical model of claim 48 further including:
         a surgical training device including:
                     a base;
                     a top cover connected to and spaced apart from the base to define a
         simulated insufflated internal cavity between the top cover and the base; the
         internal cavity being at least partially obstructed from direct observation by a
         user; the top cover including an aperture or penetrable simulated tissue region;
         wherein the top cover of the surgical training device is angled to form an acute
angle with respect to a horizontal plane and the anatomical model is positioned inside
the internal cavity a distance opposite the acute angle such that the inner surface of the
first layer faces the acute angle and the aperture or penetrable simulated tissue region.
59.      The anatomical model of claim 48 wherein the anatomical model is substantial
planar projection of a retracted liver and gallbladder in the simulated insufflated internal
cavity.
60.      The anatomical model of claim 48 wherein the top side of the second layer
includes a peak that substantially matches the shape of the peak of the first layer such
that the peak in the second layer conformingly overlays the peak in the first layer.
61.      An anatomical model for surgical training, comprising:
         an artificial liver layer having a flat inner surface and an outer surface;
                                                   31

        an artificial fascia layer having a flat inner surface and a flat outer surface; the
fascia layer attached to the liver layer such that the flat outer surface of the fascia layer
overlays the flat inner surface of the liver layer and such that a first pocket is formed
between the fascia layer and the liver layer;
        an artificial gallbladder attached to the fascia layer in the location of the first
pocket.
62.     The anatomical model of claim 61 further including an artificial peritoneum layer
having a flat inner surface and a flat outer surface; the peritoneum layer attached to the
fascia layer such that flat outer surface overlays the gallbladder and inner surface of the
fascia layer and such that a second pocket is formed between the peritoneum layer and
the fascia layer.
63.     The anatomical model of claim 62 wherein the peritoneum layer is attached to
the gallbladder.
64.     The anatomical model of claim 63 wherein pulling of the peritoneum layer in a
direction away from the liver layer results in pulling of the gallbladder along with the
peritoneum layer.
65.     The anatomical model of claim 63 wherein pulling of the peritoneum layer results
in tenting of the first pocket and the second pocket.
66.     The anatomical model of claim 63 wherein pulling of the peritoneum layer results
in the peritoneum layer tenting with respect to the fascia layer and the fascia layer
tenting with respect to the liver layer.
67.     The anatomical model of claim 63 wherein the perimeter of the peritoneum layer
is attached to the perimeter of the fascia layer and the perimeter of the fascia layer is
attached to the perimeter of the liver layer.
                                                 32

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
