   Abstract
         The present invention relates to a gaming system and
   to a method of gaming.  A game is played by displaying a
 5 representation of selection of a plurality of symbols from
   a set of symbols.  The game enables selection of at least
   one additional symbol in addition to those originally
   selected, to increase the number of symbol combinations
   available for assessing a game outcome.
10       In an example, the additional symbol is displayed as
   being mounted on a substrate which is "flipped" to reveal
   the additional symbol.  Another face of this substrate
   mounts the originally selected symbol.  A plurality of
   additional symbols may be available for selection.

                               - 1
               A GAMING SYSTEM AND METHOD OF GAMING
   Related Application
         This application is a divisional application of
 5 Australian application no. <removed-apn> which, in turn is a
   divisional application of Australian application no.
   2012202114, which, in turn is a divisional application of
   Australian application no. 2008261161, which, in turn is a
   divisional application of Australian application no.
10 2014250617, the disclosure of which is incorporated herein
   by reference.  Most of the disclosure of these
   applications is also included herein, however, reference
   may be made to the specification of applications no.
   <removed-apn>, 2012202114, 2008261161 and 2014250617 as filed
15 to gain further understanding of the invention claimed
   herein.
   Field of the Invention
         The present invention relates to a gaming system and
20 to a method of gaming.
   Background of the Invention
         It is known to provide a gaming system which
   comprises a game controller arranged to randomly select
25 and cause the display of several symbols from a
   predetermined set of symbols and to determine a game
   outcome, such as a game win, based on the displayed
   symbols.  Such gaming systems may commonly be implemented
   as a stepping machine provided with reels with each reel
30 carrying several symbols of the set, or a video machine
   wherein selected symbols are displayed on virtual reels on
   a graphical display device.   Win outcomes can occur based
   on symbols appearing in one or more horizontal lines,
   diagonal lines, or any other predetermined way.    Typically
35 five reels across are provided on the display   (although
   less or more may be provided).   Each reel or virtual reel
   display is three symbols high in the display window for

                                - 2
   the reel  (although, again, this may be more or less
   symbols high).
         In many gaming systems, a player can choose whether
   or not to wager on one or more win lines for each play of
 5 the game.   The value of the wager for each win line may be
   determined by the player.    A prize awarded to the player
   for a winning combination on a win line will generally be
   in proportion to the amount of credits bet for that win
   line by the player.    This is perceived to be fair, as the
10 more credits that the player is willing to risk, the
   higher the potential return.
         While it is a simple matter to scale the amount of
   prize return with regard to the amount of credit bet by
   the player for prizes that are of known value for a
15 winning combination, it is not possible to do this for
   jackpot prizes, which accumulate over a period of time, or
   prizes of fixed value, e.g. a car.    Jackpot prizes may,
   for example, depend on a percentage amount of credits
   entered into a gaming system over a period of time, or
20 even a percentage amount of credits entered into linked
   gaming machines   (linked jackpots) over a period of time.
   Winning of the jackpot is generally independent of the
   amount of credit wagered on any particular win line by a
   player.   This is perceived as being unfair to players who
25 are willing to wager large amounts of credit in order to
   win a jackpot.
   Summary of the Invention
         In accordance with a first aspect, the present
30 invention provides a gaming system, comprising a display
   and a game controller arranged to:
         select a plurality of first symbols from a set of
   symbols for play of a game;
         control the display to display a plurality of the
35 first symbols in one or both of rows and columns;
         determine a number of second symbols that a player
   is entitled to, based on at least one triggering criteria;

                              -  3
         allow the player to select at least one of the
   originally selected first symbols to be replaced by a
   second symbol for each second symbol that the player is
   determined to be entitled to;
 5       select at least one second symbol to replace the at
   least one originally selected first symbol as selected by
   the player, wherein the second symbols only form winning
   combinations with other second symbols, and wherein at
   least one prize is a special prize only winnable when a
10 winning combination formed by the second symbols occurs;
   and
         control the display to display the second symbol in
   place of one of the originally selected first symbols; and
         award one or more prizes to the player based on one
15 or more winning combinations formed by the first symbols
   and the second symbols.
         Second symbols are also referred to as additional
   symbols throughout the following description.
         In an embodiment, the game controller is arranged to
20 determine a game outcome based on the symbol selection.
   In an embodiment, providing the at least one additional
   symbol enables more combinations of symbols to be achieved
   for the determination of game outcomes.
         In an embodiment, the game controller is arranged to
25 select a plurality of second symbols to replace the at
   least one originally selected first symbols as selected by
   the player.
         In an embodiment, the game controller is arranged to
   control the display to display the additional symbol by
30 appearing to turn over the originally selected symbol to
   reveal the additional symbol behind the originally
   selected symbol.  In an embodiment, the display is
   controlled such that the originally selected symbol
   appears to be mounted on a face of a substrate which
35 appears to turn over so that another face of the substrate
   appears bearing the additional symbol.  In an embodiment,
   the display is controlled such that the originally

   selected symbol appears to be mounted on one face of a
   three dimensional substrate having a plurality of faces,
   the substrate appearing to turn so that another of the
   faces of the three dimensional substrate appears bearing
 5 the additional symbol.   In this embodiment, further turns
   of the three dimensional substrate may reveal further
   additional symbols.   The three dimensional substrate may
   be a triangular prism, a rectangular prism, or a multi
   sided prism.   The three dimensional substrate may be of
10 any shape, with any number of faces.   These embodiments
   have the advantage of creating a graphically interesting
   game operation in order to increase player entertainment
   and interest.
         In an embodiment, the game may be played utilising
15 player credit.   In an embodiment, an opportunity to obtain
   one or more additional symbols may be bought by the
   player, based on credit input by the player.   In one
   embodiment, an additional symbol may comprise a jackpot
   symbol, which, together with other jackpot symbols in a
20 combination, may enable a player to win a jackpot if the
   symbol appears in the appropriate pattern.   In an
   embodiment, a number of jackpot symbols available as
   additional symbols increases in proportion to the amount
   of credit wagered by the player, whereby to increase the
25 chances of the player being able to win a jackpot in
   dependence upon the amount of credit wagered.   This
   embodiment has the advantage that players who are willing
   to gamble higher amounts of credit to win the jackpot have
   a better chance of winning the jackpot, which is perceived
30 to be fairer than prior art gaming machines where a chance
   of winning the jackpot does not vary in dependence on the
   amount wagered.
         In accordance with a second aspect, the present
   invention provides a method of gaming, comprising the
35 steps of:
         selecting a plurality of first symbols from a set of
   symbols for play of a game;

                              -  5
        controlling a display to display at least a plurality
   of the selected first symbols in one or both of rows and
   columns;
        determine a number of second symbols that a player is
 5 entitled to, based on at least one triggering criteria;
        allowing the player to select at least one of the
   originally selected first symbols to be replaced by a
   second symbol for each second symbol that the player is
   determined to be entitled to;
10      selecting at least one second symbol to replace the
   at least one originally selected first symbol as selected
   by the player, wherein the second symbols only form
   winning combinations with other second symbols, and
   wherein at least one prize is a special prize only
15 winnable when a winning combination formed by the second
   symbols occurs;
        controlling the display to display the second symbol
   in the place of one of the originally selected first
   symbols; and
20      awarding one or more prizes to the player based on
   one or more winning combinations formed by the first
   symbols and the second symbols.
         In accordance with a third aspect, the present
25 invention provides a computer program comprising
   instructions for controlling a computer to implement a
   gaming system in accordance with the first aspect of the
   invention.
         In accordance with a fourth aspect, the present
30 invention provides a computer readable medium providing a
   computer program in accordance with the third aspect of
   the invention.
         In accordance with a fifth aspect, the present
   invention provides a data signal comprising a computer
35 program in accordance with the third aspect of the
   invention.

                              - 6
   Brief Description of the Figures
         Features and advantages of the present invention
 5 will become apparent from the following description of
   embodiments thereof, by way of example only, with
   reference to the accompanying drawings, in which:
         Figure 1 is a schematic block diagram of core
   components of a gaming system in accordance with an
10 embodiment of the present invention;
         Figure 2 is a diagrammatic representation of a
   gaming system in accordance with an embodiment of the
   present invention with the gaming system implemented in
   the form of a stand alone gaming machine;
15       Figure 3 is a schematic block diagram of operative
   components of the gaming machine shown in Figure 2;
         Figure 4 is a schematic block diagram of components
   of a memory of the gaming machine shown in Figure 2;
         Figure 5 is a schematic diagram of a gaming system
20 in accordance with an alternative embodiment of the
   present invention with the gaming system implemented over
   a network;
         Figure 6 is a schematic diagram of functional
   components of a gaming system in accordance with an
25 embodiment of the present invention;
         Figures 7 to 12 are representations of example
   displays generated by a gaming system in accordance with
   an embodiment of the present invention, and
         Figure 13 is a flow diagram illustrating operation
30 of a gaming system in accordance with an embodiment of the
   present invention.
   Detailed Description of Embodiments
         Referring to the drawings, there is shown a gaming
35 system arranged to implement a game in which a plurality
   of symbols from a set of symbols is selected and displayed
   in symbol positions in one or both of rows and columns.

   In this embodiment  (see Figure 7) an example display 400
   displays symbols 401 in a plurality of rows and columns.
   In this embodiment, the gaming system is arranged to
   select at least one additional symbol and control the
 5 display to display the at least one additional symbol
   replacing an originally selected symbol.    In this example,
   the original symbol being replaced is represented as being
   mounted by substrate   402 which is "flipped"  (see Figure
   8) to reveal an additional symbol 403   (Figure 9, for
10 example) on the reverse side of the substrate 402.
   Provision of the additional symbols advantageously enables
   the gaming system to offer more combinations of symbols to
   the player, more chance of winning a prize and potentially
   higher value prizes.   In one embodiment, this also enables
15 a number of jackpot winning symbols available to be
   increased in accord with the amount of credit bet by the
   player.
          The gaming system can take a number of different
   forms.
20        In a first form, a stand alone gaming machine is
   provided wherein all or most components required for
   implementing the game are present in a player operable
   gaming machine.
          In a second form, a distributed architecture is
25 provided wherein some of the components required for
   implementing the game are present in a player operable
   gaming machine and some of the components required for
   implementing the game are located remotely relative to the
   gaming machine.   For example, a "thick client"
30 architecture may be used wherein part of the game is
   executed on a player operable gaming machine and part of
   the game is executed remotely, such as by a gaming server;
   or a "thin client" architecture may be used wherein most
   of the game is executed remotely such as by a gaming
35 server and a player operable gaming machine is used only
   to display audible and/or visible gaming information to
   the player and receive gaming inputs from the player.

                                - 8
          However, it will be understood that other
   arrangements are envisaged.    For example, an architecture
   may be provided wherein a gaming machine is networked to a
   gaming server and the respective functions of the gaming
 5 machine and the gaming server are selectively modifiable.
   For example, the gaming system may operate in stand alone
   gaming machine mode, "thick client" mode or "thin client"
   mode depending on the game being played, operating
   conditions, and so on. Other variations will be apparent
10 to persons skilled in the art.
          Irrespective of the form, the gaming system
   comprises several core components. At the broadest level,
   the core components are a player interface 50 and a game
   controller 60 as illustrated in Figure 1. The player
15 interface is arranged to enable manual interaction between
   a player and the gaming system and for this purpose
   includes the input/output components required for the
   player to enter instructions and play the game.
          Components of the player interface may vary from
20 embodiment to embodiment but will typically include a
   credit mechanism 52 to enable a player to input credits
   and receive payouts, one or more displays 54,   a game play
   mechanism 56 that enables a player to input game play
   instructions   (e.g. to place bets), and one or more
25 speakers 58.
          The game controller 60 is in data communication with
   the player interface and typically includes a processor 62
   that processes the game play instructions in accordance
   with game play rules and outputs game play outcomes to the
30 display. Typically, the game play instructions are stored
   as program code in a memory 64 but can also be hardwired.
   Herein the term "processor" is used to refer generically
   to any device that can process game play instructions in
   accordance with game play rules and may include:   a
35 microprocessor, microcontroller, programmable logic device
   or other computational device, a general purpose computer
    (e.g. a PC) or a server.

                               - 9
         A gaming system in the form of a stand alone gaming
   machine 10 is illustrated in Figure 2. The gaming machine
   10 includes a console 12 having a display 14 on which is
   displayed representations of a game 16 that can be played
 5 by a player.   A mid-trim 20 of the gaming machine 10
   houses a bank of buttons 22 for enabling a player to
   interact with the gaming machine, in particular during
   gameplay.   The mid-trim 20 also houses a credit input
   mechanism 24 which in this example includes a coin input
10 chute 24A and a bill collector 24B.    Other credit input
   mechanisms may also be employed, for example, a card
   reader for reading a smart card, debit card or credit
   card.   A player marketing module  (not shown) having a
   reading device may also be provided for the purpose of
15 reading a player tracking device, for example as part of a
   loyalty program.   The player tracking device may be in the
   form of a card, flash drive or any other portable storage
   medium capable of being read by the reading device.
         A top box 26 may carry artwork 28, including for
20 example pay tables and details of bonus awards and other
   information or images relating to the game.    Further
   artwork and/or information may be provided on a front
   panel 29 of the console 12.   A coin tray 30 is mounted
   beneath the front panel 29 for dispensing cash payouts
25 from the gaming machine 10.
         The display 14 shown in Figure 2 is in the form of a
   video display unit, particularly a cathode ray tube screen
   device.   Alternatively, the display 14 may be a liquid
   crystal display, plasma screen, any other suitable video
30 display unit, or the visible portion of an
   electromechanical device.   The top box 26 may also include
   a display, for example a video display unit, which may be
   of the same type as the display 14,   or of a different
   type.
35       Figure 3 shows a block diagram of operative
   components of a typical gaming machine which may be the
   same as or different to the gaming machine of Figure 2.

                               - 10
   The gaming machine 100 includes a game controller 101
   having a processor 102.   Instructions and data to control
   operation of the processor 102 are stored in a memory 103,
   which is in data communication with the processor 102.
 5 Typically, the gaming machine 100 will include both
   volatile and non-volatile memory and more than one of each
   type of memory, with such memories being collectively
   represented by the memory 103.
         The gaming machine has hardware meters 104 for
10 purposes including ensuring regulatory compliance and
   monitoring player credit, an input/output  (I/O) interface
   105 for communicating with peripheral devices of the
   gaming machine 100.   The input/output interface 105 and/or
   the peripheral devices may be intelligent devices with
15 their own memory for storing associated instructions and
   data for use with the input/output interface or the
   peripheral devices.   A random number generator module 113
   generates random numbers for use by the processor 102.
   Persons skilled in the art will appreciate that the
20 reference to random numbers includes pseudo-random
   numbers.
         In the example shown in Figure 3, a player interface
   120 includes peripheral devices that communicate with the
   game controller 101 comprise one or more displays 106, a
25 touch screen 107  (note that in other embodiments buttons
   or other player interface could be used),  a card and/or
   ticket reader 108,  a printer 109, a bill acceptor and/or
   coin input mechanism 110 and a coin output mechanism 111.
   Additional hardware may be included as part of the gaming
30 machine 100, or hardware may be omitted as required for
   the specific implementation.
         In addition, the gaming machine 100 may include a
   communications interface, for example a network card 112.
   The network card may, for example, send status
35 information, accounting information or other information
   to a central controller, server or database and receive
   data or commands from the central controller, server or

                              - 11
   database.
         Figure 4 shows a block diagram of the main
   components of an exemplary memory 103.   The memory 103
   includes RAM 103A, EPROM 103B and a mass storage device
 5 103C.  The RAM 103A typically temporarily holds program
   files for execution by the processor 102 and related data.
   The EPROM 103B may be a boot ROM device and/or may contain
   some system or game related code.   The mass storage device
   103C is typically used to store game programs, the
10 integrity of which may be verified and/or authenticated by
   the processor 102 using protected code from the EPROM 103B
   or elsewhere.
         It is also possible for the operative components of
   the gaming machine 100 to be distributed, for example
15 input/output devices 106,107,108,109,110,111 to be
   provided remotely from the game controller 101.
         Figure 5 shows a gaming system 200 in accordance
   with an alternative embodiment.   The gaming system 200
   includes a network 201, which for example may be an
20 Ethernet network.  Gaming machines 202, shown arranged in
   three banks 203 of two gaming machines 202 in Figure 5,
   are connected to the network 201.   The gaming machines 202
   provide a player operable interface and may be the same as
   the gaming machines 10,100 shown in Figures 2 and 3, or
25 may have simplified functionality depending on the
   requirements for implementing game play.   While banks 203
   of two gaming machines are illustrated in Figure 5, banks
   of one, three or more gaming machines are also envisaged.
         One or more displays 204 may also be connected to
30 the network 201.  The displays 204 may, for example, be
   associated with one or more banks 203 of gaming machines.
   The displays 204 may be used to display representations
   associated with game play on the gaming machines 202,
   and/or used to display other representations, for example
35 promotional or informational material.
         In a thick client embodiment, game server 205
   implements part of the game played by a player using a

                              - 12
   gaming machine 202 and the gaming machine 202 implements
   part of the game. With this embodiment, as both the game
   server and the gaming device implement part of the game,
   they collectively provide a game controller. A database
 5 management server 206 may manage storage of game programs
   and associated data for downloading or access by the
   gaming devices 202 in a database 206A. Typically, if the
   gaming system enables players to participate in a Jackpot
   game, a Jackpot server 207 will be provided to monitor and
10 carry out the Jackpot game.   A loyalty program server 212
   may also be provided.
         In a thin client embodiment, game server 205
   implements most or all of the game played by a player
   using a gaming machine 202 and the gaming machine 202
15 essentially provides only the player interface.   With this
   embodiment, the game server 205 provides the game
   controller. The gaming machine will receive player
   instructions, pass these to the game server which will
   process them and return game play outcomes to the gaming
20 machine for display.  In a thin client embodiment, the
   gaming machines could be computer terminals, e.g. PCs
   running software that provides a player interface operable
   using standard computer input and output components.
         Servers are also typically provided to assist in the
25 administration of the gaming network 200,  including for
   example a gaming floor management server 208,  and a
   licensing server 209 to monitor the use of licenses
   relating to particular games.   An administrator terminal
   210 is provided to allow an administrator to run the
30 network 201 and the devices connected to the network.
         The gaming system 200 may communicate with other
   gaming systems, other local networks, for example a
   corporate network, and/or a wide area network such as the
   Internet, for example through a firewall 211.
35       Persons skilled in the art will appreciate that in
   accordance with known techniques, functionality at the
   server side of the network may be distributed over a

                                - 13
   plurality of different computers.    For example, elements
   may be run as a single "engine" on one server or a
   separate server may be provided.    For example, the game
   server 205 could run a random generator engine.
 5 Alternatively, a separate random number generator server
   could be provided.    Further, persons skilled in the art
   will appreciate that a plurality of games servers could be
   provided to run different games or a single game server
   may run a plurality of different games as required by the
10 terminals.
          Referring to Figure 6, the functionality of
   embodiments   of the present invention may be implemented by
   a game controller having the functional components
   illustrated.    In this embodiment, the functional
15 components are implemented utilising a processor and
   memory   (such as processor 102 and memory 103 in Figure 3,
   or processor 62 and memory 64 in Figure 1, for the game
   server 205 in Figure 5),   and associated programming.
   Other implementations are envisaged.    For example the
20 functional blocks of Figure 6 may be implemented in
   hardware as separate units, or a combination of hardware
   and software as separate units.    Any practical
   implementation of these functional units may be employed.
          In this embodiment, the game controller 300 is
25 arranged to control the gaming system to play a game which
   comprises selection of a plurality of symbols from a set
   of symbols.    The game is implemented as a "reel" game.
   The game controller 300 comprises a display controller 301
   which is arranged to control the display    (reference
30 numerals 54,   14, 106, 204 of previous figures) to emulate
   a representation of reels bearing symbols.     Alternatively,
   the display may comprise a stepper motor and physical
   reels bearing the symbols.
          The game controller 300 includes a symbol selector
35 302 which is arranged to select a plurality of symbols
   from a set of symbols available in a symbol store 303.     An
   outcome generator 304 is arranged to determine an outcome

                                 - 14
   of the game.    In this embodiment, the outcome of the game
   depends on the selected symbols and may include a win
   outcome, loss outcome, trigger outcome, a feature outcome
   or other outcome.    Outcomes may be determined on the basis
 5 of symbols appearing in one or more horizontal lines,
   diagonal lines, or any other pre-determined combinations.
          Figure 7 shows a representation of a gaming machine
   display 400 which, in the example shown, has five reels
    (numbered "1" to "5").    The display 400 shows three reel
10 positions high when the reels have stopped /     the symbols
   have been selected.     The reel positions are designated
   Bottom   ("B"), Centre  ("C") and Top  ("T").  This is  a
   typical reel-type display for a gaming machine.      It will
   be appreciated that in other embodiments the number of
15 reel positions may be more or less than in display 400.
   Also the number of reels may be more or less than in the
   display 400.
          The reels may be virtual reels, generated as a video
   display from the selected symbols, actual mechanical reels
20 carrying the symbols and driven by a stepper motor, or any
   other reel arrangement or emulation.      In the case of
   actual physical reels, the game controller drives a
   stepper motor to randomly select the symbols appearing in
   the display 400.
25        The game outcome is determined by the outcome
   generator 304 based on combinations of symbols selected
   and appearing in the display 400.     The symbols may be any
   symbols.    As will be appreciated, many different types of
   symbols are used in gaming systems.      A set of symbols may
30 include standard symbols and function symbols.      For
   example, standard symbols may resemble fruit such as
   apples, pears and bananas with a win outcome being
   determined when a predetermined number of the same fruit
   appear on a display in the same line, scattered, and so
35 on.   The function associated with a function symbol may be
   a "wild" function wherein display of the function symbol
   is treated during consideration of the game outcome as any

                               - 15
   of the standard symbols.   Other functions may include
   scatter functions, multiplier functions, repeat win
   functions, jackpot functions and feature commencement
   functions.
 5       In the example shown in Figure 7, the symbols are
   representations of cards.    In this example, a winning hand
   appearing on the C line may cause the outcome generator to
   determine that a Win has occurred and that an appropriate
   prize may be awarded.   For example, five of a kind    (e.g. 5
10 jacks "J". 5 tens "10"  etc) on the C line may result in a
   win.
         In addition to the card symbols there are other
   symbols, including "traffic light" 405 symbols which may
   be function symbols and also "wild card" symbols 404.      In
15 this example, there are also "jackpot" symbols which, when
   selected, enable a jackpot prize to be awarded.      A jackpot
   symbol is shown as reference 403 in Figure 9.
         The diagram shown in Figure 7 is one way of
   representing the symbols only.     It will be appreciated
20 that in other embodiments of the invention symbols may be
   represented in different ways, using any type of fancy
   artwork, or in any appropriate manner.
         Operation of an embodiment of the present invention
   will now be described with reference to Figures 7 through
25 10.
         Referring to Figure 7, the symbol selector 302
   selects a plurality of symbols   from symbols available from
   the symbol store 303.   The game controller 300 operates
   via the display controller 301 to emulate spinning of
30 reels in the display 400.    The selected symbols  401 are
   "spun up" on the reels.   This is how a conventional video
   animated reel spinning game operates.     A game outcome is
   determined by the outcome generator 304 depending upon
   line or scattered combinations    (or other features, such as
35 bonus awards) of the symbols appearing in the display 400.
   With this basic reel game, however, there are a limited
   number of symbol combinations available.     In this

                               - 16
   embodiment of the invention, in order to provide further
   opportunities for awarding of prizes to players, the game
   controller 300 is also arranged to select additional
   symbols which may be used to provide additional
 5 opportunities for combinations which may lead to prize
   winning results.
         In this embodiment, the additional symbols may be
   revealed by "flipping" originally selected symbols, the
   additional symbols appearing on the reverse side of the
10 "flipped" originally selected symbol.    In this example,
   the selected symbols are displayed as being mounted by a
   substrate 402 which the display controller 301 controls so
   that the substrate 402 appears to turn over    ("flip") so
   that any symbol on the other side of the substrate 402 is
15 revealed.  Figure 8 shows four symbols in the process of
   being flipped.   Figure 9 shows the flips in the process of
   being completed.   The reverse side of three of the
   substrates 402 are blank, no additional symbols being
   provided for these.   On the flipped symbol in column 1,
20 however, a "minor jackpot" symbol is revealed.     Figure 10
   shows the display 400 after the symbol flips have been
   completed.
         Providing a facility for additional symbols to be
   awarded to a player and for graphics to display those
25 additional symbols by flipping the originally selected
   symbols to reveal the additional symbols, provides
   additional opportunities for a player to win prizes as
   well as a graphically entertaining game.
         In the example game illustrated in Figures    7 to 10,
30 any jackpot symbol that is spun up or achieved by a flip,
   gives the player a chance of winning a jackpot.     The
   jackpot may be a linked jackpot   (several machines
   contributing to central jackpot) or a jackpot of a stand
   alone machine.   In this particular game, when three "mini
35 jackpot" symbols are spun up, a mini jackpot is won, when
   four "minor jackpots" symbols are spun up, a minor jackpot
   is won and when five "major jackpot" symbols are spun up a

                               - 17
   maximum jackpot is won.   If no jackpot is won, but a
   jackpot symbol is revealed, a small amount of credits are
   paid to the player to avoid disappointment of the player.
   In the example shown in Figure 10, a minor jackpot symbol
 5 has been revealed by a flip in column 1, row T and a small
   amount of credit is allocated to the player for the minor
   jackpot symbol.
         The awarding of one or more "flips" to a player may
   be caused by any trigger criteria.   Triggers may include a
10 measurement of time that the player has been playing the
   machine, a particular amount of waiting activity on that
   machine, it may be based on playing player tracking
   information, or may be a random event, or based on a
   particular combination being spun up in the original
15 symbol selection, or any other trigger.   It may be based
   on a combination of these criteria.
         Whether or not a player is awarded one or more flips
   may also be based on player credit.   In this embodiment,
   for example, the player has the option to "buy" a number
20 of flips by increasing the amount of credit that they bet
   on the game e.g. that they bet on particular pay lines of
   the game.
         The ability to buy additional symbols in the form of
   flips can address a perceived problem with the chance of
25 winning jackpots.   A problem with jackpots is that the
   winning of a jackpot is generally independent of the
   number of credit units wagered by a player.   Players who
   are willing to bet more credits to win a jackpot e.g. more
   credits per line, have only as much chance as a player who
30 is willing to bet only a small number of credits per line.
   This is perceived as being unfair to players who are
   willing to gamble higher  (in order to win the jackpot)
   than other players.
         In this embodiment, a player who bets more credits
35 may receive more symbol flips, giving them additional
   chances to obtain jackpot symbols, for example, and
   therefore a better chance of winning a jackpot.

                                - 18
          In this embodiment, the number of flips increases in
   proportion to the amount of credit a player is willing to
   wager.   Also, a number of jackpot symbols available for
   selection from the symbol store, as additional symbols
 5 being available to be flipped, may also increase in
   proportion to the amount of credit wagered, so that a
   player has a better chance of winning the jackpot if they
   wager more credits.
          In one variation of this game, the right to flip
10 symbols occurs if, in any of the original symbols
   selected, the player receives at least one jackpot symbol
   on a pay line.    For example, a player spins the reels and
   gets jackpot symbol and A, K, Q, 10 on the reels.     A
   player who pays only one credit per line merely gets to
15 flip one symbol.    The best result that the player can get
   with one flip is two jackpot symbols which awards a
   relatively low prize.
          A player who pays four credits per line, however,
   gets to flip all four non jackpot symbols on the same
20 line, which gives them a more substantial chance for
   improving to a jackpot.    If a player bets ten credits per
   line, they get ten flips so that the symbols can flip
   multiple times   (for example where the symbol bearing
   substrate is multi sided, see later on in this description
25 with regard to Figure 12).
          In this embodiment, the number of flips available is
   changed to match the bet and the method of winning the
   jackpot.   If a jackpot is triggered by a combination on a
   line, for example, the number of flips will match the bet
30 per line.   If a jackpot triggered on a scattered
   combination, the number of flips will match the bet per
   line times the cost of the lines purchased    (e.g. bet fifty
   lines at one credit buys two lines at five credits per
   line, the number of flips is 25 x 5 = 75).
35        Figure 11 shows an example where four flips have
   been awarded to the player and three of these are major
   jackpot 406 symbols.    The player may win a prize for three

                                - 19
   jackpot symbols  (the jackpot is won by five jackpot
   symbols in the embodiment of Figure 11).
         Figure 12 shows an embodiment of the invention where
   the display is controlled such that the originally
 5 selected symbol appears to be mounted on a face of a three
   dimensional substrate 410 having a plurality of faces.     In
   the embodiment of Figure 12 the three dimensional
   substrate is represented as a triangular prism.     Each face
   may bear a symbol   (such as a "maxi jackpot" as shown in
10 Figure 12) or may be blank.
         The following description gives two examples of how
   a game may be played in accordance with an embodiment of
   the present invention:
15 Example 1 - winning a jackpot by combinations on a line
   Player is playing 3 lines and bet 5 credits per line.
   Jackpots are won as follows
   3 jackpot symbols on a line pay a mini jackpot
   4 jackpot symbols on a line pay a minor jackpot
20 5 jackpot symbols on a line pay a major jackpot
   The rules of the game define
   1.   The player has the right to flip a symbol whenever
        one or more jackpot symbols appears on a purchased
25      payline.
   2.   The number of flips is equal to the number of credits
        bet per line.
   3.   A symbol can be flipped more than once
   4.   The reel strips remain constant for all bets per
30      line.  (the chance of getting jackpot symbol on a line
        is 1 in 10)
   The reels spin and the player sees
   A           K             Q           J          10
   9           WILD          JACKPOT    A           K
   J            10           9          Q           A

                               - 20
   No prize is payable but because a Jackpot symbol is on a
   purchased payline, the player has the right to flip. The
   number of flips is equal to the bet per line which is 5.
 5 The player flips the symbols on the centre line on reels
   1, 4 and 5
   The result is
   A           K            Q          J             10
   JACKPOT     WILD         JACKPOT    10            7
   J           10           9          Q            A
10 The player has 2 flips remaining. The player selects to
   flip the centre line reels 4 and 5
   The result is
   A           K            Q          J             10
   JACKPOT     WILD         JACKPOT    JACKPOT       9
   J           10           9          Q            A
15 The outcome is evaluated and the player has 4 jackpots on
   the centre line.  (Wild substitutes for jackpot).
   Player wins the minor jackpot.
   If the player had bet 1 credits with 1 credit per line,
20 the chance of 3 or more jackpot symbols occurring on a
   line is 1 in 1000.
   If the player had bet 3 credits with 1 credit per line on
   3 lines, the chance of 3 or more jackpot symbols occurring
   on a line is 1 in 1000. The chance of winning on any line
25 is 3 in 1000. For a bet of 3 the chance of win is 1 in
   1000.
   This player bet 15 credits, has 3 chances   (3 lines) to win
   a jackpot. The chance of 3 or more jackpot symbols
30 occurring on a line is 1 in 1000. The chance of winning on
   any line is 3 in 1000. This is not fair compared to the

                              - 21
   player betting 1 credit per line, so this player is given
   the chance to flip. The chances of selecting jackpot
   symbols by flipping are increased so that after flipping
   the chance of winning a jackpot on a line is 5 in 1000.
 5 Thus the player has bet 15 credits and has 3 lines on
   which to win at the chance of 5 in 1000. The total chance
   per credit bet is 1 in 1000.
   Example 2 - winning a jackpot by combinations scattered
10 anywhere in the window
   Player is playing 3 lines and bet 5 credits per line.
   Jackpots are won as follows
   3 jackpot symbols anywhere in the window pay a mini
   jackpot
15 4 jackpot symbols anywhere in the window pay a minor
   jackpot
   5 jackpot symbols anywhere in the window pay a major
   jackpot
20 The rules of the game define
   5.   The player has the right to flip a symbol whenever
        one or more jackpot symbols appears anywhere in the
        window.
   6.   The number of flips is equal to the number of credits
25      bet per line multiplied by the number of lines
        played.
   7.   A symbol can be flipped more than once
   8.   The reel strips remain constant for all bets per
30      line.
   The reels spin and the player sees
   A            K          Q           J           10
   9            J          JACKPOT     A           K
   J            10         9           Q           A
   No prize is payable but because a Jackpot symbol is in the

                               - 22
   window, the player has the right to flip. The number of
   flips is equal to the bet per line multiplied by the
   number of lines played which is 5 * 3 = 15.
 5 The player flips the symbols on the centre line on reels
   1, 2, 4 and 5 and all symbols on the top line and all
   symbols on the bottom line
   The result is
   10           9           Q            K           JACKPOT
   A           K            JACKPOT      J           7
   Q            J           10           JACKPOT     K
10
   The player has 1 flip remaining. The player selects to
   flip the centre line reel 1
   The result is
   10           9           Q            K           JACKPOT
   JACKPOT     K            JACKPOT      J           7
   Q            J           10           JACKPOT     K
15
   The outcome is evaluated and the player has 4 jackpots in
   the window. Player wins the minor jackpot.
         The above examples are two examples only of the
20 types of games that may be played using the present
   invention.   It will be appreciated that the present
   invention may be implemented in a number of other ways,
   depending upon game design.
         A game playing process in accordance with an
25 embodiment of the present invention will now be summarised
   with reference to Figure 13.    At step 700 the game is
   played by selection of symbols   from the symbol store 303
   by the symbol selector 302.    At step 701,  determination is
   made as to whether or not any additional symbols are
30 available  (this may depend on player credit, a combination
   of symbols appearing in the originally selected symbols,

                               - 23
   or any other trigger, as discussed above).    If a flip is
   available, at step 702 a determination is made of the
   number of flips available.    For example, in this
   embodiment the number of flips depends upon the amount of
 5 player credit per line entered.    The amount of credit is
   determined and the number of flips is determined.     At
   step 703 the flips are carried out and any additional
   symbols are revealed.   If no flip is available, the game
   outcome is determined at step 704, on the basis of only
10 the originally selected symbols.    Where a flip has
   occurred, the next step is to determine the game outcome
    (step 704) based on the additional symbols.
          In the above described embodiment, the originally
   selected symbols are flipped to reveal jackpot symbols or
15 blanks.   The additional symbols are not limited to jackpot
   symbols or blanks.   Any additional symbol may be revealed
   by a flip, depending upon the game being played.     For
   example, if the game being played is a poker type game,
   additional card symbols may be revealed by the flip to
20 improve the player's hand.    In a further example, a
   jackpot may be won by a particular combination of standard
   symbols e.g. card symbols, and the flip may enable the
   combination to be completed if the appropriate symbol is
   revealed by the flip.
25        In the above described embodiment, the game example
   shows the use of additional symbols to improve the chances
   of a player winning a jackpot.    This invention is not
   limited to providing games with improved jackpot chances.
   Additional symbols may be utilised to provide more chance
30 of winning any type of prize, including a combination, a
   feature, a bonus or any other type of prize.
          In the above embodiment, the symbols "flip" anti
   clockwise.   The invention is not limited to this.    The
   symbols may flip clockwise or may be flipped over and
35 under or in any other way or direction.    In other
   embodiments, the symbols may not be represented as
   flipping at all.   One symbol may merely be replaced by

                               - 24
   another symbol, for example.
          In the above embodiment, single symbols are flipped.
   The invention is not limited to this.    Two symbols mounted
   by the same substrate may be flipped, or three symbols or
 5 more.   The substrate in this case bears a plurality of
   symbols and may flip to reveal a plurality of symbols, or
   a single symbol.
          In the above examples, the player is allowed to
   select from a plurality of symbols those which he wishes
10 to flip.   A plurality of available symbols for flipping
   may or may not be indicated to the player.    Indication may
   be visual and/or audio e.g. by changing the colour of the
   symbol to be flipped, changing or adding a border around
   the symbol to be flipped, or any other manner of
15 identification of the symbol to be flipped.    In an
   embodiment, all of the symbols appearing on the screen may
   be available to be flipped   (up to the number of flips
   available for the player).    In other embodiments, the
   player may not get to select which symbols flip.     For
20 example, the game controller may determine which symbols
   are to be flipped and the flip may be carried out
   automatically.
          In the above described embodiments, the display
   emulates a plurality of reels.    In an alternative
25 embodiment, the original symbol selection may be
   implemented as actual reels driven by a stepper motor.
   Additional symbols may be added by video graphics
   overlaying the display of the actual stepper reels.      In
   another alternative embodiment, the replacement symbol may
30 appear on another display.    That is, the stepper position
   to be replaced is selected, and then a video display
    (which could be placed in the top box or adjacent the
   reels strips) displays the replacement symbol.    In an
   alternative embodiment, a mechanical arrangement could be
35 used to change the symbols on the stepper reels.
          In another embodiment, the display may not emulate
   reels but merely show the selected symbols in a non-reel

                                 - 25
   format e.g. presenting or emulating playing cards, or
   other graphical representations in a series of rows and
   columns.
          In the embodiment described above where the player
 5 is provided with an increased chance of winning a jackpot
   in direct proportion to the amount of credit bet, it can
   be readily seen and understood by the player that the more
   that is bet, the more chances of flipping symbols are
   provided.    This is an appealing way of representing to a
10 player that they get more chances from more money bet.
          Embodiments of the present invention may be
   implemented utilising program code.     The program code may
   be supplied in a number of ways, for example on a computer
   readable medium, such as a disc or a memory, or a data
15 signal   (for example, by downloading it from a server),  or
   in other ways.
          In the claims which follow and in the preceding
   description of the invention, except where the context
   requires otherwise due to express language or necessary
20 implication, the word "comprise" or variations such as
   "comprises" or   " comprising" is used in an inclusive sense,
   i.e. to specify the presence of the stated features but
   not to preclude the presence or addition of further
   features in various embodiments of the invention.
25        It will be understood to persons skilled in the art
   of the invention that many modifications may be made
   without departing from the spirit and scope of the
   invention.

                              - 26
   THE CLAIMS DEFINING THE INVENTION ARE AS FOLLOWS
   1.    A gaming system, comprising a display and a game
   controller arranged to:
 5       select a plurality of first symbols from a set of
   symbols for play of a game;
         control the display to display a plurality of the
   first symbols in one or both of rows and columns;
         determine a number of second symbols that a player
10 is entitled to, based on at least one triggering criteria;
         allow the player to select at least one of the
   originally selected first symbols to be replaced by a
   second symbol for each second symbol that the player is
   determined to be entitled to;
15       select at least one second symbol to replace the at
   least one originally selected first symbol as selected by
   the player, wherein the second symbols only form winning
   combinations with other second symbols, and wherein at
   least one prize is a special prize only winnable when a
20 winning combination formed by the second symbols occurs;
   and
         control the display to display the second symbol in
   place of one of the originally selected first symbols; and
         award one or more prizes to the player based on one
25 or more winning combinations formed by the first symbols
   and the second symbols.
   2.    A gaming system in accordance with Claim 1, wherein
   the game controller is arranged to select a second symbols
30 to replace the at least one originally selected first
   symbol as selected by the player.
   3.    A gaming system in accordance with Claim 1 or Claim
   2, wherein the game controller is arranged to control the
35 display to display the second symbol by appearing to turn
   over the originally selected first symbol to reveal the
   second symbol behind the originally selected symbol.

                              - 27
   4.    A gaming system in accordance with Claim 3, wherein
   the game controller is arranged to control the display
   such that the originally selected first symbol appears to
   be mounted on a face of a substrate which appears to turn
 5 over so that another face of the substrate appears,
   bearing the second symbol.
   5.    A gaming system in accordance with Claim 3 or Claim
   4, wherein the game controller is arranged to control the
10 display such that the originally selected first symbol
   appears to be mounted on one face of a three dimensional
   substrate having a plurality of faces, the substrate
   appearing to turn over so that another of the faces of the
   three dimensional substrate appears, bearing the second
15 symbol.
   6.    A gaming system in accordance with Claim 5, wherein
   the three dimensional substrate has three or more faces,
   and further turns of the three dimensional substrate
20 reveal further second symbols.
   7.    A gaming system in accordance with any one of the
   preceding Claims, wherein one of the triggering criteria
   includes enabling the player an opportunity to obtain one
25 or more second symbols based on player credit wagered on
   the game.
   8.    A gaming system in accordance with Claim 7, wherein
   the game controller is arranged to provide a number of
30 chances for a player to obtain second symbols in
   proportion to the amount of credit bet, whereby the number
   of chances of a player obtaining second symbols increases
   with the amount of player credit bet.
35 9.    A gaming system in accordance with Claim 7 or Claim
   8, wherein second symbols comprise jackpot symbols, and
   the number of jackpot symbols available as second symbols

                              - 28
   is arranged to increase in dependence on the amount of
   credit bet by a player.
   10.   A gaming system in accordance with Claim 9, wherein
 5 the game controller is arranged to increase the number of
   jackpot symbols available as second symbols in proportion
   to the amount of credit wagered by a player.
   11.   A gaming system in accordance with any one of the
10 preceding claims, wherein one of the triggering criteria
   includes a measurement of time that the player has been
   playing the gaming system
   12.   A gaming system in accordance with any one of the
15 preceding claims, wherein one of the triggering criteria
   includes a measurement of time indicating a particular
   amount of waiting activity on the gaming system.
   13.   A gaming system in accordance with any one of the
20 preceding claims, wherein one of the triggering criteria
   includes a determination based on player tracking
   information.
   14.   A gaming system in accordance with any one of the
25 preceding claims, wherein one of the triggering criteria
   includes a determination based on a random event.
   15.   A gaming system in accordance with any one of the
   preceding claims, wherein one of the triggering criteria
30 includes a particular symbol combination being selected in
   original symbol selection during the game.
   16.   A method of gaming, comprising the steps of:
         selecting a plurality of first symbols from a set of
35 symbols for play of a game;
        controlling a display to display at least a plurality
   of the selected first symbols in one or both of rows and

                              - 29
   columns;
        determine a number of second symbols that a player is
   entitled to, based on at least one triggering criteria;
        allowing the player to select at least one of the
 5 originally selected first symbols to be replaced by a
   second symbol for each second symbol that the player is
   determined to be entitled to;
        selecting at least one second symbol to replace the
   at least one originally selected first symbol as selected
10 by the player, wherein the second symbols only form
   winning combinations with other second symbols, and
   wherein at least one prize is a special prize only
   winnable when a winning combination formed by the second
   symbols occurs;
15      controlling the display to display the second symbol
   in the place of one of the originally selected first
   symbols; and
        awarding one or more prizes to the player based on
   one or more winning combinations formed by the first
20 symbols and the second symbols.
   17.   A method in accordance with Claim 16, wherein
   selecting at least one second symbol comprises selecting a
   plurality of second symbols to replace the at least one
25 originally selected first symbol as selected by the
   player.
   18.   A method in accordance with Claim 16 or Claim 17,
   wherein the step of controlling the display comprises
30 controlling the display to display the second symbol by
   appearing to turn over the originally selected first
   symbol to reveal the second symbol behind the originally
   selected first symbol.
35 19.   A method in accordance with Claim 18, wherein the
   step of controlling the display comprises controlling the
   display such that the originally selected first symbol

                              - 30
   appears to be mounted on a face of a substrate which
   appears to turn over so that another face of the substrate
   appears bearing the second symbol.
 5 20.   A method in accordance with Claim 18 or Claim 19,
   wherein the step of controlling the display comprises
   controlling the display such that the originally selected
   first symbol appears to be mounted on one face of a three
   dimensional substrate having a plurality of faces, the
10 substrate appearing to turn so that another of the faces
   appears bearing the second symbol.
   21.   A method in accordance with Claim 20, wherein
   further turns of the three dimensional substrate reveal
15 further second symbols.
   22.   A method in accordance with any one of Claims 16 to
   21, comprising the further step of utilising player credit
   to play the game, wherein one of the triggering criteria
20 including providing an opportunity for the player to buy
   one or more second symbols in accordance with player
   credit wagered on the game.
   23.   A method in accordance with Claim 22, wherein the
25 step of buying second symbols comprises the step of
   providing a number of chances  for a player to obtain seond
   symbols in proportion to the amount of credit bet, whereby
   the number of chances a player obtaining second symbols
   increases with the amount of player credit bet.
30
   24.   A method in accordance with Claim 22 or Claim 23,
   wherein the step of providing at least one second symbol
   comprises the step of providing jackpot symbols  for
   winning of a jackpot, and wherein the step of providing
35 opportunities for a player to buy second symbols,
   comprises providing additional jackpot symbols in
   dependence on the amount of credit bet by a player.

                              - 31
   25.   A method in accordance with Claim 24, wherein the
   number of additional jackpot symbols provided is in
   proportion to the amount of credit bet by the player.
 5 26.   A method in accordance with any one of the claims 16
   to 25 wherein, one of the triggering criteria includes a
   measurement of time that the player has been playing the
   gaming system.
10 27.   A method in accordance with any one of the claims 16
   to 26, wherein one of the triggering criteria includes a
   measurement of time indicating a particular amount of
   waiting activity on the gaming system.
15 28.   A gaming system in accordance with any one of the
   claims 16 to 27, wherein one of the triggering criteria
   includes a determination based on player tracking
   information.
20 29.   A gaming system in accordance with any one of the
   claims 16 to 28, wherein one of the triggering criteria
   includes a determination based on a random event.
   30.   A gaming method in accordance with any one of the
25 claims 16 to 29, wherein one of the triggering criteria
   includes a particular single combination being selected in
   original symbol selection during the game.
   31.   A computer program comprising instructions for
30 controlling a computer to implement a gaming system in
   accordance with any one of Claims 1 to 15.
   32.   A computer readable medium providing a computer
   program in accordance with Claim 31.
35
   33.   A data signal comprising a computer program in
   accordance with Claim 31.

           <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
Figure 1
                                      1/9

           <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
Figure 2
                                      2/9

                      <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
Figure 4   Figure 3
                                                 3/9

           <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
Figure 5
                                      4/9

                                        5/9
<removed-date>
<removed-apn>
                          *$0(&21752//(5
                                                              
                      6<0%2/                 6<0%2/6725(
                     6(/(&725
              
                                                              
                      287&20(                  ',63/$<
                     *(1(5$725               &21752//(5
              
                                  Figure 6

                                       6/9
<removed-date>
                                          
                                                                     
                 T
<removed-apn>
                                                                   
                 C
                 B
                
                                 Figure 7         
                                                        
                                               
                                                               T
                                                               C
              
                                                               B
                                 Figure 8

                                 7/9
<removed-date>
                                     
                                                          
                                                  T
<removed-apn>
                                                      C
              
                                                      B
                                                            
                           Figure 9
                                    
                                                             
                                                  T
              
                                                  C
              
                                                  B
                           Figure 10

                                       8/9
<removed-date>
                                                
                                                                 
                                                             T
<removed-apn>
              
                                                             C
                                                             B
                
                            Figure 11
                                           
                                                             T
                                                             C
                                                             B
                        Figure 12

                                  9/9
<removed-date>
                                        
              3/$<    6(/(&7
                       6<0%2/6
<removed-apn>
                                    
                        )/,3              <(6
                      $9$,/$%/(
                                                       
                                           '(7(50,1(
                                        180%(52))/,36
                                           $9$,/$%/(
                           12
                                               6(/(&7
                                             $'',7,21$/
                                              6<0%2/6
                      '(7(50,1(
                        *$0(                         
                       287&20(
                                        
                         Figure 13

