1001408491
ABSTRACT
A credit card is provided that may include a credit card number, where at least a
portion of the credit card number changes periodically. A magnetic emulator and/or
magnetic stripe encoder may be provided to communicate at least a portion of the
information needed to complete a credit card transaction to a credit card reader. A
magnetic stripe emulator may communicate data serially and may comprise a coil
having a soft-magnetic material as well as a permanent magnet. Dynamic magnetic
information may be utilized to provide a variety of credit, debit, gift, and loyalty
cards.

   WO 2009/082760                                                        PCT/US2008/088321
                 CARDS AND DEVICES WITH MAGNETIC EMULATORS
                        FOR COMMUNICATING WITH MAGNETIC
                 STRIPE READERS AND APPLICATIONS FOR THE SAME
      Cross-Reference To Related Applications
 5    [0001]    This application claims priority and benefit of United States Provisional
      Patent Application Nos. 61/016,491 filed on December 24, 2007 (Docket No.
      JDM/019 PROV), 61/026,846 filed on February 7, 2008 (Docket No.
      JDM/019PROV2), 61/027,807 filed on February 11, 2008 (Docket. No. JDM/020
      PROV), 61/081,003 filed on July 15, 2008 (Docket No. D/005 PROV), 61/086,239
10    filed on August 5, 2008 (Docket No. D/006 PROV), 61/090,423 filed on August
      20, 2008 (Docket No. D/007 PROV), 61/097,401 filed September 16, 2008
      (Docket No. D/008 PROV), 61/112,766 filed on November 9, 2008 (Docket No.
      D/009 PROV), 61/117,186 filed on November 23, 2008 (Docket No. D/010
      PROV), 61/119,366 filed on December 2, 2008 (Docket No. D/01 1 PROV), and
15    61/120,813 filed on December 8, 2008 (Docket. No. D/012 PROV), all of which
      are hereby incorporated by reference herein in their entirety. This application also
      claims priority of United States Non-Provisional Patent Application Nos.
      12/339,041 (Docket No. D/002A), 12/339,065 (Docket No. D/002B), 12/339,090
      (Docket No. D/002C), 12/339,042 (Docket No. D/003A), 12/339,066 (Docket No.
20    D/003B), 12/339,091 (Docket No. D/003C), 12/339,043 (Docket No. D/004A),
      12/339,067 (Docket No. D/004B), 12/339,090 (Docket No. D/004C), 12/339,045
      (Docket No. D/005A), 12/339,069 (Docket No. D/005B), 12/339,093 (Docket No.
      D/005C), 12/339,046 (Docket No. D/006A), 12/339,071 (Docket No. D/006B),

1001408491                                   2
12/339,094 (Docket No. D/006C), 12/339,048 (Docket No. D/007A), 12/339,074
(Docket No. D/007B), 12/339,095 (Docket No. D/007C), 12/339,051 (Docket No.
D/008A), 12/339,078 (Docket No. D/008B), 12/339,097 (Docket No. D/008C),
12/339,054 (Docket No. D/009A), 12/339,081 (Docket No. D/009B), 12/339,098
(Docket No. D/009C), 12/339,055 (Docket No. D/O1OA), 12/339,082 (Docket No.
D/010B), 12/339,101 (Docket No. D/010C), 12/339,058 (Docket No. D/01 1A),
12/339,085 (Docket No. D/011B), 12/339,102 (Docket No. D/011C), 12/339,061
(Docket No. D/012A), 12/339,086 (Docket No. D/012B), 12/339,103 (Docket No.
D/012C), all of which filed on December 19, 2008 and all of which claim priority of
above-mentioned Provisional Application Nos. 61/016,491, 61/026,846, 61/027,807,
61/081,003, 61/086,239, 61/090,423, 61/097,401, 61/112,766, 61/117,186,
61/119,366, and 61/120,813. All United States Non-Provisional Patent Applications
listed above are hereby incorporated by reference herein in their entirety.
[0001a]         Additionally, PCT/US2008/088321, published as WO 2009/082760 on
2 July 2009, is hereby incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.
[0001b]         This application is a divisional application of Australian Patent
Application No. 2014200516, filed on 2 July 2009, the entire contents of which are
incorporated herein in their entirety.
Background of the Invention
[0002]        This invention relates to payment cards such as credit cards.
[0002a]       Reference to any prior art in the specification is not, and should not be
taken as, an acknowledgment or any form of suggestion that this prior art forms part
of the common general knowledge in Australia or any other jurisdiction or that this
prior art could reasonably be expected to be ascertained, understood and regarded as
relevant by a person skilled in the art.
Summary of the Invention
[0002b]       As used herein, except where the context requires otherwise, the term
"comprise" and variations of the term, such as "comprising", "comprises" and
"comprised", are not intended to exclude further additives, components, integers or
steps.
[0002c]       According to first aspect of the invention, there is provided a payment
card comprising: a battery; at least one button; a magnetic emulator provided on

1001408491                                    2a
multiple layers of a flexible multiple layer printed circuit board, operable to
communicate information to a magnetic stripe reader, generating an electromagnetic
signal; and a magnet located outside of said magnetic emulator for providing
magnetic bias to said electromagnetic signal.
[0002d]       According to second aspect of the invention, there is provided a payment
card comprising: at least one button; a magnetic emulator, operable to communicate
information to a magnetic stripe reader, for generating an electromagnetic signal, said
magnetic emulator comprising: a coil having an interior and an exterior that is
provided on multiple layers of a flexible multiple layer printed circuit board; and a
material placed within a cavity of said multiple layer printed circuit board and said
cavity is located in said interior of said coil for increasing the amount of said
electromagnetic signal located about said exterior of said coil.
[0002d]       According to a third aspect of the invention, there is provided a payment
card comprising: a magnetic emulator, operable to communicate information to a
magnetic stripe reader, for providing an electromagnetic signal, wherein said
magnetic emulator comprises: a coil having an interior and an exterior that is provided
on multiple layers of a flexible multiple layer printed circuit board; a material placed
within said interior of said coil for increasing the amount of said electromagnetic
signal located about said exterior of said coil; and a magnet placed within the
proximity of said coil for providing a bias signal.
[0003]        In other embodiments, a card is provided with a dynamic number. For
example, a payment card, such as credit card, is provided with a dynamic payment
card number, such as a dynamic credit card number. A dynamic credit card number
may, for example, change based on time or use.
[0004]        A portion of a dynamic credit card number may be static. Accordingly,
for example, the credit card number may change but particular digits of the dynamic
credit card number may remain constant. For example, a dynamic credit card number
may be provided such that the beginning one or more digits (e.g., first six digits) are
static.
[0005]        As such, the beginning one or more digits of a number may be
representative of the type of card (e.g., a dynamic credit card) as well as other
information. Such information may include, for example, routing information such

  WO 2009/082760                                                           PCT/US2008/088321
                                            3
      that at least some of the digits of a number may be communicated to remote
      servers according to the static routing information.
      [0006] For example, the beginning digit of numerous dynamic credit cards may
      have the same static one or more digits (e.g., begining digits). For example, the
 5    beginning digits of an American Express dynamic credit card may take the form of
      "399." The first digit (e.g., "3") may be representative of the card manufacturer
      (e.g., "American Express"). The second and third digits (e.g., "99") may be
      representative of the type of card (e.g., a dynamic credit card).
      [0007] A magnetic emulator may be provided on a card (e.g., a credit or debit
10    card). Such a magnetic emulator may include one or more wires that are able to
      produce an electromagnetic field that is operable to be read by, for example, a
      magnetic stripe reader. The magnetic emulator may be provided about a magnetic
      stripe and may be utilized to produce an electromagnetic field such that, for
      example, a magnetic stripe reader may seamlessly read a portion of the magnetic
15    stripe, then read fields generated from the magnetic emulator, then read another
      portion of the magnetic stripe. In doing so, for example, only particular
      information related to an account (e.g., all or a portion of a credit card number)
      may be communicated via a magnetic emulator and, as such, may be operable to be
      changed.
20    [0008] A magnetic emulator may be placed adjacent to a magnetic stripe such that
      the first data read by a magnetic stripe data is provided by the magnetic emulator.
      Similarly, numerous magnetic emulators may be provided about one or more
      magnetic stripes. For example, a magnetic emulator may be provided at different
      locations on different tracks of a magnetic stripe. Magnetic emulators may share,
25    for example, similar control circuitry. Magnetic emulators may communicate data
      directly to a read-head of a card reader without the presence of a magnetic
      medium. A card may be provided with one or more emulators and without a
      magnetic stripe.
      [0009] A magnetic encoder may be provided, for example, to change the state of
30    magnetic filaments located on a magnetic stripe such that information may be
      changed. A magnetic encoder may write information on a magnetic material
      configured for that magnetic encoder. Accordingly, for example, a card (e.g., a

  WO 2009/082760                                                          PCT/US2008/088321
                                           4
      security card) may be provided with a magnetic stripe having one set of attributes
      (e.g., one coercivity) and another magnetic stripe, configured for use with a
      magnetic encoder, having a different set of attributes (e.g., a different coercivity).
      [0010] An identification name may be printed on the front of a card (e.g., a credit,
 5    debit, or security card). This name may be unique. Accordingly, for example, no
      two credit cards may be fabricated that utilize the same identification name. For
      example, instead of providing a card with an identification name of "Christopher
      Mullen," that card may include an identification name of "Christopher-Mullen
      201." As such, a user on a website may utilize the identification name in a field
10    representative of "name on card"/"name of account holder." Such an identification
      name may also be communicated to a magnetic stripe reader via a magnetic stripe
      or magnetic emulator located on a credit card.
      [0011] A batch of credit card numbers may be partitioned such that, for example,
      two users having the same name may not, for example, have a dynamic credit card
15    associated with the same particular partition. For example, suppose the first three
      numbers of a dynamic credit card number are static (e.g. "391"). The first digit
      (e.g., "3") may be representative of a credit card manufacturer (e.g., "American
      Express."). The second digit (e.g., "9") may be representative of the type of credit
      card (e.g., a dynamic credit card). The third digit (e.g., "1") may be representative
20    of the partition. Accordingly, a credit card verification process may be able to
      recognize a partition. Using this scheme, for example, ten partitions may be
      provided (e.g., "390-399"). As such, ten people using the exact same name may be
      provided with a dynamic credit card that utilizes this scheme and each could be
      provided with a different partition.
25    [0012] More than one display may be utilized on a card, such as an identification
      card or credit card. A single controller (e.g., a processor) and a clock may be
      utilized to drive such displays. Similarly, each display may be provided with its
      own controller and clock. The clock may supply timing signals to such controllers.
      Accordingly, each controller may be provided with a different type of coding. For
30    example, one controller may utilize one coding scheme and another controller may
      utilize another coding scheme. As such a dynamic number, such as a dynamic
      credit card number, may be provided by one or more displays run by different

  WO 2009/082760                                                        PCT/US2008/088321
                                            5
      coding schemes. If one coding scheme is compromised by a thief, such an
      additional coding scheme would provide additional security. Similarly, a single
      controller may provide multiple coding schemes to different portions of a dynamic
      number (e.g., a dynamic credit or debit card number).
 5    [0013] A dynamic number may change periodically. A dynamic number may
      change based on a time period. This time period may be displayed on a display.
      For example, the time period may be a portion of a dynamic number. Accordingly,
      a transmitted dynamic number may include the information as to what time period,
      or time periods, the dynamic number is associated with.
10    [0014] A dynamic code may be provided. A dynamic code may be provided on its
      own display or on a display providing other information (e.g., dynamic card
      number). Such a dynamic code may be, for example, a dynamic security code.
      Accordingly, for example, a dynamic security code may be utilized with a dynamic
      card number to authorize a payment transaction. Such a dynamic code may also be
15    communicated through a magnetic emulator or encoder. Alternatively, for
      example, one dynamic code may be communicated visually (e.g., for online
      transactions) and a different dynamic code may be communicated magnetically
      (e.g., for in-store transactions). Such codes may change based on time or use. One
      or more buttons may be provided to change a particular dynamic number or all
20    dynamic numbers. For example, a button may be utilized to change a dynamic
      card number and a different button may be utilized to change a dynamic security
      code for online use. A single button may be provided, for example, that changes
      all dynamic numbers (e.g., a card number provided on a display, an online security
      code provided on the same or a different display, and an in-store code
25    communicated magnetically to a magnetic stripe reader). An in-store code and an
      online security code may be, for example, the same code. Different tracks of data
      may, for example, have different security codes.
      [0015] A card, or other device, is provided with a magnetic emulator operable to
      communicate with a magnetic stripe reader. The emulator may be operable to
30    communicate a block of information serially such that a reader may sense the
      emulator and the information may be transmitted through the emulator serially.
      Accordingly, the emulator may comprise of, for example, a single wire or coil and

  WO 2009/082760                                                          PCT/US2008/088321
                                           6
      may transmit bits one-by-one at high frequencies such that all information in a
      block is transmitted to a magnetic stripe reader while the read head of the reader is
      in the proximity of the single wire or coil. An emulator may also be provided in a
      parallel configuration such that multiple bits of data are emulated at the same time.
 5    For example, a parallel emulator may include 3000 regions to emulate 3000 bits
      simultaneously while a serial emulator may include a single region to communicate
      the 3000 bits in rapid succession.
      [0016] A card, or other device, having a magnetic emulator may take the form of,
      for example, a credit card, debit card, security card, and/or any other type of card.
10    Accordingly, the dynamic information may be a dynamic credit card number, a
      dynamic debit card number, a dynamic security number, or any other type of
      dynamic number. A display may be provided to display the data, or a portion of
      the data, communicated through an emulator or additional data. For example, a
      one type of security code may be displayed on a display and another type of
15    security code may be communicated through a magnetic emulator.
      [0017] A payment card, such as a credit card, may be provided that includes a
      display. All, or a portion of, a payment card number (e.g., a credit card) may, for
      example, be changed periodically and displayed on the display. Similarly, this
      changed information may be emulated via a parallel or serial emulator. A
20    magnetic encoder may also be utilized to erase and write information to a magnetic
      medium.
      [0018] A parallel or serial emulator may be located next to one or more magnetic
      stripe segments (e.g., sandwiched between two magnetic stripe segments). A
      magnetic stripe may be utilized to transmit static information such that power is
25    conserved. For example, if the beginning bits of a data block must take a particular
      form (e.g., start bits followed by user identification information) then this
      information may be embodied as a magnetic stripe. A serial or parallel emulator
      may then be provided to communicate the remaining information of the block (e.g.,
      dynamic credit card number).
30    [0019] Numerous types of structures may be utilized to determine when a read
      head of a magnetic stripe reader is reading, or is about to read, a magnetic stripe or
      a dynamic magnetic communications device (e.g., a magnetic emulator or

  WO 2009/082760                                                         PCT/US2008/088321
                                            7
      encoder). Such structures may be utilized to turn a magnetic emulator, such as a
      serial magnetic emulator, ON. By only turning an emulator ON when the emulator
      is in the proximity of a magnetic stripe reader, power may be conserved. For
      example, a button may be provided on a card, or other device, such that a user may
 5    provide manual input to instruct the card, or other device, to turn an emulator ON.
      Alternatively, for example, one or more sensors may be provided to determine the
      presence of a read-head of a magnetic stripe reader. For example, a hall-effect
      sensor may be provided to detect a magnetic field's interaction with a read-head, a
      circuit may be provided to detect the presence of a conductive material, and/or a
10    circuit may be provided to detect the capacitance of a particular material.
      Alternatively still, for example, the swiping motion of a card may be detected via
      one or more inertial sensors such as accelerometers and/or gyroscopes. Upon the
      initiation of turning an emulator ON, the emulator may be driven through a routine
      (e.g., repeatedly emulating the same block of information serially for a period of
15    time or for a number of data transmissions). A card, or other device, may include,
      for example, a magnetic stripe section, followed by a read head detector, followed
      by a serial or parallel encoder. A second magnetic stripe section may follow the
      serial or parallel encoder (e.g., and another read head detector may precede the
      encoder to determine when the read head is not reading the encoder).
20    [0020] An emulator may be fabricated using a PCB printing technique. Such a
      technique may provide the emulator on, for example, a PCB board (e.g. FR4
      board). Any additional components may be fabricated on the flexible PCB board.
      For example, a processor, display, and emulator may be fabricated on the same
      flexible PCB board. Such a flexible PCB board may be coupled to a flexible
25    battery and hot-film laminated or cold laminated (e.g., injection molding) to form a
      card. The flexible PCB board and flexible battery may be placed into any housing
      of any device.
      [0021] A card is provided, such as a credit card or security card, that may transmit
      information to a magnetic stripe reader via a dynamic magnetic communications
30    device such as a magnetic emulator or a magnetic encoder. The emulator may
      transmit the information serially, for example, in order to reduce the amount of

  WO 2009/082760                                                          PCT/US2008/088321
                                            8
      circuitry needed to emulate a particular block of information (e.g., payment
      information).
      [0022] One or more buttons may be included on the card. Buttons may be
      included, for example, to provide a control interface to navigate through various
 5    options of the card. Additionally, coding schemes may be selected via buttons.
      Furthermore, a card may be locked until a private number is entered into a card or
      a number may only be generated (e.g., displayed and/or emulated) once a particular
      private number is entered into a card. Such a number may be, for example, a
      dynamic credit card, security card, and/or debit card number or other number (e.g.,
10    security code).
      [0023] A card, or other device, having a magnetic emulator may take the form of,
      for example, a credit card, debit card, and/or security card. Accordingly, the
      dynamic information may be a dynamic credit card number, a dynamic debit card
      number, and/or a dynamic security number. A display may be provided to display
15    the data, or a portion of the data, communicated through an emulator. In this
      manner, a credit card may be provided that includes a display. All, or a portion of,
      a credit card number may, for example, be changed periodically and displayed on
      the display. Similarly, this changed information may be emulated via a parallel or
      serial emulator or other dynamic magnetic communications device (e.g., a
20    magnetic encoder).
      [0024] A dynamic magnetic communications device (e.g., magnetic emulators
      and/or encoders) may be located next to one or more magnetic stripe segments
      (e.g., sandwiched between two magnetic stripe segments from a birds-eye
      perspective of a card). A magnetic stripe may be utilized to transmit static
25    information such that power is conserved. For example, if the beginning bits of a
      data block must take a particular form (e.g., start bits followed by user
      identification information) then this information may be embodied as a magnetic
      stripe. A serial or parallel emulator or encoder may then be provided to
      communicate the remaining information of the block (e.g., dynamic credit card
30    number).
      [0025] Numerous types of structures may be utilized to determine when a read
      head of a magnetic stripe reader is reading, or is about to read, a magnetic stripe or

  WO 2009/082760                                                           PCT/US2008/088321
                                           9
      dynamic magnetic communications device. Such structures may be utilized to turn
      a magnetic emulator, ON and OFF. By only turning an emulator ON when the
      emulator is in the proximity of a magnetic stripe reader, power may be conserved.
      For example, a button may be provided on a card, or other device, such that a user
 5    may provide manual input to instruct the card, or other device, to turn an emulator
      ON.
      [0026] A card is provided, such as a credit card or security card, that may transmit
      information to a magnetic stripe reader via a magnetic emulator. The magnetic
      emulator may be, for example, a circuit that emits electromagnetic fields operable
10    to electrically couple with a read-head of a magnetic stripe reader such that data
      may be transmitted from the circuit to the magnetic stripe reader. The emulator
      may be operated serially such that information is transmitted serially to a magnetic
      stripe reader. Alternatively, for example, portions of a magnetic emulator may
      emit different electromagnetic fields at a particular instance such that the emulator
15    is operated to provide physically parallel, instantaneous data. Alternatively still, a
      magnetic medium may be provided and a circuit may be provided to change the
      magnetic properties of the magnetic medium such that a magnetic stripe reader is
      operable to read information written on the magnetic medium.
      [0027] A processor may be provided on a card, or other device, that controls a
20    magnetic emulator. The processor may be configured to operate the emulator such
      that the emulator transmits serial or parallel information. Particularly, the
      processor may decouple portions of an emulator from one another such that
      different portions of the emulator may transmit different information (e.g., transmit
      data in a parallel operation). The processor may couple portions of an emulator
25    together (or drive the portions together) such that all portions of the emulator
      transmits the same information (e.g., transmit data in a serial operation).
      Alternatively, the processor may drive a portion of the emulator to transmit data
      using one method (e.g., serially) while the processor drives another portion of the
      emulator using a different method (e.g., in parallel).
30    [0028] The processor may drive an emulator through a switching circuit. The
      switching circuit may control the direction and magnitude of current that flows
      through at least a portion of an emulator such that the switching circuit controls the

  WO 2009/082760                                                         PCT/US2008/088321
                                          10
      direction and magnitude of the electromagnetic field created by at least that portion
      of the emulator. An electromagnetic field may be generated by the emulator such
      that the emulator is operable to electrically couple with a read-head from a
      magnetic stripe reader without making physical contact with the read-head.
 5    Particularly, for example, an emulator that is driven with increased current can be
      operable to couple with the read-head of a magnetic stripe reader even when placed
      outside and within the proximity of (e.g., 0.25 inches) the read-head.
      [0029] A magnetic emulator may be operated to electrically couple, and transmit
      data to, devices other than a magnetic stripe reader. For example, a magnetic
10    emulator may be operated to electrically couple, and transmit data to, a device
      using a Radio Frequency IDentification (RFID) protocol. Accordingly, a processor
      may drive the emulator at a frequency and magnitude in order to electrically couple
      with a read-head of a magnetic stripe reader and then drive the emulator at a
      different frequency and a different magnitude in order to electronically couple with
15    an RFID reader.
      [0030] A processor may receive information from a magnetic stripe reader detector
      and/or an RFID receiver detector. A processor may detect, for example, the
      presence of a read-head of a magnetic stripe reader by receiving signals from a
      magnetic stripe reader detector and, in response, the processor may drive a
20    magnetic emulator in a manner that allows the emulator to couple with the
      magnetic stripe reader. The processor may also detect, for example, the presence
      of and RFID receiver by receiving signals from an RFID receiver detector and, in
      response, the processor may drive a magnetic emulator in a manner that allows the
      emulator to couple with the RFID receiver. More than one emulator may be
25    provided on a card or other device and a processor may drive such emulators in a
      variety of different manners.
      [0031] A circuit may be provided on a credit card that is operable to receive data
      from a magnetic stripe encoder and/or an RFID transmitter. Such a circuit may
      electrically couple with an RFID transmitter and/or magnetic stripe encoder and
30    deliver information to a processor. In this manner, a card, or other device, may
      communicate bi-directionally with a device.

  WO 2009/082760                                                         PCT/US2008/088321
                                          11
      [0032] An emulator may communicate with a magnetic stripe reader outside of, for
      example, the housing of a magnetic stripe reader. Accordingly, for example, the
      emulator may be provided in devices other than cards sized to fit inside of the
      reading area of a magnetic stripe reader. In other words, for example, the emulator
 5    may be located in a device that is thicker than a card - yet the emulator can still
      communicate with one or more read-heads located in a magnetic stripe reader.
      Such a device may be, for example, a security token, a wireless communications
      device, a laptop, a Personal Digital Assistant (PDA), a physical lock key to a house
      and/or car, or any other device.
10    [0033] Dynamic information may be provided by a processor located on the card,
      or other device, and communicated through a magnetic emulator. Such dynamic
      information may, for example, change based on time. For example, the dynamic
      information may be periodically encrypted differently. One or more displays may
      be located on a card, or other device, such that the dynamic information may be
15    displayed to a user through the display. Buttons may be provided to accept input
      from a user to, for example, control the operation of the card or other device.
      [0034] Dynamic information may include, for example, a dynamic number that is
      used as, or part of, a number for a credit card number, debit card number, payment
      card number, and/or payment verification code. Dynamic information may also
20    include, for example, a student identification number or medical identification
      number. Dynamic information may also, for example, include alphanumeric
      information such that a dynamic account name is provided.
      [0035] Magnetic emulation circuits may be provided that generate electromagnetic
      fields. The emulation circuits may have active regions operable to be read by a
25    read-head of a magnetic stripe reader. The emulation circuits may also have, for
      example, non-active regions that are not operable to be read by a read-head of a
      magnetic stripe reader. Multiple emulation circuits may be provided on different
      layers such that the active regions of multiple emulation circuits provide a read
      head of a magnetic stripe reader continuous visibility to active regions while a card
30    is swiped.
      [0036] Magnetic emulation circuits may extend across multiple tracks. However,
      the areas of such magnetic emulation circuits that extended to undesired tracks

  WO 2009/082760                                                          PCT/US2008/088321
                                            12
      may be configured to be invisible to the read-heads for those tracks. For example,
      a magnetic emulator may produce magnetic fields that are not oriented properly to
      be picked up by unintended read-head(s) but that are oriented properly to be picked
      up by intended read-head(s).
 5    [0037] Read-head detectors may be provided to determine, for example, when a
      card is being swiped and/or when a read-head is located over a particular portion of
      a card (e.g., a magnetic emulation circuit). A magnetic emulation circuit may be
      provided as, for example, a coil. Portions of such a coil may be utilized to detect a
      read-head while in other portions of the coil may be utilized to communicate
10    information electromagnetically to a read-head. Accordingly, a coil may be
      utilized to detect a read-head and, after a read-head is detected, the coil may be
      utilized to, for example, serially transmit information to a magnetic stripe reader.
      [0038] Dynamic information may include, for example, a dynamic number that is
      used as, or part of, a number for a credit card number, debit card number, payment
15    card number, and/or payment verification code. Dynamic information may also
      include, for example, a student identification number or medical identification
      number. Dynamic information may also, for example, include alphanumeric
      information such that a dynamic account name is provided.
      [0039] Magnetic emulation circuits may be provided that generate electromagnetic
20    fields. The emulation circuits may have active regions operable to be read by a
      read-head of a magnetic stripe reader. The emulation circuits may also have, for
      example, non-active regions that are not operable to be read by a read-head of a
      magnetic stripe reader. Multiple emulation circuits may be provided on different
      layers such that the active regions of multiple emulation circuits provide a read
25    head of a magnetic stripe reader continuous visibility to active regions while a card
      is swiped. A coil may include return paths that may be able to, for example,
      transmit information to a read-head but may communicate information using
      electromagnetic fields in an opposite direction than the primary paths (e.g., active
      regions) of a coil such that a reader may not be able discern a set of when the
30    reader picks up part of the information from a return path followed by part of the
      information from a primary path (or vice versa).

  WO 2009/082760                                                          PCT/US2008/088321
                                            13
      [0040] Magnetic emulation circuits may extend across multiple tracks. However,
      the areas of such magnetic emulation circuits that extended to undesired tracks
      may be configured to be invisible to the read-heads for those tracks. For example,
      a magnetic emulator may produce magnetic fields that are not oriented properly to
 5    be picked up by unintended read-head(s) but that are oriented properly to be picked
      up by intended read-head(s).
      [0041] Read-head detectors may be provided to determine, for example, when a
      card is being swiped and/or when a read-head is located over a particular portion of
      a card (e.g., a magnetic emulation circuit). A magnetic emulation circuit may be
10    provided as, for example, a coil. Portions of such a coil may be utilized to detect a
      read-head while in other portions of the coil may be utilized to communicate
      information electromagnetically to a read-head. Accordingly, a coil may be
      utilized to detect a read-head and, after a read-head is detected, the coil may be
      utilized to, for example, serially transmit information to a magnetic stripe reader.
15    [0042] A read-head detector, or an array of read-head detectors, may be able to, for
      example, determine the type of reader that the card entered into. For example, a
      read-head detector array may determine, for example, when a motorized reader
      was utilized, an insertion reader was utilized, or a user-swipe reader was utilized.
      Such information may be stored and communicated to a remote storage device
20    (e.g., a remote database). This stored information may be utilized to combat, for
      example, card cloning. For example, if a particular number of cards (e.g., 10
      more) that made consecutive purchases from a machine (e.g., an ATM) detected
      more than one reader, then, for example, the system may make an autonomous
      determination that an illegal cloning device was located on front of that ATM
25    machine. If, for example, multiple cards use a restaurant point-of-sale terminal and
      determine that multiple readers were used then, for example, a computer can make
      an autonomous determination that cloning may have occurred at the restaurant.
      [0043] Cards may be swiped through the same reader multiple times for a number
      of reasons (e.g., mis-swipes). However, over a number of cards (e.g., 100),
30    instances of cloning may become apparent. Additionally, for example, information
      about swipes that happened outside of a transaction (e.g., the period from which
      the card is active after an appropriate unlocking code is entered) may be

  WO 2009/082760                                                           PCT/US2008/088321
                                            14
      transmitted to detect instances where a magnetic emulator was turned ON and read
      by a reader, but no transaction was received by a processing/authorization facility.
      Such information may be utilized to, for example, provide an alert that the user
      may have encountered, and tried to use, a fake ATM machine.
 5    [0044] Multiple magnetic emulators may be coupled in series. Multiple magnetic
      emulators, or arrays of magnetic emulators, may be controlled independently.
      Emulators may be assigned zones and may be utilized to communicate information
      on a zone-by-zone basis. In doing so, for example, emulators that include coils
      with return paths may place those return paths in other zones. Accordingly, the
10    primary paths for an emulator may be included in a zone to communicate
      information when that zone is activated. When other zones are activates, the return
      paths of the emulator may not interfere with the primary paths of other emulators
      that are attempting to communicate information. Read-head detectors may be
      utilized, for example, to provide information to a processor so that the processor
15    may make a determination as to what zone, or zones, should be activated to
      communicate information at any given time.
      [0045] Magnetic emulators, such as magnetic emulators that include coils, may be
      fabricated on multiple layers of either flexible or rigid printed circuit board.
      Accordingly, a coil may be fabricated over multiple layers. Materials may be
20    placed in the interior of these coils to assist the coil in communicating information
      to a read-head. For example, two PCB layers may be utilized. The top layer may
      be utilized for one set of paths (e.g., primary paths) and the bottom layer may be
      utilize for another set of paths (e.g., return paths).
      [0046] A material may be sandwiched between the two layers to assist in reducing
25    the effect of the electromagnetic fields from one set of coil segments on the side of
      the material opposite that set of coil segments. Such an interior material may be
      insulated such that the material does not short the coil segments. Additionally,
      such an interior material may be chosen, for example, such that the material does
      not saturate when the coil is conducting current. The coil and material may run,
30    for example, along the location of a track of magnetic data for a payment card.
      [0047] A material may be placed and/or printed on a PCB layer and sandwiched
      between two other PCB layers. These two other layers may each include coil

  WO 2009/082760                                                           PCT/US2008/088321
                                           15
      segments and vias. The middle layer may also include vias such that the material
      is fabricated to be located in the center of the coil. The material may take a
      cylindrical, rectangular, square, or any type of shape. Four layers may also be
      utilized, where the coil segments are printed on a surface of the exterior layers and
 5    one or more materials are printed and/or placed on/between the interior layers. A
      material may be a magnetic material, ferromagnetic material, ferrimagnetic
      material, or any type of material. For example, copper may be printed on a PCB
      layer and plated with a material (e.g., nickel, iron, chrome, tin, gold, platinum,
      cobalt, zinc, alloys). A material, for example, may have a relative permeability
10    multiple times greater than the permeability of a vacuum. A material, for example,
      may have a permeability of 2 to 25,000 N/AA2. A material may include, for
      example, a permalloy, iron, steel, ferrite, nickel or any other material. A material
      may be an alloy such as a nickel-iron alloy. Such a nickel-iron alloy may include,
      for example, nickel (e.g., 75-85%), iron, copper, molybdenum and may be placed
15    through one or more annealing processes. Annealing may occur before and/or
      after the material is placed/printed on a layer of material (e.g., a PCB layer or other
      layer). A similar and/or different material may be placed either above and/or
      below a portion, or the entire, set of paths on a layer for a coil. Accordingly, for
      example, a material may be placed in the interior of a coil as well as along a side of
20    the coil.
      [0048] A read-head detector, or an array of read-head detectors, may be able to, for
      example, determine the type of reader that the card entered into. For example, a
      read-head detector array may determine, for example, when a motorized reader
      was utilized, an insertion reader was utilized, or a user-swipe reader was utilized.
25    Such information may be stored and communicated to a remote storage device
      (e.g., a remote database). This stored information may be utilized to combat, for
      example, card cloning. For example, if a particular number of cards (e.g., 10
      more) that made consecutive purchases from a machine (e.g., an ATM) detected
      more than one reader, then, for example, the system may make an autonomous
30    determination that an illegal cloning device was located on front of that ATM
      machine. If, for example, multiple cards use a restaurant point-of-sale terminal and

  WO 2009/082760                                                           PCT/US2008/088321
                                           16
      determine that multiple readers were used then, for example, a computer can make
      an autonomous determination that cloning may have occurred at the restaurant.
      [0049] A material may be sandwiched between the two layers to assist in reducing
      the effect of the electromagnetic fields from one set of coil segments on the side of
 5    the material opposite that set of coil segments. Such an interior material may be
      insulated such that the material does not short the coil segments. Additionally,
      such an interior material may be chosen, for example, such that the material does
      not saturate when the coil is conducting current. The coil and material may run,
      for example, along the location of a track of magnetic data for a payment card.
10    Accordingly, a coil may be fabricated so that the coil wraps around an interior
      material.
      [0050] A material may be placed and/or printed on a PCB layer and sandwiched
      between two other PCB layers. These two other layers may each include coil
      segments and vias. The middle layer may also include vias such that the material
15    is fabricated to be located in the center of the coil. The material may take a
      cylindrical, rectangular, square, or any type of shape. Four layers may also be
      utilized, where the coil segments are printed on a surface of the exterior layers and
      one or more materials are printed and/or placed on/between the interior layers. A
      material may be a magnetic material, ferromagnetic material, ferrimagnetic
20    material, or any type of material. For example, copper may be printed on a PCB
      layer and plated with a material (e.g., nickel, iron, chrome, tin, gold, platinum,
      cobalt, zinc, allows). A material, for example, may have a relative permeability
      multiple times greater than the permeability of a vacuum. A material, for example,
      may have a relative permeability of 2 to 25,000. A material may include, for
25    example, a permalloy, iron, steel, ferrite, nickel or any other material. A material
      may be an alloy such as a nickel-iron alloy. Such a nickel-iron alloy may include,
      for example, nickel (e.g., 75-85%), iron, copper, molybdenum and may be placed
      through one or more annealing processes. Annealing may occur before and/or
      after the material is placed/printed on a layer of material (e.g., a PCB layer or other
30    layer). A similar and/or different material may be placed either above and/or
      below a portion, or the entire, set of paths on a layer for a coil. Accordingly, a
      material may be placed in the interior of a coil as well as along a side of the coil.

  WO 2009/082760                                                            PCT/US2008/088321
                                            17
      [0051] Gift cards may be purchased at a store and loaded into a dynamic card. For
      example, a person may go to a store, purchase a card (at which point the card is
      activated for use), and give the card to a friend. The friend may then scratch off a
      removable surface on the gift card to review a dynamic loading code. The friend
 5    may utilize user interfaces on the card (e.g., buttons) to load the credit card into the
      card. Thus, the friend may throw away the gift card but may utilize his/her
      dynamic card as the gift card. Particularly, the user may utilize a user interface
      (e.g., a button) on the card to signal to the card that the gift card should be utilized
      instead of, for example, the user's payment card (e.g., credit card data).
10    Accordingly, the card may communicate the gift card information via a magnetic
      emulator to a magnetic stripe reader. A processor may provide this information to
      an RFID antenna located on the card as well as an IC chip located on the card
      incase, for example, the user utilizes a smartcard or RFID reader located at the
      point-of-sale.
15    [0052] A user may scratch off a removable surface of a gift card (or other type of
      card such as a pre-paid payment card) to reveal a code. This code may be entered
      online at a website that manages the user's payment card (e.g., the user's credit
      card). The gift card may then attach to the user's credit card. Thus, for example,
      the user may utilize his/her credit card at a store but the money may be drawn from
20    the gift card. Alternatively, the user may, after making a purchase at a store, go
      onto his/her payment card's account website and view his/her gift cards. After
      making a purchase, the user may request a credit refund and may select his/her
      debit card to be utilized in its place. A period of time may be associated with this.
      For example, a user may be configured to only be able to utilize gift cards after a
25    purchase for the user's current billing cycle or within a month of purchase.
      [0053] A user may utilize a user interface on a card or other device (e.g., a mobile
      telephonic device or other mobile device) to select that a gift card be utilized. The
      user's payment card information (e.g., debit card information) may be
      communicated, but the interaction with the user interface may result in
30    additional/different discretionary data being sent from the point-of-sale device
      through a routing server to an authorization server. One of these servers may look
      at the discretionary data and may utilize this data to route the information to a

  WO 2009/082760                                                           PCT/US2008/088321
                                           18
      different authorization server (e.g., gift card authorization server) or may utilize the
      information at the authorization server to authorize the information differently
      (e.g., authorize the gift card purchase). If the amount purchased exceeds the gift
      card then the payment card may be automatically charged the remaining balance or
 5    the cashier may be prompted that the gift card transaction went through at the
      remaining gift card balance and was applied to the transaction such that the cashier
      can request additional payment from the customer. Accordingly, a user may enter
      a simplified code into his/her card order to load his/her payment card with a gift
      card. For example, a user may enter a code between 16 and 19 digits into a
10    website associated with the user's payment card to attach the gift card to the user's
      account but may enter a shorter code (e.g., 4-6 characters) into his/her card such
      that a button is associated with adding/changing discretionary data transmitted by a
      card (or other data transmitted by a magnetic emulator).
      [0054] A code that is added to a card may, for example, include data with what
15    button should be utilized activate the transmission of a gift card or other
      information. Other information may include, for example, the name of a store, the
      expiration date of the gift card, and the amount of the gift card. For example, a
      user interface on a card may take the form of a mechanical button. A display may
      be located next to the button. A code may be entered that causes the display to
20    display "WALMART" every time the button associated with the display is pressed.
      Accordingly, a user can see what gift cards are associated with what buttons at any
      given time. Displays may be, for example, LCD, electronic ink, or any other types
      of displays. Codes may be generated to delete cards after they are utilized. User
      interfaces may be associated with deleting gift cards from a user's card.
25    [0055] A global payment card is provided. A global card may, for example, allow
      a user to utilize the same payment account (e.g., credit account) but may transmit
      differently structured data depending on the country (e.g., the payment network)
      the user is located in. For example, suppose Japan includes a nineteen digit
      payment card number while a U.S. payment card number is fifteen or sixteen digits
30    in length. Accordingly, a user may be provided with a nineteen Japanese number
      and a sixteen U.S. number when the user is provided with a payment account. The
      user may be issued with a card that includes a button for Japan. The card may be

  WO 2009/082760                                                           PCT/US2008/088321
                                           19
      provided a default such that, for example, a particular country's data structure is
      utilized by default. Accordingly, a user may utilize the card in the U.S. without
      changing behavior. However, for example, when the user travels to Japan, the user
      may interact with a user interface (e.g., a button) such that the Japanese data
 5    structure with the Japanese payment information is utilized. Accordingly, a
      magnetic emulator may be provided to transmit data to a magnetic stripe reader. A
      processor may also provide the data to an IC chip operable to be read by a
      smartcard reader and/or an RFID antenna operable to be read by a contactless
      RFID reader.
10    [0056] Displays may be provided near user interfaces or other structures. For
      example, a display may be provided next to an LED. Cards may be programmed
      during manufacturing so that these displays may display particular information.
      Accordingly, for example, the same card architecture may be utilized to provide a
      number of different types of cards. A user may utilize user interfaces (e.g.,
15    mechanical or capacitive interfaces) to change the function of the display. For
      example, codes may be entered to reconfigure the displays. Alternatively, for
      example, a user may utilize buttons to select information to be displayed on
      displays associated with user interfaces. A code may associate a name of a store
      with a button and/or a dollar amount. For example, a display may be configured to
20    read "Target $50." Information may be entered manually, but also may be
      received by a card. For example, a user may swipe a card a second time through a
      magnetic stripe reader and receive information via a magnetic emulator. This
      received information may be utilized to update information on the card (e.g., the
      balance of a gift card, credit account, and/or debit account). Information may also
25    be received by an RFID antenna and/or IC chip located on a card and in
      communication with a central processor (or distributed processors). For example,
      transaction information (e.g., list of past transactions, stores where transactions
      occurred, amounts of transactions) and account information (e.g., balance
      information, bill information, amount due information) may be communicated to
30    the card and displayed on one or more displays.
      [0057] A dynamic card may be manufactured in a variety of ways. For example, a
      dynamic card may be printed onto a flexible material (e.g., a flexible polymer).

  WO 2009/082760                                                        PCT/US2008/088321
                                          20
      Multiple layers of this material may be bonded together to form a multiple layer
      flexible structure. This multiple layer structure may be laminated (e.g., via hot
      and/or cold lamination) to form a card. The card may be programmed before or
      after lamination. A card may be programmed via a direct connection between a
 5    programmer and one or more contacts on a card. A card may be programmed via a
      capacitive, optical, or inductive communication via a communication link between
      a programmer and one or more components (e.g., a contact) on a card.
      Accordingly, for example, a card may be laminated and capacitively, optically, or
      inductively programmed. After programming, a processor on the card may be
10    signaled to bum-out its programming communication channel(s) such that no
      further programming may occur. A portion of the card may not be laminated.
      Accordingly, a programmer may connect to this non-laminated portion of the card.
      The non-laminated portion of the card may be laminated after programming.
      Alternatively, for example, the non-laminated portion of the card may be cut after
15    programming (e.g., and after the processor bums-out its programming ports so the
      processor cannot be further programmed).
      [0058] Additional external communication devices may be provided on a card.
      For example, a USB port or Wi-Fi antenna may be provided on a card. Such
      additional external communication devices may, for example, allow a user to
20    communicate with stationary computer, laptop, or other device. Such
      communication devices may, for example, be utilized to load gift cards, or other
      information (e.g., transactional or account information) from a laptop to a card or
      other device.
      [0059] Displays may be provided near user interfaces or other structures. For
25    example, a display may be provided next to an LED. Cards may be programmed
      during manufacturing so that these displays may display particular information.
      Accordingly, for example, the same card architecture may be utilized to provide a
      number of different types of cards. A user may utilize user interfaces (e.g.,
      mechanical or capacitive interfaces) to change the function of the display. For
30    example, codes may be entered to reconfigure the displays. Alternatively, for
      example, a user may utilize buttons to select information to be displayed on
      displays associated with user interfaces. A code may associate a name of a store

  WO 2009/082760                                                           PCT/US2008/088321
                                           21
      with a button and/or a dollar amount. For example, a display may be configured to
      read "Target $50." Information may be entered manually, but also may be
      received by a card. For example, a user may swipe a card a second time through a
      magnetic stripe reader and receive information via a magnetic emulator. This
 5    received information may be utilized to update information on the card (e.g., the
      balance of a gift card, credit account, and/or debit account). Information may also
      be received by an RFID antenna and/or IC chip located on a card and in
      communication with a central processor (or distributed processors). For example,
      transaction information (e.g., list of past transactions, stores where transactions
10    occurred, amounts of transactions) and account information (e.g., balance
      information, bill information, amount due information) may be communicated to
      the card and displayed on one or more displays.
      [0060] A dynamic card may be manufactured in a variety of ways. For example, a
      dynamic card may be printed onto a flexible material (e.g., a flexible polymer).
15    Multiple layers of this material may be bonded together to form a multiple layer
      flexible structure. This multiple layer structure may be laminated (e.g., via hot,
      warm and/or cold lamination) to form a card. The card may be programmed before
      or after lamination. A card may be programmed via a direct connection between a
      programmer and one or more contacts on a card. A card may be programmed via a
20    capacitive, optical, or inductive communication via a communication link between
      a programmer and one or more components (e.g., a contact) on a card.
      Accordingly, for example, a card may be laminated and capacitively, optically, or
      inductively programmed. After programming, a processor on the card may be
      signaled to bum-out its programming communication channel(s) such that no
25    further programming may occur. A portion of the card may not be laminated.
      Accordingly, a programmer may connect to this non-laminated portion of the card.
      The non-laminated portion of the card may be laminated after programming.
      Alternatively, for example, the non-laminated portion of the card may be cut after
      programming (e.g., and after the processor bums-out its programming ports so the
30    processor cannot be further programmed).
      [0061] Additional external communication devices may be provided on a card.
      For example, a USB port or Wi-Fi antenna may be provided on a card. Such

  WO 2009/082760                                                           PCT/US2008/088321
                                           22
      additional external communication devices may, for example, allow a user to
      communicate with stationary computer, laptop, or other device. Such
      communication devices may, for example, be utilized to load gift cards, or other
      information (e.g., transactional or account information) from a laptop to a card or
 5    other device. A card is provided that includes a light sensor such that information
      can be communicated to a card via light (e.g., via a light transmitted from a TV or
      website).
      [0062] Information that is transmitted to a magnetic stripe read-head can be
      changed by a card. The information can be changed based on software that is pre
10    loaded into a card. Similarly, the information can be determined, at least in part,
      by a user of the card. Accordingly, a user of a card may enter information into a
      card via user interfaces in order to change at least part of the information
      transmitted through a magnetic-stripe reader, via a magnetic stripe read-head, to a
      remote payment card processing server.
15    [0063] A user may command a card to communicate particular information to
      obtain a variety of functionalities. For example, a user may be required to perform
      a variety of actions at a point-of-sale (POS) magnetic stripe reader. Such actions
      may require that user to spend a particular amount of time. Accordingly, such a
      user may perform these activities before reaching the POS device. The user's
20    decisions may be communicated through a POS reader output device such as a
      magnetic emulator/encoder, RFID antenna, and/or IC chip. Accordingly, in doing
      so, a user may decrease the time the user spends at a POS device. Accordingly, the
      time it takes to complete a transaction at a POS device can be significantly
      reduced.
25    [0064] User interfaces, such as capacitive or mechanical buttons, may be included
      on a card. One or more buttons may be associated with one or more tip amounts.
      Accordingly, for example, a user may press a particular button and a corresponding
      percentage may be communicated to a POS reader. Accordingly, a remote server
      may complete a transaction for the full-amount of the purchase (e.g., total cost, tax,
30    and tip). The remote server may also pre-authorize the transaction for this full
      amount such that a user can, for example, easily change the tip if desired. In
      determining the amount of the tip on the payment card, a user may increase the

  WO 2009/082760                                                         PCT/US2008/088321
                                          23
      speed of a transaction as the user may not have to perform any math
      himself/herself. The user may instead be presented with a receipt that notes the
      desired tip as well as the total amount that includes the tip. Such a total operation
      may be performed in numerous locations. For example, a POS reader may
 5    recognize the inclusion of tip information in an card output signal (e.g., an RFID,
      IC chip, and/or magnetic stripe signal).
      [0065] The POS reader may then perform the associated functions. Alternatively,
      for example, software located on a cash-register (e.g., a restaurant's cash register)
      may receive the information from the POS reader and may notice that tip
10    information was included in a card output signal. Accordingly, for example, a card
      may be branded with indicia corresponding to a particular restaurant chain (e.g.,
      TGIF, Red Robin, or Applebee's) and software may be added to the POS readers
      and/or cash registers associated with that particular restaurant chain.
      [0066] A remote server may receive payment information provided to a payment
15    card reader by a payment. This information may include data fields (e.g.,
      discretionary data fields). A remote server may recognize that the received
      payment information includes user-defined data such as, for example, tip
      information. Accordingly, the remote server may perform additional processing
      steps based on this user-defined data. For example, the remote server may
20    determine a tip amount based on received tip information and may authorize a
      payment card transaction for the amount. The remote server may communicate
      information back to a POS device indicative of the determined tip amount and/or
      total authorized amount.
      [0067] A card may include buttons indicative of particular tip amounts.
25    Alternatively, a card may include numerical buttons and a button indicative of a
      tip. Accordingly, a user may determine any tip amount that can be defined by the
      numerical buttons. Furthermore, the numerical buttons may be utilized for
      executing functionality other than functionality that corresponds to determining
      and providing tips.
30    [0068] A card is provided in which a user can enter his/her Personal Identification
      Number (PIN) into the card using one or more user interfaces. This PIN may be
      communicated in an output signal from a card (e.g., a signal from an RFID

  WO 2009/082760                                                          PCT/US2008/088321
                                           24
      antenna, IC Chip, or magnetic emulator/encoder). Accordingly, for example, a
      user can enter his/her PIN into a card while waiting in a line for an ATM machine.
      The user can communicate this PIN from the card to the ATM machine using a
      reader output device on the card. The ATM machine may, for example, recognize
 5    that a valid PIN was received from the card and may provide the user with a
      welcome screen instead of a screen requesting the entry of a PIN.
      [0069] Similarly, PIN-based purchases may be made where a user enters his/her
      PIN on a card instead of enters his/her PIN on a POS device. Furthermore, a user
      may utilize an on-card PIN entry instead of, for example, an on-receipt signature.
10    Accordingly, for example, a user may purchase a meal at a restaurant. A waitress
      may present the user with a check. A user may press a button associated to
      providing an on-card PIN. The user may also press a button associated to a
      particular tip percentage. Accordingly, for example, the waitress may take
      possession of the card and may swipe the card through his/her POS device. The
15    PIN may be utilized in lieu of a signature such that the total (including tip) is
      immediately authorized). The waitress may then, for example, present a receipt to
      a user that confirms that a financial transaction was completed, that an on-card
      PIN-based authentication was utilized, and the total amount including a line item
      for a tip amount.
20    [0070] A system is provided in which a user may utilize a PIN entry instead of a
      signature to complete a signature-based transaction. The PIN may be, for example,
      passed-through from a card to a remote server using an output device (e.g., RFID
      antenna, IC chip, magnetic emulator/encoder). The server may recognize that a
      card desires utilizing an on-card PIN instead of a signature by looking at a
25    particular character or characters of discretionary data. Furthermore, the server
      may recognize that a card is one that can perform an on-card PIN functionality by,
      for example, looking at a particular character or characters of transmitted
      information. For example, a server may determine that a card includes an on-card
      PIN functionality by, for example, looking at a number of digits of a user's
30    payment card number (e.g., first six digits of a credit card number) and comparing
      this data to a corresponding list of partial payment card numbers that include an
      on-card functionality. Accordingly, if a card is determined to have an on-card PIN

  WO 2009/082760                                                            PCT/US2008/088321
                                           25
      functionality (or any pre-POS functionality or other functionality) then the server
      may look at other characters of the received data (e.g., a particular discretionary
      data field) to determine the user's execution of the function. Data received by a
      server may, for example, include the PIN number that a user entered into a card.
 5    Alternatively, data received by the server may include information representative
      of the user entering in the correct PIN onto the card. Accordingly, for example, a
      card may receive a PIN and determine that the PIN is correct. The card may then
      send a particular character (e.g., a "1") in a particular discretionary data location to
      the remote server.
10    [0071] A card with pre-ATM functionality is provided in order to expedite the
      ATM process when a user is provided with the ability to physically interact with
      the ATM machine. Accordingly, a user may perform ATM activities on his/her
      card so that when the user physically interacts with an ATM machine, the time of
      the interaction is reduced. A card is provided with a button that allows a user to
15    designate that the user desires to withdrawal a particular amount of cash from an
      ATM. Accordingly, for example, the user may enter in his/her PIN onto a card
      while waiting in a line to use a particular ATM. The user can also utilize the user
      interfaces of the card to denote that the user desires a particular amount (e.g., $100)
      of cash from a particular account of the user's (e.g., checking). Accordingly, a
20    card may communicate this information to an ATM when a user swipes or inserts
      his/her card into the ATM. Accordingly, a user may be prompted with a
      confirmation screen to confirm the user's pre-ATM card actions. In doing so, a
      user may decrease the amount of time he/she spends at an ATM machine.
      [0072] A user may also be provided with a button that corresponds to a user
25    defined set of actions. For example, such a button may be indicative of taking a
      particular amount of money out of a checking account while transferring a
      particular amount of money from a savings account to that checking account, and
      not requiring a receipt from the ATM. The user may, for example, determine the
      actions that are associated with this button through an online website for a
30    particular bank or card issuer. Accordingly, for example, when a user presses the
      button and the information is communicated to a reader (e.g., at an ATM), the
      remote server may retrieve information indicative of the actions the users desired

  WO 2009/082760                                                         PCT/US2008/088321
                                           26
      to perform when the button was pressed. Accordingly, for example, users may
      customize his/her card via a website.
      [0073] Additionally, for example, a user may reprogram his/her card with new
      code on a website. For example, a user may select a particular set of actions for a
 5    particular button on a website and the website may direct the user to hold his/her
      card to a display screen of the user's computer. A portion of the display screen
      may then flash light to the card. The card may include light sensors to determine
      characteristics of the flashing light. In doing so, information may be
      communicated from a website to a card.
10    [0074] A card is provided in which a user can perform pre-cashier checkout
      activities on his/her card while waiting in a checkout line. For example, a user
      may enter his/her PIN into a card for a PIN-based card payment as well as select,
      utilizing one or more user interfaces on the card, a variety of checkout options such
      as a particular amount of desires cash-back. The user may also determine, for
15    example, that the user does or does not desire a receipt and that the user desires to
      utilize a particular type of payment (e.g., a credit payment from a credit account).
      The user's desired decisions may be communicated to a cashier via a cash register
      connected to a payment card/device reader.
      [0075] A card is provided that includes a user interface associated with
20    determining whether a user desires a receipt for a particular transaction. In doing
      so, for example, the information associated with the user's decision on whether the
      user desires a receipt can be communicated through a payment card reader. In
      doing so, a cashier may, for example, not need to ask a user whether the user
      desires a receipt - thus decreasing the time of interaction between the user and the
25    cashier.
      [0076] Coupons can be loaded into cards in a variety of ways. For example, a
      user may utilize computer interfaces on a card in order to load a coupon. For
      example, a user may be provided with a code and may enter that code into his/her
      card. Coupons, or other information, may also be communicated to a card via a
30    television commercial or show. For example, a commercial for a product may
      include flashing indicia in a corner of the commercial. A user may hold his/her
      card up to the corner of the commercial and the information (e.g., coupon) may be

  WO 2009/082760                                                           PCT/US2008/088321
                                           27
      communicated to the card. For example, a card may encrypt information based on
      an encryption algorithm. If this integrity of the algorithm is compromised, a
      commercial can be provided on national or regional television such that
      information can be communicated to cards that would change the encryption
 5    algorithm the card uses to encrypt data the card provides to payment card readers.
      [0077] A card is provided that includes buttons associated with items. For
      example, a card may include a button associated with a particular type of drink
      (e.g., cola) and/or a particular types of snack (e.g., potato chips). A user that is
      waiting in line at a vending machine may, for example, press the button on his/her
10    card associated with a particular item that the user desires to purchase.
      Accordingly, a user may swipe his/her card through a payment card magnetic
      stripe reader and the vending machine may receive payment information in
      addition to item ordering information. Accordingly, the vending machine may
      receive the desired order information, execute the order (e.g., vend the user a bottle
15    of cola), and complete a payment transaction based on the amount of the ordered
      item and the payment card information provided by the payment card to the
      vending machine.
      [0078] Displays may be provided near user interfaces or other structures. For
      example, a display may be provided next to an LED. Cards may be programmed
20    during manufacturing so that these displays may display particular information.
      Accordingly, for example, the same card architecture may be utilized to provide a
      number of different types of cards. A user may utilize user interfaces (e.g.,
      mechanical or capacitive interfaces) to change the function of the display. For
      example, codes may be entered to reconfigure the displays. Alternatively, for
25    example, a user may utilize buttons to select information to be displayed on
      displays associated with user interfaces. A code may associate a name of a store
      with a button and/or a dollar amount. For example, a display may be configured to
      read "Target $50." Information may be entered manually, but also may be
      received by a card. For example, a user may swipe a card a second time through a
30    magnetic stripe reader and receive information via a magnetic emulator. This
      received information may be utilized to update information on the card (e.g., the
      balance of a gift card, credit account, and/or debit account). Information may also

  WO 2009/082760                                                           PCT/US2008/088321
                                           28
      be received by an RFID antenna and/or IC chip located on a card and in
      communication with a central processor (or distributed processors). For example,
      transaction information (e.g., list of past transactions, stores where transactions
      occurred, amounts of transactions) and account information (e.g., balance
 5    information, bill information, amount due information) may be communicated to
      the card and displayed on one or more displays.
      [0079] A dynamic card may be manufactured in a variety of ways. For example, a
      dynamic card may be printed onto a flexible material (e.g., a flexible polymer).
      Multiple layers of this material may be bonded together to form a multiple layer
10    flexible structure. This multiple layer structure may be laminated (e.g., via hot,
      warm and/or cold lamination) to form a card. The card may be programmed before
      or after lamination. A card may be programmed via a direct connection between a
      programmer and one or more contacts on a card. A card may be programmed via a
      capacitive, optical, or inductive communication via a communication link between
15    a programmer and one or more components (e.g., a contact) on a card.
      Accordingly, for example, a card may be laminated and capacitively, optically, or
      inductively programmed. After programming, a processor on the card may be
      signaled to bum-out its programming communication channel(s) such that no
      further programming may occur. A portion of the card may not be laminated.
20    Accordingly, a programmer may connect to this non-laminated portion of the card.
      The non-laminated portion of the card may be laminated after programming.
      Alternatively, for example, the non-laminated portion of the card may be cut after
      programming (e.g., and after the processor bums-out its programming ports so the
      processor cannot be further programmed).
25    [0080] Additional external communication devices may be provided on a card.
      For example, a USB port or Wi-Fi antenna may be provided on a card. Such
      additional external communication devices may, for example, allow a user to
      communicate with stationary computer, laptop, or other device. Such
      communication devices may, for example, be utilized to load gift cards, or other
30    information (e.g., transactional or account information) from a laptop to a card or
      other device. A card is provided that includes a light sensor such that information

  WO 2009/082760                                                          PCT/US2008/088321
                                           29
      can be communicated to a card via light (e.g., via a light transmitted from a TV or
      website).
      [0081] Components of card may be oriented in a number of ways in order to
      increase the whimsical and festive nature of a card. Furthermore, the orientation of
 5    components may increase the functionality of a card. For example, buttons may be
      placed on the left-side of a card, but left-handed and right-handed users may
      naturally operate such buttons differently. Furthermore, buttons may be provided
      on the center of the card in order to increase the operational similarity of the
      buttons between left and right-handed users.
10    [0082] Numerous components may be placed on the front or back of a card or
      other device (e.g., a mobile telephonic device). For example, any number of
      displays, user interfaces such as buttons, sources of light such as LEDs, vibrational
      devices, sources of audible signals, microphones, power generating devices,
      sources of electrical energy, RFID antennas, processors, IC chips, or magnetic
15    communication devices (e.g., magnetic emulators and encoders) may be provided
      on a card.
      [0083] Indicia may be provided on the front and back of a card in order to
      increase the whimsical and festive nature of the card. Such indicia may also
      increase the functionality of a card. For example, a button may include a written
20    letter (e.g., "A") and multiple numbers (e.g., "0" and "1"). Accordingly, a user
      may be issued with a letter or numerical PIN number and may utilize the same set
      of buttons regardless of whether the user received a numerical PIN or a letter-based
      PIN. In doing so, for example, a ten digit PIN may be represented by less than 10
      buttons.
25    [0084] A loyalty-based payment application may be provided on a card. For
      example, a user may earn reward points when that user purchases an item using the
      payment card. In this manner, a user may earn reward points based on the type of
      item, the dollar amount of the item, and/or the time during which the item was
      purchased. A remote server may receive information indicative of reward points
30    that a particular user has earned. This remote server may also transmit information
      back to a card (e.g., via a payment card reader). Such information may include the
      total amount of reward points that have been earned by a particular reader. The

  WO 2009/082760                                                           PCT/US2008/088321
                                            30
      total amount of reward points may be stored on a payment card and displayed to a
      user via a display located on the card automatically after each transaction and/or as
      a result of manual input.
      [0085] A user may provide manual input to a card in order to instruct the card to
 5    pay for a purchase using reward points. A purchase may be subsequently
      authorized in a variety of ways. For example, a flag may be placed in payment
      information that is communicated through a payment card reader that is indicative
      of a user's desire to utilize reward points for payment. Such a flag may take the
      form of a particular character or set of characters in a particular location of
10    payment information. A remote server may then, for example, look for a particular
      character, or set of characters, in received payment information to determine
      whether payment is desired to be made by reward points. Alternatively, for
      example, a different payment account number may be communicated when reward
      points are desired and a remote server may utilize this different payment account
15    number to authorize a payment transaction. Payment information that is
      communicated may be encrypted in a variety of ways. For example, all or part of
      the payment information may be encrypted for each transaction, which may be
      determined via manual input or read-head detectors, or based on time.
      [0086] Multiple different types of rewards may be earned on a card. For example,
20    a user may be provided with the option of earning reward points, airline miles,
      receive cash-back, or donating a purchase-based value to charity. In this manner, a
      card may be provided with a set of buttons where each button corresponds to a
      different type of reward. Additional buttons may be provided for additional
      functionalities (e.g., the entry of a user's Personal Identification Number). Before
25    a purchase, a user may select the type of rewards that the user would like to earn
      for the purchase. Data corresponding to the selection may be provided in payment
      information communicated to a payment card reader. Such rewards information
      may take many forms. For example, data indicative of the selection may be
      provided as discretionary data. Alternatively, for example, a different account
30    number may be communicated for each type of reward.
      [0087] Payment information may be communicated in a variety of ways. For
      example, information indicative of the type of reward that is desired or the form of

  WO 2009/082760                                                         PCT/US2008/088321
                                           31
      payment may be communicated via an IC chip, RFID antenna, and magnetic
      emulator or encoder. Payment information may be structured differently for each
      type of communication and, similarly, may include overlapping as well as different
      data. For example, data indicative of the type of reward desired may be provided
 5    as discretionary data in both track 1 and track 2 of a magnetic emulator. However,
      for example, data indicative of the type of reward desired may be provided as a
      different account number for a transaction based off an RFID signal from an RFID
      antenna. Data may be stored on a memory and constructed by a processor such
      that the payment information may delivered via a reader communication device.
10    [0088] A magnetic emulator may produce an electromagnetic field that is operable
      to be read by a magnetic stripe reader. Such a magnetic emulator may include a
      coil. Current may be provided through such a coil such that an electromagnetic
      signal is produced. Material may be placed inside the coil with a permeability that
      results in an increase of the electromagnetic signal about the exterior of the coil.
15    Such a material may be, for example, a soft-magnetic material (e.g., a permalloy).
      Such a soft-magnetic material may not be able to, for example, be permanently
      magnetized.
      [0089] A magnetic emulator having a coil with a soft-magnetic interior may be
      fabricated in a printed circuit board process (e.g., using an FR4 board material). In
20    doing so, for example, the electromagnetic field located about the exterior of the
      coil may be increased by the presence of the soft-magnetic interior.
      [0090] Magnetostrictive materials may be provided about the interior of a coil.
      Magnetostrictive materials may mechanically distort in response to a magnetic
      field. This mechanical distortion may, in turn, affect the magnetic field. Magnetic
25    emulators are provided with coils having magnetostrictive interior materials. An
      aperture may be cut into a printed circuit board layer such that the magnetostrictive
      material is operable to mechanically distort within the aperture while in a multiple
      layer printed circuit board.
      [0091] Non-magnetostrictive material may be utilized as an interior material for a
30    coil operable to communicate data to a magnetic stripe reader. Such a non
      magnetostrictive material may have zero parts per million of magnetostrictive

  WO 2009/082760                                                          PCT/US2008/088321
                                           32
      elements or may have a low amount of magnetostriction (e.g., less than 200 parts
      per million).
      [0092] A permanent magnet may be placed about a magnetic emulator. For
      magnetic emulators that include one or more coils, a permanent magnet may be
 5    placed about the interior, or exterior, of one of the coils. Such a permanent
      magnetic may provide, for example, a bias magnetic field that may increase the
      amount of electromagnetic field present about the exterior of a coil. A bias field
      may also be created, for example, via a coil (e.g., a coil about a magnetic
      emulator).
10    [0093] A magnetic emulator may include one or more coils that include both a
      soft-magnetic material and a permanent magnet.
      Brief Description of the Drawings
      [0094]    The principles and advantages of the present invention can be more
15    clearly understood from the following detailed description considered in
      conjunction with the following drawings, in which the same reference numerals
      denote the same structural elements throughout, and in which:
      [0095]   FIG. 1 is an illustration of cards constructed in accordance with the
      principles of the present invention;
20    [0096]   FIG. 2 is an illustration of cards constructed in accordance with the
      principles of the present invention;
      [0097]   FIG. 3 is an illustration of cards constructed in accordance with the
      principles of the present invention;
      [0098]   FIG. 4 is an illustration of cards constructed in accordance with the
25    principles of the present invention;
      [0099]   FIG. 5 is an illustration of cards constructed in accordance with the
      principles of the present invention;
      [0100]   FIG. 6 is an illustration of a card constructed in accordance with the
      principles of the present invention;
30    [0101] FIG. 7 is an illustration of a card constructed in accordance with the
      principles of the present invention;

  WO 2009/082760                                                          PCT/US2008/088321
                                           33
      [0102]   FIG. 8 is an illustration of a personal electronic device constructed in
      accordance with the principles of the present invention;
      [0103]   FIG. 9 is an illustration of cards constructed in accordance with the
      principles of the present invention;
 5    [0104]   FIG. 10 is an illustration of cards constructed in accordance with the
      principles of the present invention;
      [0105]   FIG. 11 is an illustration of cards constructed in accordance with the
      principles of the present invention;
      [0106]   FIG. 12 is an illustration of emulators constructed in accordance with the
10    principles of the present invention;
      [0107]   FIG. 13 is an illustration of process topologies constructed in accordance
      with the principles of the present invention;
      [0108]   FIG. 14 is an illustration of cards constructed in accordance with the
      principles of the present invention;
15    [0109]   FIG. 15 is an illustration of cards constructed in accordance with the
      principles of the present invention;
      [0110]   FIG. 16 is an illustration of cards constructed in accordance with the
      principles of the present invention;
      [0111]   FIG. 17 is an illustration of cards constructed in accordance with the
20    principles of the present invention;
      [0112]   FIG. 18 is an illustration of process topologies constructed in accordance
      with the principles of the present invention;
      [0113]   FIG. 19 is an illustration of cards constructed in accordance with the
      principles of the present invention;
25    [0114]   FIG. 20 is an illustration of a personal electronic device constructed in
      accordance with the principles of the present invention;
      [0115]   FIG. 21 is an illustration of cards constructed in accordance with the
      principles of the present invention;
      [0116]   FIG. 22 is an illustration of cards constructed in accordance with the
30    principles of the present invention;
      [0117]   FIG. 23 is an illustration of cards constructed in accordance with the
      principles of the present invention;

  WO 2009/082760                                                           PCT/US2008/088321
                                           34
      [0118]   FIG. 24 is an illustration of cards constructed in accordance with the
      principles of the present invention;
      [0119]   FIG. 25 is an illustration of process flow charts constructed in accordance
      with the principles of the present invention;
 5    [0120]   FIG. 26 is an illustration of the electrical coupling between a card and a
      reader constructed in accordance with the principles of the present invention;
      [0121]   FIG. 27 is an illustration of the electrical coupling between a card and a
      reader constructed in accordance with the principles of the present invention;
      [0122]   FIG. 28 is an illustration of magnetic shielding in accordance with the
10    principles of the present invention;
      [0123]   FIG. 29 is an illustration of process flow charts constructed in accordance
      with the principles of the present invention;
      [0124]   FIG. 30 is an illustration of a personal electronic device constructed in
      accordance with the principles of the present invention;
15    [0125]   FIG. 31 is an illustration of a card constructed in accordance with the
      principles of the present invention;
      [0126]   FIG. 32 is an illustration of a circuit constructed in accordance with the
      principles of the present invention;
      [0127]   FIG. 33 is an illustration of a circuit constructed in accordance with the
20    principles of the present invention;
      [0128]   FIG. 34 is an illustration of a circuit constructed in accordance with the
      principles of the present invention;
      [0129]   FIG. 35 is an illustration of a circuit constructed in accordance with the
      principles of the present invention;
25    [0130]   FIG. 36 is an illustration of a circuit constructed in accordance with the
      principles of the present invention;
      [0131]   FIG. 37 is an illustration of a circuit constructed in accordance with the
      principles of the present invention;
      [0132]   FIG. 38 is an illustration of a circuit and flow charts constructed in
30    accordance with the principles of the present invention;
      [0133]   FIG. 39 is an illustration of a circuit and flow charts constructed in
      accordance with the principles of the present invention;

  WO 2009/082760                                                           PCT/US2008/088321
                                           35
      [0134]   FIG. 40 is an illustration of a card constructed in accordance with the
      principles of the present invention;
      [0135]   FIG. 41 is an illustration of a circuit constructed in accordance with the
      principles of the present invention;
 5    [0136]   FIG. 42 is an illustration of a card constructed in accordance with the
      principles of the present invention;
      [0137]   FIG. 43 is an illustration of a circuit constructed in accordance with the
      principles of the present invention;
      [0138]   FIG. 44 is an illustration of a circuit constructed in accordance with the
10    principles of the present invention;
      [0139]   FIG. 45 is an illustration of a circuit constructed in accordance with the
      principles of the present invention;
      [0140]   FIG. 46 is an illustration of a circuit constructed in accordance with the
      principles of the present invention;
15    [0141]   FIG. 47 is an illustration of a circuit constructed in accordance with the
      principles of the present invention;
      [0142]   FIG. 48 is an illustration of a circuit constructed in accordance with the
      principles of the present invention;
      [0143]   FIG. 49 is an illustration of a circuit constructed in accordance with the
20    principles of the present invention;
      [0144]   FIG. 50 is an illustration of a circuit constructed in accordance with the
      principles of the present invention;
      [0145]   FIG. 51 is an illustration of a card constructed in accordance with the
      principles of the present invention;
25    [0146]   FIG. 52 is an illustration of a card constructed in accordance with the
      principles of the present invention;
      [0147]   FIG. 53 is an illustration of a cards constructed in accordance with the
      principles of the present invention;
      [0148]   FIG. 54 is an illustration of a webpage constructed in accordance with the
30    principles of the present invention;
      [0149]   FIG. 55 is an illustration of a language scheme constructed in accordance
      with the principles of the present invention;

  WO 2009/082760                                                          PCT/US2008/088321
                                           36
      [0150]   FIG. 56 is an illustration of process flow charts constructed in accordance
      with the principles of the present invention;
      [0151]   FIG. 57 is an illustration of process flow charts constructed in accordance
      with the principles of the present invention;
 5    [0152]   FIG. 58 is an illustration of cards constructed in accordance with the
      principles of the present invention;
      [0153]   FIG. 59 is an illustration of cards constructed in accordance with the
      principles of the present invention;
      [0154]   FIG. 60 is an illustration of cards constructed in accordance with the
10    principles of the present invention;
      [0155]   FIG. 61 is an illustration of cards constructed in accordance with the
      principles of the present invention;
      [0156]   FIG. 62 is an illustration of a card and a payment process constructed in
      accordance with the principles of the present invention;
15    [0157]   FIG. 63 is an illustration of a payment card constructed in accordance with
      the principles of the present invention;
      [0158]   FIG. 64 is an illustration of a payment card with multiple user interfaces
      constructed in accordance with the principles of the present invention;
      [0159]   FIG. 65 is an illustration of a payment card constructed in accordance with
20    the principles of the present invention;
      [0160]   FIG. 66 is an illustration of a card and a portion operable to receive a
      written signature constructed in accordance with the principles of the present
      invention;
      [0161]   FIG. 67 is an illustration of a payment process and a graphical user
25    interface constructed with the principles of the present invention;
      [0162]   FIG. 68 is an illustration of graphical user interfaces constructed in
      accordance with the principles of the present invention;
      [0163]   FIG. 69 is an illustration of a payment card constructed in accordance with
      the principles of the present invention;
30    [0164]   FIG. 70 is an illustration of a flow chart of a payment process and a
      graphical user interface associated with the principles of the present invention;

  WO 2009/082760                                                           PCT/US2008/088321
                                           37
      [0165]   FIG. 71 is an illustration of a flow chart of a payment process and a
      communications interface constructed in accordance with the principles of the
      present invention;
      [0166]   FIG. 72 is an illustration of a card constructed in accordance with the
 5    principles of the present invention;
      [0167]   FIG. 73 is an illustration of a card that includes user interfaces for ordering
      items constructed in accordance with the principles of the present invention;
      [0168]   FIGS. 74-116 are illustrations of cards constructed in accordance with the
      principles of the present invention;
10    [0169]   FIG. 117 is an illustrations of a card and a personal electronic device
      constructed in accordance with the principles of the present invention;
      [0170]   FIG. 118 is an illustrations of a card and a payment process constructed in
      accordance with the principles of the present invention;
      [0171]   FIG. 119 is an illustration of a card constructed in accordance with the
15    principles of the present invention;
      [0172]   FIG. 120 is an illustration of a card constructed in accordance with the
      principles of the present invention;
      [0173]   FIG. 121 is an illustration of a card constructed in accordance with the
      principles of the present invention;
20    [0174]   FIG. 122 is an illustration of a card constructed in accordance with the
      principles of the present invention;
      [0175]   FIG. 123 is an illustration of a card constructed in accordance with the
      principles of the present invention;
      [0176]   FIG. 124 is an illustration of a card constructed in accordance with the
25    principles of the present invention;
      [0177]   FIG. 125 is an illustration of a card constructed in accordance with the
      principles of the present invention;
      [0178]   FIG. 126 is an illustration of a card constructed in accordance with the
      principles of the present invention;
30    [0179]   FIG. 127 is an illustration of a webpage constructed in accordance with
      the principles of the present invention;

  WO 2009/082760                                                        PCT/US2008/088321
                                           38
      [0180]   FIG. 128 is an illustration of a webpage constructed in accordance with
      the principles of the present invention;
      [0181] FIG. 129 is an illustration of a card constructed in accordance with the
      principles of the present invention;
 5    [0182] FIG. 130 is an illustration of a card constructed in accordance with the
      principles of the present invention;
      [0183] FIG. 131 is an illustration of payment flow charts constructed in
      accordance with the principles of the present invention;
      [0184] FIG. 132 is an illustration of a network topology constructed in
10    accordance with the principles of the present invention;
      [0185] FIG. 133 is an illustration of cards constructed in accordance with the
      principles of the present invention;
      [0186] FIGS. 134 is an illustration of a personal electronic device constructed in
      accordance with the principles of the present invention.
15    [0187] FIG. 135 is an illustration of control signals and magnetic stripe reader
      sense signals constructed in accordance with the principles of the present
      invention;
      [0188] FIG. 136 is an illustration of coils constructed in accordance with the
      principles of the present invention;
20    [0189] FIG. 137 is an illustration of a card manufacturing process constructed in
      accordance with the principles of the present invention;
      [0190] FIG. 138 is an illustration of a card manufacturing process constructed in
      accordance with the principles of the present invention;
      [0191] FIG. 139 is an illustration of cards constructed in accordance with the
25    principles of the present invention;
      [0192] FIG. 140 is a flow chart constructed in accordance with the principles of
      the present invention;
      [0193] FIG. 141 is an illustration of a card constructed in accordance with the
      principles of the present invention;
30    [0194] FIG. 142 is an illustration of a card constructed in accordance with the
      principles of the present invention;

  WO 2009/082760                                                            PCT/US2008/088321
                                            39
      [0195]    FIG. 143 is an illustration of control signals constructed in accordance
      with the principles of the present invention
      [0196]    FIG. 144 is a schematic of a drive circuit constructed in accordance with
      the principles of the present invention; and
 5    [0197]    FIG. 145 is an illustration of a card constructed in accordance with the
      principles of the present invention.
      Detailed Description of the Invention
      [0198]     FIG. 1 shows card 100 that may include a display that displays dynamic
10    credit card number 110, time period 120, and time until change information 130.
      [0199]     Identification information 140 may also be included on card 100.
      Identification information 140 may be permanently provided on card 100 or may
      be displayed on a display (e.g., the display that displays dynamic credit card
      number 110). For example, identification information 140 may be printed onto
15    card 100 or embossed on card 100.
      [0200]    Dynamic credit card number 110 may be changed periodically.
      Additionally, a number may be changed right after a user enters a number into an
      online checkout process - but before that online checkout process completes.
      Accordingly, a particular number of dynamic credit card number 110 may, for
20    example, be valid during time period 120 in which the particular number was
      generated. Dynamic numbers may, or may not, be repeated. The numbers that are
      valid for a particular period of time may be, for example, a numbers generated in
      adjacent time slots (e.g., the time slot or time slots before and after the generation
      of the displayed number).
25    [0201]    A display may be bi-stable or non bi-stable. A bi-stable display may
      consume electrical energy to change the information displayed on the bi-stable
      display but may not consume electrical energy to maintain the display of that
      information. A non bi-stable display may consume electrical energy to both
      change and maintain information on the non bi-stable display. A display driving
30    circuit may be provided, for example, for a bi-stable display (or a non bi-stable
      display). Such a display driving circuit may step-up a supply voltage (e.g., 1-5
      volts) to a larger voltage (e.g., 6-15 volts) such that a bi-stable display may change

  WO 2009/082760                                                            PCT/US2008/088321
                                           40
      displayed information. A controller (e.g., a processor) may be utilized to control
      such a display driving circuit.
      [0202]    Persons skilled in the art will appreciate that a particular number may be
      verified by a verification system (e.g., a credit card verification server) during a
 5    time period not associated with the particular number. In such instances, for
      example, the particular number may be transmitted along with the time period in
      which the particular number was generated. Accordingly, the particular number
      may be verified as being generated during the time period by the verification
      server. In instances of fraud, the cost of fraud may be transferred to the entity that
10    provided the particular number and time period. In this manner, the liability for
      fraud may be transmitted to the entity that stores the particular number and time
      period for later use. In doing so, entities may be encouraged to, for example, only
      transmit current dynamic credit card numbers. The cost of fraud may be
      transferred, for example, to the association or bank that issued the card.
15    [0203]    A website may include, for example, a text box that would allow a user to
      provide timing information 120. A different coding scheme may also be associated
      with each, or with a group of, different time periods. A credit card verification
      system may include a timing circuit that is in sync with a timing circuit on card
       100 such that both the verification system and card 100 are aware of the current
20    time period of card 100. A time period may be, for example, on the order of
      minutes, hours, or days. For example, a time period may be approximately 36
      hours in duration.
      [0204]    Time until change information 130 may be provided on a display and may
      be representative of the amount of time remaining before number 110 changes.
25    [0205]    Identification information 140 may be provided on card 100.
      Identification information 140 may be provided such that each card 100 has
      different identification information 140. Accordingly, even though to users may
      have the same name, each user may have different identification information 140.
      In doing so, a user may enter in identification information 140 on a text box at an
30    online store and a verification system may, for example, be able to identify a
      particular user based on identification information 140. A number may include
      one or more digits representative of information that may be utilized in an

  WO 2009/082760                                                            PCT/US2008/088321
                                            41
      identification process. For example, two digits may be representative of a
      partition. Users having the same name may be assigned different partitions.
      Accordingly, the name on a card may be associated with the name of a person.
      People with the same name may have the same identification information.
 5    However, such people with the same name may be recognized by having different
      identification digits. Two identification digits in a credit card number may allow
      for 100 partitions. Similarly, identification information may be provided in a
      dynamic credit card number. The digits for identification may change location
      each period or particular groups of periods as well as may be coded differently
10    each period or particular groups of periods. Identification digits may be static
      (e.g., printed on a credit card or statically displayed so the digits do not change).
      In printing a static number of a card, for example, the amount of power needed to
      display a credit card number may be reduced.
      [0206]     Persons skilled in the art will appreciate, for example, that at least the first
15    six digits of payment card number may remain static and may be utilized to route
      at least the rest of the payment card number to the appropriate verification
      network. Portions of remaining digits may remain static and may be utilized for
      identification while other remaining digits may be dynamic.
      [0207]     Card 150 may be provided and may include a display that includes a
20    dynamic number with portion 160 that corresponds to a credit card number and
      portion 170 that corresponds to a time period. Persons skilled in the art will
      appreciate that other portions may be provided in such a number or that a particular
      portion may include particular information. For example, user identification
      information may be utilized as part of portion 160. Persons skilled in the art will
25    appreciate that a static number may be permanently provided on a card (e.g., via
      printing or embossing). Alternatively, for example, a display may display a
      particular digit or digits time the display displays a card number. Persons skilled in
      the art will appreciate that a display may be configured to display numerical data
      or alphanumerical data. A display may also be configured to display other indicia
30    (e.g., the image of a battery and its remaining life).
      [0208]     Persons skilled in the art will appreciate that portions 160 and 170 may
      take the form of a credit card number (e.g., a fifteen digit number that is

  WO 2009/082760                                                          PCT/US2008/088321
                                            42
      transmitted as a credit card number to a credit card verification server).
      Additionally, any digit or digits of a dynamic credit card number may be static.
      For example, at least the first digit may be static. In doing so, for example, a credit
      card verification system may be able to identify a credit card number as being a
 5    dynamic credit card number.
      [0209]    A credit card number with three digits allocated for a time period
      associated with the generated number may, for example, be sufficient to provide
      enough time periods for a card's life. For example, suppose a time period is
      associated with a day. Three digits would provide for 1000 days of operation. As
10    a card may be provided with a magnetic emulator or magnetic stripe encoder,
      additional information may be transmitted to a card verification system. For
      example, user identification information and time period information not embodied
      as a credit card number may be transmitted to a remote credit card verification
      system via a local magnetic stripe reader.
15    [0210]    FIG. 2 shows card 200 that includes a credit card number having static
      portion 210, displayed portion 220, and displayed portion 230. Static portion 123
      may be utilized such that a credit card verification system is able to recognize that
      a credit card number is a dynamic credit card such as an American Express
      dynamic credit card. Portion 220 may be dynamic and may periodically change.
20    In doing so, the amount of fraud associated with card number theft may be
      reduced. Portion 230 may be representative of a time period for portion 220.
      Accordingly, identification of a number being a dynamic card number, a time
      stamp, and a dynamic number may all be transmitted as a 15-digit credit card
      number. Persons skilled in the art will appreciate that a payment card number may
25    have different lengths. For example, a payment card number may be 19 digits in
      length or 16 digits in length. Persons skilled in the art will appreciate that a time
      period, for example, does not have to be transmitted. Systems may, for example,
      assume that a card is synchronized to a verification server. Similarly, transmission
      of a time stamp may be optional. As such, for example, a time stamp may be
30    transmitted when one-click shopping is utilized by a particular online store, but a
      time stamp may not be needed, for example, when a purchase is made and a credit
      card number is entered for immediate processing.

  WO 2009/082760                                                          PCT/US2008/088321
                                           43
      [0211]     Card 250 includes a number, which may be utilized as a credit card
      number, which includes portion 260 and 270. Portion 260 may include, for
      example digits that may be representative of the type of number displayed (e.g., a
      dynamic credit card number). Portion 260 may also include a dynamic number
 5    that may be utilized by a credit card processing system to a make a purchase on
      credit. Portion 270 may, for example, include digits associated with a time period
      for a dynamic credit card number. Portions 260 and 270 may be coded by different
      coding procedures. Accordingly, if the integrity of one procedure is compromised,
      a dynamic credit card may still provide security if, for example, the integrity of the
10    other coding procedure is still intact.
      [0212]     FIG. 3 shows credit card 300 may include structure 310 which may be,
      for example, a dynamic magnetic communications device such as a magnetic stripe
      encoder or a magnetic emulator. A magnetic stripe encoder may, for example,
      erase and re-write information to a magnetic stripe. A magnetic emulator may, for
15    example, generate electromagnetic fields that are able to be read by a magnetic
      stripe reader.
      [0213]    Persons skilled in the art will appreciate that a button may be included
      that may provide a variety of capabilities. For example, a button, when pressed,
      may cause a magnetic stripe encoder to write a number (e.g., the credit card
20    number generated at the time the button is pressed) to the magnetic stripe. This
      number may also be displayed on a display. As per another example, a button,
      while pressed, may cause a magnetic emulator to turn ON and emulate fields. A
      magnetic emulator or encoder may comprise a number of wires. A current may be
      flowed through the wires at particular strengths and polarities to generate fields
25    capable of, for example, writing to a magnetic stripe or being read by a magnetic
      stripe reader.
      [0214]     Card 350 may include magnetic stripe portions 360 and 380 as well as
      magnetic encoder or emulator 370. Persons skilled in the art will appreciate that
      only a particular portion of information that needs to be transmitted may need to
30    change. Accordingly, a dynamic encoder or emulator does not, for example, need
      to be utilized to emulate or encode all of the transmitted information. An encoder
      and/or emulator may be utilized, for example, to communicate a dynamic credit

  WO 2009/082760                                                           PCT/US2008/088321
                                           44
      card number or a portion of a dynamic credit card number to a credit card reader.
      Similarly, an encoder and/or emulator may be utilized, for example to
      communicate a time period, dynamic feedback (e.g., whether the battery is LOW
      or the card has been breached by a thief), or identification information.
 5    [0215]    A rechargeable battery may be provided such that, for example, the card
      may be inserted into a device capable of recharging the rechargeable battery.
      [0216]    A magnetic credit card stripe may have multiple tracks. One or more
      magnetic encoders and/or emulators may be utilized to communicate information
      on one or more (e.g., all) tracks). Persons skilled in the art will appreciate that
10    different tracks may be provided with a different bit density (e.g., bits-per-inch).
      Accordingly, the spacing of wires on emulators/encoders may be different
      depending on the type of track the emulator/encoder is attempting to
      emulate/encode.
      [0217]    An encoder and/or emulator may be placed adjacent to a magnetic stripe
15    or underneath a magnetic stripe. For example, a particular portion of a particular
      track may be cut-out from a multiple track magnetic stripe and an emulator may be
      placed in this cut-out portion on a card. A magnetic encoder and/or emulator may
      be placed, for example, before a magnetic stripe, after a magnetic stripe, or with a
      magnetic stripe.
20    [0218]    FIG. 4 shows card 400 that may include magnetic stripe 410, magnetic
      emulator 420, magnetic emulator 430, and magnetic emulator 440. Magnetic
      emulators 420, 430, and 440 may, for example, be utilized to emulate similar
      information, but on different tracks of a multiple track magnetic stripe. Similarly,
      magnetic emulators 420, 430, and 440 may be placed on different horizontal
25    portions of their respective tracks so that each emulator provides similar
      information on each track. For example, suppose that a middle track includes a
      higher bit density then exterior tracks (e.g., in a three-track embodiment). Then,
      for example, magnetic emulator 430 may be located in a different location then
      emulators 420 and 440. Similarly, the two exterior tracks in a three-track magnetic
30    stripe may be have a higher bit density then a middle track. Additionally, for
      example, different tracks may have data formatted in different ways. Accordingly,

  WO 2009/082760                                                           PCT/US2008/088321
                                           45
      similar information on each track may be located in different areas due to
      formatting.
      [0219]    The exterior tracks in a three-track configuration (e.g., tracks 1 and 3)
      may, for example, be provided at 210 bits per inch. The middle track in such a
 5    configuration (e.g., track 2) may be provided at 75 bits per inch. Persons skilled in
      the art will appreciate that, for example, a magnetic stripe encoder may be utilized
      instead of a magnetic emulator. Magnetic stripe encoders may, for example, be
      placed under a portion of a magnetic stripe. Persons skilled in the art will
      appreciate that a payment card may be provided with any number of tracks. For
10    example, a payment card may be provided with two tracks (e.g., tracks 1 and 2).
      Different tracks may include similar data (e.g., card numbers) as well as different
      data. For example, one track (e.g., track 1, which may be the track closest to the
      bottom of the card) may include name information while another track (e.g., track
      2, which may be located above track 1).
15    [0220]    Card 450 may include magnetic stripe 460 and magnetic encoder and/or
      emulator 470. Magnetic stripe 460 may have three tracks of data. As such, card
      450 may include multiple tracks (e.g., three) and magnetic encoder and/or emulator
      470 may, for example, form a portion of one of these tracks. The rest of the tracks
      may, for example, be provided as a magnetic stripe without a magnetic
20    encoder/emulator. A single track may include, for example, any number of
      magnetic emulators and/or magnetic encoders.
      [0221]    For example, a single track may include a magnetic emulator (or encoder)
      at the beginning and end of a track such that the middle of the track is provided by
      a magnetic stripe. Similarly, a single track may include a magnetic emulator (or
25    encoder) at, for example, just the beginning of a track. Similarly still, a single
      track may include a magnetic emulator (or encoder) at, for example, just the end of
      a track. A magnetic encoder or emulator located at an end of a magnetic stripe
      may, for example, communicate a string of a particular bit (e.g., zeros) to aid a
      magnetic reader's reading of magnetic stripe information. A magnetic stripe
30    reader may be configured to, for example, determine the rate at which bits are
      being communicated by looking at a string of zeros provided on a card before, and
      after, payment card information. Persons skilled in the art will appreciate that a

  WO 2009/082760                                                            PCT/US2008/088321
                                            46
      card may provide magnetic stripe information either in a forward configuration or
      backwards configuration. For example, a magnetic emulator, or encoder, may
      provide payment information in reverse order. Accordingly, a payment number
      may be communicated in payment information from its least significant digit to its
 5    most significant digit instead of from, for example, its most significant digit to its
      least significant digit. Persons skilled in the art will appreciate that magnetic stripe
      data may, for example, be provided as characters. Numerical data may be,
      accordingly, described in such magnetic stripe data as characters. In such
      instances, for example, a particular character of data may be utilized to just
10    describe numerical data. Routing servers may, for example, look for such
      numerical data. Persons skilled in the art will appreciate that additional states may
      be provided in characters that are not used. Such additional states may be utilized
      to communicate, for example, additional information while still communicating
      numerical data. For example, a character that includes twenty or more states may
15    be utilized to describe a digit as well as an extra bit of data. The first and eleventh
      character may correspond, for example, to the same digit (e.g., "0"). However, for
      example, the selection of the first and eleventh states may be utilized to transmit
      additional information. Such additional information may be, for example, a piece
      of the timing information or information indicative of a coding scheme used.
20    Accordingly, a remote server (e.g., a routing or verification server) may be able to
      extract both digit information as well as additional information for a character
      associated with a digit under a particular data structure (e.g., an American Express
      credit card number format) and communicate these pieces of data to another server
      or different servers. The inclusion of additional data may be provided, for
25    example, for any character of a data structure that has a number of states greater
      than the number of states used to describe its corresponding information under that
      structure. Different tracks of data may include, for example, different types of
      characters that utilize a different number of states. For example, a track (e.g., track
       1) may include 7-bit characters while a different track (e.g., track 2) may include 5
30    bit characters. Characters as well as tracks of data may include, for example parity
      bits as well as different types of sentinels (e.g., start and end sentinels). A track of
      data may be provided with a character for a Longitudal Redundancy Check (LRC).

  WO 2009/082760                                                            PCT/US2008/088321
                                            47
      A processor may encrypt, for example, entire tracks of data based on time or use.
      A processor may encrypt, for example, one or all tracks of data provided on a card.
      [0222]     FIG. 5 shows card 500 that includes display 510. Display 510 may, for
      example, be located near the top of a card 500. Display 510 may also be, for
 5    example, provided in the middle of the top of card 500 or off-set from the middle
      of card 500 (e.g., either left or right of the middle). In doing so, for example, the
      amount of space beneath the display may be maximized. Accordingly, the size of
      particular components may be increased. For example, a battery may be placed
      beneath display 510 and the location of a display at the top of card 500 may allow
10    for a battery of increased size. By increasing the size of a battery, the life of card
      500, without a recharge, may be increased. One or more batteries may be utilized
      in card 500.
      [0223]     Card 550 may include display 570 and 580 that may provide part of a
      credit card number. Static information 560 may also be utilized as part of that
15    credit card number. Displays 570 and 580 may each be operated by a different
      microprocessor. Each of displays 570 and 580 may operate under different coding
      procedures (provided by the different processors). A single processor may be
      utilized to provide the different coding procedures. Displays 570 and 580, and the
      associated processors, may be clocked by a single clock and may be powered by a
20    single battery. Persons skilled in the art will appreciate that any number of
      processors, clocks, or any other structure may be utilized in card 550. Displays
      570 and 580 may, for example, be located near the top of card 550.
      [0224]    Persons skilled in the art will appreciate that any information utilized in
      any type of payment transaction (e.g., credit card transaction) may be displayed on
25    a display and communicated to a reader via an emulator or encoder. For example,
      a user's zip code may be provided on a dynamic credit card on a display as a
      dynamic number that changes with time. This zip code may be representative of,
      for example, a time stamp. In this manner, for example, a user may communicate a
      time stamp to a credit card verification system by entering in the dynamic time
30    stamp into a text box located on the payment stage of an online store.
      [0225]    Persons skilled in the art will also appreciate that a fifteen digit number
      may be sufficient to provide a large amount of data. For example, a first portion of

  WO 2009/082760                                                            PCT/US2008/088321
                                            48
      digits may identify a credit card as a dynamic credit card (e.g., digits 1 and 2). A
      second portion may identify a user (e.g., digits 3-9). A third portion may be
      representative of a security code that changes with respect to time (e.g., digits 10
       13). A fourth portion may be representative of a time-stamp (e.g., digits 14 and
 5     15). Any portion (e.g., the first portion and second portion) may be static and, as
      such, may be printed on a credit card. A time stamp may, for example, cycle
      through and restart at 0. Accordingly, for example, a two digit time stamp may
      start at 00, end at 99, and then restart at 00. If such a time stamp changes every
      day, the chances that a time-stamp is not synchronized with a server may be
10    relatively low. Persons skilled in the art will appreciate that environmental
      characteristics such as temperature may affect the operation of a clock and may
      introduce delay. Accordingly, the time stamp may be utilized, for example, to
      confirm that the credit card is in synchronization with a verification system.
      [0226]     FIG. 6 shows card 600 that may include, for example, one or more IC
15    chips 630 (e.g., EMV chips), RFID antennas 620, processors 640, displays 650,
      dynamic magnetic communications devices 610 (e.g., magnetic encoders and/or
      magnetic emulators), batteries 660, and buttons 651 and 652. Additionally
      circuitry 698 may be provided and may include, for example, one or more
      oscillators or additional circuitry. Persons skilled in the art will appreciate that
20    button 651 may, for example, be utilized by a user to select one encryption
      algorithm for a number displayed on display 650 while button 652 may be utilized
      by a user to select a different encryption algorithm. Persons skilled in the art will
      appreciate that the components of card 600 may be provided on either surface of a
      card (e.g., a front or rear surface of the card) or inside of a card. A logo (e.g., of a
25    card issuer) and logo may be provided on either surface of a card.
      [0227]    A button, such as button 651, may be utilized, for example, to display a
      number. Such a number may be, for example, encrypted from a secure number
      based on time or use. For example, one-time use numbers (e.g., a payment number
      or code) may be retrieved from a list of numbers on memory each time button 651
30    is pressed and displayed on display 650. A processor may only go through each
      number once on a list. A registration process may be provided in which a user may
      be requested to enter in a sequence of numbers such that a remote server may

  WO 2009/082760                                                           PCT/US2008/088321
                                            49
      validate the card and learn where in a sequence of a list a card currently resides.
      Numbers may be repeated on a list or may only occur once on a list. All of the
      numbers available by the length of the number may be utilized by the list or only a
      portion of the numbers available by the length of the number may be provided by
 5    the list. A secret number may be encrypted on a card and a verification server may
      also have knowledge of this secret number. Accordingly, the remote server may
      perform the same encryption function as the card on the secret number and verify
      that the resultant encrypted number is the same as the resultant encrypted number
      on a card. Alternatively, for example, the remote server may decrypt the received
10    encrypted number to determine the authenticity of the encrypted number and
      validate an activity (e.g., validate a security access request or a purchase
      transaction).
      [0228]    FIG. 7 shows card 700 that may include, for example, signature area 710
      that may include a material operable to receive marks from a pen (e.g., a
15    signature). Card 700 may also include, for example, displays 720 and 730.
      Display 720 may, for example, display a payment number while display 730
      displays a security code (e.g., for online purchase authentication). Display 720 as
      well as display 730 may be utilized on the same side as, for example, dynamic
      magnetic communications device 710.
20    [0229]    FIG. 8 shows personal electronic device 800 which may be, for example,
      a portable telephonic device, portable media player, or any type of electronic
      device. Persons skilled in the art will appreciate that the functionality of a card
      may be provided on a personal device and displayed through a graphical user
      interface. Personal electronic device 800 may include, for example, user inputs
25    840 and display 810. Virtual card 820 may be displayed on display 820. Display
      820 may be a touch-sensitive display such that, for example, virtual button 830
      may be provided on virtual card 820. Persons skilled in the art will appreciate that
      cards may be provided as virtual cards and a user may interact with such virtual
      cards in order to provide a variety of functions. Personal electronic device 800
30    may communicate to a card reader such as, for example, an RFID reader.
      [0230]    Persons skilled in the art will appreciate that a dynamic magnetic
      communications device (e.g., a magnetic emulator or magnetic encoder) may be

  WO 2009/082760                                                          PCT/US2008/088321
                                            50
      fabricated, either completely or partially, in silicon and provided as a silicon-based
      chip. Other circuitry (e.g., driving circuitry) may also be fabricated on such a
      silicon-based chip. A processor, such as a processor for controlling a magnetic
      communications device, may be, for example, a programmable processor having
 5    on-board programmable non-volatile memory (e.g., FLASH memory), volatile
      memory (e.g., RAM), as well as a cache. Firmware as well as payment
      information (e.g., dynamic numbers) may be, for example, communicated from a
      programming device to a processor's on-board programmable non-volatile
      memory (e.g., a FLASH memory) such that a card may provide a variety of
10    functionalities. Such a processor may also have one or more power-saving
      operating modes, in which each operating mode turns OFF a different set of
      circuitry to provide different levels of power consumption. One or more power
      savings modes may turn OFF, for example, one or more clocking circuitry
      provided on a processor. An Application-Specific Integrated Circuit (ASIC) may
15    also be included in a card or other device to provide, for example, processing,
      dynamic magnetic communications, as well as driving capabilities.
      [0231]    FIG. 9 shows card 900 that may include a display that displays dynamic
      number 910, which may be utilized, for example, as part of a credit card number
      (e.g., with a static portion of a credit card number that proceeds dynamic number
20    910). Persons skilled in the art will appreciate that a dynamic number may take
      any forms such as, for example, a dynamic credit card number, a dynamic
      verification code number, and/or a dynamic security code number. For example,
      card 100 may include a dynamic credit card number and a dynamic verification
      code (e.g., a 15 digit credit card number and a 4 digit verification code).
25    [0232]    Identification information 920 may be provided on card 900.
      Accordingly, for example, a dynamic number may be provided for a particular
      period of time according to a coding scheme for that particular period of time.
      Thus, the identification information, time, and dynamic information may be
      transmitted via manual entry (e.g., through an online store) or via a magnetic
30    emulator (e.g., through a magnetic stripe reader). A remote server may receive
      such information and verify whether the dynamic information is correct for
      particular identification information and a particular period of time.

  WO 2009/082760                                                          PCT/US2008/088321
                                           51
      [0233]     Card 950 is provided and may include magnetic emulator 960 instead of
      magnetic stripe 970. Persons skilled in the art will appreciate that magnetic
      emulator 960 may be embedded behind a magnetic stripe or may be located next to
      a magnetic stripe. Magnetic emulator 960 may take many forms. For example,
 5    magnetic emulator 960 may include any number of emulation segments (e.g., one
      or more wires or coils) to emulate a particular bit or number of bits of information.
      [0234]     Emulator 960 may include a single emulation segment and may
      communicate a block of information serially by communicating bits at a high data
      transmission rate. Accordingly, a serial emulator may be provided.
10    [0235]    Emulator 960 may include multiple emulation segments - each of which
      may, for example, simultaneously emulate a different bit of information.
      Accordingly, a parallel emulator may be provided.
      [0236]    Emulator 960 may include multiple emulation segments - each of which
      may, for example, emulate the same bit of information. Accordingly, a serial
15    emulator may be provided. Such a serial emulator may, for example, allow for a
      larger area to be read by a reader. In doing so, for example, a read head may be
      located over emulator 160 for a longer period of time such that more information
      may be read by a read-head for a particular period of time.
      [0237]    FIG. 10 shows card 1000, which may include any number of emulators.
20    For example, card 1000 may include emulator 1010, 1020, and 1030. Each of
      emulators 1010, 1020, and 1030 may, for example, be a serial emulator. Such
      emulators may be vertically aligned or vertically staggered. Persons skilled in the
      art will appreciate that by providing multiple emulators, multiple tracks of a
      magnetic stripe may be simultaneously emulated.
25    [0238]    A magnetic stripe reader may, for example, determine information on a
      magnetic stripe by detecting the frequency of changes in magnetic fields (e.g., flux
      transversals). A particular frequency of flux transversals may correlate to, for
      example, a particular information state (e.g., a logic "1" or a logic "0").
      Accordingly, for example, a magnetic emulator may change the direction of an
30    electromagnetic field at particular frequencies in order to communicate a different
      state of information (e.g., a logic "1" or a logic "0").

  WO 2009/082760                                                           PCT/US2008/088321
                                           52
      [0239]    Persons skilled in the art will appreciate that a magnetic emulator may
      electromagnetically communicate information serially by changing the magnitude
      of an electromagnetic field with respect to time. As such, for example, a current in
      a single direction may be provided through a magnetic emulator in order for that
 5    magnetic emulator to generate an electromagnetic field of a single direction and a
      particular magnitude. The current may then be removed from the magnetic
      emulator such that, for example, the electromagnetic field is removed. The
      creation of a presence of an electromagnetic field, and the removal of that
      electromagnetic field, may be utilized to communicate information to, for example,
10    a magnetic stripe reader. A magnetic stripe reader may be configured to read, for
      example, the change in flux versus time and may associate an increase in an
      electromagnetic field (e.g., creation of a field) as one flux transversal and a
      decrease (e.g., removal of a field) as another transversal. In doing so, for example,
      driving circuitry (not shown) may be provided which, in turn, controls when
15    current is provided to a magnetic emulator. The timing of magnetic flux
      transversals, as determined by a magnetic stripe reader, may be utilized by that
      reader to determine whether a logic one ("1") or logic zero ("0") was
      communicated. Accordingly, a driving circuit may change the frequency of when
      current is supplied and removed from a magnetic emulator in order to
20    communicate a logic one ("1") or a logic zero ("0").
      [0240]    A driving circuit may, for example, change the direction of current
      supplied to a magnetic emulator to increase the amount of change in an
      electromagnetic field magnitude for a period of time. In doing so, for example, a
      magnetic stripe reader may more easily be able to discern overall changes in an
25    electromagnetic field and, as such, may more easily be able to discern information.
      As such, for example, a driving circuit may increase the magnitude of an
      electromagnetic field by providing negative current, decrease the amount of
      negative current until no current is provided and provide an increasing positive
      current in order to provide a large swing in the magnitude of an electromagnetic
30    field. Similarly, a driving circuit may switch from providing one amount of
      negative current (or positive current) to one amount of positive current (or negative
      current).

  WO 2009/082760                                                            PCT/US2008/088321
                                            53
      [0241]    Persons skilled in the art will appreciate that a string of a particular bit of
      data (e.g., a string of logic zeros "Os") may be communicated before as well as
      after information is communicated through a magnetic emulator. A magnetic
      stripe reader may utilize such data, for example, to determine base timing
 5    information such that the magnetic stripe reader has a timing reference that the
      reader can utilize to assist in determining timing changes of perceived flux
      transversals. Accordingly, for example, a magnetic emulator may send data at
      different overall frequencies and a magnetic stripe reader may be able to
      reconfigure itself to receive data at such overall frequencies. Information may be
10    encoded using, for example, Frequency/Double Frequency (F2F) encoding such
      that magnetic stripe readers may perform F2F decoding.
      [0242]    A processor may control one or more emulators by, for example,
      controlling the direction of the current supplied through one or more segments of
      an emulator. By changing the direction of current through a region, for example,
15    the direction of an electromagnetic field may be changed. Similarly, a processor
      may control one or more emulators by, for example, controlling the change in
      magnitude of current supplied through one or more segments of an emulator. As
      such, for example, a processor may increase the magnitude of current as well as
      decrease the magnitude of current supplied through an emulator. A processor may
20    control the timing of such increases and decreases in current such that a magnetic
      emulator may, for example, communicate F2F encoded information.
      [0243]     Card 250 may be provided and may include emulator 260. Emulator 260
      may be configured so that it can be read by more than one read heads. For
      example, emulator 260 may be configured so that it can be read by three read
25    heads. Accordingly, one region may be utilized to communicate the same
      information across all three read heads simultaneously. Emulator 260 may, for
      example, cycle through transmitting information from each track such that all
      tracks are communicated serially. Such tracks may be communicated with bits
      identifying each track such that processing connected to each read-head can
30    determine the information desired to be communicated to each particular read
      head. As such, a magnetic stripe reader may be configured to receive the multiple
      tracks (e.g., tracks 1 and 2) through each read-head such that the magnetic stripe

  WO 2009/082760                                                             PCT/US2008/088321
                                            54
      reader receives four tracks of data. The magnetic stripe reader may then, for
      example, utilize identification bits (e.g., start sentinels) in each track to identify the
      received track. Similarly, for example, the magnetic stripe reader may be
      configured to recognize that multiple instances of the same track were received and
 5    only forward a single instance of each received track to a processor. Persons
      skilled in the art will appreciate that different tracks may be communicated with
      the same identification bits. Accordingly, for example, a magnetic stripe reader
      may be configured to determine the identity of tracks by performing additional
      computations. For example, the magnetic stripe reader may be configured to check
10    all of the information sent in those tracks and, if the information is the same, a
      single instance may be provided to subsequent processing. Additionally, for
      example, the magnetic stripe reader may be configured to determine the length of
      tracks with the same identification bits (e.g., start sentinels) to determine whether
      different tracks were communicated. Similarly, a single emulator that sequentially
15    communicates multiple different tracks of information to a single read-head may,
      for example, change the timing of each communicated track such that processing
      coupled to the single read-head discerns just the single track that the read-head
      expected to receive.
      [0244]    Persons skilled in the art will appreciate that a magnetic stripe on a card
20    may be of a particular density having a fixed amount of bits. A serial emulator, for
      example, may communicate more than this fixed amount of bits by, for example,
      increasing the rate at which bits are serially communicated. A serial emulator may,
      for example, communicate a format code that a reader may utilize to discern the
      length of the communicated information. For example, a serial emulator may
25    communicate a track of information that is greater than, approximately, 750 bits in
      length, 1,000 bits in length, or 2,000 bits in length. Any number of bits may
      define, for example, a character (e.g., 4-bit characters, 5-bit characters, 6-bit
      characters, 7-bit characters, or 8-bit characters).
      [0245]     FIG. 11 shows card 1100 that may include structures to determine when
30    card 1100 is being read by a magnetic stripe reader. Card 1100 may include
      magnetic emulator 1140. For example, card 1100 may include button 1110 that
      may be pressed in order to initiate an emulator such as emulator 1140. Emulator

  WO 2009/082760                                                           PCT/US2008/088321
                                            55
      340 may be configured to turn ON while button 1110 is pressed. Alternatively, for
      example, emulator 1140 may be configured to turn ON when button 1110 is
      pressed for a particular period of time, to transmit a particular sequence of data
      (e.g., information including a number that changes with every button press), and/or
 5    a particular number of repetitions of a sequence of the same data. Persons skilled
      in the art will appreciate that if a button press of button 1110 is associated with
      turning emulator 1140 ON for a particular period (e.g., more than 1 second but less
      than 5 seconds) of time then, for example, emulator 1140 may only turn ON for a
      relatively short period of time (or not at all) when button 1110 is accidently
10    pressed down for a relatively long period of time. Inertial movement sensor 1120
      may be included to detect a swipe in order to initiate one or more emulators.
      Inertial movement sensor 1120 may include, for example, any number of
      accelerometers and/or gyroscopes. Read-head sensor 1130 may be included to
      detect when a read head of a magnetic stripe reader is about to pass over, or is
15    passing over, emulator 1140. Persons skilled in the art will appreciate that multiple
      read head sensors 1130 may be located (e.g., aligned vertically) adjacent to
      emulator 1140 as different sensors may detect different types of readers.
      Additionally, for example, one or more sensors may be placed on the other side of
      emulator 1140 such that emulator 1140 is sandwiched between sensors. In this
20    manner, for example, emulator 1140 may be triggered regardless of the direction
      that card 1100 is swiped. Sensors may include, for example, hall-effect sensors,
      capacitive sensors, and/or conductive material sensors. Conductive material
      sensors may detect conductive material by closing an electrical loop that uses the
      conductive material to close the electrical loop.
25    [0246]     Card 1150 may include emulator 360. Emulator 1160 may extend, for
      example, along the majority of the length of card 1150 (or approximately all of
      card 1150). Emulator 1160 may be a parallel emulator or, for example, may be a
      serial emulator. For example, emulator 1160 may be a coil such that a single bit is
      emulated by emulator 1160 at a time. Such an emulator 1180 may, for example,
30    switch bits being emulated at a high rate so that a read-head of a magnetic stripe
      reader can receive a large amount of information while the read-head of the
      magnetic stripe reader is located over emulator 1160.

  WO 2009/082760                                                           PCT/US2008/088321
                                           56
      [0247]    FIG. 12 shows emulators 1200, 1220, 1250, and 1270. Emulator 1200
      may include, for example, contacts 1201 and 1202 that may provide a current
      through conductive segments 1205, 1206, and 1207 in a particular direction.
      Particularly, for example, a voltage may be applied across contacts of a particular
 5    polarity to provide a current in a particular direction (given the particular resistance
      of the emulator). Driving circuitry may be coupled to one or more contacts for
      providing a particular current (e.g., of a particular direction and/or particular
      magnitude). Information may be communicated by, for example, supplying
      current to and emulator, and removing the current supply from the emulator, in a
10    fashion that results in communicating information to a magnetic stripe reader
      through electromagnetic fields provided by the emulator. Additional circuitry may
      be provided to control different attributes of an electrical signal provided to
      conductive segments 1205, 1206, and 1207. For example, a transistor may be
      provided to assist with controlling the magnitude of a current that reaches
15    conductive segments 1205, 1206, and 1207.
      [0248]    Emulator 1200 may be fabricated, for example, using any fabrication
      technique such as a printed circuit board fabrication technique (e.g., utilizing FR4).
      Via 1210 and via 1215 may be included to electrically couple conductive segments
       1205 and 1207 to conductive segment 1206. Accordingly, for example, conductive
20    segment 1206 may be provided at a different height then conductive segment 1205
      and conductive segment 1207 (e.g., with respect to a base). For example,
      conductive segments 1205 and 1207 may be provided one surface of a material
      while conductive segment 1206 is provided on another surface of a material.
      Segment 1205 and 1207 may be located closer to the reverse side of a card while
25    segment 1206 may be located closer to the obverse side of a card (or vise versa).
      Accordingly, for example, wire segments 1205, 1206, and 1207 may take on a
      three-dimensional shape and particular segments (e.g., wire segment 1206) may be
      closer to a particular surface than other segments. Persons skilled in the art will
      appreciate that segment 406 may be angled (e.g., with respect to a top or bottom
30    edge of a card) or may be in parallel (with respect to a top or bottom edge of a
      card). An emulator may include multiple instances of emulator 1200 coupled in,
      for example, a series configuration. Conductive segments on the same surface of a

  WO 2009/082760                                                         PCT/US2008/088321
                                           57
      material may be, for example, spaced uniformly on that surface. Accordingly, for
      example, a coil may be provided as an emulator with numerous turns and a current
      may be provided through that emulator such that an electromagnetic field is
      generated that is operable to be sensed by a magnetic stripe reader.
 5    [0249]    Persons skilled in the art will appreciate that numerous vias and line
      segments may be provided such that conductive segments are provided at several
      heights. Thus, for example, a coil may be fabricated on a multiple layer board.
      Emulator 1200 may be utilized, for example, to transmit information serially. For
      example, the direction of the electromagnetic field created by line segments 1205,
10    1206, and 1207 may be changed. Control circuitry may, in turn, change the
      direction of the electromagnetic field (e.g., by changing the direction of the
      current) at different frequencies such that a reader configured to detect the
      frequency of field reversals (e.g., using F2F decoding) can receive information. As
      such, emulator 1200 may communicate multiple bits of data serially by utilizing
15    line segments 1205, 1206, and 1207. Any number of line segments may be added.
      Additionally, for example, only a single conductive segment may be provided.
      Furthermore, multiple instances of emulator 1200 may be placed next to each other
      and may be separately controlled. In doing so, for example, multiple, independent
      electromagnetic fields may be controlled such that different information may be
20    emulated simultaneously (e.g., in parallel).
      [0250]    Conductive segments may, for example, be printed on a board (e.g., a
      flexible PCB board) in a conductive material (e.g., a metal). Similarly, vias may
      be provided and filled to provide conductive interconnects. Multiple layers may be
      printed to provide a three-dimensional PCB. Persons skilled in the art will
25    appreciate, however, that an emulator may be provided on a single layer with any
      number of conductive segments (e.g., one or more than one).
      [0251]    Emulator 1220 may be provided and may include conductive segment
      array 1223. Person skilled in the art will appreciate that conductive segment array
      1223 may be fabricated in multiple layers to form a coil. Accordingly, the coil
30    may be provided with a current of a particular direction and may generate an
      associated electromagnetic field across the coil. Additionally, for example, current
      may be provided and removed from emulator 1220 to communicate information.

  WO 2009/082760                                                            PCT/US2008/088321
                                           58
      In extending the length of an array (e.g., adding more segments or increasing the
      space of segments), the amount of time a read head is operable to read information
      from an array may be increased.
      [0252]    Emulator 1250 may be provided and may include contacts 1251 and 1252
 5    to provide a current (e.g., a current of a particular direction) to conductive segment
      array 1253. Persons skilled in the art will appreciate that conductive segments in
      array 1253 may be coupled to vias that are not horizontally aligned with one
      another. Accordingly, the vias may be staggered. In doing so, for example, the
      conductive segments may be spaced closer together as vias may be spaced closer
10    together. For example, by staggering the lengths of line segments, vias 1254 and
       1255 may be able to be provided at larger densities. In turn, a coil may be
      provided with an increased number of turns.
      [0253]    Emulator 1270 may be provided and may include array 471 controlled by
      contacts 1272 and 1273. Vertical conductive segments may, for example, be
15    controlled together or may be controlled independently (e.g., by having a separate
      pair of contacts for each vertical conductive segment). Components may be
      provided on each segment in order to, for example, provide current through each
      segment. For example, resistors may be added to each segment. The resistors of
      each segment may be different. For example, the resistance of each segment may
20    be configured to be substantially equal. Multiple emulators may be utilized on a
      structure (e.g., a card or other device) to communicate to, for example,
      communicate to different read heads or the same read head.
      [0254]    FIG. 13 shows flow charts 1310, 1320, and 1330. Flow chart 1310 may
      be utilized in a card or any other device (e.g., a token or personal electronic
25    device). Step 510 may be utilized to transmit a first block of data (e.g., track 1
      credit card information). Step 512 may then receive an indication to switch the
      data block that is being communicated. Such a switch may be done autonomously
      through processing logic or manually through a manual interface such as a button.
      Step 1313 may provide a second block of data (e.g., track 2 credit card
30    information). In this manner, for example, an emulator may provide different
      types of data in different types of formats and at different data block lengths.

  WO 2009/082760                                                            PCT/US2008/088321
                                            59
      [0255]     Flow chart 1320 may be provided and may include step 1321, in which a
      signal is received to initiate a transmission. Such a transmission may take the form
      of an emulation and may be triggered autonomously through software (e.g., the
      detection of a read head) or manually through a manual interface (e.g., one or more
 5    buttons). Step 1322 may initiate and repeatedly send a block of data serially. Step
       1323 may initiate and a signal may be received to end a transmission. Such a
      signal may be provided, for example, autonomously through software (e.g., the
      detection of a read-head by a second detector circuit after an emulator) or manually
      through a manual interface (e.g., on or more buttons. Transmission may be ended
10    in step 1324.
      [0256]    Persons skilled in the art will appreciate that a read-head detector may be
      utilized to cause a magnetic emulator to, for example, transmit a block of
      information serially (e.g., payment information) once each time the read-head
      detector senses a read-head. Alternatively, for example, a read-head detector may
15    be utilized to cause a magnetic emulator to, serially transmit the same block of
      information repeatedly a particular number of times or for a particular period of
      time. Pauses may be introduced between transmissions of the block of information
      (e.g., payment information). Any dynamic magnetic communications device (e.g.,
      one or more emulators and/or encoders) may be utilized based on the readings of
20    one or more read-head detectors.
      [0257]     Flow chart 1330 may be provided. Step 1331 may, for example, change
      the coding of a number based on time (e.g., may code a credit card number
      differently with respect to time). Accordingly, a number may be changed based on
      the changed coding in step 532. The coded block may be transmitted in step 533.
25    Persons skilled in the art will appreciate that a number (e.g., a dynamic number)
      may be provided visual via a display as well as magnetically via an emulator.
      Such a visual and emulation display may occur simultaneously. A different
      manual interface may be utilized (e.g., a different button) to turn a display ON or
      to turn an emulator ON.
30    [0258]    Persons skilled in the art will appreciate that a particular magnetic stripe
      track (e.g., track 2 of a payment card such as a credit card) may have a particular
      amount of information at a particular density and in a particular format. For

  WO 2009/082760                                                          PCT/US2008/088321
                                            60
      example, an emulator may transmit 40 characters, where each character is
      represented by 5 bits, by transmitting 200 bits. A magnetic stripe may include a
      track with, for example, 400 magnetic regions that may represent a maximum of
      approximately 400 flux reversals. Persons skilled in the art will appreciate that,
 5    furthering this example, with serial transmission, all 400 flux reversals (or more)
      may be transmitted by a single region. If start bits are utilized in a data block,
      then, for example, the data block may be repeatedly sent and resent and be
      properly utilized by a reader. For example, if a reader picks up a serial
      transmission in the middle of a transmission, the reader may not recognize the start
10    bits and may wait until a start bits are received. Thus, an emulator may be driven
      such that it can, for example, send a data block approximately at least twice (e.g.,
      approximately 800 associated flux reversals if a block is associated with 400 flux
      reversals) while a read-head of a magnetic stripe reader is operable to
      communicate with an emulator (e.g., the read-head is located over the emulator).
15    In doing so, for example, an emulator may be able to transmit a block regardless of
      when a read head starts reading a block.
      [0259]    A magnetic stripe reader may, for example, be configured such that it is
      able to sense approximately at least 30,000 flux changes per second. Accordingly,
      an emulator region may transmit, for example, two blocks of information (e.g., of
20    400 transversals) to such a reader in approximately 0.0266 seconds. If, for
      example, the region is approximately 1mm wide, the user may be operable to
      swipe at approximately .037 meters/second (approximately 1.5 inches/second) and
      the information may be communicated to a reader. If, for example, the region is
      approximately 5mm wide, the user may swipe at approximately 7.5 inches/second
25    and the information may be communicated to a reader. Persons skilled in the art
      will appreciate that larger currents may be utilized to drive larger regions. Persons
      skilled in the art will appreciate that users may be able to swipe at a variety of
      speeds, and may change the speed of the swipe while a card is being read by a
      reader, and an emulator may still properly transmit information via emulation. An
30    emulator may be provided, for example, such that a user may swipe at speeds up to
      at least approximately 0.5, 1, 5, 10 feet/second for a particular reader (e.g., a reader
      operable of reader 30,000 flux changes a second).

  WO 2009/082760                                                           PCT/US2008/088321
                                           61
      [0260]    Persons skilled in the art will appreciate that a number of manufacturing
      techniques may be utilized. An emulator may provide a uniform field for a
      particular distance about the surface of a card, but may be able to rapidly change
      the direction of the field. A coil may be provided using a two-layer or several
 5    layer PCB techniques. Persons skilled in the art will appreciate that the width of a
      conductive segment (e.g., a wire trace) may be approximately 0.003 inches (or
      larger) and the diameter of vias connecting layers may be approximately 0.008
      inches (or larger). Additionally, for example, a pattern of concentric rectangles
      may be utilized to produce a desired field in serial (or in parallel, for example, if
10    multiple are utilized) transmission scheme. A single trace may also be split into
      multiple parallel traces that collective generate a desired field pattern.
      [0261]    FIG. 14 shows card 1400 that may include a display that may display
      dynamic number 1410, which may be utilized, for example, as a credit card
      number or as part of a credit card number (e.g., with a static portion of a credit card
15    number that proceeds dynamic number 1410). Persons skilled in the art will
      appreciate that a dynamic number may take any forms such as, for example, a
      dynamic credit card number, a dynamic verification code number, and/or a
      dynamic security code number. For example, card 1400 may include a dynamic
      credit card number and a dynamic verification code (e.g., a 15 digit credit card
20    number and a 4 digit verification code or a 16 digit credit card number and a 3 digit
      code).
      [0262]    Identification information 1420 may be provided on card 1400.
      Accordingly, for example, a dynamic number may be provided for a particular
      period of time according to a coding scheme for that particular period of time.
25    Thus, the identification information, time, and dynamic information may be
      transmitted via manual entry of that information (e.g., through a payment
      information input process on an online store) or via a magnetic emulator (e.g.,
      through an in-store magnetic stripe reader). A remote server may receive such
      information and verify whether the dynamic information is correct for particular
30    identification information and a particular period of time. A remote server may
      look at particular parts of a payment number (e.g., a static portion of a payment
      card number) and may determine whether another part of that payment number

  WO 2009/082760                                                           PCT/US2008/088321
                                           62
      (e.g., a dynamic number) is valid for that particular part for a particular period of
      time. A number, or portion of a number, may be changed based on use (e.g., as a
      result of a user pressing a button or a read-head detector determining the presence
      of a magnetic stripe read-head).
 5    [0263]     Input buttons 1430-1439 may be provided such that manual input may be
      received and processed by card 100. Manual input buttons 1430-1439 may be
      utilized in a variety of ways. For example, an individual may be issued with a
      private personal identification number (PIN) to turn the card ON and/or to activate
      a feature. Thus, buttons 1430-1439 may be utilized to confirm that the individual
10    issued the card is utilizing the card and its various features. In doing so with a
      credit card, for example, the amount of fraud associated with physical card theft
      may be minimized. Accordingly, a dynamic credit card number may be generated
      (e.g., coded) upon successful entry of an appropriate PIN. Additionally, for
      example, manual input keys 1430-1439 may be used to navigate through a list of
15    options or initiate features. For example, button 1430 may turn card 1400
      ON/OFF. Button 1431 may turn display 1410 ON/OFF. Button 1432 may turn an
      emulator located on card 100 ON/OFF. Persons skilled in the art will appreciate
      that a credit card number may be coded based on time and transmitted with an
      identification number to a verification server. In turn, the verification server may
20    decode the number based on time and identification number to verify, for example,
      a credit card transaction.
      [0264]     Card 1450 may include button 1460 which may, for example, be in the
      form of an aperture. For example the aperture may be defined in material 171 and
      may include sensors 1472 to 1473 to determine if a user presses around the
25    aperture. Accordingly, a person pinching the aperture with two fingers may cause
      an electrical connection between sensors 1472 and 1473 via the skin of two fingers
      touching via the aperture. Accordingly, for example, pinching may result in the
      recognition of the activation of a button while just touching one side may not cause
      the activation of a button. In doing so, the number of times a button may become
30    active by accident (e.g., while in a user's wallet) may be decreased.

  WO 2009/082760                                                          PCT/US2008/088321
                                           63
      [0265]    Card 1500 includes buttons 1531-1540. Buttons 1531-1540 may be
      aligned vertically or horizontally (e.g., with respect to the bottom of a card)or, for
      example, substantially in a block or circle.
      [0266]    Card 1550 may include buttons 1571-1575, which may be aligned, for
 5    example, in the shape of a directional up-down/left-right pad with a centralized
      button. Accordingly, buttons 1571-1575 may be used to navigate through a list of
      options. Accordingly, for example, display 1560 may include multiple lines of
      alphanumeric text and buttons 1571-1575 may be used to navigate through the test.
      Additionally, a personal identification code may be provided and may be entered
10    via buttons 1517-1575 (e.g., 'A-B-B-D-E-A' may be entered to turn the card ON
      or turn a feature ON.
      [0267]    Card 1600 may be included with buttons 310-319. Buttons 1610-1619
      may also be associated with digits 0-8, respectively. Another button may be added
      and associated with, for example, digit 9 such that a digit-based keypad is
15    provided. A digit may be pressed multiple times in succession such that
      alphanumeric data may be entered. Button 1610 may be utilized to request a new
      card. In pressing button 1610, or any button, information representative of this
      request may be displayed so that the information may be entered online or
      transmitted through a reader via a magnetic emulator. The receipt of such
20    information may cause the desired action to occur (e.g., a new card may be sent).
      [0268]    Button 1611 may be pressed to display and/or emulate identification
      information associated with the user of the card (or allow a user to
      LOGIN/LOGOUT of the card so that multiple users can utilize the card). Button
      312 may be used to unlock the card. For example, button 312 may be pressed, then
25    a personal identification code may be entered, then button 312 may be pressed
      again. If the correct personal identification code was entered, for example, then a
      feature (e.g., card unlocking) may occur. A process may, for example, include
      determining if button 312 is pressed and the entrance of a correct personal
      identification code without, for example, determining a subsequent entry of button
30    312. Such a process may, for example, allow a user to expedite entry of a personal
      identification code. If a user enters an incorrect personal identification code, for
      example, nothing may happen or the user may be prompted, via the display, to re-

  WO 2009/082760                                                          PCT/US2008/088321
                                           64
      enter the code. After a particular amount of time waiting for the next manual input
      for a code, the processor may return to looking for the first manual input
      representative of a correct code (e.g., after 5 seconds). After an incorrect code is
      received, a processor may return to looking for the entry of the first manual input
 5    representative of a correct code (e.g., the first button of an appropriate code).
      Moreover, for example, a particular number of codes entered in error may
      permanently lock the card or may lock the card until a period of time has passed
      (e.g., 5 minutes). Button 313 may be added to present the 1800 number for the
      card on the display. Button 314 may be utilized to show, as well as magnetically
10    emulate the a dynamic number (e.g., the dynamic credit card number for a period
      of time and for a particular person). Button 1615 may be utilized for to lock a
      card. Button 1616 may be utilized to transmit, for example, an emergency alert
      such as an alert that the card is about to be stolen or someone is in trouble (and
      may, for example, be transmitted upon swiping of a card). Button 1617 may be
15    utilized to display/magnetically emulate battery status. Button 318 may be utilized
      to turn the card ON/OFF. Persons skilled in the art will appreciate that, for
      example, additional information (e.g., alerts, battery information, card replacement
      requests) may be communicated as discretionary data in communicated payment
      information or may be communicated in a separate information transmission.
20    Similarly, such information may be embedded in non-discretionary data
      information in communicated payment information.
      [0269]     Card 1650 may be utilized. Buttons 1660-1668 may be provided.
      Buttons 1660, 1663, and 1666 may each be associated with a different coding
      scheme. Pressing button 1660, 1663, and 1666 may cause a number (e.g., credit
25    card or security number) to be generated differently. Thus, for example, a
      company may issue security cards and may associate different button switch
      different levels of security or may rotate between the coding schemes or may allow
      for a new coding scheme to be used if a coding scheme is compromised. Button
       1661 may be utilized to upload information at upload locations (e.g., upload new
30    software). Accordingly, circuitry may be included to receive information from a
      swipe.

  WO 2009/082760                                                         PCT/US2008/088321
                                           65
      [0270]     Button 1664 may be utilized to destroy a card (e.g., burn out
      components). Persons skilled in the art will appreciate that the functions of various
      buttons may be triggered autonomously upon particular determinations of a
      processor. For example, a processor may determine that someone is trying to
 5    break through the casing of a component (e.g., a memory) and may autonomously
      burn out components or perform other tasks (e.g., erase memory) as a result of the
      determinations. A processor may write information to a memory when the
      processor detects an fraudulent attack on a card by, for example, erasing a portion
      of data (e.g., payment card number(s)), erasing all of the data, or changing the data
10    (e.g., replace a payment card number with a number indicative of a fraudulent
      activity) on a memory.
      [0271]     Button 1667 may be utilized to show time (e.g., the current time) on a
      display. A clock may be provided on card 1650 such that time may be kept. Such
      a clock may be provided with its own battery such that the clock may continue to
15    keep track of time even when, for example, a processor is OFF. Persons skilled in
      the art will appreciate that a card may be ON when the card is delivered to a user
      but that a processor may be in a hibernation mode. Accordingly, for example, an
      ON/OFF button (or an unlock code) may wake that processor out of such a
      hibernation mode.
20    [0272]     Button 1663 may be utilized to record (e.g., store in memory), display on
      a display, and communicate through a dynamic magnetic communications device
      (e.g., a magnetic emulator or encoder) a location of the card or a history of
      locations of a card. Accordingly, for example, a locating device (e.g., GPS
      receiver) may be provided on a card. A transmitter may be provided that may
25    communicate a signal that multiple remote receivers may receive (e.g., mobile
      phone base stations) such that the location of a card may be determined (e.g., via a
      triangulation process).
      [0273]     Button 1665 may be utilized to change the unlocking preferences (e.g.,
      change a personal identification code). For example, a user may be prompted to
30    enter the user's current personal identification code, then be prompted to enter the
      user's new personal identification code, and then be prompted to confirm entry of
      the user's new personal identification code. If the two new personal identification

  WO 2009/082760                                                         PCT/US2008/088321
                                          66
      codes match, then, for example, the personal identification code for a user may be
      changed. A card may be provided with a default personal identification code.
      Button 1668 may be utilized on turn a card ON/OFF.
      [0274]    FIG. 17 shows card 1700 which may include buttons 1710-1718. Button
 5     1710 may include a calorie tracker such that a user can enter in calories he/she eats
      per day. Thus, whenever a card is swiped via a magnetic stripe reader, or
      otherwise communicates data to a card reader or device, the calorie information
      may be entered into a database which can be utilized to populate a webpage (e.g., a
      calorie tracker webpage).
10    [0275]    Button 1713 may be utilized as a medicine tracker (e.g., to track the type
      and number of pills taken). Information may be displayed on display 1701 that a
      user may enter such that the information may be associated with information
      entered by a user. For example, display 401 may provide an alphanumeric word
      "A342F2432S" that may be associated with, for example, 100 calories for
15    breakfast and 300 calories for lunch on December 12, 2007. This word may be
      entered on a website such that the information associated with the word may be
      used to populate the website (e.g., the calorie tracker).
      [0276]    Button 1716 may be used to display identification information (e.g., name
      and phone number of card user). Accordingly, for example, someone that finds
20    card 1700 may press button 1716 to determine the owner of card 1716 as well as
      other information (e.g., phone number and email address).
      [0277]    Button 1711 may be used for payment. Accordingly, for example, a
      payment number may be displayed on a display (along with additional payment
      data such as a payment security code). A dynamic magnetic communications
25    device (or other device operable to communicate to a card reader) may also
      transmit information that includes such a payment number and additional payment
      data.
      [0278]    Button 1714 may be used for security (e.g., an online login).
      Accordingly, for example, a user may press button 1714 and may be provided with
30    a code (e.g., an access security code) such that the user may enter particular
      portions of a website (e.g., a webpage associated with a user's banking account).
      Such an access code may be displayed to a user such that a user may enter the code

  WO 2009/082760                                                          PCT/US2008/088321
                                           67
      into a keypad at a lock such that the lock is opened upon received of the correct
      code. Similarly, such an access security code may be, for example, communicated
      via a dynamic magnetic communications device (e.g., a magnetic emulator or
      magnetic encoder) as well as other reader communications devices (e.g., RFIDs
 5    and IC chips such as EMV chips). Such codes may change based on time or based
      on use (e.g., every time button 1714 is pressed by a user).
      [0279]     Button 1717 may be used to magnetically emulate information by holding
      button 1716 such that data may be communicated via a magnetic emulator to a
      magnetic stripe reader. For example, button 1710 may be pressed and then button
10     1717 may be pressed to emulate information associated with a calorie tracker.
      Button 1712 may be used, for example, to turn card 400 ON/OF and/or
      UNLOCK/LOCK card 1700. Button 1715 may be utilized as an emergency alert
      (e.g., a panic button). Accordingly, for example, a student may press emergency
      button 415 and swipe his/her card into a magnetic stripe reader and the appropriate
15    authorities (e.g., police) may be alerted of the magnetic stripe reader, and its
      location, from which an emergency was initiated (and the identity of the person
      that initiated an emergency. In this manner, a police button, firefighter button, and
      ambulance button may be utilized.
      [0280]     Alternatively, for example, a doctor button, a nurse button, or a food
20    button may be utilized for hospital cards. Button 1718 may be utilized to display
      information on display 1701 while the button is pressed. Accordingly, for
      example, calorie tracker 410 may be utilized and then button 418 may be pressed
      to display information associated with calorie tracker 410.
      [0281]     FIG. 17 shows card 1750 that may include, for example, buttons 1761
25     1769. Button 1761 may be used to display, as well as magnetically communicate
      via a magnetic emulator to a magnetic stripe reader, school identification
      information. Button 462 may be utilized to display, as well as communicate
      through a dynamic magnetic communications device, school credit information.
      Button 464 may be utilized to display, as well as communicate through a dynamic
30    magnetic communications device, website login information. Button 1767 may be
      utilized to display emulate, for example, time information. Button 1766 may be
      utilized to show alerts that are received. For example, a receiver may be included

  WO 2009/082760                                                           PCT/US2008/088321
                                           68
      in a card that may receive wireless alerts. Accordingly, for example, students may
      be alerted of a school-related risk/danger/information (e.g., bomb threat, fire, or
      school cancelled due to snow) and may be shown this information via display
       1751. Button 1751 may be utilized to show, for example, the most recent alert
 5    and/or scroll through alerts. Button 1769 may be utilized, for example, to turn card
       1750 ON/OFF and/or UNLOCK/LOCK card 1750.
      [0282]    FIG. 18 shows flow charts 1810, 1820, and 1830. Flow chart 1810 may
      include, for example, step 1811, in which private input (e.g., private identification
      information) is received. This information may be confirmed, for example, in step
10     1812. Additionally, confirmation of the correct private number may turn a card
      ON (e.g., allow information to be displayed/emulated) in step 1813.
      [0283]    Flow chart 1820 may be included. Step 1821 may be provided, in which,
      for example, private input is received for a particular feature. This input may be
      confirmed in step 1822. Accordingly, for example, a feature may be turned ON in
15    step 1823. Flow chart 1830 may be included. Step 1831 may be provided, in
      which input indicative of a particular coding scheme is received. A number (e.g.,
      website login and/or credit card) may be coded or generated (e.g., from a hash
      table associated with a particular input) in step 1823. The coded, generated, and/or
      retrieved information may be displayed and/or communicated through a magnetic
20    emulator in step 1833.
      [0284]    Flow chart 1840 may be provided and may be utilized, for example, in
      conjunction with a medical card and medical information retrieval system. For
      example, medical information may be stored on the memory of a card. Such
      medical information may be, for example, a user's height, weight, eye color, blood
25    type, previous medical conditions, previous medications taken, current medical
      conditions, current medications taken, allergies, doctor contact information, as well
      as contact information for an emergency contact person.
      [0285]    Persons skilled in the art will appreciate that a user may control access to
      the user's medical information by, for example, keeping the medical information in
30    his/her pocket and under his/her control at all times. (e.g., similar to the protection
      afforded to car keys and house keys). In the case of an emergency (e.g., a car
      accident), first responders may look for the user's medical card in order to gain

  WO 2009/082760                                                            PCT/US2008/088321
                                            69
      access to the user's medical information. Such a medical card may take the form
      of, for example, an identification card (e.g., a driver's license or passport). A
      sticker may be placed on a card or device (e.g., a mobile telephone or identification
      card) stating that a user has a medical card in his/her wallet (e.g., as well as the
 5    location of the card such as on the left-hand side of the wallet). A medical card
      may, for example, be taken by a first responder and may display a passcode for the
      responder to enter onto a website in order for the responder to obtain the user's
      medical information. Identification information may be permanently displayed on
      the card (e.g., printed or embossed) and this identification may be entered into a
10    website along with a user. Instructions for accessing the medical information may
      be printed or embossed on a card or other device. Such an access security code
      may, for example, change based on time or use (e.g., press of a particular button or
      particular buttons). A first responder may be prompted by a website, for example,
      to enter in a responder's username and password such that the responder can be
15    identified as a responder that may access the medical information of a user.
      Medical information stored on a remote server may include, for example, pictures
      (e.g., of a birth certificate and bodily parts at various times), x-rays, medical
      reports, as well as any other type of medical information. A medical card may also
      store such images and other data.
20    [0286]     Flow chart 1840 may include, for example, a card (or other device)
      providing a medical access code in step 1841. Step 1842 may be included, in
      which a medical access code is verified (e.g., on a remote server). Step 1843 may
      be provided, in which medical information for a user may be provided as the result
      of the verification of a correct access code. An access code may be, for example, a
25    five, six, seven, or eight digit code (e.g., "834699"). Persons skilled in the art will
      appreciate that a card may include, for example, medical information. Such
      medical information may be displayed, for example, by a user pressing a particular
      button. The information may be scrolled left/right as well as up/down using the
      same button or additional buttons. For example, a first line of data may be "Blood
30    Type: B" and a second line of data that can be scrolled down to using a button may
      be "Allergies: None"

  WO 2009/082760                                                          PCT/US2008/088321
                                          70
      [0287]    Flow chart 1850 may be provided. Step 1851 may be provided, in which
      a user may go to a website or a graphical user interface on a device and enter in
      his/her emergency medical information. Such information may be, for example,
      pre-populated with the websites prior knowledge as to the user's emergency
 5    medical information. Such information may be changed by a user. The entry of
      medical information may take many forms. For example, the entry of medical
      information may be done through the selection of options. For example, a user
      may be provided with a list of allergies and may select those allergies that apply to
      a user. A user may then, for example, generate a code in step 1852. Such a code
10    may be, for example, associated with the particular combination of selections that
      user made. A user may then, for example, enter this code into his/her medical card
      using buttons on that medical card. In this manner, the medical card may include
      data on a memory that may recognize the code and may display, at a user's request,
      the medical information associated with that code (e.g., step 1854). Accordingly,
15    for example, a user may customize and update his/her payment card without
      having to connect the user's payment card to a computer (e.g., via a USB port). A
      card may wait for a request for emergency medical information (e.g., step 1855)
      and may provide the emergency medical information as a result of receiving the
      request (e.g., step 1856).
20    [0288]    FIG. 19 shows card 1900 which may include buttons 1911, 1914, and
       1917. Button 1911 may be utilized for virtual attendance. A user may press button
       1911 and transmit identification information (e.g., either wirelessly or via a
      magnetic emulator) to a server such that attendance may be recorded. Similarly,
      button 1914 may be utilized to provide a virtual answer to a question. For
25    example, button 1914 may be pressed, a button associated with answer "B" may be
      pressed, button 1914 may be pressed again, and then a card may be swiped and
      information associated with the answer transmitted (e.g., via a magnetic emulator)
      to a server for further processing. Buttons 1921-625 may be utilized, for example,
      to enter responses into a card so that the responses may be displayed visually or
30    communicated via a magnetic emulator.
      [0289]    Card 1950 may be provided with buttons 1970-679 and 1981-1986.
      Button 1981 may be utilized, for example, to display medical information on a

  WO 2009/082760                                                          PCT/US2008/088321
                                           71
      display of card 1950. Button 1982 may be utilized, for example, to prompt a
      processor on card 1950 that a code associated with medical information is about to
      be entered. Button 1983 may be utilized, for example, to provide (e.g., via a
      display) a code for accessing a user's online medical record. Button 1984 may be
 5    utilized, for example, to communicate information (e.g., insurance information) in
      one format to a particular hospital that accepts that format. Button 1985 may be
      utilized, for example, to communicate the same information (e.g., the same
      insurance information) in a different format to a different hospital that accepts that
      different format. Button 1986 may be utilized to turn a card ON/OFF.
10    [0290]    FIG. 20 shows personal electronic device 2000 which may be, for
      example, a portable telephonic device, portable media player, or any type of
      electronic device. Persons skilled in the art will appreciate that the functionality of
      a card may be provided on a personal device and displayed through a graphical
      user interface. Personal electronic device 2000 may include, for example, user
15    inputs 2040 and display 2010. Virtual card 2020 may be displayed on display
      2020. Display 2020 may be a touch-sensitive display such that, for example,
      virtual button 2030 may be provided on virtual card 2020. Persons skilled in the
      art will appreciate that cards may be provided as virtual cards and a user may
      interact with such virtual cards in order to provide a variety of functions. Personal
20    electronic device 2000 may communicate to a card reader such as, for example, an
      RFID reader.
      [0291]    FIG. 21 shows card 2100 that includes printed information 2111 and
      2120, displays 2112 and 2113, and buttons 2130-2134. Card2100 maybe, for
      example, a payment card such as a credit card, debit card, and/or gift card.
25    Payment information, such as a credit/debit card number may be provided as static
      information 2111, dynamic information 2112 and/or 2113, or any combination
      thereof.
      [0292]     For example, a particular number of digits of a credit card number (e.g.,
      the last 3 digits) may be provided as dynamic information. Such dynamic
30    information may be changed periodically (e.g., once every hour). Information may
      be changed via, for example, encryption. Software may be provided at, for
      example, the payment verification servers that verifies the dynamic information for

  WO 2009/082760                                                         PCT/US2008/088321
                                          72
      each period of time such that a payment can be validated and processed for a
      particular user. A user may be identifies using, for example, static information that
      is used to form a credit card number or other static information (e.g., information
      2120). Additionally, identification information may be derived (e.g., embedded) in
 5    dynamic information. Persons skilled in the art will appreciate that a credit card
      number may have, for example, a length of 15 or 16 digits. A credit card number
      may also have a length of up to 19 digits. A verification code may be used with
      some payment systems and such a verification code may be provided statically on
      the card or may be provided as dynamic information. Such a verification code may
10    be provided on a second display located on, for example, the front or rear surface
      of card 2100. Alternatively, a verification code may be displayed on the same
      display as other dynamic information (e.g., dynamic information 2112). A display
      may be, for example, a flexible electronic ink display. Such a flexible electronic
      ink display may, for example, utilize power to change displayed information, but
15    may not utilize power to display information after the information is changed.
      [0293]     Card 2150 may be provided. Card 2150 may include static magnetic
      stripe tracks 2153 and 2152. A magnetic emulator may be provided as device
      2151. Device 2151 may be operable to electrically couple with a read-head of a
      magnetic stripe reader. Persons skilled in the art will appreciate that a read-head
20    housing of a magnetic stripe reader may be provided with one, two, or three active
      read-heads that are operable to each couple with a separate magnetic track of
      information. A reader may also have more than one read-head housing and each
      read-head housing may be provided with one, two, or three active read-heads that
      are operable to each couple with a separate magnetic track of information. Such
25    read-head housings may be provided different surfaces of a magnetic stripe reader.
      For example, the read-head housings may be provided on opposite walls of a
      trough sized to accept payment cards. Accordingly, the devices on the opposite
      sides of the trough may be able to read a credit card regardless of the direction that
      the credit card was swiped.
30    [0294]    A magnetic emulator may be provided and may be positioned on card
      2150 such that when card 2150 is swiped through a credit card reader, the magnetic
      emulator passes underneath, or in the proximity of, a read-head for a particular

  WO 2009/082760                                                          PCT/US2008/088321
                                           73
      magnetic track. An emulator may be large enough to simultaneously pass beneath,
      or in the proximity of, multiple read-heads. Information may be transmitted, for
      example, serially to one or more read-heads. Information from different tracks of
      data may also be transmitted serially and the magnetic stripe reader may determine
 5    the different data received by utilize the starting and/or ending sentinels that define
      the information for each track. A magnetic emulator may also transmit a string of
      leading and/or ending zeros such that a magnetic reader may utilize such a string of
      zeros to provide self-clocking. In doing so, for example, information may be
      transmitted serially at high speeds to a magnetic stripe reader. For example, credit
10    card information may be transmitted to a magnetic stripe reader at speeds up to,
      and greater than, 30Khz).
      [0295]     Different emulators may be provided, and positioned, on card 2150 to
      each couple with a different read-head and each emulator may provide different
      track information to those different read-heads. Read-head detectors may be
15    utilized to detect when a read-head is over an emulator such that an emulator is
      controlled by a processor to operate when a read-head detector detects the
      appropriate presence of a read-head. In doing so, power may be saved.
      Additionally, the read-head detector may detect how many read-heads are reading
      the card and, accordingly, only communicate with the associated emulators. In
20    doing so, additional power may be conserved. Accordingly, an emulator may be
      utilized to communicate dynamic information to a magnetic stripe reader. Such
      dynamic information may include, for example, dynamic payment card
      information that changes based on time.
      [0296]    A static magnetic stripe may be provide to transmit data for one or more
25    tracks to a magnetic strip reader where dynamic information is not desired. Card
      2150, for example, may include static magnetic track 2153 and static magnetic
      track 2152. Information on static magnetic tracks 2152 and 2153 may be encoded
      via a magnetic stripe encoder. Device 2151 may include an emulator such that
      dynamic information may be communicated through emulator 2151. Any
30    combination of emulators and static magnetic tracks may be utilized for a card or
      device.

  WO 2009/082760                                                          PCT/US2008/088321
                                           74
      [0297]     One or more batteries, such as flexible lithium polymer, batteries may be
      utilized to form card 2100. Such batteries may be electrically coupled in a serial
      combination to provide a source of power to the various components of card 2100.
      Alternatively, separate batteries may provide power to different components of
 5    card 2100. For example, a battery may provide power to a processor and/or
      display of card 2100, while another battery provides a source of energy to one or
      more magnetic emulators of card 2100. In doing so, for example, a processor may
      operate even after the battery that supplies power to an emulator completely
      discharges. Accordingly, the processor may provide information to another
10    component of card 2100. For example, the processor may display information on a
      display to indicate to a user that the magnetic emulator is not longer operational
      due to power exhaustion. Batteries may be, for example, rechargeable and
      contacts, or other devices, may be provided on card 2100 such that the battery may
      be recharged.
15    [0298]     Buttons (e.g., buttons 2130-2134) may be provided on a card. Such
      buttons may allow a user to manually provide information to a card. For example,
      a user may be provided with a personal identification code (e.g., a PIN) and such a
      personal identification code may be required to be manually inputted into a card
      using the buttons in order for the card to operate in a particular manner. For
20    example, the use of a magnetic emulator or the use of a display may require a
      personal identification code.
      [0299]    By dynamically changing a portion of a user's credit card number, for
      example, credit card fraud is minimized. By allowing the dynamic information to
      displayed visually to a user, and changed magnetically on a card, user behavior
25    change is minimized (with respect to a credit card with completely static
      information). By requiring the use of a personal identification code, the fraud
      associated with lost or stolen credit cards is minimized. Fraud associated with
      theft/loss is minimized as third party users do not know the personal identification
      code needed to operate particular aspects of a credit card with dynamic
30    information.
      [0300]    FIG. 22 shows card 2200. Card 2200 may include, for example, static
      magnetic stripe track 2203, static magnetic stripe track 2201, and magnetic

  WO 2009/082760                                                          PCT/US2008/088321
                                            75
      emulator 2202 sandwiched between read-head detectors 2204 and 2205. A read
      head detector may, for example, be provided as a circuit that detects, for example,
      changes in capacitance or mechanical coupling to a conductive material. Processor
      2220 may be provided to, for example, receive information from read-head
 5    detectors 2204 and 2205 and control emulator 2202. Persons skilled in the art will
      appreciate that processor 2220 may cause a current to flow through a coil of
      emulator 2202 in a different direction to produce different electromagnetic fields.
      The transitions between the different electromagnetic fields may be sensed by a
      magnetic stripe reader as information. Accordingly, a magnetic emulator may
10    transmit data serially while a read-head is electrically coupled with a magnetic
      reader.
      [0301]    RFID antenna 2210 may be provided on card 2200. Such an RFID
      antenna may be operable to transmit information provided by processor 2220. In
      doing so, for example, processor 2220 may communicate with an RFID device
15    using RFID antenna 2210 and may communicate with a magnetic stripe reader
      using magnetic emulator 2204. Both RFID antenna 2210 and magnetic emulator
      2204 may be utilized to communicate payment card information (e.g., credit card
      information) to a reader. Processor 2240 may also be coupled to display 2240 such
      that dynamic information can be displayed on display 2240. Button array 2230
20    may also be coupled to processor 2220 such that the operation of card 2200 may be
      controlled, at least in part, by manual input received by button array 2230.
      [0302]    Card 2250 may be provided and may include static magnetic track 2253,
      magnetic emulators 2251 and 2252, and magnetic read-heads 2254-2257). Persons
      skilled in the art will appreciate that static magnetic track 2253 may be a read-write
25    track such that information may be written to magnetic track 2253 from a magnetic
      stripe reader that includes a head operable to magnetically encode data onto a
      magnetic track. Information may be written to magnetic track 2253 as part of a
      payment process (e.g., a credit card or debit card transaction). Persons skilled in
      the art will appreciate that a static magnetic track may include a magnetic material
30    that includes ferromagnetic materials that provide for flux-reversals such that a
      magnetic stripe reader can read the flux-reversals from the static magnetic track.
      Persons skilled in the art will also appreciate that a magnetic emulator may

  WO 2009/082760                                                          PCT/US2008/088321
                                            76
      communicate information that remains the same from payment card transaction to
      payment card transaction (e.g., static information) as well as information that
      changes between transactions (e.g., dynamic information).
      [0303]    FIG. 23 shows card 2300 that may include magnetic encoders 2302 and
 5    2302 without, for example, a static magnetic track. Read-head detectors 2304
      2307 may also be provided. Persons skilled in the art will appreciate that a
      magnetic reader may include the ability to read two tracks of information (e.g.,
      may include at least two read-heads). All of the information needed to perform a
      financial transaction (e.g., a credit/debit card transaction) may be included on two
10    magnetic tracks. Alternatively, all of the information needed to perform a financial
      transaction (e.g., a gift card transaction) may be included on one magnetic track.
      Accordingly, particular cards, or other devices, may include the ability, for
      example, to only transmit data associated with the tracks that are needed to
      complete a particular financial transaction. Persons skilled in the art will
15    appreciate that for systems with three tracks of information, the bottom two tracks
      may be utilized for credit card information. Persons skilled in the art will also
      appreciate that a secure credit card transaction may be provided by only changing,
      for example, one of two magnetic tracks utilized in a credit card transaction (for
      those transactions that utilize two tracks). Accordingly, one track may be a static
20    magnetic track constructed from a magnetic material and the other track may be
      provided as a magnetic emulator. Persons skilled in the art will also appreciate that
      numerous additional fields of data may be provided on a magnetic track in addition
      to a credit card number (or a security code). Dynamic information may be
      provided in such additional fields in order to complete a particular financial
25    transaction. For example, such additional dynamic information may be numbers
      (or characters), encrypted with time and synced to software, at a validating server,
      operable to validate the encrypted number for a particular period of time.
      [0304]    Card 2350 includes processor 2360. RFID field detector 2353 may
      provide information to processor 2350. Additionally, magnetic stripe detectors
30    may provide information to processor 2350. An RFID receiver may produce an
      electromagnetic field that an RFID antenna is operable to electrically couple with
      and communicate information to. An RFID receiver may act as a source of

  WO 2009/082760                                                         PCT/US2008/088321
                                           77
      electrical power to an RFID antenna. Such a power may be harvested (e.g., via
      RFID 2210 of FIG. 22) to charge a rechargeable battery of a card or other device.
      An RFID field detector may thus be provided to detect an RFID field.
      [0305]    Emulator 2351 may be able to generate electromagnetic fields of different
 5    frequencies and magnitudes, and operate in different manners, depending on drive
      signals provided by processor 2360. Accordingly, emulator 2351 may be driven to
      electrically couple with an RFID receiver and emulator 2351 may also be driven to
      electrically couple with a magnetic stripe reader. Accordingly, processor 2360
      may drive emulator 2351 to communicate information (e.g., payment information
10    that includes dynamic information) to an RFID receiver when an RFID field is
      present and to a magnetic stripe reader when a magnetic stripe is present.
      Accordingly, for example, a multi-purpose emulator is provided. In instances
      where, for example, both an RFID field and a magnetic stripe reader is detected,
      processor 2360 may select a default communications methodology (e.g., an RFID
15    or magnetic stripe methodology). Processor 2360 may be operable to
      communicate at least two different drive signals to emulator 2351 (e.g., signals
      2391 and 2392).
      [0306]    Card 2400 shows card 2400 that may include processor 2400, emulator
      2401, read-heads 2402 and 2403, and magnetic stripe encoding receiver 2420.
20    Magnetic stripe encoding receiver 2420 may be a coil such that a current is
      induced in the coil when a magnetic stripe encoder attempts to provide a signal that
      would encode a static magnetic track. Accordingly, receiver 2420 may receive
      information via an encoder such that bi-directional communication can be
      established with a magnetic stripe reader that includes an encoding capability.
25    Persons skilled in the art will appreciate that a magnetic emulator may be provided
      that can both transmit data to a read-head of a magnetic stripe reader as well as
      receive data from an encoding-head of a magnetic stripe reader.
      [0307]    Card 2450 includes emulator 2451 that includes active region 2454
      operable to communicate data serially to a magnetic stripe reader. Similarly, for
30    example, emulator 2451 may receive information for a magnetic stripe encoder.
      Persons skilled in the art will appreciate that emulator 2451 includes a tail that is
      spread-out. Such a tail may include the return lines of emulator 2451 and may be

  WO 2009/082760                                                          PCT/US2008/088321
                                          78
      spaced such that a magnetic reader is not able to pick up the electromagnetic fields
      generated by such a tail. Accordingly, active region 2454 may be spaced close
      together such that a magnetic stripe reader is able to pick up the cumulative
      electromagnetic field generated by such an active region. Processor 2453 may
 5    drive emulator 2451 via switching circuitry 2452. Switching circuitry 2452 may
      include, for example, one or more transistors that may be utilized to control the
      direction of current via emulator 2451 (e.g., the polarity of voltage(s) across a
      drive resistor).
      [0308]     FIG. 25 shows flow chart 2510 that may includes steps 2511-513. Step
10    2511 may be utilized to determine, of example, whether an RFID or a magnetic
      stripe reader is within the proximity of a card (or other device). Step 2512 may be
      utilized to run an emulator as an RFID or magnetic stripe in response to step 2511.
      Step 2513 may be utilized to determine an RFID and magnetic stripe reader such
      that the process may be repeated.
15    [0309]     Process 2520 may be included and may include step 2521 to detect a
      read-head. Step 2522 may be included to transmit information using an emulator
      in a transmitting mode. Step 2523 may be utilized to receive information from an
      emulator (or receiving coil) in a receiving mode. Persons skilled in the art will
      appreciate that an emulator may be operating in a receiving mode and a
20    transmitting mode at the same time.
      [0310]    Process 2530 may be included and may include step 2531 to encode data
      into static magnetic tracks fabricated from a magnetic material. Step 2532 may be
      provided to program data into a processor to be utilized in a subsequent step (e.g.,
      step 2533). Step 533 may be utilized to emulate data using an emulator driven by
25    the data programmed in the processor.
      [0311]     FIG. 26 shows environment 2600 that may include magnetic stripe reader
      2610, read-head housing 2640, card 2620, and magnetic emulator 2630. Read
      head housing 2640 may include any number of read-head's such as, for example,
      one, two, or three read-heads. Each read-head may independently receive
30    magnetic fields from magnetic emulator 2630 (or a magnetic stripe, such as a
      magnetic stripe encoded on-card by card 2620). Emulator 2630 may be positioned
      to be adjacent to any one or more read-heads of read-head housing 2640 or may be

  WO 2009/082760                                                          PCT/US2008/088321
                                           79
      positioned to communicate information to any one or more read-heads of read
      head housing 2640. Persons skilled in the art will appreciate that emulators with
      longer lengths may be located within the proximity of one or more read-heads for a
      longer duration of time when a card is swiped. In doing so, for example, more
 5    information may be transmitted from an emulator to a read-head when a card is
      being swiped.
      [0312]     FIG. 27 includes environment 2700 that may include cards 2720 and 2730
      as well as magnetic stripe reader 2710. Read-head housing 2711 may be included
      on a wall of a trough of magnetic stripe reader 2710. The trough may be sized to
10    accept cards (e.g., credit cards).
      [0313]     Card 2720 may include emulator 2721. Emulator 2721 may provide
      electromagnetic field 2791 that may transmit through a portion of the housing of
      magnetic stripe reader 2710 (e.g., through a wall of a trough to get to read-head
      housing 2711). Accordingly, card 2720 may be located outside of a reader - yet
15    still be operable to communicate information to a magnetic stripe reader. A reader
      may be provided with an outer wall, for example, with a thickness of a quarter of
      an inch or more. Emulator 2721 can provide electromagnetic field 2791 over a
      distance of, for example, a quarter of an inch or more.
      [0314]    Persons skilled in the art will appreciate that card 2720 may be coupled to
20    a device via a permanent or removable cable. Such a device may provide power to
      card 2720 as well as control information - such as control information for emulator
      2730. An external source of power may be utilized, for example, to provide a
      larger amount of electrical energy to emulator 2721 than from a source of power
      located within card 2720. Persons skilled in the art will appreciate that a car
25    having an internal battery may still be able to receive a cable from a device having
      its own source of electrical energy.
      [0315]     Card 2730 may be provided with emulator 2731 and may electrically
      couple with a read-head of magnetic stripe reader 2710. Any number of emulators
      may be provided in card 2730 in any number of orientations such that the
30    appropriate electromagnetic field may couple with a read head of read-head
      housing 2711 regardless of the orientation of card 2720 with respect to read-head
      2711. More particularly, for example, additional read-head housings may be

  WO 2009/082760                                                           PCT/US2008/088321
                                           80
      provided in magnetic stripe reader 2710 at different locations about the reader to
      electrically couple with a emulators in a number of different configurations. A
      sticker and/or guide-structures may be provided on a magnetic stripe reader to, for
      example, direct a user on how to position his/her card (or other device) for
 5    contactless transmission of data (e.g., credit card data) to a read-head housing
      without using the trough that includes that read-head housing.
      [0316]    Persons skilled in the art will appreciate that a magnetic stripe reader may
      include a trough that includes two (or more) read-head housings 2711 located in
      approximately the same vertical position on a card-swiping trough, but at different
10    horizontal locations on opposite walls of the trough. In doing so, for example, a
      magnetic stripe may be read regardless of the direction that a card having the
      magnetic stripe is facing when the card is swiped. Magnetic emulator 2721 may,
      for example, communicate magnetic fields outside both the front and read surfaces
      of a card. Accordingly, a single emulator 2721 may, for example, couple with a
15    single read-head regardless of the direction the card was facing when swiped. In
      doing so, for example, the costs of readers may be reduced as only a single read
      head may be need to receive information regardless of the direction a card is facing
      when swiped. Accordingly, magnetic readers do not need stickers and/or indicia to
      show a user the correct orientation to swipe a card through a magnetic stripe
20    reader. An adapter may be provided that coupled directly to a read-head that
      allows a device not operable to fit in a trough to electrically couple with a read
      head.
      [0317]    An dynamic magnetic communications device, such as a emulator, may
      be positioned about a surface of a card (or other device), beneath a surface of a
25    device, or centered within a card. The orientation of a magnetic emulator in a card
      may provide different magnetic fields (e.g., different strength's of magnetic fields)
      outside different surfaces of a card. Persons skilled in the art will appreciate that a
      magnetic emulator may be printed via PCB printing. A card may include multiple
      flexible PCB layers (e.g., FR4 layers) and may be laminated to form a card.
30    Portions of an electronic ink display may also be fabricated on a layer during a
      PCB printing process.

  WO 2009/082760                                                          PCT/US2008/088321
                                           81
      [0318]    Magnetic shielding may be provided to limit an electromagnetic field of
      an emulator. For example, layer 2810 may include magnetic shielding 2811
      (which may be a magnetic material). Magnetic shielding may block magnetic
      fields from emulator 2851 on layer 2820. Accordingly, for example, a card may
 5    not interact with read-heads blocked from emulator 2851 from magnetic shielding
      2811. In doing so, for example, a magnetic stripe reader may receive information
      from a single read-head housing at any given time. Layer 2830 may be provided,
      for example, with magnetic shielding 2831 that includes an active-region space
      2832. Accordingly, layer 2830 may block magnetic fields from emulator 2851
10    except for those fields generated by active portion 2854 (e.g., if space 2832 is
      aligned with active potion 2854).
      [0319]    FIG. 29 shows processes 2900 that may include flow chart 2910. Flow
      chart 2910 may include step 2911, in which a first layer of magnetic shielding may
      be provided (e.g., printed). Step 2912 may be provided such that, for example, an
15    emulator is provided (e.g., printed). Step 2913 may be included such that, for
      example, a second layer of shielding may be provided (e.g., printed).
      [0320]    Flow chart 2920 may be included. Step 2921 may be included in flow
      chart 2920. A read-head may be detected in step 2921, a first level of current may
      be provided through an emulator in step 2922, and the direction of the current
20    through the emulator may be switched in step 2923 in order to transmit data.
      [0321]    Flow chart 2930 may be included. Step 2931 may be included in flow
      chart 2930. A button press may be detected in step 2931, a second level of current
      may be provided through an emulator in step 2932, and the direction of the current
      through the emulator may be switched in step 2933 in order to transmit data. Flow
25    chart 2921 and 2931 may be utilized together, for example, to provide a multi
      function emulator. For example, an emulator may provide a magnetic-stripe signal
      to a magnetic stripe reader in flow chart 2920 and may provide an RFID signal to
      an RFID receiver in flow chart 2930.
      [0322]    Persons skilled in the art will appreciate that a number does not need to,
30    for example, change with time. Information can change, for example, based on
      manual input (e.g., a button press or combination of button presses). Additionally,
      a credit card number may be a static display number and may be wholly or

  WO 2009/082760                                                            PCT/US2008/088321
                                           82
      partially displayed by a display. Such a static credit card number may result in the
      reduction of fraud if, for example, a personal identification code is required to be
      entered on a manual input entry system to activate the display. Additionally, fraud
      associated with card cloning may be minimized with the use of a magnetic
 5    emulator activated by the correct entry on a manual input entry system.
      [0323]    Person skilled in the art will also appreciate that a card may be cloned by a
      thief, for example, when the thief puts a illegitimate credit card reader before a
      legitimate credit card reader and disguising the illegitimate credit card reader.
      Thus, a read-head detector may detect a read-head housing and then, if a second
10    read-head housing is detected on the same side of the credit card, the reader may
      transmit information to the second read-head that signifies that two read-head
      housings were detected. In doing so, for example, a bank, or the police, may be
      notified of the possibility of the presence of a disguised cloning device. The
      information representative of multiple read-heads may be included with
15    information that would allow a credit card number to be validated. As such, a
      server may keep track of the number of read-head housings at each reader and, if
      more read-head housings are detected than expected, the server may contact an
      administrator (or the police). The server may also cause the credit card transaction
      to process or may reject the credit card transaction. If the number of read-head
20    housings (or read-heads) is the number expected by the server, the server can
      validate the payment transaction.
      [0324]    A payment system using dynamic numbers may, for example, be operable
      with numbers that are stored outside of the period in which those numbers would
      otherwise be valid. A server may be included, for example, that accepts a dynamic
25    credit card number, information representative of a past credit card number, and
      the merchant that is requesting payment. The server may register that merchant for
      that saved number. The number may be decrypted (or otherwise validated) for that
      past period of time. Accordingly, the credit card transaction may be validated.
      Additionally, the merchant identification information may be linked to the stored
30    dynamic credit card number for that past period of time. If the server receives a
      transaction from a different merchant with that same dynamic credit card number
      for that same period of time, the server may reject the transaction. In doing so, a

  WO 2009/082760                                                            PCT/US2008/088321
                                            83
      merchant may be protected from having credit card numbers stolen from its
      various storage devices. If a thief steals a number from a merchant's server that is
      associated with a past period of time, that number cannot be used, for example,
      anywhere else. Furthermore, such a topology may, for example, allow merchants
 5    to provide a one-click shopping, periodic billing, or any other type of feature that
      may utilize dynamic numbers that are stored and used outside of the period in
      which the dynamic numbers were generated.
      [0325]     Persons skilled in the art will appreciate that different emulators may be
      controlled by different switching circuitry (e.g., different transistors). Opto
10    isolators may be included to protect the processor from any voltage swings driving
      a magnetic emulator. [0326]       Persons skilled in the art will appreciate that
      multiple buttons may be coupled together to form a single-bit bus. If any button is
      pressed, the bus may change states and signal to the processor to utilize different
      ports to determine what button was pressed. In this manner, buttons may be
15    coupled to non-triggerable ports of a processor. Each button (or a subset of
      buttons) may be coupled to one or more triggerable ports of a processor. A port on
      a microprocessor may be utilized to drive an emulator in addition to, for example,
      receiving information from a button. For example, once an appropriate personal
      identification code is received by a processor, the processor may utilize one or
20    more ports that receive information from one or more buttons to drive an emulator
      (e.g., for a period of time). Alternatively, for example, a magnetic emulator may
      be coupled to its own triggerable or non-triggerable processor port. A card may
      also include a voltage regulator to, for example, regulate power received from an
      internal or external source of power.
25    [0327]     Persons skilled in the art will appreciate that any type of device may be
      utilized to provide dynamic magnetic information on a card to a magnetic stripe
      reader. As discussed above, a magnetic encoder may be provided that can change
      information on a magnetic medium where the changed information can be detected
      by a magnetic stripe reader.
30    [0328]     FIG. 30 shows personal electronic device 3000 which may be, for
      example, a portable telephonic device, portable media player, or any type of
      electronic device. Persons skilled in the art will appreciate that the functionality of

  WO 2009/082760                                                          PCT/US2008/088321
                                           84
      a card may be provided on a personal device and displayed through a graphical
      user interface. Personal electronic device 3000 may include, for example, user
      inputs 3040 and display 3010. Virtual card 3020 may be displayed on display
      3020. Display 3020 may be a touch-sensitive display such that, for example,
 5    virtual button 3030 may be provided on virtual card 3020. Persons skilled in the
      art will appreciate that cards may be provided as virtual cards and a user may
      interact with such virtual cards in order to provide a variety of functions. Personal
      electronic device 3000 may communicate to a card reader such as, for example, an
      RFID reader.
10    [0329]    Magnetic shielding may be provided to limit an electromagnetic field of
      an emulator. For example, layer 3110 of FIG. 31 may include magnetic shielding
      311 (which may be a magnetic material). Magnetic shielding may block magnetic
      fields from emulator 3151 on layer 3120. Accordingly, for example, a card may
      not interact with read-heads blocked from emulator 3151 from magnetic shielding
15    3111. In doing so, for example, a magnetic stripe reader may receive information
      from a single read-head of a read-head housing at any given time. Layer 3130 may
      be provided, for example, with magnetic shielding 3131 that includes an active
      region space 3132. Accordingly, layer 3130 may block magnetic fields from
      emulator 3151 except for those fields generated by active portion 3154 (e.g., if
20    space 3132 is aligned with active potion 3154).
      [0330]    FIG. 32 includes circuits 3200 that may include magnetic emulator 3250
      that includes active region 3251. Magnetic emulator 3250 may be, for example, a
      coil. Current may be provided through magnetic emulator 3250 such that the
      magnetic emulator generates an electromagnetic signal. Active region 3251 may
25    include a dense section of coil segments where current runs through those coil
      segments in the same direction. Accordingly, the electromagnetic field is
      intensified in active region 3251 compared to the area of the coil with coil
      segments that are widely spaced. Accordingly, a current may be placed through
      the coil such that a magnetic stripe reader is operable to receive information from
30    active region 3251 but not the region outside active region 3251. Persons skilled in
      the art will appreciate that the direction of current through magnetic circuit 3250
      may be reversed in a pattern that is representative of magnetic stripe data.

  WO 2009/082760                                                          PCT/US2008/088321
                                           85
      Particularly, a processor may, for example, transmit information through a coil by
      changing the direction of the electromagnetic field generated from emulator circuit
      3250 at particular times. A change in the frequency of field reversals may be
      representative of, for example, a particular bit of information (e.g., "1" or "0").
 5    Magnetic emulation circuit 3250 may include a dense active region and a less
      dense tail region.
      [0331]    Magnetic emulation circuit 3270 may be included that includes active
      region 3271 and non-active regions 3272 and 3273. Active region 3271 may
      include coil segments in which current flows through the segments in the same
10    direction. Non-active regions 3272 and 3273 may include, for example, coil
      segment spacing that is wider than the coil segment spacing of active regions 3271.
      Persons skilled in the art will appreciate, for example, that non-active regions 3272
      and 3273 may be utilized to communicate information to a magnetic stripe reader.
      However, active region 3271 may include a stronger electromagnetic signal then
15    non-active regions 3272 and 3273. Persons skilled in the art will also appreciate
      that a read-head may travel through non-active region 3272, through active region
      3271, and through non-active region 3273 when reading information
      communicated from emulator circuit 3270. Persons skilled in the art will
      appreciate that the level of current provided to emulator circuit 3270 may be
20    configured such that a magnetic read-head received information from active region
      3271 but does not receive information from non-active regions 3272 and 3273.
      Emulator 3270 may, for example, be tall enough such that more than one read-head
      passes over emulator 3270 at any one time. For example, one read-head from a
      magnetic stripe reader may pass over active region 3271 and another read-head
25    from a magnetic stripe reader may pass under active region 3271. Person skilled in
      the art will appreciate that coil segments may be configured in an orientation such
      that they produce electromagnetic fields that are invisible to such read-heads. For
      example, active region 3271 may include coil segments that are parallel to one
      another. Coil segments above and below active region 3271 may be configured to
30    be perpendicular to the coil segments of active region 3271 or approximately
      oriented at a 45 degree angle from the coil segments of active region 3271.

  WO 2009/082760                                                           PCT/US2008/088321
                                            86
      [0332]     Magnetic emulation circuit 3280 may be provided that includes active
      region 3281. Persons skilled in the art will appreciate, for example, that the height
      of magnetic emulation circuit 3280 may be approximately equal to the height of a
      read-head of a magnetic stripe reader such that, for example, only one track read
 5    head, of a multiple track read-head housing, passes over magnetic emulation circuit
      3280.
      [0333]     Multiple magnetic emulation circuits may be provided on a multiple layer
      PCB. For example, a magnetic emulation circuit may be provided with active
      region 3291 (e.g., active region 3298) and non-active region 3292 (e.g., non-active
10    region 3299). Emulators may be provided on different layers such that active
      layers align with non-active layers. Accordingly, for example, a read-head may
      pick up a continuous stream of active regions. Accordingly, the active regions may
      be controlled through a common switching circuit such that current flows in the
      same direction through the active regions of the multiple layer PCB at a given
15    time. Accordingly, the active regions may, for example, provide electromagnetic
      fields in the same direction. Persons skilled in the art will appreciate that the
      widths of coil segments of non-active regions may be widened to decrease the
      effect of those non-active regions when multiple non-active regions are stacked.
      Additionally, for example, the coil segments of vertically stacked non-active
20    regions may be aligned with one another or may be staggered from one another.
      Furthermore, for example, current may flow through vertically stacked non-active
      regions in the same or different directions.
      [0334]     FIG. 33 shows card 3300 that may include layers 3310, 3320, and 3330
      fabricated as, for example, flexible PCB layers. Layer 3310 may include, for
25    example, magnetic emulation circuit 3312 that includes active region 3311. Layer
      3320 may include, for example, magnetic emulation circuit 3322 that may include
      active region 3321. Layer 3330 may include magnetic emulation circuit 3332 that
      may include active region 3331.
      [0335]     FIG. 34 includes circuit 3400 that may include, for example, active-region
30    3411 and non-active regions 3412 and 3413.
      [0336]     Persons skilled in the art will appreciate that magnetic emulation circuits
      with one non-active region may be vertically stacked with magnetic emulation

  WO 2009/082760                                                          PCT/US2008/088321
                                           87
      circuits with two non-active regions. Magnetic emulation circuits with one non
      active region may have non-active regions that are wider than the non-active
      regions of a magnetic emulation circuit with two non-active regions. FIG. 35
      shows topology 3500 that may include active region 3512 (e.g., active region
 5    3551), active region 3522 (e.g., active region 3552), and active region 3531 (e.g.,
      active region 3553). Non-active regions 3511, 3521, 3523, and 3532 may also be
      included.
      [0337]      FIG. 36 shows magnetic emulation circuit 3600 that may include region
      3610, 3620, and 3630. Regions 3610, 3620, and 3630 may include approximately
10    the same spacing between coil segments or may provide different spacing between
      coil segments.
      [0338]      FIG. 37 shows circuit 3700 that may include region 3710, 3720, and
      3730. Circuit 3700 may also include read-head detectors 3741, 3742, 3743, and
      3744. Read-head detectors 3741, 3742, 3743, and 3744 may detect a read-head
15    and/or a read-head housing of a magnetic stripe reader. A read-head detector may
      determine the presence of a read-head and/or read-head housing by detecting, for
      example, physical contact with a read-head and/or housing. Capacitive coupling,
      sonar, optical, or any other technique may be utilized to determine the presence of
      a read-head or read-head detector. Accordingly, for example, region 3620 may be
20    utilized to communicate information to a magnetic stripe reader upon the detection
      of a read-head by a read-head detector. Accordingly, for example, no current may
      be provided through regions 3610 and 3630 when a read-head passes over regions
      3610 and 3630. Multiple read-heads may be utilized, for example, to determine
      the direction that a read-head is moving as well as the read-heads velocity and/or
25    acceleration. Such information may be utilized, for example, to provide
      information in different ways. For example, a processor may transmit information
      at a first rate when a user swipes a card including circuit 3700 at a first velocity
      and the processor may transmit the same (or different) information at a second rate
      when that user swipes the card at a second velocity.
30    [0339]      FIG. 38 shows topology 3800 that may include a magnetic emulation
      circuit having regions 3810, 3820, and 3830. Persons skilled in the art will
      appreciate that a magnetic emulation circuit may act as a read-head detector as well

  WO 2009/082760                                                           PCT/US2008/088321
                                           88
      as a magnetic information transmitter. For example, a magnetic emulator may be
      driven according to a process that includes step 3841, in which a correct Personal
      Identification Code (e.g., a PIN) is determined to have been entered on a card.
      Accordingly, step 3842 may activate, in which a coil is driven such that its return
 5    paths act as a read-head detector. This may be done in numerous ways. For
      example, the current providing an electromagnetic field may undergo a phase-shift
      when a magnetic and/or conductive material is placed in the electromagnetic field.
      Accordingly, a phase-shift may be determined in step 3843. When such a phase
      shift is determined, step 3844 may initiate and a magnetic emulation circuit may be
10    driven to communicate data serially. Accordingly, regions 3810 and 3830 may be
      utilized to detect a read-head and region 3820 may be utilized to communicate
      information to that read-head. Persons skilled in the art will appreciate that a
      magnetic emulation circuit may not be supplied current until an appropriate
      Personal Identification Code (PIC) is entered into manual interfaces located on the
15    card. Such a scheme, for example, provides for power savings as well as prevents
      card cloning. Accordingly, a magnetic emulator may be driven into a read-head
      detector mode upon receiving an appropriate manual input and then into a data
      transmission mode after determining the presence of a read-head.
      [0340]    Persons skilled in the art will appreciate that timing zeros may be
20    provided before and after data such that a magnetic stripe reader can utilize such
      timing zeros to perform synchronization activities. Accordingly, a magnetic stripe
      emulator may transmit zeros while in a read-head detector mode in step 3851 and
      upon the detection of a current phase-shift in step 3852 the magnetic emulation
      circuit may transmit information in step 3853. After the data is transmitted, timing
25    zeros may be transmitted again in step 3854. Step 3853 may also detect the
      presence of a read-head to determine, for example, whether all of the information
      was received. If a read-head was not detected after data transmission, the
      processor may increase the rate of data transmission for future transmissions until,
      for example, read-heads are detected at the beginning and the end of the
30    transmission of data.
      [0341]    Persons skilled in the art will appreciate that a card may include multiple
      magnetic emulation and read-head detectors circuits. In this manner, a card may

  WO 2009/082760                                                         PCT/US2008/088321
                                           89
      include multiple circuits that can operate as both a data transmitter and a read-head
      detector.
      [0342]    FIG. 39 includes topology 3900 that may include, for example, a
      magnetic emulation circuit that includes regions 3910 and 3920. Read-head
 5    detectors 3931, 3932, and 3932 may also be included.
      [0343]    A region (e.g., region 3910) may be utilized to determine the velocity of a
      read-head. For example, step 3941 may be included in which a region is driven
      such that the region acts as a read-head detector. A read-head may be detected in
      3942, but the region may continue to drive the region to act as a read-head detector
10    in step 3944. A second read-head position may then be determined in step 3945.
      The number of times that a read-head is sensed by a detector may correlate to a
      velocity. Information may then be transmitted (e.g., via another region) depending
      on the determined velocity. For example, the velocity of a swipe may be detected
      in step 3951 and information may be transmitted according to this velocity in step
15    3952. Read-head detectors 3931, 3932, and 3933 may also be utilized, for
      example, to determine the velocity of a read-head as well as the direction of
      movement of the read-head. Persons skilled in the art will appreciate that a
      magnetic stripe reader may be motorized and may read a card at a pre-determined
      speed. Such a card may determine that the card is being read by a motorized
20    reader and may utilize this information to transmit different information and/or
      transmit information in a different manner.
      [0344]    FIG. 40 shows card 4000 that may include magnetic emulation circuit
      4020. Magnetic emulation circuit 4020 may be included on a short side of a
      rectangle-shaped card - yet may transmit serially all of the information on a track
25    of financial payment data (e.g., credit and/or debit data). Such transmitted
      financial payment data may be utilized to validate a financial payment (e.g., a
      credit card purchase). Any number of magnetic emulation circuits may be
      included on any side of card 4000. For example, a magnetic emulation circuit may
      be provided on a long side of a rectangle-shaped card and another magnetic
30    emulation circuit may be provided on the other long side of a rectangle-shaped
      card. Each magnetic emulation circuit may be utilized to transmit different data or
      the same data.

  WO 2009/082760                                                        PCT/US2008/088321
                                           90
      [0345]     FIG. 41 includes circuit 4100 that may include read-head detectors 4141,
      4142, 4143, 4144, 4145, and 4146. Circuit 4100 may include a magnetic
      emulation circuit that includes regions 4111, 4112, 4113, 4121, 4131, 4122, 4132,
      4123, 4124, 4133, 4125, 4134, and 4126. Regions 4111-4113 may be operable to
 5    communicate with a read-head that passes through regions 4111-4113. The
      magnetic emulation circuit may include a coil. Regions 4111-4113 may include,
      for example, coil segments that are parallel to one another. The coil segments may
      produce an electromagnetic field operable to communicate data to a read-head of a
      magnetic stripe reader. The coil segments of regions 4121-4126 may be oriented
10    approximately at a 45 degree angle from the coil segments of regions 4111-4113.
      Accordingly, for example, the orientation offset of regions 4121-4126 from regions
      4111-4113 may allow regions 4121-4126 to produce an electromagnetic field that
      cannot communicate with a read-head of a magnetic stripe reader when regions
      4111-4113 are communicating data to a read-head of a magnetic stripe reader.
15    Similarly, the coil segments of regions 4131-4134 may be oriented perpendicular
      to the coil segments of regions 4111-4113. Accordingly, for example, the
      orientation offset of regions 4131-4134 from regions 4111-4113 may allow regions
      4131-4134 to produce an electromagnetic field that cannot communicate with a
      read-head of a magnetic stripe reader when regions 4111-4113 are communicating
20    data to a read-head of a magnetic stripe reader.
      [0346]    FIG. 42 shows card layout 4200 that may include flexible PCB layers
      4210, 4220, 4230, and 4240 to form card 4250. Layer 4210 may include magnetic
      emulation circuit 4211. Layer 4220 may include magnetic shielding 4221 and
      4222. Layer 4230 may include magnetic emulation circuit 4231. Layer 4240 may
25    include read-head detectors (e.g., read-head detector 4242) and magnetic shielding
      (e.g., shielding 1641).
      [0347]     FIG. 43 includes circuit 4300 that may include, for example, read-head
      detectors 4341, 4342, 4351, and 4352. Circuit 4300 may also include, for example,
      magnetic emulation circuits 4310, 4320, and 4330. Read-head detectors 4341,
30    4342, 4351, and 4352 may be utilized as read-head detectors and may provide the
      capability for a read-head to be detected when the read-head is over a particular
      magnetic emulation circuit or portion of a magnetic emulation circuit. Read-head

  WO 2009/082760                                                           PCT/US2008/088321
                                           91
      detectors 4341, 4342, 4351, and 4352 may detect a read-head by sensing, for
      example, capacitive coupling of a read-head. Alternatively, for example, a read
      head contact may be, for example, pressed against another contact when pressure is
      applied via a read-head.
 5    [0348]    Persons skilled in the art will appreciate that a display on the card may
      display a credit card number that does not change with time. Additionally, for
      example, a magnetic emulator (or multiple magnetic emulators) may magnetically
      communicate financial data that does not change with time. Such a card may
      reduce, for example, the effects of physical card theft and card cloning.
10    [0349]    One or more light generation devices, such as a Light Emitting Diode
      (LED), may be provided as part of a card (or other device). Such an LED may
      produce light, for example, upon a manual input such as a button press, the correct
      entry of a PIC such as a PIN, and/or the incorrect entry of a PIC. A light emitting
      device may be operable to produce different colors of light. For example, the
15    incorrect entry of a PIC may produce a red light and the correct entry of a PIC may
      produce a green light. A PIC may take any form such as a numerical code or a
      code that include alphabet letters and/or symbols. For example, a PIC may be "A
      B-B-B-A" and an "A" button may be provided on a card in addition to a "B"
      button (as well as other buttons such as a "C," "D," and/or "E" buttons).
20    [0350]    Persons skilled in the art will appreciate that any numbers of a credit card
      number may remain static and/or change either with time or based off a transaction
      (e.g., by sensing a read-head "swipe"). Additionally, any static and/or dynamic
      numbers may be displayed via a display or printed on a card. For example, a
      middle 6 digits of a credit/debit card number may be static and may be displayed
25    on a display. Such a middle 6 digits may be displayed, for example, upon the entry
      of a correct PIC. Similarly, a magnetic emulator may not communicate
      information until a correct PIC has been entered by a user. Doing so may, for
      example, reduce fraud associated with card cloning. Additionally, a receipts may
      be provided that includes masked credit card numbers except for the last few digits
30    of credit card numbers. Accordingly, displaying a static middle 6 digits of credit
      card numbers may allow for such a receipt to be provided while still reducing
      credit card fraud from hiding numbers that are not displayed on such a receipt.

  WO 2009/082760                                                           PCT/US2008/088321
                                           92
      Any amount of numbers and/or characters may be displayed through a display.
      For example, nineteen digits may be displayed as part of a credit/debit numbers
      and these numbers may also be communicated through one or more magnetic
      emulation circuits. The entry of particular PICs may provide different results. For
 5    example, a first PIC may only display a string of alphanumeric characters. A
      second PIC may only activate a magnetic emulation circuit to transmit information
      including that string of alphanumeric characters (or a different string). A third PIC
      may activate a magnetic emulation circuit and a display. A display and/or
      magnetic emulation circuit may be turned OFF, for example, upon entry of an
10    incorrect PIC and/or after a period of time has passed since the entry of the PIC
      and/or after the detection of a particular number of swipes by a read-head detector
      (e.g., one or two).
      [0351]    Persons skilled in the art will appreciate that a credit/debit card number
      (or any other information) may remain static until an event occurs and then may
15    become dynamic (e.g., change based on swipes and/or time). For example, a
      particular PIC may change from a static to a dynamic topology and/or a topology
      may be changed from static to dynamic after a pre-determined period of time.
      Additionally a card and/or device may include a wireless receiver and a topology
      may be changed from a static to a dynamic topology upon, for example, receiving
20    an appropriate signal from the wireless receiver. Accordingly, a validation process
      may change at a validation server depending upon whether a card is utilizing a
      static and/or dynamic topology at any given time. Additionally, a static
      credit/debit card number may be printed on the face of a card and information (e.g.,
      a security code) may be displayed via a display and remain static over time (or
25    with use) or be provided dynamically.
      [0352]    A card or other device (e.g., a mobile telephone) may accept a pre
      determined number of consecutive incorrect PICs before locking the card for a
      period of time or until an appropriate secondary PIC is entered. Accordingly, a
      user may enter in an incorrect PIC a number of times and then, after a card
30    becomes locked, call a support center for a secondary one-time use PIC. A card
      may cycle through unlocking PICs based, for example, on time or the number of
      previous unlock attempts.

  WO 2009/082760                                                         PCT/US2008/088321
                                          93
      [0353]    A website may be provided where a user enters in his/her credit card
      number, pays a fee, and a new card is programmed and sent to the user. The new
      card may include a display to display a portion of the users credit/debit card
      number in a static form upon entry of an appropriate PIC. Such a card may also
 5    include one or more magnetic emulation circuits to transmit the information to a
      reader. Such a card may or may not, for example, include a portion of a magnetic
      stripe. For example, three tracks of magnetic stripe data may be communicated via
      three different emulation circuits, more than three different emulation circuits, one
      emulation circuits (e.g., tracks communicated serially to all read-heads), or one or
10    more tracks may be represented by magnetic stripe(s) while one or more other
      tracks may be represented by a magnetic emulation circuit. A track of data may
      also be partially represented by a magnetic emulation circuit and partially
      represented by a magnetic stripe.
      [0354]    FIG. 44 includes topology 4400 that may be utilized to communicate
15    information to a read-head. Topology 4400 may include magnetic emulators
      6610, 4420, 4430, 4440, 4450, 4460, 4470, and 4480. Each of these magnetic
      emulators may be provided on a different layer and aligned such that the primary
      paths are seen, from the perspective of a read-head as one set of paths. The return
      paths may be aligned to minimize the amount of time a read-head is located above
20    the return paths of the magnetic emulators. The magnetic emulators may be
      coupled in series or operated independently. Additional layers may be included to
      include additional routing between the magnetic emulators. A magnetic emulator
      may be, for example, a flat coil placed on a single layer of material. Current may
      be provided through a magnetic emulator such that the magnetic emulator
25    generates an electromagnetic signal. A primary path of a coil may include a dense
      section of coil segments where current runs through those coil segments in the
      same direction. Accordingly, the electromagnetic field is intensified in active
      region compared to the area of the coil with coil segments that are widely spaced
      or not configured in an orientation where the magnetic fields from these coil
30    segments can be read. Accordingly, a current may be placed through the coil such
      that a magnetic stripe reader is operable to receive information from active region
      4451 but not the region outside active region 4451. Persons skilled in the art will

  WO 2009/082760                                                           PCT/US2008/088321
                                           94
      appreciate that the direction of current through magnetic circuit 4450 may be
      changed and controlled in a pattern that is representative of magnetic stripe data.
      Particularly, a processor may, for example, transmit information through a coil by
      changing the direction of the electromagnetic field generated from emulator circuit
 5    at particular times. A change in the frequency of field reversals may be
      representative of, for example, a particular bit of information (e.g., "1" or "0").
      Magnetic emulation circuit 4450 may include a dense active region and a less
      dense return paths. A magnetic emulation circuit may include return paths that
      also can transmit information to a read-head, but that provides an electromagnetic
10    field in an opposite direction to that of a primary path. Accordingly, read-head
      sensors may be placed, for example, such that no current is provided through a
      magnetic emulator while a read-head is over a return path, but the emulator is
      utilized to communicate information when the read-head (or read-heads are located
      over the primary path). Additionally, a processor may change how an emulator is
15    controlled in order to accommodate the different electromagnetic fields produced
      by the two regions such that a portion of a set of data can be transmitted by a return
      path and a portion of the set of data can be transmitted by a primary path. If zones,
      for example, are implemented, the return path may be utilized to communicate a
      portion of information when that zone associated with the return path is utilized
20    and primary paths may be utilized to communicate another portion of information
      the zone associated with the primary path is activated. Accordingly, return paths
      may be staggered in order to increase their total visibility to a read-head. Magnetic
      emulators 4410, 4420, 4430, 4440, 4450, 4460, 4470, 4480, and 4480 may be sized
      to fit, for example, within the footprint of a track of data for a payment card. The
25    primary paths of these magnetic emulators may be staggered such that, from
      above, a continuous set of primary path segments is seen. Accordingly, the
      emulators may be controlled in the same way such that, for example, a continuous
      electromagnetic field is produced and can be controlled. Accordingly, data can be
      communicated serially through this continuous electromagnetic field to a magnetic
30    stripe reader. An instance of topology 4400 may, for example, be provided for
      each track of information on a magnetic card. Different magnetic emulator
      topologies may be utilized for different tracks. Different magnetic emulators in a

  WO 2009/082760                                                           PCT/US2008/088321
                                           95
      magnetic emulator topology may be provided different amounts of current such
      that emulators at different depths can provide a sufficient electromagnetic field at
      the surface of topology 4400.
      [0355]     FIG. 45 shows topology 4500 where the primary paths of multiple
 5    emulators are provided on a layer of material and the return paths for the coils that
      are included in those emulators are provided on different layers. Accordingly, for
      example, each emulator may be provided with the same amount of current to
      produce a sufficient electromagnetic field. Such coils may be, for example, flat
      coils that are bent onto multiple layers (e.g., utilizing vias).
10    [0356]     Topology 4500 may include coil 4511 with two portions of return paths
      and one portion of primary paths that may be, for example, visualized as return
      portion 4512, primary portion 4513, and return portion 4514. The primary portion
      may be viewed from an eagle-eye perspective as portion 4515. Multiple emulator
      design 4530 is included that may include multiple emulators with primary paths
15    located adjacent to one another to provide a continuous electromagnetic field. The
      emulators may be controlled independently such that different emulators are
      utilized to communicate information at different times. Accordingly, emulators
      may be utilized from left-to-right as a reader passes over the emulators from left
      to-right. For example, read-head detector 4561 of circuit 4550 may detect the
20    presence of a read-head (e.g., a housing that stores a read-head) and may signal the
      processor to communicate with emulators 4551 and 4552. When read-head
      detector 4562 detects the presence of the read-head, read-head detector 4562 may
      signal the processor to communicate with emulators 4552, 4554, and 4555. Read
      head detectors 4561 and 4562 may be, for example, contacts coupled to a
25    capacitive sensing circuit or different capacitive sensing circuits.
      [0357]    FIG. 46 shows topology 4600 that may include, for example, zones 4610,
      4620, 4630, 4640, 4650, and 4660. Topology 4600 may be a cross-sectional
      perspective of a multiple layer card. Primary paths 4691 and 4692 may, for
      example, be located in zone 4610 and primary paths 4692, 4693, and 4694 may be
30    located in zone 4620. Primary path 4692 may be utilized, for example, to produce
      a transitional electromagnetic field between zones 4610 and 4620. Read-head
      detector 4699, for example, may be utilized to signal the processor to change from

  WO 2009/082760                                                           PCT/US2008/088321
                                             96
      operating zone 4610 to operating zone 4620 to communicate data. Primary
      portions may be divided into more than one primary portion and placed in different
      zones such that an emulator that includes a coil having two primary portion may
      cover more than one zone as well as non-adjacent zones. Similarly, return paths
 5    portions may be utilized to communicate data and primary portions may not be
      utilized (e.g., using a zone-based control methodology).
      [0358]     FIG. 47 shows circuit 4700 that may include primary paths on one layer,
      but that may place a different return path on different vertical layers such that the
      return paths are vertically stacked. In doing so, the area of the return paths (as
10    viewed by a read-head) may be minimized. In a zone-based control topology,
      minimizing the read-head visibility to the return paths may, for example, allow for
      a layer margin of error when detecting the location of a read-head. Circuit 4700
      may include return paths 4710, 4720, and 4730.
      [0359]     FIG. 48 includes circuit 4800 that may include, for example, a return
15    portion that forms a triangle such that a return path includes two segments that are
      angled from one another. Each segment may be at a 45 degree angle from a path
      (e.g., a path it is vertically aligned with) and the two may be, for example, at a 90
      degree angle from one another. One or more materials may be placed between the
      primary paths and the return paths either from the perspective of going into the
20    page or spanning the length of the page (e.g., threading through the open loop
      created by the primary and return paths). Circuit 4800 may include return paths
      4810, 4820, and 4830.
      [0360]     FIG. 49 includes circuit 4910 that may be, for example, a coil. Circuit
      4920 may be included that includes two angled return path segments that are
25    located in area 4922, which is outside track footprint 4921. Area 4922 may
      correspond to an area, for example, that is outside of where a read-head (or read
      head housing) passes.
      [0361]     FIG. 5000 shows coil 5011 that may include interior material 5010.
      Multiple pieces of interior material 5010 may be provided inside of coil 5011.
30    Interior material 5010 may be, for example, a magnetic, ferromagnetic, and/or a
      ferromagnetic material. A powder may be utilized. An alloy may be utilized. An
      interior material may extend various distances outside of a coil. An interior

  WO 2009/082760                                                         PCT/US2008/088321
                                          97
      material may end at the last coil segment of a coil. Coil 5021 includes interior
      segment 5020.
      [0362]    A coil may be wrapped around interior materials of different shapes and
      sizes. A gap between a coil may be provided having various distances. A material
 5    may be provided between the interior material and the coil such that the interior
      material does not, for example, short the coil. An interior material may be, for
      example, rectangular (e.g., material 5030), square (e.g., material 5040), or
      cylindrical (e.g., material 5050).
      [0363]    FIG. 51 shows card 5100 that may include, for example, processor 5120,
10    display 5140, switching circuitry 5130, read-head detectors 5150 and 5160, and
      coils 5170, 5180, and 5185. Coils 5170, 5180, and 5185 may span the length of a
      track and may communicate information serially. Coils 5170, 5180, and 5185 may
      be spaced and controlled such that the electromagnetic field from one coil does not
      introduce interference in a read-head attempting to read information from another
15    track (e.g., an adjacent track). An interior material may be provided to assist in
      manipulating the profile of the electromagnetic field provided by a coil.
      [0364]    A read head detector may include a cluster of read-head detectors such as
      cluster 5190. Cluster 5190 may include read-head detectors 5191-5199. Each
      read-head detector may be, for example, a capacitive sensor. The read-head
20    detectors may thus, for example, be conductive areas coupled to a capacitive
      sensing circuit. Cluster 5190 may be coupled to a multi-channel capacitive sensing
      circuit. Each of the contacts of a cluster may be coupled to their own capacitive
      sensing circuit. A microprocessor may be utilized in capacitive sensing. Any type
      of read-head detector may be utilized in cluster 5190. For example, a read-head
25    detector may include a physical contact, proximity, optical, or other detector. A
      cluster may include multiple different types of read-head detectors. Cluster 5190
      may be utilized to discern, for example, between different objects. For example, a
      processor may determine that a user swiped the card through a reader if, for
      example, 1) only read-head detector 5196 detects an object; 2) after read-head
30    detector 5196 detects an object, only read-head detector 5195 detects an object;
      and 3) after read-head detector 5195 detects an object, only read-head detector
      5194 detects an object. Accordingly, different detection profiles can be associated

  WO 2009/082760                                                           PCT/US2008/088321
                                            98
      with readers such that if other types of objects are detected, the processor can
      discern between these objects and read-heads. Different profiles may be associated
      with different readers (e.g., motorized, insertion-swipe, and user-swipe). Such
      different profiles may be utilized to better combat card cloning as, for example, a
 5    fake reader overlaid on top of a legitimate ATM machine may have a different
      profile.
      [0365]    Persons skilled in the art will appreciate that a magnetic emulation circuit
      may act as a read-head detector as well as a magnetic information transmitter. For
      example, a magnetic emulator may be driven according to a process that includes a
10    step in which a correct Personal Identification Code (e.g., a PIN) is determined to
      have been entered on a card. Accordingly, another step may activate, in which a
      coil is driven such that its return paths act as a read-head detector. This may be
      done in numerous ways. For example, the current providing an electromagnetic
      field may undergo a phase-shift when a magnetic and/or conductive material is
15    placed in the electromagnetic field. Accordingly, a phase-shift may be determined.
      When such a phase-shift is determined, a step may initiate and a magnetic
      emulation circuit may be driven to communicate data serially. Accordingly, some
      region(s) may be utilized to detect a read-head and other region(s) 1220 may be
      utilized to communicate information to that read-head. Persons skilled in the art
20    will appreciate that a magnetic emulation circuit may not be supplied current until
      an appropriate Personal Identification Code (PIC) is entered into manual interfaces
      located on the card. Such a scheme, for example, provides for power savings as
      well as prevents card cloning. Accordingly, a magnetic emulator may be driven
      into a read-head detector mode upon receiving an appropriate manual input and
25    then into a data transmission mode after determining the presence of a read-head.
      [0366]    FIG. 52 shows card 5200 that may include display 5240, processor 5220,
      display 5250, switching circuitry 5230, emulators 5270 and 5280, and read-head
      detector 5260. Read-head detector 5260 may be located such that emulators are
      located between read-head detector 5260 and an edge of the card. Accordingly, for
30    example, a read-head detector may be triggered when a read-head is in the middle
      of the card such that a single read-head detector can be utilized. Data may be
      communicated quickly such that all data is transmitted serially before a read-head

  WO 2009/082760                                                           PCT/US2008/088321
                                           99
      (or read-heads) travel past emulators 470 and 480. Additionally, a capacitive
      sensing circuit may be coupled to detector 5260 without having the interconnection
      fall within the path of a moving read-head. In doing so, capacitive changes in the
      interconnection due to a read-head moving over an interconnection may not mis
 5    trigger a capacitive sensing circuit.
      [0367]    Persons skilled in the art will appreciate that a user's payment card
      number (e.g., credit card or debit card number) does not have to change. A display
      may hide this payment card number until an appropriate unlocking code is entered
      into buttons of the card. Similarly, a magnetic emulator may not be provided
10    current until the proper unlocking code is entered - thus keeping magnetic
      information private and not allowing undesirable readers to read a card. A security
      code may be displayed on the same or a different display. A button may be
      provided representative of an online purchase (or a user may utilize buttons to
      instruct the processor that an online purchase is desirable). For such an online
15    purchase, the credit card number and the security code may be displayed - but the
      magnetic emulator may not be activated. In doing so, the level of security of the
      card is increased. Furthermore, for example, a button may be provided
      representative of in-store purchases (or a user may utilize buttons to instruct the
      processor that an in-store purchase is desirable). Accordingly, a processor may be
20    signaled that an in-store purchase is desired. A different operation may be
      associated with different types of purchases (e.g., online or in-store). Accordingly,
      for example, magnetic emulators may be activated for an in-store environment
      but not the displays. Accordingly, for example, a restaurant cashier may not be
      able to read the credit card number from the card, but may still be able to swipe the
25    card. If a reader is down or a cashier requires reading particular information (e.g.,
      a security code or credit card number information) then controls may be utilized to
      communicate this information. A record of the types of transactions may be stored
      and may be communicated in discretionary fields of data within a transmitted data
      track. Such record information may be utilized, for example, to further increase
30    security and/or introduce a variety of additional functionality.
      [0368]    Different types of cards may be provided on a card. For example, a
      security ID number and a credit card number may both be provided on the same

  WO 2009/082760                                                           PCT/US2008/088321
                                           100
      card. A button may be utilized to allow a user to provide instruction to a processor
      such that the processor can display (e.g., visually and/or magnetically) the desired
      information. For example, a user may determine to use one of a variety of
      payment accounts (e.g., credit and/or debit) for a purchase. An entire payment
 5    number (e.g., credit or debit) may be changed and/or hidden visually and/or
      magnetically. A portion of a payment card number (e.g., credit or debit) may be
      changed and/or hidden visually and/or magnetically.
      [0369]    Persons skilled in the art will appreciate that a display on the card may
      display a credit card number that does not change with time. Additionally, for
10    example, a magnetic emulator (or multiple magnetic emulators) may magnetically
      communicate financial data that does not change with time. Such a card may
      reduce, for example, the effects of physical card theft and card cloning.
      [0370]    One or more light generation devices, such as a Light Emitting Diode
      (LED), may be provided as part of a card (or other device). Such an LED may
15    produce light, for example, upon a manual input such as a button press, the correct
      entry of a PIC such as a PIN, and/or the incorrect entry of a PIC. A light emitting
      device may be operable to produce different colors of light. For example, the
      incorrect entry of a PIC may produce a red light and the correct entry of a PIC may
      produce a green light. A PIC may take any form such as a numerical code or a
20    code that include alphabet letters and/or symbols. For example, a PIC may be "A
      B-B-B-A" and an "A" button may be provided on a card in addition to a "B"
      button (as well as other buttons such as a "C," "D," and/or "E" buttons).
      [0371]    Persons skilled in the art will appreciate that any numbers of a credit card
      number may remain static and/or change either with time or based off a transaction
25    (e.g., by sensing a read-head "swipe"). Additionally, any static and/or dynamic
      numbers may be displayed via a display or printed on a card. For example, a
      middle 6 digits of a credit/debit card number may be static and may be displayed
      on a display. Such a middle 6 digits may be displayed, for example, upon the entry
      of a correct PIC. Similarly, a magnetic emulator may not communicate
30    information until a correct PIC has been entered by a user. Doing so may, for
      example, reduce fraud associated with card cloning. Additionally, a receipt may be
      provided that includes masked credit card numbers except for the last few digits of

  WO 2009/082760                                                           PCT/US2008/088321
                                           101
      credit card numbers. Accordingly, displaying a static middle 6 digits of credit card
      numbers may allow for such a receipt to be provided while still reducing credit
      card fraud from hiding numbers that are not displayed on such a receipt. Any
      amount of numbers and/or characters may be displayed through a display. For
 5    example, nineteen digits may be displayed as part of a credit/debit numbers and
      these numbers may also be communicated through one or more magnetic
      emulation circuits. The entry of particular PICs may provide different results. For
      example, a first PIC may only display a string of alphanumeric characters. A
      second PIC may only activate a magnetic emulation circuit to transmit information
10    including that string of alphanumeric characters (or a different string). A third PIC
      may activate a magnetic emulation circuit and a display. A display and/or
      magnetic emulation circuit may be turned OFF, for example, upon entry of an
      incorrect PIC and/or after a period of time has passed since the entry of the PIC
      and/or after the detection of a particular number of swipes by a read-head detector
15    (e.g., one or two).
      [0372]    Persons skilled in the art will appreciate that a credit/debit card number
      (or any other information) may remain static until an event occurs and then may
      become dynamic (e.g., change based on swipes and/or time). For example, a
      particular PIC may change from a static to a dynamic topology and/or a topology
20    may be changed from static to dynamic after a pre-determined period of time.
      Additionally a card and/or device may include a wireless receiver and a topology
      may be changed from a static to a dynamic topology upon, for example, receiving
      an appropriate signal from the wireless receiver. Accordingly, a validation process
      may change at a validation server depending upon whether a card is utilizing a
25    static and/or dynamic topology at any given time. Additionally, a static
      credit/debit card number may be printed on the face of a card and information (e.g.,
      a security code) may be displayed via a display and remain static over time (or
      with use) or be provided dynamically.
      [0373]    A card or other device (e.g., a mobile telephone) may accept a pre
30    determined number of consecutive incorrect PICs before locking the card for a
      period of time or until an appropriate secondary PIC is entered. Accordingly, a
      user may enter in an incorrect PIC a number of times and then, after a card

  WO 2009/082760                                                          PCT/US2008/088321
                                          102
      becomes locked, call a support center for a secondary one-time use PIC. A card
      may cycle through unlocking PICs based, for example, on time or the number of
      previous unlock attempts.
      [0374]    A website may be provided where a user enters in his/her credit card
 5    number, pays a fee, and a new card is programmed and sent to the user. The new
      card may include a display to display a portion of the users credit/debit card
      number in a static form upon entry of an appropriate PIC. Such a card may also
      include one or more magnetic emulation circuits to transmit the information to a
      reader. Such a card may or may not, for example, include a portion of a magnetic
10    stripe. For example, three tracks of magnetic stripe data may be communicated via
      three different emulation circuits, more than three different emulation circuits, one
      emulation circuits (e.g., tracks communicated serially to all read-heads), or one or
      more tracks may be represented by magnetic stripe(s) while one or more other
      tracks may be represented by a magnetic emulation circuit. A track of data may
15    also be partially represented by a magnetic emulation circuit and partially
      represented by a magnetic stripe.
      [0375]    FIG. 53 shows card 5310, which may include magnetic stripe 5311 and
      magnetic stripe 5313. A magnetic stripe may, for example, have multiple tracks.
      Each track may be fabricated from, for example, a different magnetic stripe
20    material. Magnetic stripe 5311 may include data structured to be received by the
      infrastructure for one country. Magnetic stripe 5312 may include data structured to
      be received by the infrastructure for another company. Magnetic Stripe 5312 and
      5311 may be aligned vertically. Accordingly, a user may place card 5300 into a
      reader from one country in one direction and the user may place card 300 into a
25    different reader from a different country in a different direction. The information
      included on magnetic stripe 5311 and 5312 may be associated with a user's
      payment card account such that purchase to both territories posts to the same
      account. Card 5320 may include, for example, magnetic stripe 5321 and 5323 that
      includes payment card data operable for use in different territories. Magnetic
30    stripe 5321 and 5323 may be provided such that magnetic stripe 5321 and 5323 are
      not vertically aligned with one another. Card 5330 may be included that may
      include direction detector 5331. A card may determine the direction the card is

  WO 2009/082760                                                          PCT/US2008/088321
                                           103
      facing via direction detector 5331. Accordingly, the card may determine which
      territory the user of the card believes he/she is located in. Accordingly, magnetic
      emulator 5332 (or a magnetic encoder) may be utilized to communicate the
      appropriate territory-based payment information through magnetic emulator 5332.
 5    Persons skilled in the art will appreciate that direction detector 5331 may be, for
      example, a read-head detector. Accordingly, read-head detector 5331 may be
      utilized to determine the side facing a read-head detector such that the payment
      information associated with that side's territory is communicated. An RFID
      antenna and/or smart-chip may be provided with information in a similar manner
10    by detecting the orientation of a card with respect to a reader. Persons skilled in
      the art will appreciate that multiple emulators (or encoders) may be utilized instead
      (e.g., one for each track). Similarly, for example, two arrays of magnetic
      emulators may be utilized instead of the two magnetic stripes - each array located
      on a different end of a card (e.g., at the ends where magnetic stripe 5321 and 5322
15    of card 5320 are located).
      [0376]     Card 5350 includes buttons 5351-5364, light sources 5391-694, displays
      5552-5353, permanent information 5351 and 5370, buttons 5381-5384, and
      hologram 5399. A user may be provided with a payment number. Such a payment
      number may be comprised of permanent data, dynamic data, or a combination of
20    permanent and dynamic data. Dynamic data may be provided, for example, on
      display 5352. Display 5353 may be utilized to provide a code, which may be
      dynamic. Such a code may be utilized in authorize a transaction. Persons skilled
      in the art will appreciate that displays may display a code, payment number, or any
      type of data that changes based on time or based on use (e.g., utilizes one-time use
25    data). Similarly, data may be static and may not change. Accordingly, for
      example, a display may be utilized to display the same data when desired such that
      the data may be hidden when the data is not desired to be displayed. Buttons 5351
      5364, 5381-5382, and/or 5383-5384 may be utilized to signal a processor to
      display information on display 5352, display 5343, or display 5352 and display
30    5353.
      [0377]     A Personal Identification Code (PAC) may be entered to utilize to display
      data, as well as instruct a processor to provide particular data. For example, a

  WO 2009/082760                                                          PCT/US2008/088321
                                          104
      particular PAC may provide one payment number (e.g., a credit card number)
      while a different PAC may provide a different payment number (e.g., a debit card
      number). A PAC may include a sequence of button presses (e.g., 5 particular
      button presses). Furthermore, a PAC may be utilized to unlock a card so that the
 5    card may be utilized. For example, buttons 5381, 5382, 5383, and 5384 may not
      be utilized by a user until an appropriate PAC has been entered via buttons 5351
      5365. A number may be changed based on time (e.g., via display 5352, display
      5353, or display 5352 and display 5353). Accordingly, a PAC may be entered
      such that the particular number associated with a particular button (e.g., a number
10    associated with button 5351) for a particular time period (e.g., a particular day)
      may be displayed. One PAC may activate display 5352 while another PAC may
      activate display 5353.
      [0378]    Light source 5391 may be an LED or other source of light. Light source
      5391 may display light each time a button associated to light source 5391 is
15    pressed (e.g., buttons 5361-5362). Similarly, light source 5392 may display light
      each time a button associated with light source 5392 is pressed (e.g., button 5381
      or 5382). Light source 5393 may display light each time a button associated with
      light source 5393 is pressed (e.g., light source 5383 or 5384). Light source 5394
      may be associated to a component and may display light each time that component
20    is activated (e.g., display 5353 or 5352 is activated). Light sources may emit light
      having different colors. For example, a processor may determine that a PAC
      provided to the processor via buttons 5361-5365 matches a valid PAC for
      performing an operation. Each button press may cause light source 5391 to emit
      light of a first color (e.g., YELLOW). The last button press to complete the PAC,
25    however, may cause light source 5391 to emit a different color if the PAC is
      VALID (e.g., emit GREEN) yet emit another color if the PAC is INVALID (e.g.,
      emit RED). Particular areas of a laminated card may be transparent such that light
      from a light-source illuminates the transparent area.
      [0379]    Button 5381 may be associated with a card of a particular country.
30    Persons skilled in the art will appreciate that a card may be provided with a default
      number. Such a default number may include, for example, permanent data 5351

  WO 2009/082760                                                           PCT/US2008/088321
                                           105
      and data displayed on display 5352. Accordingly, a particular PAC may display
      the default data on display 5352.
      [0380]    Persons skilled in the art will appreciate that other default data may be
      provided to other components of a card upon entry of a PAC. For example,
 5    particular default data (e.g., payment card number and discretionary data) may be
      communicated to a magnetic emulator (or magnetic encoder) such that the
      information may be communicated to a magnetic stripe read-head. Similarly,
      default data (e.g., payment card number and discretionary data) may be
      communicated to an RFID antenna, an IC chip, or an RFID antenna and an IC
10    chip. Such default data may be different for each component (e.g., magnetic
      encoder/emulator, RFID antenna, IC Chip) and may be in different formats (e.g.,
      one track of payment data for one magnetic emulator and another track of payment
      data for another magnetic emulator).
      [0381]    Button 5381 may cause, for example, display 5352, display 5353, or
15    display 5352 and 5353 to display data associated to button 5381. Similarly, data
      associated to button 5381 for other components of card 5350 (e.g., a magnetic
      emulator, magnetic encoder, RFID antenna, and IC chip) may be communicated
      through those components. Button 5381 may be associated with, for example a
      particular territory (e.g., America). Accordingly, for example, information
20    communicated via card 5350 may be associated with a default country upon entry
      of a particular PAC until, for example, a button is pressed associated with a
      different country. At this time, for example, the information communicated by
      card 5350 may change to the information associated with the particular button
      pressed. Button 5392 may be provided for a country different than, for example, a
25    default country and a country associated with another button (e.g., button 5381). A
      card may not be associated with a default country such that, for example, a button
      is pressed to determine the type of information communicated by a card.
      [0382]    A card, or other device, may autonomously determine, for example, the
      location of the card such that the appropriate information is communicated. For
30    example, a GPS receiver (or another type of antenna) may be utilized to determine
      the location of the card, or other device (e.g., mobile telephone), such that the
      appropriate information is transmitted. Accordingly, a card, or other device, may

  WO 2009/082760                                                             PCT/US2008/088321
                                            106
      send American payment data when the card, or other device, is located in America.
      However, the card may send Japanese payment data, or other data, when the card is
      located in Japan. Display 5352 and/or display 5353 may display different amounts
      of information based on the country scheme utilized. Similarly, other components
 5    such as magnetic emulators, magnetic encoders, RFID antennas, and IC chips may
      utilize different amounts of information based on the type of country utilized.
      [0383]     Button 5383 may be utilized to provide instructions to a processor that a
      gift card is desired to be utilized via card 5350. A gift code may be entered (e.g.,
      via buttons 5361-5365) after button 5383 is pressed such that a user may, for
10    example, associate a gift card to card 5350. Accordingly, card 5350 may be
      utilized to make a gift purchase such that the original gift card may be thrown out
      (or left at home). The code entered into card 5350 may be utilized, for example, to
      provide a processor with a number to transmit via the card (e.g., next time button
      5383 is utilized). Such a number (as well as associated data such as associated
15    discretionary data) may be communicated by card 5350 via one or more displays,
      magnetic emulators, magnetic encoders, RFID antennas, and IC chips. A code
      may alternatively, for example, transmit a flag (e.g., discretionary data) that a gift
      card is being utilized (e.g., upon another use of button 5383) such that a server may
      look at a seller ID number and check if there are any gift cards associated to a
20    particular payment card number for that seller ID number. Accordingly, for
      example, a user may obtain a gift card (e.g., Target gift card) and may link that gift
      card to his/her payment card account (e.g., credit card account) and may utilize a
      button (e.g., 5383) to send a flag that a gift card is desired to be utilized. A code
      may be entered to provide a particular flag (e.g., a flag associated with a particular
25    seller). Alternatively, no code may be entered and button 5383 may just be utilized
      to generate a generic flag (e.g., causing a server to check if there are any linked gift
      cards for the account associated with the seller associated with the utilized point
      of-sale reader). A user may be provided with a particular code to be entered when
      utilize the gift card at an online store (e.g., Target's online store). The online store
30    may, for example, allow a user to enter his/her payment information (e.g., credit
      card number, expiration date, name on card, zip code associated with card) and

  WO 2009/082760                                                              PCT/US2008/088321
                                            107
      allow the user to select whether a gift card should be utilized associated with that
      card (e.g., via a radio button or other webpage input structure).
      [0384]     Button 5384 may be provided. Button 5384 may be utilized, for example,
      to make an in-store purchase. Button 5384 may activate, for example, display
 5    5352 but not display 5353. Code 5353 may be utilized, for example, to at least
      complete a particular online transaction. In not activating display 5353, for
      example, a user that is provided with a card during an in-store purchase may not
      gain access to information displayed on display 5353. Persons skilled in the art
      will appreciate, for example, that the information on display 5353 may be
10    transmitted via a component (e.g., emulator) even though the information is not
      displayed. Moreover, for example, display 5352 and 5353 may be the same
      display but that a particular interface (e.g., button) may display information on
      different portions of the display.
      [0385]    FIG. 54 includes webpage 5400 that may include, for example,
15    navigational tool 5401 that may be utilize to navigate through different pages of a
      website or different websites of an intranet or internet. Information 5402 may be
      displayed, for example, when a user purchases a gift certificate online or purchases
      a gift certificate in a store and attaches that gift certificate to the users account
      online. Interface 5403 may be utilized by a user, for example, to add the particular
20    gift card to their payment account. Such a payment account may be a credit
      account, debit account, check account, or any other type of payment account. A
      gift card may be linked to such an account such that a user does not have to, for
      example, carry around multiple cards. The user may, for example, carry around a
      single card, but a server may recognize whether a user has a gift card associated
25    with a particular seller (e.g., based on a seller ID communicated from the point-of
      sale device or other server). A user may add, modify, delete, or transfer gift cards
      associated to a payment account. Thus, for example, a user may receive a gift card
      for Christmas, may link the gift card to his/her payment account (e.g., credit card
      account), and may utilize the gift card by utilizing his/her card associated with
30    his/her payment account. Interface 5406 may be utilized, for example, to email an
      electronic gift card to a user. Interface 5408 may be utilized to send a physical
      card through the mail to a user such as the user that purchased the gift card or a

  WO 2009/082760                                                             PCT/US2008/088321
                                             108
      friend of the user that purchased the gift card. Interface 5407 may be utilized to
      load the gift card onto a merchant account. For example, a gift card that is
      purchased in a store (e.g., Walmart) may be entered into a website associated with
      that user's payment card (e.g., Bank of America) and then transferred to a
 5    merchant's website (e.g., Walmart). Persons skilled in the art will appreciate, for
      example, that a gift card may not be active until purchased. Activation may occur
      in a variety of ways. For example, a card may be activated by a cashier that
      completes a purchase of a gift card - thus communicating data to a server that
      activates that gift card. Similarly, a gift card number generated online may be
10    activated upon generation. Persons skilled in the art will appreciate that pre-paid
      payment cards such as pre-paid debit cards may be utilized as gift cards are
      utilized.
      [0386]    Interface 5404 may be utilized, for example, to generate a code that may
      be utilized to add a gift card to a dynamic card. Interface 5405 may be utilized to
15    show a full string of data that a credit card may utilize to communicate to an input
      device. For example, the full string of data may be the data that may be displayed
      and entered into a website to use the gift card. Alternatively, the data may be one
      or more tracks of magnetic stripe data (e.g., card number, name, and discretionary
      data). Alternatively still, for example, the data may be RFID antenna data or IC
20    Chip data.
      [0387]    Persons skilled in the art will appreciate that a payment card may be
      associated with a company. For example, TJX may issue a TJX credit card. Such
      a card may offer incentives if the card is utilized within the company (e.g., within a
      TJX store). The gift cards of such a store may have data that is the same from gift
25    card to gift card (e.g., the first digit or digits of a gift card number may be the same
      as they may be utilized to route data to a particular network). Accordingly, such a
      payment card may include a gift card functionality that accepts TJX gift cards. A
      user may be able to, for example, load in the control portions of the data such that
      the user does not have to enter in data that may be the same for all TJX cards. In
30    doing so, for example, the amount of time utilized to enter information may be
      minimized.

  WO 2009/082760                                                           PCT/US2008/088321
                                            109
      [0388]    Persons skilled in the art will appreciate that data may be transferred, such
      as gift card and/or pre-paid card data, to a card in a variety of ways. For example,
      a card may be swiped a second time through a magnetic stripe reader that includes
      a magnetic stripe encoder. A coil on the card may be utilized to receive the
 5    information and provide the received information to a processor. In doing so,
      information may be loaded into the card. Similarly, an IC chip may be utilized to
      receive data as well as a passive or active RFID. Additionally, one or more
      microphones may be included to receive audio information that may be
      representative of data. Accordingly, for example, a user may hold his/her card, or
10    other device, next to a device that is operable to transmit audio via a speaker (e.g.,
      laptop, stationary computer, or mobile telephonic device). The audio information
      may be discerned by the card and utilized to load information into the card (e.g., a
      gift card or pre-paid card. An application may also be loaded that enhances the
      functionality of the card. Such an application may include, for example, a user's
15    medical information such that medical information can be displayed via the card
      (or other device) during a medical emergency. Accordingly, applications and/or
      payment cards may be purchased online and a speaker may communicate
      information to a card. Similarly, the card may include a speaker for transmitting
      information such that bi-directional communications are established. A light
20    detector may be provided on a card that may receive light pulses indicative of data.
      Accordingly, for example, a user may hold a card up to a display - such as the
      screen of a laptop, stationary computer, or mobile phone - and information may be
      communicated from the display to the card via the light detector. Similarly, a light
      source may be utilized to communicate information from one device to another.
25    For example, a light source (e.g., LED) may be utilized to communicate
      information from one card to another. Similarly, a magnetic stripe reader may
      include a light source. A card may be positioned over the light source such that a
      light detector of the card is aligned with the light source to receive light.
      Accordingly, the light of a magnetic stripe reader (or other type of reader) may be
30    utilized to communicate information back to a card. A user may utilize interfaces
      on the card (e.g., buttons) to initiate a transfer of data from one card to another card
      or from a device to a card. A variety of types of data may be communicated. For

  WO 2009/082760                                                           PCT/US2008/088321
                                           110
      example, money may be communicated from one debit card to another debit card
      such that payments may occur between the cards. Accordingly, for example, the
      next time a card is utilized via a reader (e.g., a magnetic stripe reader) information
      of the transfer may be communicated to a server for processing. Light may be
 5    utilized to transfer data from a card to a computer using, for example, a camera
      (e.g., webcam) on the computer. Sound may be utilized to transfer data from a
      card to a computer using, for example, a microphone on the computer.
      [0389]    A interface (e.g., a button) may be activated (e.g., pressed) for a period of
      time and different actions may be associated with different durations of activation.
10    Different combinations of interfaces (e.g., different buttons) may be held together
      at the same time to perform a variety of functions. For example, a master
      unlocking code may be provided in case a card becomes locked (e.g., too many
      incorrect PACs were entered in a row). To enter a master unlocking code, a
      particular set of buttons may first need to be pressed in combination.
15    [0390]    Information 5410 may be displayed on webpage 5400. Information 5410
      may, for example, describe that a selection occurred as a result of user input that
      was indicative of requesting that a gift card be loaded onto a credit card using a
      code. The information may include instructions for loading the code. For
      example, a button may be requested to be pressed once. Then, a code may be
20    requested to be entered into the card. Next, a button may be requested to be
      pressed to display a particular portion of the code to confirm that the particular
      portion was correctly entered. This process may repeat until the entire code is
      confirmed as having been correctly entered. The information may include how a
      card may respond (e.g., via displaying information, providing light in a particular
25    manner, vibrating in a particular manner, or providing sound in a particular
      manner). To confirm an entry is correct, the user may be requested to perform a
      particular action such as, for example, holding down a particular button if the entry
      was correct.
      [0391]    A display may also be utilized as an interface. For example, a display
30    may include a contact and an electronic ink. The electronic ink may change colors
      in response to, for example, a particular electrical signal being supplied to the
      contact. A capacitive sensor may be coupled to such a contact, however, such that

  WO 2009/082760                                                          PCT/US2008/088321
                                           111
      a user interaction with the contact may be sensed by the capacitive sensor.
      Accordingly, a card may include a display that can also receive user input. Persons
      skilled in the art will appreciate that a display may include multiple contacts. For
      example, a display may include multiple 54-segment (e.g., to display digits) or 11
 5    segment, 14-segment, or 16-segment (e.g., to display alphanumerics) regions
      where each segment may be coupled to a capacitive sensor.
      [0392]    A biometric sensor may be placed on a card or other device. Such a
      biometric sensor may be, for example, a fingerprint reader. Accordingly, one or
      more fingerprints may be stored in the memory of a card and compared to scanned
10    fingerprints. Different fingerprints may activate the card differently (e.g., utilize a
      different user's payment card info).
      [0393]     FIG. 55 shows mapping scheme 5500. Mapping scheme 5510 maybe
      utilized. Any number of interfaces (e.g., buttons) may be placed on a card. For
      example, four or five buttons may be placed on a card. A button may be associated
15    with, for example, a color, number, letter, or symbol. Payment card numbers,
      however, may have a digit base. Accordingly, mapping may be utilized such that
      different combinations of colors, numbers, or symbols may be associated with a
      digit. For example, suppose five buttons are provided and each button is
      associated with a letter between A and E. Mapping scheme 5510 may be utilized
20    to allow a user to input digits. Accordingly, for example, a processor may include
      such a table such that the processor may be able to translate incoming information
      from a user such that digits may be communicated (e.g., via a display, encoder,
      emulator, RFID, and IC chip). Two characters from a five-button combination
      may, for example, provide for 25 different states. Scheme 5520 may be provided
25    in which 3 character sets (where each character has 5 possibilities) provides 125
      states. Accordingly, a 3 character set may provide 2 digits of information. Scheme
      5530 may be utilized, for example, to provide 3 digits of information with a 5
      character set. Scheme 5540 may be utilized, for example, to provide 4 digits of
      information with a 6 character set. Scheme 5550 may be utilized to provide 15
30    digits of information with a 22 character set. Scheme 5560 may be utilized to
      provide, for example, 16 digits of information with a 23 character set (where each
      character has one of five possibilities).

  WO 2009/082760                                                           PCT/US2008/088321
                                           112
      [0394]    Persons skilled in the art will appreciate that numerous numbers may not
      be utilized by a company. For example TJX may only be provided with 15,000
      pre-paid debit card numbers. Such numbers may be, for example, 19 digits in
      length. Suppose, for example, that TJX issued a payment card that allowed for
 5    TJX pre-paid debit cards to be entered into a the TJX payment card. Accordingly,
      albeit a number is 19 digits, a mapping may allow a user to enter a card number
      with only 6 characters. Accordingly, for example, a 19 digit number may be
      entered into a card using less than 19 button activations. Numbers may be
      encrypted based on time to increase security as these numbers are communicated
10    from a card (e.g., via an emulator, encoder, display, RFID, and IC chip).
      [0395]    Persons skilled in the art will also appreciate that additional information
      may be communicated with a code. For example, the type of gift card (e.g., a TJX
      gift card) may be communicated with the code. Additionally, the amount of the
      gift card, the balance of the gift card upon code generation, the expiration date of a
15    gift card, as well as a message provided by the purchaser of the gift card may be
      communicated via a code.
      [0396]    Persons skilled in the art will appreciate that a user's payment card
      number (e.g., credit card or debit card number) does not have to change. A display
      may hide this payment card number until an appropriate unlocking code is entered
20    into buttons of the card. Similarly, a magnetic emulator may not be provided
      current until the proper unlocking code is entered - thus keeping magnetic
      information private and not allowing undesirable readers to read a card. A security
      code may be displayed on the same or a different display. A button may be
      provided representative of an online purchase (or a user may utilize buttons to
25    instruct the processor that an online purchase is desirable). For such an online
      purchase, the credit card number and the security code may be displayed - but the
      magnetic emulator may not be activated. In doing so, the level of security of the
      card is increased. Furthermore, for example, a button may be provided
      representative of in-store purchases (or a user may utilize buttons to instruct the
30    processor that an in-store purchase is desirable). Accordingly, a processor may be
      signaled that an in-store purchase is desired. A different operation may be
      associated with different types of purchases (e.g., online or in-store). Accordingly,

  WO 2009/082760                                                           PCT/US2008/088321
                                           113
      for example, magnetic emulators may be activated for an in-store environment
      but not the displays. Accordingly, for example, a restaurant cashier may not be
      able to read the credit card number from the card, but may still be able to swipe the
      card. If a reader is down or a cashier requires reading particular information (e.g.,
 5    a security code or credit card number information) then controls may be utilized to
      communicate this information. A record of the types of transactions may be stored
      and may be communicated in discretionary fields of data within a transmitted data
      track. Such record information may be utilized, for example, to further increase
      security and/or introduce a variety of additional functionality.
10    [0397]    Different types of cards may be provided on a card. For example, a
      security ID number and a credit card number may both be provided on the same
      card. A button may be utilized to allow a user to provide instruction to a processor
      such that the processor can display (e.g., visually and/or magnetically) the desired
      information. For example, a user may determine to use one of a variety of
15    payment accounts (e.g., credit and/or debit) for a purchase. An entire payment
      number (e.g., credit or debit) may be changed and/or hidden visually and/or
      magnetically. A portion of a payment card number (e.g., credit or debit) may be
      changed and/or hidden visually and/or magnetically.
      [0398]    Persons skilled in the art will appreciate that a display on the card may
20    display a credit card number that does not change with time (or transaction or
      button press). Additionally, for example, a magnetic emulator (or multiple
      magnetic emulators) may magnetically communicate financial data that does not
      change with time. Such a card may reduce, for example, the effects of physical
      card theft and card cloning.
25    [0399]    Persons skilled in the art will appreciate that any numbers of a credit card
      number may remain static and/or change either with time or based off a transaction
      (e.g., by sensing a read-head "swipe"). Additionally, any static and/or dynamic
      numbers may be displayed via a display or printed on a card. For example, a
      middle 6 digits of a credit/debit card number may be static and may be displayed
30    on a display. Such a middle 6 digits may be displayed, for example, upon the entry
      of a correct PIC. Similarly, a magnetic emulator may not communicate
      information until a correct PIC has been entered by a user. Doing so may, for

  WO 2009/082760                                                           PCT/US2008/088321
                                           114
      example, reduce fraud associated with card cloning. Additionally, a receipt may be
      provided that includes masked credit card numbers except for the last few digits of
      credit card numbers. Accordingly, displaying a static middle 6 digits of credit card
      numbers may allow for such a receipt to be provided while still reducing credit
 5    card fraud from hiding numbers that are not displayed on such a receipt. Any
      amount of numbers and/or characters may be displayed through a display. For
      example, nineteen digits may be displayed as part of a credit/debit numbers and
      these numbers may also be communicated through one or more magnetic
      emulation circuits. The entry of particular PICs may provide different results. For
10    example, a first PIC may only display a string of alphanumeric characters. A
      second PIC may only activate a magnetic emulation circuit to transmit information
      including that string of alphanumeric characters (or a different string). A third PIC
      may activate a magnetic emulation circuit and a display. A display and/or
      magnetic emulation circuit may be turned OFF, for example, upon entry of an
15    incorrect PIC and/or after a period of time has passed since the entry of the PIC
      and/or after the detection of a particular number of swipes by a read-head detector
      (e.g., one or two).
      [0400]    Persons skilled in the art will appreciate that a credit/debit card number
      (or any other information) may remain static until an event occurs and then may
20    become dynamic (e.g., change based on swipes and/or time). For example, a
      particular PIC may change from a static to a dynamic topology and/or a topology
      may be changed from static to dynamic after a pre-determined period of time.
      Additionally a card and/or device may include a wireless receiver and a topology
      may be changed from a static to a dynamic topology upon, for example, receiving
25    an appropriate signal from the wireless receiver. Accordingly, a validation process
      may change at a validation server depending upon whether a card is utilizing a
      static and/or dynamic topology at any given time. Additionally, a static
      credit/debit card number may be printed on the face of a card and information (e.g.,
      a security code) may be displayed via a display and remain static over time (or
30    with use) or be provided dynamically.
      [0401]    A card or other device (e.g., a mobile telephone) may accept a pre
      determined number of consecutive incorrect PICs before locking the card for a

  WO 2009/082760                                                         PCT/US2008/088321
                                          115
      period of time or until an appropriate secondary PIC is entered. Accordingly, a
      user may enter in an incorrect PIC a number of times and then, after a card
      becomes locked, call a support center for a secondary one-time use PIC. A card
      may cycle through unlocking PICs based, for example, on time or the number of
 5    previous unlock attempts.
      [0402]    A website may be provided where a user enters in his/her credit card
      number, pays a fee, and a new card is programmed and sent to the user. The new
      card may include a display to display a portion of the users credit/debit card
      number in a static form upon entry of an appropriate PIC. Such a card may also
10    include one or more magnetic emulation circuits to transmit the information to a
      reader. Such a card may or may not, for example, include a portion of a magnetic
      stripe. For example, three tracks of magnetic stripe data may be communicated via
      three different emulation circuits, more than three different emulation circuits, one
      emulation circuits (e.g., tracks communicated serially to all read-heads), or one or
15    more tracks may be represented by magnetic stripe(s) while one or more other
      tracks may be represented by a magnetic emulation circuit. A track of data may
      also be partially represented by a magnetic emulation circuit and partially
      represented by a magnetic stripe.
      [0403]    An LED may blink in a pattern to provide a number of functionalities.
20    For example, an LED may blink to denote that a particular action is occurring (e.g.,
      a magnetic emulator is ON). An LED may blink to communicate information to a
      card or other device (e.g., the video camera of a mobile telephone).
      [0404]    FIG. 56 shows process flow charts 5600. Flow chart 5610 may be
      included that includes step 5611, in which a gift card is purchased in a store. Step
25    5612 may then occur, in which the gift card is transferred to a friend or relative.
      Step 5613 may ensue, in which the friend or relative scratches off a surface of the
      card to reveal a code. Step 5614 may occur, in which the friend or relative may
      enter the code on a website associated with his/her card to attach the card to his/her
      payment card account. Step 5615 may be included in which the friend or relative
30    presses a button on his/her payment card and a flag is sent with the payment card
      information (e.g., payment card number, name, discretionary data) to denote that
      an uploaded card is desired to be utilized. As such, a server may utilize the gift

  WO 2009/082760                                                            PCT/US2008/088321
                                             116
      card number linked to the payment card instead of, for example, the credit card
      number.
      [0405]     Flow chart 5620 may be included. Step 5621 may be included in flow
      chart 5620, in which a gift card is purchased in a store and activated as a result of
 5    the card being purchased. Step 5622 may occur, in which the gift card is given to a
      friend or relative. Step 5623 may then occur, in which the friend or relative
      scratches off the surface of the card to reveal a code. Step 5624 may be included
      in which the friend or relative enters the code on his/her payment card. Step 5625
      may be included in which the friend presses a button such that the code is
10    transmitted when the card is utilized by a reader (e.g., a magnetic stripe reader) as
      discretionary or other data (e.g., credit card number data).
      [0406]     Flow chart 5630 may be included. Step 5631 may be included in flow
      chart 5630, in which a code is entered into a card (or other device). A button may
      be pressed denoting use of a gift card function in step 5632. Step 5633 may be
15    utilized such that the gift card data may be sent with pre-formatted discretionary
      and/or other data. Step 5634 may be included such that the code passes through a
      routing server. Persons skilled in the art will appreciate that particular digits (e.g.,
      the first six digits) of a gift card number may be utilized by a server as a routing
      address. Step 5635 may be included, for example, such that the code is authorized
20    at an authentication server such that the gift card may be verified and utilized to
      pay for a purchase.
      [0407]     Flow chart 5640 may be included. Step 5641 may be included in flow
      chart 5640 such that a code is entered into a card. Step 5642 may be included such
      that the code is associated with one or more buttons on a card. Step 5643 may be
25    utilized such that a second code is entered into a card. Step 5644 may be utilized
      such that a second code is associated with one or more second button.
      Accordingly, for example, one gift card may be entered and associated with one
      button while another gift card may be entered and associated with another button.
      [0408]     Persons skilled in the art will appreciate that a variety of accounting
30    functions may be performed by a card (or other device). For example, buttons may
      be provided that are associated with different accounting categories (e.g., food,
      hotel, entertainment, gas, other). A user may press a button before a purchase in

  WO 2009/082760                                                         PCT/US2008/088321
                                          117
      order to add information into the discretionary data associated with, for example, a
      category. Such information may be communicated to a magnetic emulator,
      encoder, RFID, and IC chip. Such information may be stripped out at a server and
      forwarded to a different server. Such a different server, may, for example, utilize
 5    such discretionary data to add information associated with the categories to a
      user's online bill statement for a particular payment card. Thus, for example, a
      user may select a business credit card button on a card and then a travel button. In
      doing so, for example, the user's business credit card number may be
      communicated to a magnetic stripe read-head (along with any associated
10    information) as well as discretionary data representative of the purchase being for
      travel. Accordingly, a business person may save time in creating an expense report
      as information is communicated at time of purchase through a payment
      infrastructure at the demand of the user.
      [0409]    FIG. 57 may include process flow charts 5700. Flow chart 5710 may be
15    included. Step 5711 may be included, in which a card is pre-set with codes for one
      or more stores. Step 5712 may occur, in which a payment card number is entered
      online with a gift card number to obtain a pre-set code for a store for a particular
      card (or for any card). Such a code may be entered into a card in step 5713. The
      code may be verified in step 5714 and pre-set gift card data may be sent at
20    purchase in step 5715 (e.g., via a magnetic emulator, encoder, IC chip, or RFID).
      [0410]    Flow chart 5720 may be included that may include step 5721, in which a
      card may be swiped to transmit data to a reader (e.g., a magnetic stripe reader).
      Step 5722 may occur in which a transaction is completed. Step 5723 may then
      ensue, in which a card is swiped through the reader (e.g., a magnetic stripe reader)
25    to receive data from the reader. The received data may be, at least in part,
      associated with a button in step 5724. Such received data may be displayed, at
      least in part, when the associated button is pressed in step 5725.
      [0411]    Flow chart 5730 may be included. Step 5731 may be included, in which
      an online card account maybe be visited by a user. Step 5732 may be included in
30    which gift cards associated with the card account may be listed with the card.
      Additional cards may be listed such as, for example, additional credit, debit, check,
      or pre-paid cards. Cards may be added, deleted, or transferred electronically (e.g.,

  WO 2009/082760                                                            PCT/US2008/088321
                                            118
      via mail) in step 5733. A balance may be viewed for one or more cards in step
      5734. Transactions associated with cards may be viewed in step 5735.
      [0412]     Flow chart 5740 may be included. Card may be used at a reader via an IC
      chip in step 5741. Step 5742 amy be included in which data may be transmitted
 5    from a card to a reader. Step 5743 may occur in which data may be transmitted
      from a reader to a card. A function may be associated with one or more buttons in
      step 5744. Information may be displayed via a function when the associated
      button is pressed in, for example, step 5745.
      [0413]     FIG. 58 shows card 5800 that may include, for example, button array
10    5820, light sources 5811-5814, hologram 5830, permanent information 5801 and
      5802, display 5840, and buttons 5826 and 5827. Permanent information 5801 and
      5802 may be, for example, printed and/or embossed. Permanent information 5801
      may correspond to, for example, the card number for one territory while permanent
      information 5802 may include information for another territory. Display 5840 may
15    include, for example, a code that may change based on transaction (via read-head
      detectors), button-press, or time. The code displayed on display 5840 may be
      associated with buttons 5826 and 5827 such that different codes are provided
      depending on the button that is pressed. A code may be different lengths. Persons
      skilled in the art will appreciate, for example, that one payment card may include a
20    card number of one length (e.g., 15 digits) and a code of one length (e.g., 4 digits)
      while another payment card may include a card number of a different length (e.g.,
       16 digits) and a code of a different length (e.g., 3 digits). Light source 5811 may
      activate in certain circumstances while light source 5812 may activate in different
      circumstances. Each light source may be able to emit different colors of light.
25    Each light source may, for example, emit a different color of light. For example,
      light source 5811 may emit GREEN while light source 5812 may emit RED.
      Accordingly, for example, an appropriate PAC may result in light source 5811
      emitting GREEN while light source 5812 emits RED. Light source 5813 may be
      utilized to emit light after button 5826 is pressed so that a user can see that a button
30    is active. Similarly, button 5827 may be utilized to emit light after button 5827 is
      pressed.

  WO 2009/082760                                                           PCT/US2008/088321
                                           119
      [0414]     Card 5850 may be provided. Global number 5801 may be displayed
      permanently (or via a display). Display 5802 may be utilized to display
      information. For example, display 5802 may be utilized to display a code or a
      portion of a payment card number. Persons skilled in the art will appreciate that
 5    different territories may be have different lengths of different types of data (e.g.,
      different lengths of payment card numbers). Accordingly, a user may be assigned
      numbers in each territory with overlapping digits (e.g., global portions). For
      example, a sixteen digit number for one territory may be the same as the first
      sixteen digits of a nineteen digit number in another territory. The remaining digits
10    for that territory may be displayed, for example, on display 5802. Accordingly, for
      example, the card may, upon entry of an appropriate PAC default to not showing
      any information on a display and, upon sensing of a read-head, sending the default
      payment information through one or more magnetic emulators and/or encoders (or
      RFID or IC chip). Upon the utilization of a button signifying a nineteen digit
15    scheme for a different territory is utilized, the extra digit information may be
      displayed on display 5802 and the payment information for that territory may be
      communicated via a magnetic emulator, magnetic encoder, RFID, or IC chip.
      Persons skilled in the art will appreciate that pressing a button for a particular
      territory (or other payment information) may be utilized to send that payment
20    information through a communications device such as a magnetic emulator.
      However, for example, another button may be utilized to cause a display to display
      the appropriate corresponding payment information. Accordingly, for example, a
      user may protect information from being visible read by others in particular
      situations (e.g., when a card is handed to a bartender for processing).
25    [0415]     FIG. 59 may include card 5900 in which a payment card number may be
      displayed on a display. Persons skilled in the art will appreciate that a variety of
      information may be displayed on a display such as, for example, battery life, time
      until a number expires (e.g., in a time-based encryption scheme), the number of
      numbers left (e.g., in a multiple-factor one-time-use scheme). Card 5950 may be
30    provided that may include display 5951 that may include, for example 11-segment
      character displays. A card may include any type of display such as, for example, a
      7-segment digit display. A display may be one, two, three or more lines of

  WO 2009/082760                                                         PCT/US2008/088321
                                           120
      characters. A display may include pixels that may be controlled to display data. A
      color or two-tone (e.g., black and white) display may be utilized).
      [0416]    FIG. 60 shows card 300 which may be manufactured and laminated (e.g.,
      via a HOT, WARM, or COLD lamination process). A card may be printed on a
 5    circuit board, such as a flexible circuit board. Components (e.g., microprocessor)
      may be attached to the board (e.g., soldered via hot air). The card may be
      laminated. For example, the board may be placed into a mold and warm laminate
      may be injected into the mold. The mold may be removed such that a card is
      provided. Molding may take place, for example, on the sheet level and then cut
10    into cards. Programming portion 6010 may be a portion of the board that was not
      laminated. The board may have, for example, multiple layers. Accordingly,
      portion 6010 may be utilized to program a processor, or other components, via
      contacts 6010. Contacts 6010 may take the form of, for example, rings such that a
      male-programming connector may couple each ring. Accordingly, a perpendicular
15    connection may occur. After a card is programmed, for example, portion 6010
      may be cut-off such that a card is provided. Card 6050 may be included with
      portion 6020 and contacts 6021. Contacts 6021 may couple via a parallel
      connection with a programmer. A microprocessor may be instructed to ignore or
      bum-out programming ports after programming. Additional laminate may be
20    placed on the edge where the board is cut such that, for example, no contacts are
      exposed. Furthermore, a processor may be programmed through laminate using,
      for example, capacitive programming.
      [0417] FIG. 61 may include external connector 6101 which may be, for example, a
      USB connector. Such a USB connector may, for example, fold out from card
25    6100. Such a connector may be, for example, USB, USB 2.0, mini-USB, or USB
      3.0. Other external connectors may be utilized. Data may be transferred to and
      from a card, or other device, utilizing external connector 6101.
      [0418] Card 6150 may be provided. Card 6150 may include, for example, button
      6151 and associated display 6152. A code may be entered using a button array to
30    cause a processor to display a particular number, character set (e.g., name), logo, or
      other indicia on display 6152 upon the utilization of button 6151. Accordingly, for
      example, a user may load a gift card onto a card and may be provided with

  WO 2009/082760                                                            PCT/US2008/088321
                                           121
      customized visual indicia such that a user may not forget what card is associated
      with what button. A user may select what button a card (e.g., gift card) may be
      associated with or the card may autonomously associate a card to the next available
      button. A card may have a pre-set number of cards that are provided to buttons on
 5    a one card per button basis or multiple cards may be associated per button (e.g., a
      single button press of a button provides one gift card while two button presses of a
      button in tandem provides a different gift card). Balances, gift card amounts,
      expiration dates, or other information may also be provided via a display. Other
      information may include a message from the gift card purchaser. A display may
10    scroll data autonomously such that information that would extend beyond the
      display capabilities of a display may be displayed by the display without further
      user interaction. Accordingly, for example, a user may unlock a card by entering a
      particular PAC on a button array, the user may press a button to see the gift card
      associated with that button, the user may then select a different button and see a
15    different gift card associated with that different button, the user may then swipe a
      card and a read-head detector may detect a swipe, the processor may then drive one
      or more magnetic emulators to communicate data to one or more magnetic stripe
      read-heads that causes that different credit card to be utilized. Persons skilled in
      the art will appreciate that codes may be utilized to, for example, load cards or
20    denote a particular flag be sent with particular payment card information (e.g.,
      default credit card information) such that processing servers may utilized gift cards
      linked to a card. Similarly, for example, a user may load a gift card into a card and
      the card may send information along with the payment card information (e.g., in
      discretionary fields) such that a processing server notes that a gift card was added
25    to the card and links the gift card to the user's account. Accordingly, a user may,
      for example, receive a gift card, enter the card into his card (e.g., by entering a
      unique code for that gift card), use the credit card, and then go online to his
      payment card account and see that the loaded gift card is associated to his account.
      The user then may, for example, utilize the loaded gift card online from his/her
30    payment card account.
      [0419]    Permanent logo 6153 may be provided on a card. A card may include
      logos of multiple credit card companies, banks, or other entities. A logo may be

  WO 2009/082760                                                         PCT/US2008/088321
                                            122
      provided on a display (e.g., an electronic ink display). Different logos may be
      provided on a display and a particular button press may cause a different logo to be
      displayed. Different logos of different stores may be displayed depending on, for
      example, the gift card that is utilized at a particular time.
 5    [0420]     FIG. 62 shows card 6250 that includes buttons 6261-664, light sources
      6291-694, displays 6252-6253, permanent information251 and 6270, buttons 628 1
      6284, and hologram 6299.
      [0421]     Button 6281 may be included on card 6250. Button 6281 may cause, for
      example, display 6252, display 6253, or display 6252 and 6253 to display data
10    associated to button 6281. Similarly, data associated to button 6281 may be
      communicated through components of card 6250 (e.g., a magnetic emulator,
      magnetic encoder, RFID antenna, and IC chip).
      [0422]     Button 6281 may, for example, be associated with a particular amount of
      a tip (e.g., a 10% tip). Accordingly, for example, a user may interact with button
15    6281 to denote that the user desires to add a tip to a purchase. For example, a user
      in a restaurant may hand his/her payment card to a waitress and activate button
      6281 (e.g., after entering in an appropriate PIC into card 6250 utilizing buttons
      6261-6265). Accordingly, the waitress may swipe card 6250 through a magnetic
      stripe swipe reader. A read-head detection circuit on card 6250 may recognize that
20    card 6250 is being swiped. Accordingly, for example, card 6250 may
      communicate information through a magnetic emulator. This information may
      include payment information (e.g., a payment card number and associated
      discretionary data). Included in the communicated data may be, for example, data
      representative of the desired tip amount. Such data may, for example, be a flag
25    (e.g., a particular character in a particular location of communicated data). A
      system, such as a cash register or remote server, may recognize the flag and may
      authorize a payment transaction associated with the total amount of a purchase
      (e.g., the amount after the desired tip has been added).
      [0423]     Button 6282 may be associated to, for example, a pre-ATM activity.
30    Such a pre-ATM activity may be, for example, a pre-PIN activity. For example, a
      user may activate button 6282 and utilize buttons 6261-665 to enter in the user's
      PIN. The user may then, for example, place card 6250 in the proximity of a card

  WO 2009/082760                                                         PCT/US2008/088321
                                          123
      reader such that payment information and a user's PIN may be communicated
      through a magnetic emulator (or communicated through an RFID antenna and/or
      IC chip). Accordingly, a user may enter in his/her PIN into a payment card such
      that a user does not have to enter his/her PIN into an ATM. In doing so, for
 5    example, a user may more securely enter in his/her PIN (e.g., by hiding a card) as
      well as accelerate an ATM activity (e.g., by entering a PIN while waiting in line
      for an ATM). A user may enter his/her PIN into card 6250 utilizing buttons 6261
      6265 and then, for example, press button 6282 to cause a processor to place the
      entered PIN information into data communicated from card 6250. Accordingly,
10    for example, the sequence of buttons 6261-6265 that are pressed may be stored in a
      memory of card 6250 and utilized by a processor of card 6250.
      [0424]    Button 6283 may be associated to display 6254. Alternatively, for
      example, button 6283 may be associated with written and/or embossed information
      (not shown). For example, button 6283 may be associated to display 6254.
15    Display 6254 may display data associated with a particular card function. For
      example, display 6254 may display a fast-cash function (e.g., $100 fast cash). A
      user may utilize interfaces on card 6250 (e.g., buttons 6251-6262) to set or change
      the information displayed on display 6283. A user may enter in a card
      configuration on a computer and receive information into the card from the
20    computer, in a variety of ways, in order to configure the card (e.g., to display a
      particular function on display 6254). For example, a user may swipe card 6250
      and receive information through a coil from a magnetic encoding head that
      generates an electromagnetic field. Alternatively, for example, a processor may
      receive configuration information via an RFID antenna and/or an IC chip.
25    [0425]    Button 6283 may be associated with a fast-cash function. A user may
      interact with button 6283 to provide an instruction to a processor that a fast-cash
      functionality is desired. A user may, for example, enter his/her PIN into a card.
      After the user's PIN is verified by a processor on card 6250, a user may, for
      example, press button 6283 such that a flag is communicated through transmitted
30    payment information representative of a fast-cash function. Accordingly, for
      example, an ATM (or other device) may receive payment information that may
      include a fast-cash flag. The machine may also receive PIN information from a

  WO 2009/082760                                                           PCT/US2008/088321
                                           124
      card. The machine may utilize a payment card number in the payment information
      with the PIN number to verify the identity of the user. The machine may recognize
      the received flag and utilize the flag as control data to dispense cash to the user.
      Accordingly, for example, a user may perform ATM activities on a card while
 5    waiting in line for an ATM in order to minimize the amount of time a user is
      required to interact with that ATM.
      [0426]    Button 6284 may be associated with display 6284 and a pre-authorization
      functionality. For example, a pre-authorization functionality may be utilized to
      pre-authorize a particular amount or to complete a signature-based transaction
10    without a signature. For example, a tip amount may be added to a total amount
      and may be pre-authorized. Accordingly, a user may receive a receipt that requires
      his/her signature with the pre-authorized total amount (that includes the tip).
      Additionally, for example, a PIN may be entered utilizing buttons 6261-6265 and
      button 6284 may be utilized to communicate the PIN as a pre-authorization.
15    Accordingly, a remote server may receive payment information that may include at
      least a PIN, a payment number, discretionary data, and a flag associated that the
      PIN is desired to be utilized in lieu of a signature as a form of authorization for the
      transaction.
      [0427]    Flow chart 6200 may be utilized in conjunction with a payment card, such
20    as payment card 6250. Step 6210 may be included in flow chart 6200.
      Particularly, for example, step 6210 may be initiated when information is
      communicated from a payment card, through a payment card reader, through a
      payment card routing server, to a payment card authorization server. Step 6211
      may be included, in which a PIN is requested to be entered at a reader. Step 6212
25    may be included, in which a signature is requested to be entered in a reader. Step
      6213 may be included, in which a PIN, for example, is communicated to a remote
      server via a card, thus not requiring either a PIN or a signature to be entered on a
      payment card reader. A payment transaction may be completed in step 6214
      [0428]    Persons skilled in the art will appreciate that a pre-authorization activity
30    may include the pressing of a single button after an appropriate PIN has been
      entered into a card. Accordingly, the card may authorize a user and may
      communicate an appropriate flag when payment data is communicated from a card.

  WO 2009/082760                                                          PCT/US2008/088321
                                          125
      Accordingly, a remote server may receive a flag. The remote server may authorize
      a payment transaction based on the received data that includes the flag, indicative
      of an appropriate PIN entered into a card and the activation of a button associated
      with a pre-authorization activity.
 5    [0429]    FIG. 63 shows card 6300. User interface 6371 may be included on card
      6300 and may be associated to a particular tip percentage (e.g., 5%). User
      interface 6372 may be included on card 6300 and may be associated to a different
      tip percentage (e.g., 10%). User interface 6373 may be included on card 6300 and
      may be associated to another tip percentage (e.g., 15%). User interface 6374 may
10    be included on card 6300 and may be associated to yet another tip percentage (e.g.,
      20%). User interface 6375 may be included on card 6300 and may be associated to
      the desire to enter a PIN into card 6300. User interface 6376 may be included on
      cad 6300 and may be associated to an authorization activity. Displays 6381-6384
      may be utilized to display information. For example, display 6381 may display
15    payment card information (e.g., after an appropriate PIN is entered into card 6300).
      Display 6382-6384 may be utilized to display selected combinations of activities.
      For example, if a user is in a restaurant, a user may enter a PIN, enter that the PIN
      should be utilized for payment authorization, and that a 10% tip is authorized.
      Persons skilled in the art will appreciate that a user may utilize buttons to enter in a
20    PIN at any time (e.g., without pressing a button indicating a PIN is about to be
      entered) and a correct entry of a PIN may result in a display (e.g., display 6382)
      displaying indicia associated with the correct entry of a PIN.
      [0430]    FIG. 64 shows card 6400 that may include, for example, user interfaces
      6411-6420. User interfaces 6411-6420 may be a button such as a mechanical
25    button or a capacitive button.
      [0431]    User interface 6411 may be pressed by a user to instruct a processor on
      card 6400 that a user desires to enter a PIN into card 6400 utilizing user interfaces
      located on card 6400. Accordingly, a user may interface with user interface 6411.
      The user may then enter his/her PIN into user interfaces of card 6400. The entered
30    PIN may then be, for example, stored and verified by a processor of card 6400.
      Persons skilled in the art will appreciate, however, that a PIN entered by a user
      does not need to be verified by card 6400. An entered PIN may, for example, be

  WO 2009/082760                                                          PCT/US2008/088321
                                           126
      stored and the entered PIN may be communicated to a remote device by card 6400.
      Accordingly, a PIN may be verified by remote devices A PIN may be verified by
      card 6400 in addition to being forwarded to a remote device for verification.
      [0432]     Card 6400 may include user interface 6412. A user may interface with
 5    user interface 6412 (e.g., press a mechanical button) and cause a processor of card
      6400 to implement a functionality associated with user interface 6412. Such a
      functionality may include, for example, instructions to communicate information
      associated with the desired functionality when card 6400 communicates
      information to external devices (e.g., a payment card magnetic stripe reader, IC
10    chip reader, or RFID reader). User interface 6412 may, for example, cause
      information to be sent indicative of a user's desire to complete a signature-based
      transaction without a signature. Accordingly, for example, card 6400 may
      communicate information that includes a payment card number, the PIN entered
      into card 6400 by a user, and a data indicative of the user's desire to utilize the
15    entered PIN to complete a transaction instead of utilizing a signature.
      [0433]    User interface 6413 may be associated to a particular type of card. For
      example, user interface 6413 may be associated to a particular type of a payment
      card (e.g., credit payment, debit payment, gift payment). Accordingly, for
      example, a user may interact with user interface 6413 to instruct a processor that
20    the user desires to utilize a particular type of payment for a purchase. Multiple
      interfaces may be included on card 6400 and each interface may be associated to a
      different type of payment. For example, user interface 6414 may be included on
      card 6400 and may be associated with a credit payment. A processor may receive
      a control signal from user interface 6413. The processor may then retrieve
25    payment information associated with stored payment information for user interface
      6413. Accordingly, for example, the processor may retrieve debit card information
      (e.g., a debit card account number and associated discretionary data). The
      processor may then communicate this retrieved information from card 6400.
      Persons skilled in the art will appreciate that the card may communicate payment
30    information in different forms depending on the type of reader the card interfaces
      with. For example, card 6400 may detect that card 6400 is placed in a magnetic
      stripe swipe reader and may communicate the payment information desired by the

  WO 2009/082760                                                         PCT/US2008/088321
                                           127
      user in the form of track 1 and track 2 magnetic stripe data. Card 6400 may
      alternatively, for example, detect that card 6400 is placed in an electromagnetic
      field and may communicate the appropriate payment information as an RFID
      signal from an RFID antenna located on card 6400.
 5    [0434]     User interfaces 6416-6418 may be associated to particular dollar amounts.
      User interfaces 6419 and 6420 may be associated to functions that are based on
      particular dollar amounts. Accordingly, for example, a user may select a user
      interface 6416-6418 as well as user interface 6419 or 6420 in order to provide a
      combinational instruction to a processor. For example, a user may utilize user
10    interface 6419 and 6418 to instruct a processor that a fast-cash functionality is
      desired in the amount of $100. As per another example, a user may utilize user
      interface 6420 and 6418 to instruct a processor that a cash-back functionality is
      desired in the amount of $100. Accordingly, a user may utilize user interfaces to
      provide combinational logic in order to, for example, reduce the number of user
15    interfaces on a card. In reducing the number of user interfaces on a card, for
      example, the cost of a card may be decreased. Persons skilled in the art will
      appreciate that a cash-back and a fast-cash functionality may be provided with a
      single button. A single flag may be placed in data outputted in a card indicative of
      the desire to utilize a fast-cash and cash-back functionality. A remote device, such
20    as a cash register), may recognize the flag and may perform the desired operation
      if, for example, the machine is only capable of providing one of the two options
      (e.g., fast-cash or cash-back). A button may be pressed multiple times to toggle
      between different options. For example, a button may be pressed once to toggle to
      a fast-cash functionality while the same button may be pressed again to toggle to a
25    cash-back functionality.
      [0435]     The results of user selections may be displayed, for example, on display
      6402. Accordingly, for example, a user may visually verify that card 6400 has
      correctly received the user's desired selections. Permanent information 6401 may
      be provided. Permanent information 6401 may include, for example, a payment
30    card number, a user's name, a verification code, an expiration date, instructions for
      destroying a card, and instructions for using a card. Person skilled in the art will
      appreciate that permanent information 6401 may include a default payment card

  WO 2009/082760                                                         PCT/US2008/088321
                                           128
      number (e.g., a first credit card number). The use of user interface 6414 may, for
      example, cause a secondary credit card number to be displayed on display 6402. A
      card that is used with a reader without receiving any information from a user via
      user interfaces may, for example, communicate default information (e.g., default
 5    payment information or information indicative that a user has not entered any
      information into a card utilizing user interfaces located on the card).
      [0436]    FIG. 65 shows card 6500. Card 6500 may include, for example, user
      interfaces 6511-6510 and 6522-6525. Card 6500 may also include, for example,
      display 6250. User interfaces 6510 to 6519 may each be associated to, for
10    example, a digit. Accordingly, for example, user interfaces 6510-6519 may form a
      ten digit numeric keypad. This keypad may be utilized by a user to communicate
      numerical information to a processor. Multiple functions may, for example, utilize
      numerical information. For example, user interface 6522 may be associated with a
      PIN-entry function. Accordingly, a user may use interface 6522 and then the user
15    may enter a PIN into card 6500 by utilizing interfaces 6511-6519. User interface
      6521 may be associated with a fast-cash functionality. Accordingly, a user may
      select fast-cash by utilizing interface 6521 and then may enter in the desired
      amount of cash the user desires to withdrawal utilizing interfaces 6510-6519. A
      confirmation step may be utilized. For example, a user may interface with button
20    6521 before and after selecting a withdrawal amount. Display 6250 may, for
      example, display an updated selection status after, for example, a function button is
      pressed a second time (e.g., after numerical information is entered). Alternatively,
      for example, a user selection may be presented via display 6250 after the numerical
      information was entered by a user such that a user can press a function button a
25    second time, after viewing the displayed selection, to confirm the selection. A user
      may reset the selection by, for example, entering a different numerical amount
      utilizing user interfaces 6510-6519. In doing so, for example, a user may easily
      correct a situation where the user entered the wrong numerical information into
      card 6500.
30    [0437]    User interface 6523 may be associated with, for example, a cash-back
      functionality. Accordingly, a user waiting in line to purchase an item may select
      cash-back utilizing interface 6523 and may enter in an amount of desired cash-

  WO 2009/082760                                                           PCT/US2008/088321
                                           129
      back. This request may be communicated from the card to a cash register such that
      the cashier is notified to provide the desired amount of cash-back to the user.
      Accordingly, a transaction may be authorized for the amount of the purchase as
      well as the amount of the cash withdrawal. User interface 6524 may be associated
 5    to a tip and user interfaces 6511-6519 may be utilized to enter in the desired tip.
      Persons skilled in the art will appreciate that a card, or a remote device, may utilize
      numerical information as a percentage (e.g., 10%) or as a number (e.g., $10). A
      user interface may be provided for a decimal place such that cents information may
      be entered into a card by a user. User interface 6525 may be utilized by a user to
10    toggle between a checking account and a saving account. User interface 6526 may
      be utilized to notify the card that a user desires a receipt. Accordingly, information
      may be communicated by the card to a point-of-sale device to indicate that the user
      desires a receipt. In doing so, for example, the amount of user-to-cashier verbal
      interaction may be minimized. A user may utilize user interface 6526 to toggle
15    between a state of desiring a receipt to a state of not desiring a receipt. Information
      indicative of a user's selection may be displayed, for example, on display 6550.
      For example, "$20(C)" may denote that a user selected to withdrawal $20 from
      his/her checking account.
      [0438]    FIG. 66 shows card 6600. Card 6600 may include, for example, an
20    reverse side that includes a material operable to receive a user's signature (e.g., a
      pen-based signature). The reverse side may also include code 6610. Code 6610
      may be displayed on a display located on a reverse and/or obverse side. Code
      6610 may be electronically communicated by a card (e.g., via an IC chip, a
      magnetic emulator/encoder, and/or an RFID antenna). Persons skilled in the art
25    will appreciate that any interface, display, or other component of a card may be
      located on the reverse or obverse side of the card. Display 6630 may include a
      code that is displayed upon interaction with interface 6620. Display 6630 may not,
      for example, display information until, for example, a correct PIN has been entered
      into interfaces located on the obverse side of the card and interface 6620 has been
30    utilized by a user. The code displayed on display 6630 may be communicated
      through a magnetic emulator/encoder in one or more tracks of magnetic stripe data.

  WO 2009/082760                                                         PCT/US2008/088321
                                          130
      [0439]    FIG. 67 shows flow chart 6700 and graphical user interface 6750. Flow
      chart 6700 may include, for example, step 6710, in which a user approaches a
      point-of-sale device with a payment card. Step 6711 may be provided that
      includes a user entering his/her PIN on the point-of-sale device. Accordingly, a
 5    user may perform associated tasks at the point-of-sale device in step 6712. The
      transaction may be completed at step 6715. Alternatively, for example, the user
      may enter his/her PIN and/or other point-of-sale decisions on his/her card in step
      6713. A user may confirm the selections the user entered into his/her card at the
      point-of-sale in step 6714 after the card communicates the user's decisions to the
10    point-of-sale device. The transaction may be completed in step 6715.
      [0440]    Graphical user interface 6750 may be provided on a display of a point-of
      sale device. A point-of-sale device may include, for example, a cash-register, a
      payment card reader, and an ATM. Graphical user interface may include
      interfaces 6751 and 6752 for receiving manual input. Buttons may be provided on
15    a point-of-sale device to receive user input. A card may display a graphical user
      interface and may include, for example, a capacitive touch screen such that a user
      may interact with interface areas of the touch screen in order to enter manual input
      into the touch screen. An ATM may include a graphical user interface to, for
      example, display a user's decisions that were entered into a card and
20    communicated to the ATM via an output communications component (e.g., a
      magnetic emulator, RFID antenna, or IC chip).
      [0441]    FIG. 68 shows graphical user interface 6801 that may include manual
      input interface 6811 and 6812 and graphical user interface 6851 that may include
      manual input interface 6861 and 6862. Graphical user interface 6801 may be
25    provided on a display of a point-of-sale devices such that an operator of the point
      of-sale device may be provided with the decisions of a the user of a card. The
      operator may acknowledge that the operator understands the user's selection by
      utilizing manual input interfaces 6811 and 6812. A point-of-sale device, such as a
      cash-register may perform a number of functions after an operator acknowledges
30    understanding of a user's decisions. For example, a cash-register may cause a cash
      drawer to open such that an operator may remove cash from the drawer and hand
      the cash to a user (e.g., to complete a cash-back transaction).

  WO 2009/082760                                                           PCT/US2008/088321
                                           131
      [0442]     FIG. 69 shows card 6900 that may include user interfaces 6901-6909 and
      display 6910. A user may utilize interface 6902 to utilize a savings account. A
      user may utilize interface 6905 to utilize a fast-cash withdrawal function. A user
      may utilize interface 6902 to obtain a balance receipt. A user may utilize interface
 5    6906 to conduct a transfer operation. A user may utilize interface 6908 to utilize a
      checking account. A user may utilize interface 6903 to note that a receipt is
      desired. A user may utilize interface 6907 to toggle between a credit and debit
      account. A user may utilize interface 6909 to instruct an ATM, for example, to
      provide the first graphical user interface as a stock-trading interface. User may
10    utilize interface 6904 to initiate an upload feature. Display 6910 may note a user's
      selections (e.g., $20 withdrawal from a checking account followed by an upload
      operation).
      [0443]     A card may receive information in a variety of ways. For example, a card
      may receive information from an RFID antenna, an IC chip, or a magnetic
15    emulator. For example, a magnetic stripe encoder on a point-of-sale device may
      communicate information to a coil located on a card. Thus, information may be
      communicated from a point-of-sale device to a card. A user may utilize interface
      6904 to instruct a card to prepare for an upload function (e.g., a card operating a
      contact or coil in a receive mode instead of a transmit mode). Balance
20    information, latest transaction information, or any other type of information may
      be communicated to a card and displayed on display 6910. Information may be
      uploaded to a card via audio signals received by an on-card microphone or light
      signals received by an on-card light sensor. A user may utilize a combination of
      buttons to provide a combinational decision. For example, a user may utilize
25    interface 6901, then interface 6906, then numerical interfaces to enter in the
      number "100," then interface 1308 to instruct the card that the user desires an
      ATM machine to transfer $100 from the user's savings account to the user's
      checking account.
      [0444]     FIG. 70 shows flow chart 7000 and graphical user interface 7051. Flow
30    chart 7000 may include step 7001, in which a user approaches a point-of-sale with
      a card. The user enters his/her decisions into a card in step 7002. Step 7003
      occurs, in which the point-of-sale performs actions based on the actions and PIN

  WO 2009/082760                                                             PCT/US2008/088321
                                            132
      received from the user's card. Step 7004 may then occur, in which information is
      uploaded from the point-of-sale to the card. An additional transaction may occur
      in step 7005. Graphical user interface 7051 may be included with manual input
      interfaces 7061, 7062, and 7063. Interface 7063 may take a user to an options
 5    menu. A display screen may communicate information from a point-of-sale device
      (e.g., an ATM) to a card.
      [0445]     A light detector may be provided on a card that may receive light pulses
      indicative of data. Accordingly, for example, a user may hold a card up to a
      display - such as the screen of a laptop, stationary computer, or mobile phone
10    and information may be communicated from the display to the card via the light
      detector. Similarly, a light source may be utilized to communicate information
      from one device to another. For example, a light source (e.g., LED) may be
      utilized to communicate information from one card to another. Similarly, a
      magnetic stripe reader may include a light source. A card may be positioned over
15    the light source such that a light detector of the card is aligned with the light source
      to receive light. Accordingly, the light of a magnetic stripe reader (or other type of
      reader) may be utilized to communicate information back to a card. A user may
      utilize interfaces on the card (e.g., buttons) to initiate a transfer of data from one
      card to another card or from a device to a card. A variety of types of data may be
20    communicated. For example, money may be communicated from one debit card to
      another debit card such that payments may occur between the cards. Accordingly,
      for example, the next time a card is utilized via a reader (e.g., a magnetic stripe
      reader) information of the transfer may be communicated to a server for
      processing. Light may be utilized to transfer data from a card to a computer using,
25    for example, a camera (e.g., webcam) on the computer.
      [0446]     FIG. 71 shows flow chart 7100 and graphical user interface 7110. Flow
      chart 7100 may include step 7101, in which a user approaches a card-reader having
      a display with a card. The user may enter his/her PIN into the card and provide
      instructions to the card in step 7102. Particularly, for example, a user can instruct
30    the card to operate in an upload mode. Step 7103 may initiate in which
      information is received by the processor of a card from a point-of-sale device. The
      card may configure itself depending on the received information in step 7104.

  WO 2009/082760                                                         PCT/US2008/088321
                                          133
      Step 7105 may occur in which the card is used by a user after the card is
      configured.
      [0447]    Display screen 7110 may be provided. For example, display screen 7110
      may be provided to communicate information to a card. For example, area 7111
 5    may communicate information to a light sensor located on a card by providing
      light pulses that may be understood as information by a processor located on a
      card. Area 7111 may be provided on any type of display. For example, area 7111
      may be provided during a commercial or during a television show. Alternatively,
      for example, area 7111 may be provided on a webpage. Information that may be
10    communicated through area 7111 may include, for example, coupons that may be
      utilized at various point-of-sale devices. For example, a cola commercial may
      communicate a coupon for a free bottle of cola.
      [0448]    FIG. 72 shows card 7200 that may include, for example, button 7210,
      display 7211, button 7220, and display 7221. Persons skilled in the art will
15    appreciate that a card may receive coupon information (e.g., from a light-emitting
      area on a commercial or webpage). The coupon information may include
      information to display on a display of a card as well as information to
      communicate to a reader when the coupon is desired to be used (e.g., via activation
      of button 7210). For example, a coupon code may be communicate via a magnetic
20    emulator. Received coupons may expire after a period of time and may be erased
      from a card's memory. The time may be set by the coupon issuer and
      communicated to a card. A card may keep a list of displays that do not have a
      coupon associated with them and may, for example, display a newly received
      coupon in the next available display. Displays may be kept OFF until, for
25    example, a user enters a PIN into a card and the card verifies the PIN. Multiple
      coupons may be associated with a display and a user may toggle through the
      coupons by pressing a button associated with the display. A user may select a
      coupon by, for example, holding a button down for a period of time (e.g., more
      than 2 seconds).
30    [0449]    FIG. 73 shows card 7300 that may include buttons 7321 and 7322. A
      card may include buttons associated with, for example, particular items. A user
      may select such items and utilize the card at a vending machine. The vending

  WO 2009/082760                                                            PCT/US2008/088321
                                            134
      machine may receive both payment information and ordering information.
      Accordingly, a user waiting in line to utilize a vending machine may select a
      button associated with cola and may simply swipe his/her card when the user
      approaches the vending machine. The vending machine may autonomously detect
 5    that the user desires a cola and may dispense a cola and charge the amount of the
      cola to the user's card.
      [0450]     FIG. 73 shows card 7350. Card 7350 may include areas 7351-7354.
      Areas 7351-7354 may include multiple user interfaces (e.g., mechanical or
      capacitive buttons). Persons skilled in the art will appreciate that the location of
10    areas 7351-7354 may result in a different way that a user interacts with card 7350.
      For example, area 7353 may be located in the proximity of the center of the bottom
      of card 7350 such that left and right handed users may decide to utilize area 7353
      in a similar manner. Area 7351 may be located within the proximity of the center
      of the left side of a side of card 6350 (e.g., the front side of card 7350).
15    Accordingly, a right-handed user may find it easier to rotate the card such that user
      views the left-side of card 7350 as the top of card 7350. Accordingly, indicia
      located on an area may be provided in an orientation that can easily be read if the
      card was rotated and held in a different orientation than that shown in FIG. 73
      (e.g., the card is rotated such that the indicia of area 7354 is oriented properly with
20    respect to a user of card 7350). Interfaces within an area may be aligned in a line
      formation or in a different formation (e.g., a directional pad formation).
      [0451]     A display may also be utilized as an interface. For example, a display
      may include a contact and an electronic ink. The electronic ink may change colors
      in response to, for example, a particular electrical signal being supplied to the
25    contact. A capacitive sensor may be coupled to such a contact, however, such that
      a user interaction with the contact may be sensed by the capacitive sensor.
      Accordingly, a card may include a display that can also receive user input. Persons
      skilled in the art will appreciate that a display may include multiple contacts. For
      example, a display may include multiple 7-segment (e.g., to display digits) or 11
30    segment, 14-segment, or 16-segment (e.g., to display alphanumerics) regions
      where each segment may be coupled to a capacitive sensor.

  WO 2009/082760                                                           PCT/US2008/088321
                                           135
      [0452]    A biometric sensor may be placed on a card or other device. Such a
      biometric sensor may be, for example, a fingerprint reader. Accordingly, one or
      more fingerprints may be stored in the memory of a card and compared to scanned
      fingerprints. Different fingerprints may activate the card differently (e.g., utilize a
 5    different user's payment card info).
      [0453]    Persons skilled in the art will appreciate that a user's payment card
      number (e.g., credit card or debit card number) does not have to change. A display
      may hide this payment card number until an appropriate unlocking code is entered
      into buttons of the card. Similarly, a magnetic emulator may not be provided
10    current until the proper unlocking code is entered - thus keeping magnetic
      information private and not allowing undesirable readers to read a card. A security
      code may be displayed on the same or a different display. A button may be
      provided representative of an online purchase (or a user may utilize buttons to
      instruct the processor that an online purchase is desirable). For such an online
15    purchase, the credit card number and the security code may be displayed - but the
      magnetic emulator may not be activated. In doing so, the level of security of the
      card is increased. Furthermore, for example, a button may be provided
      representative of in-store purchases (or a user may utilize buttons to instruct the
      processor that an in-store purchase is desirable). Accordingly, a processor may be
20    signaled that an in-store purchase is desired. A different operation may be
      associated with different types of purchases (e.g., online or in-store). Accordingly,
      for example, magnetic emulators may be activated for an in-store environment
      but not the displays. Accordingly, for example, a restaurant cashier may not be
      able to read the credit card number from the card, but may still be able to swipe the
25    card. If a reader is down or a cashier requires reading particular information (e.g.,
      a security code or credit card number information) then controls may be utilized to
      communicate this information. A record of the types of transactions may be stored
      and may be communicated in discretionary fields of data within a transmitted data
      track. Such record information may be utilized, for example, to further increase
30    security and/or introduce a variety of additional functionality.
      [0454]    Different types of cards may be provided on a card. For example, a
      security ID number and a credit card number may both be provided on the same

  WO 2009/082760                                                           PCT/US2008/088321
                                           136
      card. A button may be utilized to allow a user to provide instruction to a processor
      such that the processor can display (e.g., visually and/or magnetically) the desired
      information. For example, a user may determine to use one of a variety of
      payment accounts (e.g., credit and/or debit) for a purchase. An entire payment
 5    number (e.g., credit or debit) may be changed and/or hidden visually and/or
      magnetically. A portion of a payment card number (e.g., credit or debit) may be
      changed and/or hidden visually and/or magnetically.
      [0455]    Persons skilled in the art will appreciate that a display on the card may
      display a credit card number that does not change with time (or transaction or
10    button press). Additionally, for example, a magnetic emulator (or multiple
      magnetic emulators) may magnetically communicate financial data that does not
      change with time. Such a card may reduce, for example, the effects of physical
      card theft and card cloning.
      [0456]    Persons skilled in the art will appreciate that any numbers of a credit card
15    number may remain static and/or change either with time or based off a transaction
      (e.g., by sensing a read-head "swipe"). Additionally, any static and/or dynamic
      numbers may be displayed via a display or printed on a card. For example, a
      middle 6 digits of a credit/debit card number may be static and may be displayed
      on a display. Such a middle 6 digits may be displayed, for example, upon the entry
20    of a correct PIC. Similarly, a magnetic emulator may not communicate
      information until a correct PIC has been entered by a user. Doing so may, for
      example, reduce fraud associated with card cloning. Additionally, a receipt may be
      provided that includes masked credit card numbers except for the last few digits of
      credit card numbers. Accordingly, displaying a static middle 6 digits of credit card
25    numbers may allow for such a receipt to be provided while still reducing credit
      card fraud from hiding numbers that are not displayed on such a receipt. Any
      amount of numbers and/or characters may be displayed through a display. For
      example, nineteen digits may be displayed as part of a credit/debit numbers and
      these numbers may also be communicated through one or more magnetic
30    emulation circuits. The entry of particular PICs may provide different results. For
      example, a first PIC may only display a string of alphanumeric characters. A
      second PIC may only activate a magnetic emulation circuit to transmit information

  WO 2009/082760                                                           PCT/US2008/088321
                                           137
      including that string of alphanumeric characters (or a different string). A third PIC
      may activate a magnetic emulation circuit and a display. A display and/or
      magnetic emulation circuit may be turned OFF, for example, upon entry of an
      incorrect PIC and/or after a period of time has passed since the entry of the PIC
 5    and/or after the detection of a particular number of swipes by a read-head detector
      (e.g., one or two).
      [0457]    Persons skilled in the art will appreciate that a credit/debit card number
      (or any other information) may remain static until an event occurs and then may
      become dynamic (e.g., change based on swipes and/or time). For example, a
10    particular PIC may change from a static to a dynamic topology and/or a topology
      may be changed from static to dynamic after a pre-determined period of time.
      Additionally a card and/or device may include a wireless receiver and a topology
      may be changed from a static to a dynamic topology upon, for example, receiving
      an appropriate signal from the wireless receiver. Accordingly, a validation process
15    may change at a validation server depending upon whether a card is utilizing a
      static and/or dynamic topology at any given time. Additionally, a static
      credit/debit card number may be printed on the face of a card and information (e.g.,
      a security code) may be displayed via a display and remain static over time (or
      with use) or be provided dynamically.
20    [0458]    A card or other device (e.g., a mobile telephone) may accept a pre
      determined number of consecutive incorrect PICs before locking the card for a
      period of time or until an appropriate secondary PIC is entered. Accordingly, a
      user may enter in an incorrect PIC a number of times and then, after a card
      becomes locked, call a support center for a secondary one-time use PIC. A card
25    may cycle through unlocking PICs based, for example, on time or the number of
      previous unlock attempts.
      [0459]    FIG. 74 shows card 7400. Card 7400 may include display 7420 and
      button array 7410. Button array 7410 may be located anywhere on a card. For
      example, one or more buttons of button array 7410 may be located over a magnetic
30    emulator without interfering with data communicated from the magnetic emulator
      to a read-head of a magnetic stripe reader.

  WO 2009/082760                                                           PCT/US2008/088321
                                           138
      [0460]    A button array may more generally be provided as a user interface array.
      A user interface may, for example, be able to receive manual input from a user.
      Any number of buttons (or other user interfaces) may be provided in an array. For
      example, four buttons may be provided. Alternatively, for example, five or six
 5    buttons may be provided. The buttons may be provided in one or more rows or
      columns. Alternatively, for example, the buttons may be included in another
      formation to decrease the distance between between the most remote buttons. For
      example, five buttons may be provided in the shape of a directional pad. In
      reducing the distance between the most remote buttons in an array configuration, a
10    user may be provided with a configuration that allows for very fast, and possibly
      one-handed, user interaction.
      [0461]    Persons skilled in the art will appreciate that any card face may be located
      on the obverse or reverse of a card. Accordingly, for example, a magnetic
      emulator/encoder may be provided on any card face. Similarly, any permanent
15    information (e.g., embossed card number) may be provided on any card face.
      Additionally, for example, persons skilled in the art will appreciate that a magnetic
      emulator may be provided inside of a card.
      [0462]    FIG. 75 shows card 7500 that may include button array 7510. Button
      array 7510 may include any number of buttons, or other user interfaces, such as
20    five buttons. Indicia may be provided on the buttons in order to enhance the
      functionality of the buttons. For example, a button may include both a character
      and multiple digits. In doing so, for example, a user may be able to enter in both
      numerical and character based codes. Button array 7510 may be provided in a
      directional pad configuration. Accordingly, for example, a card may display on a
25    display information that can be scrolled up and down as well as left and right.
      Accordingly, a directional pad configuration may facilitate a user when the user
      interfaces with such a display functionality. A directional pad configuration may
      also, for example, allow for spaces at the corners of the directional pad
      configuration. Permanent information may be provided in such spaces. For
30    example, one or more digits of number 7521 may be provided in such spaces.
      Display 7522 may also be provided to display information such as, for example,
      payment card number information. Button array 7510 may be located in any area

  WO 2009/082760                                                                PCT/US2008/088321
                                             139
      on the obverse or reverse side of a card. For example, button array 7510 may be
      located about the lower right, upper right, lower left, or upper left corner of a card.
      [0463]     FIG. 76 shows card 7600 that may include button array 7610. Persons
      skilled in the art will appreciate that each button of a button array may be coupled
 5    to different ports of a microprocessor. Such ports may be, for example, triggerable
      ports. Additionally, for example, each button of button array 7610 may be coupled
      to intermediary circuitry such as a multiplexer. Button array 7610 may be located,
      for example, in the proximity of the middle of card 7600. For example, button
      array 7610 may be located in the middle, near the bottom of card 7600 or in the
10    middle, near the top of card 7600. Alternatively, for example, button array 7610
      may be located in the center of card 900.
      [0464]     FIG. 77 shows card 7700 that may include button array 7710 located on
      the lower right corner of a surface of card 7700.
      [0465]     FIG. 78 shows card 7800 that may include button array 7800. Button
15    array 7800 may include, for example, multiple buttons located in a horizontal
      configuration. By providing buttons in a horizontal configuration, for example, a
      user may easily understand any numbering scheme of the buttons in the array. For
      example, buttons may be numbered, or characters ordered, in ascending order from
      left to right (for users that read left to right) or right to left (for users that read right
20    to left). Array 7810 may be located anywhere on the front or back of a card. For
      example, array 7810 may be located on the left-side or right-side of card 7800.
      [0466]     FIG. 79 shows card 7900 that may include button array 7910.
      [0467]     FIG. 80 shows card 8000 that may include button array 8010. Button
      array 8010 may include, for example, any number of buttons in a vertical
25    configuration. Indicia located on the buttons may be oriented such that the indicia
      is properly read when the buttons are oriented vertically with respect to the user.
      Alternatively, for example, indicia located on the buttons may be oriented
      horizontally such that a user may rotate a card so that the vertical configuration is
      perceived as a horizontal configuration and the indicia is read horizontally.
30    [0468]     FIG. 81 shows card 8100 that may include, for example, button array
      8110. Button array 8110 may include, for example, two columns of buttons. The
      buttons, liked any of the control interfaces provided, may include indicia such as,

  WO 2009/082760                                                          PCT/US2008/088321
                                           140
      for example, numbers, characters, and symbols. Button array 8110 may include an
      even number of buttons such as, for example, eight buttons.
      [0469]     FIG. 82 shows card 8200 that may include, for example, button array
      8210. Button array 8210 may include, for example, two rows of buttons. Button
 5    array 8210 may include, for example, an even number of buttons. Button array
      8210 may include, for example, ten buttons. Persons skilled in the art will
      appreciate that additional buttons may be provided on a card outside of a button
      array. Buttons in a button array may, for example, be associated with a particular
      functionality or set of functionalities (e.g., PIC/PIN entry).
10    [0470]     FIG. 83 shows card 8300 that may include button and display portion
      8310. Portion 8310 maybe located on any surface of any card. Button and display
      portion 8310 may include, for example, display 8312 and button 8311. Display
      8312 may display particular information every time button 8311 is pressed. For
      example, display 8312 may display a code (e.g., CVC) every time button 8311 is
15    pressed. Any display, such as display 8312 may be, for example, a bi-stable
      display such that power is utilized to change the state of the display - but is not
      utilized to maintain the state of the display. Accordingly, for example, a dynamic
      security code may be provided such that each time button 8311 is pressed, another
      security code may be displayed on display 8312. Such a security code may be, for
20    example, a one-time security code or, alternatively, a code that is generated based
      on time. A bi-stable display may utilize power to change the number that is
      displayed but may not, for example, utilize power to maintain the display of any
      particular number. Alternatively, for example, a non bi-stable display may be
      utilized. A non bi-stable display may be utilized that utilizes power to maintain the
25    display of indicia.
      [0471]    A card may include, for example, more than one display. A card may
      include, for example, both bi-stable and non bi-stable displays. In doing so, for
      example, a card may properly conserve energy from one or more on-board
      batteries. Particularly, a bi-stable display may be provided on a card that absorbs a
30    large amount of power in order to change displayed indicia. Accordingly, a non
      bi-stable display may be provided on a card that absorbs a small amount of power
      in order to change displayed indicia and a small amount of power to maintain the

  WO 2009/082760                                                          PCT/US2008/088321
                                           141
      displayed indicia. Accordingly, for example, a bi-stable display may be utilized to
      display information that is desired to be viewed for a relatively long period of time
      while a non bi-stable display may be utilized to display information that is desired
      to be viewed for a relatively short period of time. In providing both a bi-stable and
 5    a non bi-stable display, for example, electrical energy absorbed by a card may be
      minimized. A security code, for example, may be provided on a non bi-stable
      display. A portion of a card number may be provided, for example, on a bi-stable
      display. Alternatively, for example, a security code may be provided on a bi-stable
      display and a card number may be provided on a non bi-stable display. A non bi
10    stable display may also be advantageous, for example, when indicia is desired to be
      frequently changed on a display (e.g., once every few seconds).
      [0472]     Display 8312 may, for example, be provided as a non bi-stable display
      and may display a code that changes with time. Accordingly, for example, the
      activation of button 8311 by a user may cause a code to be displayed on display
15    8312 for a pre-determined period of time (e.g., approximately 10 seconds).
      Accordingly, for example, the number may change according to a longer period
      (e.g., an hour or a day). Accordingly, a user may press button 1611 multiple times
      during that period and the same number may be displayed on display 8312. A
      code may comprise, for example, three or four digits. Such a code may be
20    provided magnetically through a magnetic emulator or encoder. Alternatively, a
      different three or four digit code may be provided through a magnetic emulator or
      encoder. A display may display indicia with two color tones (e.g., black and
      white) or may display indicia with several color tones.
      [0473]    FIG. 84 shows card 8400 that may include portion 8410. Portion 8410
25    may include multiple buttons, each associated with a different display. Multiple
      buttons may be associated with a single display. An association may be functional
      in that interaction with a particular button causes an associated display to perform a
      particular function. Code executed by a microprocessor may, for example, define
      the association of a button and a display.
30    [0474]     Card 8400 may be utilized as, for example, a programmable gift card.
      For example, a store may sell card 8400. A purchaser of the gift card may, for
      example, give the gift card to a friend or relative. The gift card may be associated

  WO 2009/082760                                                          PCT/US2008/088321
                                           142
      with, for example, a pre-determined amount of money (e.g., $20, $50, $100, $200,
      $250, or $500). Alternatively, for example, the amount of the gift card may be
      determined at purchase by the purchaser. The recipient of the gift card may, for
      example, visit a webpage associated with the issuer of the gift card. The recipient
 5    may, for example, enter in an identification code that identifies the particular gift
      card. The user may then be provided with a number of stores (e.g., Target, Best
      Buy, and Walmart). The user may select any number of stores and may allocated
      the total amount of the gift card amongst the selected stores. The user may then be
      provided with a code (or several codes). The user may utilize controls (e.g.,
10    buttons) located on gift card 8400 to enter this code. The code may, for example,
      be received by a microprocessor located on card 8400. The microprocessor may
      utilize the code to identify the stores selected by the user and the associated gift
      amount allocations. Accordingly, for example, the gift card may associate the
      selected stores with a particular display and button. The gift card may
15    automatically display the name of the store and the amount of each gift allocation
      on the display once the microprocessor processes the received code. Accordingly,
      a user may walk into a store and select an appropriate button to communicate
      information about the gift card to a card reader (e.g., via an IC chip, RFID antenna,
      or magnetic encoder/emulator). Persons skilled in the art will appreciate that a
20    programmable gift card may be provided with a static magnetic stripe without a
      magnetic emulator or encoder. Instead, for example, the programmable gift card's
      identification may be sent through a reader and a remote server may determine
      whether the store associated with the reader was selected by the user and allocated
      a particular gift amount. Alternatively, for example, the card may display and
25    electrically communicate different information depending on, for example, the
      particular gift a user selected on a programmable gift card.
      [0475]    FIG. 85 shows card 8500. Card 8500 may include portion 1810 that may
      include permanent information 8511, display 8520, and button 8513. Buttons
      8521, 8522, and 8523 may also be included. The activation of button 8513, 8521,
30    8522, and 8523 may cause different information to be displayed on display 1812.
      Hologram 8532 and logo 8531 may be provided on card 8500. Hologram 8532
      and 8531 may be located about the middle of one of the surfaces of card 8500.

  WO 2009/082760                                                          PCT/US2008/088321
                                          143
      [0476]     Card 8600 may include, for example, portion 8610. Portion 8610 may
      include, for example, multiple buttons and light sources. For example, portion
      8600 may include a light source (e.g., LED) for every button (e.g., four light
      sources and four buttons). Alternatively, portion 8600 may include a different
 5    number of buttons and light sources. For example, portion 8600 may include five
      buttons and four light sources. The light sources may emit light in order to provide
      the user of card 8600 with valuable information. For example, the light sources
      may indicate to a user which button or buttons were pressed by a user. For
      example, a user pressing button 1910 may cause both light sources 8621 and 8622
10    to emit light. A user pressing button 8612 may cause all the light sources within
      portion 8610 to emit light. Sources of light may be provided that emit a single
      color or more than one color.
      [0477]    FIG. 87 shows card 8700 that may include portion 8710. Portion 8710
      may include, for example, multiple buttons and a single light source. For example,
15    portion 8710 may include buttons 8711-8714 and light source 8721. Portion 8710
      may include any number of buttons (e.g., five, six, ten, twelve). Light source 8712
      may emit light whenever a button is pressed. In doing so, for example, a user may
      be able to receive information indicative of a proper button press. Light source
      8721 may emit light of two or more colors. For example, light source 8721 may
20    emit three colors. The three colors may be, for example, GREEN, RED, and
      ORANGE. A button press may cause light source 8721 to emit light of the color
      ORANGE. The input of a proper PIC/PIN may cause light source 8721 to emit
      light of the color GREEN. The input of an improper PIC/PIN may cause light
      source 8721 to emit light of the color RED.
25    [0478]     FIG. 88 shows card 8800 that may include, for example, portion 8810.
      Portion 8810 may be included, for example, over a magnetic emulator and/or
      encoder. For example, portion 8810 may include logo 8811 and hologram 8812.
      One or more magnetic emulators, for example, may be provided in card 8800 such
      that logo 8811 and hologram 8812 may be provided on, or printed upon, one or
30    both surfaces of card 8800 about the magnetic emulator. In doing so, for example,
      the area of a card surface that a card issuer may personalize may be increased.
      Persons skilled in the art will appreciate that multiple tracks of data may be

  WO 2009/082760                                                          PCT/US2008/088321
                                          144
      communicated to a magnetic stripe reader via one or more emulators. For
      example, two tracks of data may be communicated by two emulators. As per
      another example, three tracks of data may be communicated by three emulators.
      [0479]    FIG. 89 shows card 8900. Card 8900 may include, for example, printed
 5    stripe indicia 8920. Stripe indicia 8920 may be printed on an area over one or
      more magnetic emulators. Stripe indicia 8920 may be printed such that a user
      recognizes how to properly swipe card 8920 in a reader. Card 2200 may also
      include portion 8910. Portion 8910 may include, for example, a display and a
      button. The display of portion 8910 may display a payment card number when an
10    associated button is pressed or, for example, when an appropriate PIC/PIN is
      entered into a card. The display of portion 8910 may be longer than the length of
      2/3rds the length of a card. Display 8920 may also be included and may have a
      length between 1/2 and 1/3 the length of card 8900.
      [0480]    FIG. 90 shows card 9000. Card 9000 may include, for example, portion
15    9010. Portion 9010 may include, for example, display 9030 and multiple buttons.
      Button 9022 may be included. Each button of portion 9010 may be associated, for
      example, with different data that can be displayed on display 9030. When a
      particular button of portion 9010 is pressed, display 9030 may, for example,
      display indicia representative that a user has pressed that particular button. For
20    example, the activation of button 9022 may cause, for example, indicia 9032 to be
      displayed in addition to information associated with button 9022. Accordingly, for
      example, a user may not only be acknowledged that a button was pressed, but also
      the particular button that was pressed. Furthermore, for example, power may be
      conserved as both the information associated with a button and the indicia
25    indicative of a button press may be provided by the same display device. Portion
      9010 may include buttons that are aligned along an edge of a display.
      [0481]    FIG. 91 shows card 9100 that may include portion 9110. Portion 9110
      may include display 9130 and a multitude of buttons and light sources. For
      example, a light source may be provided for every button located in portion 9110.
30    The activation of a button of portion 9110 may cause, for example, display 9130 to
      display particular information associated with the button activation. Additionally,
      the activation of button 9111 may cause associated light source 9121 to emit light.

  WO 2009/082760                                                          PCT/US2008/088321
                                           145
      Light source 9121 may emit light for a particular period of time (e.g., less than a
      second, more than a second, more than five seconds). Light source 9121 may
      periodically emit light to indicate to a user that button 9111 has been activated by
      the user. Logo 9191 may be located on one side of portion 9110 and hologram
 5    9192 may be located on the other side of portion 9110.
      [0482]    FIG. 92 shows card 9200 that may include portion 9210. Portion 9210
      may include a display having one or more curved edges. Such displays may be, for
      example, LCD and/or electrochromic displays.
      [0483]    FIG. 93 shows card 9300 that may include portion 9310. Portion 9310
10    may include, for example, display 9330 and display 9340. A button press may, for
      example, result in information associated with the function of a button to be
      displayed in display 9330. Display 9340 may then be utilized, for example, to
      show the string of subsequent button presses. For example, a user may utilize
      button 9311 to indicate that a PIC is desired to be entered. Indicia 9351 may be
15    displayed to denote that the function associated with button 9311 has been
      activated. Indicia 9341 and 9342 may be utilized to show the number of button
      entries needed to complete the function. As buttons are entered such indicia may
      change to indicia representative of the pressed buttons. After all buttons associated
      with a function have been entered, the function of the buttons of portion 2610 may
20    be utilized to determine the next function (instead of, for example, information
      entry). Other functions may include, for example, amount desired for cash-back,
      amount desired for ATM withdrawal, tip percentage, amount to be charged to
      debit, and the amount to be charged to credit.
      [0484]    Persons skilled in the art will appreciate that a card may, for example,
25    allow a user to enter in how much of a transaction is desired to be paid with a
      particular account. For example, a user may divide payment between a checking
      account and a savings account. Alternatively, for example, a user may divide
      payment between two or more credit accounts. Alternatively still, for example, a
      user may divide payment between a credit account and a debit account.
30    [0485]    FIG 94 shows card 9400 that may include portion 9400. Portion 9400
      may include a display that, for example, provides information indicative of
      whether an entered PIN/PIC was correct or incorrect.

  WO 2009/082760                                                          PCT/US2008/088321
                                          146
      [0486]    FIG. 95 shows card 9500 that may include, for example, display 9510 and
      display 9520. Display 9510 may, for example, be utilized to display a portion of a
      card number. Display 9520 may be utilized, for example, to display the various
      states of operation of a card. For example, display 9520 may be utilized to ask the
 5    user whether the user desires to lock a card.
      [0487]    FIG. 96 shows card 9600 that may include, for example, display 9610 and
      display 9620. Display 9610 may, for example, be utilized to display a portion of a
      card number until a card is locked. Display 9620 may be utilized to indicate to a
      user that a card is locked and requires an appropriate PIC/PIN to unlock the card.
10    A user may lock his/her card at anytime by providing the appropriate manual input
      to a card. A card may lock after a period of time of non-activity by a user. A card
      may lock and require an administrative unlock code if, for example, a particular
      number of consecutive incorrect PICs/PINs were entered into a card. Such an
      administrative unlock code may be obtained, for example, via a phone call to the
15    appropriate card issuer or via a visit to a website of the appropriate card issuer.
      [0488]    FIG. 97 shows card 9700 that may include portion 9710. Portion 9710
      may include a multiple line display. Card 9700 may also include button 9720.
      Button 9720 may be, for example, larger than buttons in portion 9710. Such a
      button may be mechanical and/or capacitive. For example, button 9720 may be
20    mechanical while other buttons located on card 9700 are capacitive. Accordingly,
      for example, more force may be needed to activate button 9720 than other buttons.
      Accordingly, for example, a user may press button 9720 in order to, for example,
      bring a processor of card 9700 out of hibernation such that a user may enter in a
      PIC/PIN. Accordingly, for example, card 9700 may automatically expect the entry
25    of a PIN/PIC after activation of button 9720.
      [0489]    FIG. 98 shows card 9800 that may include, for example, a multiple line
      display where one of the lines of the display may display a portion of a payment
      card number.
      [0490]    FIG. 99 shows card 900 that may include, for example, a row of light
30    sources above a multiple line display. The multiple line display may be located
      above, for example, a row of buttons.

  WO 2009/082760                                                         PCT/US2008/088321
                                           147
      [0491]    FIG. 100 shows card 10000 that may include, for example, portion 10010
      that may include a multiple line display, buttons, and light sources 10011 and
       10012. Light sources 10011 and 10012 may be aligned with, for example, a
      particular line of a multiple line display.
 5    [0492]    FIG. 101 shows card 10100 that may include, for example, portion 10110.
      Portion 10110 may include multiple buttons and light sources. Portion 10110 may
      also include a display with a non-display portion in its center. Buttons may be
      located in such a non-display portion.
      [0493]    FIG. 102 shows card 10200. Card 10200 may include, for example,
10    portion 10210 that may include a display (as well as buttons and light sources). A
      display may be provided, for example, over one or more magnetic emulators. For
      example, a magnetic emulator may be provided on one or more middle layers of a
      multiple layer PCB. A display may be provided, for example, on a surface layer of
      a multiple layer PCB or a different layer than the layers defining a magnetic
15    emulator. By providing a display over a magnetic emulator, for example, the area
      that can be personalized may be increased. For example, a hologram or logo may
      be provided about more than 2/3rds the surface area of a surface of card 10200.
      [0494]    FIG. 103 shows card 10300 that may include portion 10310, which may
      include any number of buttons. For example, portion 10310 may include five
20    buttons positioned in the center of card 10300 in a single row.
      [0495]    FIG. 104 shows card 10400 that may include over 26 buttons such that,
      for example, the entire alphabet may be represented by individual buttons. Buttons
      associated with a particular letter may also, for example, be associated with one or
      more numbers. Alternatively, for example, additional buttons may be provided for
25    numbers as well as other characters.
      [0496]    FIG. 105 shows card 10500 that may include portion 10510. Portion
       10510 may include any number of buttons, light sources, or displays. Any display
      provided may, for example, be a touch-sensitive display. Accordingly, for
      example, such a touch-sensitive display may display indicia representative of areas
30    of touch. Accordingly, each area of touch may be discerned as different manual
      input by a processor coupled to the touch-sensitive display. A touch-sensitive
      display may, for example, be provided as an electrochromic display with electrodes

  WO 2009/082760                                                         PCT/US2008/088321
                                         148
      that are coupled to a capacitive sensor. Accordingly, for example, the electrodes
      may cause indicia to appear on the display in the shape of the electrodes, the
      capacitance of which may also change as a user's finger approaches the proximity
      of the electrode. A display may, for example, include five capacitive touch areas
 5    for receiving manual input.
      [0497]    FIG. 106 shows card 10600 that may include, for example, button array
       10610. Button array 10610 may include, for example, two rows of centered
      buttons. Each row may include, for example, three buttons. Light sources may be
      provided along each edge of a card. For example, light source 10620 may be
10    provided along an edge of a card. A card may be laminated with transparent
      laminate.
      [0498]    FIG. 107 shows card 10700 that may include, for example, portion 10710.
      Portion 10710 may include a row of buttons and light sources and may be provided
      over one or more magnetic emulators.
15    [0499]    FIG. 108 shows card 10800 that may include portion 10810 at least
      partially located over one or more magnetic emulators or in line with a magnetic
      stripe read-head should card 10800 be swiped through a magnetic stripe reader
      such that card 10800 may transmit data to a magnetic read-head of the magnetic
      stripe reader through one or more magnetic emulators. Card 10800 may include,
20    for example, battery 10820. Battery 10820 may, for example, span across a
      surface area of card 10800 that is greater than 2/3rds of the surface area of card
       10800.
      [0500]    FIG. 109 shows card portion 10900 that may include a display. Various
      symbols may be provided on a display. Such various symbols may also be, for
25    example, printed on a user interface (e.g., a button). Furthermore, the various
      symbols may be displayed on a display as part of a capacitive touch area.
      [0501]    Indicia 10911-10915 may be provided to signify different card issuers.
      Indicia 10911-10915 may take the form of corporate logos. Indicia 10921 may be
      utilized with a button, for example, to display a card number such as a dynamic
30    card number. Indicia 10921 may take the form of a logo. A button may include
      both a symbol and one or more letters and/or numbers. Indicia 10922 may be
      utilized with a button, for example, to display the time. Indicia 10922 may take the

  WO 2009/082760                                                         PCT/US2008/088321
                                          149
      form of, for example, a clock. Indicia 10923 may be utilized with a button, for
      example, a code for an online purchase. Indicia 10923 may take the form of, for
      example, a computer. Indicia 10924 may be utilized with a button, for example, to
      display the remaining battery power. Indicia 10924 may take the form of, for
 5    example, a battery. Indicia 10925 may be utilized by a microprocessor when a
      battery is low and the card or battery needs replacement. Indicia 10925 may take
      the form of a battery and another symbol (e.g., a recycling symbol). Alternatively,
      for example, indicia 10925 may take the form of an empty battery.
      [0502]     Indicia 10931 may be utilized with a button, for example, in order to
10    signal to the microprocessor that a user desires to upload data. Indicia 10931 may
      take the form of, for example, a scanner or light reader. Accordingly, for example,
      a light sensor located on card 10900 may be utilized to receive light-based
      information. Indicia 10932 may be utilized with a button, for example, to initiate a
      game on the card. Indicia 10932 may take the form of, for example, a joystick.
15    Indicia 10933 may be utilized with a button, for example, to lock a card (e.g., until
      an appropriate PIN/PIC is entered). Indicia 10933 may take the form of, for
      example, a safe. Indicia 10934 may be utilized with a button, for example, to add
      information in discretionary data indicative of a user warning. Such a warning
      may take many forms. For example, if a user is held at gunpoint at an ATM to
20    withdraw money, the user may press a panic button on the card and the information
      may be communicated through the payment interchange to a server that may
      identify that a panic button was pressed. Accordingly, for example, the authorities
      (e.g., police) may be contacted and provided with the location of the reader from
      which the panic information was communicated. Indicia 10934 may take the form
25    of, for example, a panic button.
      [0503]     Indicia 10941 may be utilized with a button, for example, to indicate that
      a user desires to withdraw cash. Indicia 10941 may take the form of, for example,
      money. Indicia 10942 may be utilized with a button, for example, to indicate the
      user of card 10900. For example, a card may be utilized by both a husband and a
30    wife. A button may be utilized to toggle between the user such that the appropriate
      user's PIN/PIC can be recognized. Accordingly, for example, a card may operate
      different depending on the user of the card. For example, a husband may have one

  WO 2009/082760                                                             PCT/US2008/088321
                                            150
      spending limit and a wife may have a different spending limit. Indicia 10942 may
      take the form of, for example, a man and a woman. Indicia 10943 may be utilized
      with a button, for example, to indicate that a user is in need of medical attention
      due to a medical emergency. Accordingly, for example, a card may communicate
 5    such information (e.g., via discretionary data) via a card reader. Indicia 10943 may
      take the form of, for example, a medical cross. Indicia 10944 may be utilized with
      a button, for example, to play a tone. Such a tone may be a song or a clip from a
      song. Such a tone may also be, for example, an identifying audible sound that may
      be forwarded to a remote server for identity recognition. Indicia 10944 may take
10    the form of, for example, a musical note.
      [0504]     Indicia 10951-10953 may be utilized with a button, for example, to utilize
      a payment card associated with a particular store. Indicia 10951-10953 may take
      the form of, for example, a logo of a store such as a target, a shell, or a cup of
      coffee. Indicia 10954 may be utilized with a button, for example, to change the
15    volume of a speaker of a card. Indicia 10954 may take the form of, for example, a
      speaker.
      [0505]     Indicia 10961-10964 may be utilized with a button to denote the type of
      purchase that was made. Such information may be communicated with payment
      data (e.g., via discretionary data) such that a user's bill may be organized based on
20    the types of purchases a user indicated at the time of purchase. Indicia 1096 1
       10964 take the form of, for example, a knife/form (e.g., for food), a car (e.g., for
      travel), a basketball (e.g., for entertainment), and a hat (e.g., for clothing).
      [0506]     FIG. 110 shows card 11000 that may include portion 11010. Portion
       11010 may include a display, for example, with rounded edges. Such a display
25    may be, for example, in the shape of an oval.
      [0507]     FIG. 111 shows card 11100 that may include portion 11110. Portion
       11110 may include a display. Multiple buttons may be located below the display.
      A button may be located on each side of the display.
      [0508]     FIG. 112 shows card 11200 that may include display 11210. Display
30     11210 may include multiple lines of display. Display 11210 may display symbols.
      Display 11210 may display indicia representative of the activation of a button.

  WO 2009/082760                                                            PCT/US2008/088321
                                            151
      [0509]     FIG. 113 shows card 11300 that may include a display having touch
      sensitive display areas as well as non-touch sensitive display areas.
      [0510]     FIG. 114 shows card 11400 that may include any number of components.
      For example, card 11400 may include RFID antenna 11410. Card 11400 may also
 5    include a structure able to communicate dynamic magnetic stripe data (e.g., device
       11450). Card 11400 may include IC chip 11430. Card 11400 may include
      biometric sensor 11420. Biometric sensor 11400 may be, for example, a
      fingerprint reader (e.g., a partial fingerprint reader) or a retina scanner. Biometric
      sensor 11400 may be utilized, for example, to unlock a card (e.g., used in lieu of a
10    PIN/PAC). Light transmitter and receiver 11440 may be provided in order to
      transmit and receive light-based information signals. Card 11400 may include, for
      example, one or more batteries as well as a processor and memory. A processor
      may direct an IC chip, any number of magnetic emulators or encoders, and an
      RFID antenna to communicate information. IC chip 11430 may, alternatively, for
15    example, direct an RFID antenna (e.g., a passive or active RFID antenna) and any
      number of magnetic emulators or encoder to communicate data. A sound receiver
      and transmitter may be provided in order for card 11400 to receive information via
      sound-based signals and send information via sound-based signals.
      [0511]     Card 11400 may also include, for example, power harvesting circuitry.
20    Power harvesting circuitry may be utilized, for example, to repower a battery or
      provide charge to a capacitor to control a burst of data from an RFID antenna or
      one or more magnetic emulators and/or encoders. Power harvesting circuitry may
      include, for example, circuitry for harvesting electromagnetic fields such as fields
      utilized to power passive RFID antennas. Power harvesting circuitry may also
25    include, for example, a kinetic-to-electrical energy converter that can convert
      mechanical energy to electrical energy. Alternatively, for example harvesting
      circuitry may include a thermal-to-electrical energy converter. Alternatively still,
      for example, harvesting circuitry may include an array of solar cells.
      [0512]     FIG. 115 shows card 11500. Signature-receivable portion 11510 may be
30    provided. A display for a code (e.g., three or four digit code) may also be
      provided. Portion 11510 and a display for a code may be, for example, provided
      on the reverse side of any card.

  WO 2009/082760                                                           PCT/US2008/088321
                                           152
      [0513]    FIG. 116 shows card 11600 that may include a display to display a middle
      portion of a payment card number.
      [0514]    FIG. 117 shows card 11701 that may include a button associated with one
      account and another button associated with another account.
 5    [0515]    Persons skilled in the art will appreciate that data may be transferred, such
      as gift card and/or pre-paid card data, to a card in a variety of ways. For example,
      a card may be swiped a second time through a magnetic stripe reader that includes
      a magnetic stripe encoder. A coil on the card may be utilized to receive the
      information and provide the received information to a processor. In doing so,
10    information may be loaded into the card. Similarly, an IC chip may be utilized to
      receive data as well as a passive or active RFID. Additionally, one or more
      microphones may be included to receive audio information that may be
      representative of data. Accordingly, for example, a user may hold his/her card, or
      other device, next to a device that is operable to transmit audio via a speaker (e.g.,
15    laptop, stationary computer, or mobile telephonic device). The audio information
      may be discerned by the card and utilized to load information into the card (e.g., a
      gift card or pre-paid card. An application may also be loaded that enhances the
      functionality of the card. Such an application may include, for example, a user's
      medical information such that medical information can be displayed via the card
20    (or other device) during a medical emergency. Accordingly, applications and/or
      payment cards may be purchased online and a speaker may communicate
      information to a card. Similarly, the card may include a speaker for transmitting
      information such that bi-directional communications are established. A light
      detector may be provided on a card that may receive light pulses indicative of data.
25    Accordingly, for example, a user may hold a card up to a display - such as the
      screen of a laptop, stationary computer, or mobile phone - and information may be
      communicated from the display to the card via the light detector. Similarly, a light
      source may be utilized to communicate information from one device to another.
      For example, a light source (e.g., LED) may be utilized to communicate
30    information from one card to another. Similarly, a magnetic stripe reader may
      include a light source. A card may be positioned over the light source such that a
      light detector of the card is aligned with the light source to receive light.

  WO 2009/082760                                                           PCT/US2008/088321
                                            153
      Accordingly, the light of a magnetic stripe reader (or other type of reader) may be
      utilized to communicate information back to a card. A user may utilize interfaces
      on the card (e.g., buttons) to initiate a transfer of data from one card to another card
      or from a device to a card. A variety of types of data may be communicated. For
 5    example, money may be communicated from one debit card to another debit card
      such that payments may occur between the cards. Accordingly, for example, the
      next time a card is utilized via a reader (e.g., a magnetic stripe reader) information
      of the transfer may be communicated to a server for processing. Light may be
      utilized to transfer data from a card to a computer using, for example, a camera
10    (e.g., webcam) on the computer. Sound may be utilized to transfer data from a
      card to a computer using, for example, a microphone on the computer.
      [0516]    A display may also be utilized as an interface. For example, a display
      may include a contact and an electronic ink. The electronic ink may change colors
      in response to, for example, a particular electrical signal being supplied to the
15    contact. A capacitive sensor may be coupled to such a contact, however, such that
      a user interaction with the contact may be sensed by the capacitive sensor.
      Accordingly, a card may include a display that can also receive user input. Persons
      skilled in the art will appreciate that a display may include multiple contacts. For
      example, a display may include multiple 7-segment (e.g., to display digits) or 11
20    segment, 14-segment, or 16-segment (e.g., to display alphanumerics) regions
      where each segment may be coupled to a capacitive sensor.
      [0517]    A biometric sensor may be placed on a card or other device. Such a
      biometric sensor may be, for example, a fingerprint reader. Accordingly, one or
      more fingerprints may be stored in the memory of a card and compared to scanned
25    fingerprints. Different fingerprints may activate the card differently (e.g., utilize a
      different user's payment card info).
      [0518]    Persons skilled in the art will appreciate that a user's payment card
      number (e.g., credit card or debit card number) does not have to change. A display
      may hide this payment card number until an appropriate unlocking code is entered
30    into buttons of the card. Similarly, a magnetic emulator may not be provided
      current until the proper unlocking code is entered - thus keeping magnetic
      information private and not allowing undesirable readers to read a card. A security

  WO 2009/082760                                                           PCT/US2008/088321
                                           154
      code may be displayed on the same or a different display. A button may be
      provided representative of an online purchase (or a user may utilize buttons to
      instruct the processor that an online purchase is desirable). For such an online
      purchase, the credit card number and the security code may be displayed - but the
 5    magnetic emulator may not be activated. In doing so, the level of security of the
      card is increased. Furthermore, for example, a button may be provided
      representative of in-store purchases (or a user may utilize buttons to instruct the
      processor that an in-store purchase is desirable). Accordingly, a processor may be
      signaled that an in-store purchase is desired. A different operation may be
10    associated with different types of purchases (e.g., online or in-store). Accordingly,
      for example, magnetic emulators may be activated for an in-store environment
      but not the displays. Accordingly, for example, a restaurant cashier may not be
      able to read the credit card number from the card, but may still be able to swipe the
      card. If a reader is down or a cashier requires reading particular information (e.g.,
15    a security code or credit card number information) then controls may be utilized to
      communicate this information. A record of the types of transactions may be stored
      and may be communicated in discretionary fields of data within a transmitted data
      track. Such record information may be utilized, for example, to further increase
      security and/or introduce a variety of additional functionality.
20    [0519]    Different types of cards may be provided on a card. For example, a
      security ID number and a credit card number may both be provided on the same
      card. A button may be utilized to allow a user to provide instruction to a processor
      such that the processor can display (e.g., visually and/or magnetically) the desired
      information. For example, a user may determine to use one of a variety of
25    payment accounts (e.g., credit and/or debit) for a purchase. An entire payment
      number (e.g., credit or debit) may be changed and/or hidden visually and/or
      magnetically. A portion of a payment card number (e.g., credit or debit) may be
      changed and/or hidden visually and/or magnetically.
      [0520]    Persons skilled in the art will appreciate that a display on the card may
30    display a credit card number that does not change with time (or transaction or
      button press). Additionally, for example, a magnetic emulator (or multiple
      magnetic emulators) may magnetically communicate financial data that does not

  WO 2009/082760                                                           PCT/US2008/088321
                                           155
      change with time. Such a card may reduce, for example, the effects of physical
      card theft and card cloning.
      [0521]    Persons skilled in the art will appreciate that any numbers of a credit card
      number may remain static and/or change either with time or based off a transaction
 5    (e.g., by sensing a read-head "swipe"). Additionally, any static and/or dynamic
      numbers may be displayed via a display or printed on a card. For example, a
      middle 6 digits of a credit/debit card number may be static and may be displayed
      on a display. Such a middle 6 digits may be displayed, for example, upon the entry
      of a correct PIC. Similarly, a magnetic emulator may not communicate
10    information until a correct PIC has been entered by a user. Doing so may, for
      example, reduce fraud associated with card cloning. Additionally, a receipt may be
      provided that includes masked credit card numbers except for the last few digits of
      credit card numbers. Accordingly, displaying a static middle 6 digits of credit card
      numbers may allow for such a receipt to be provided while still reducing credit
15    card fraud from hiding numbers that are not displayed on such a receipt. Any
      amount of numbers and/or characters may be displayed through a display. For
      example, nineteen digits may be displayed as part of a credit/debit numbers and
      these numbers may also be communicated through one or more magnetic
      emulation circuits. The entry of particular PICs may provide different results. For
20    example, a first PIC may only display a string of alphanumeric characters. A
      second PIC may only activate a magnetic emulation circuit to transmit information
      including that string of alphanumeric characters (or a different string). A third PIC
      may activate a magnetic emulation circuit and a display. A display and/or
      magnetic emulation circuit may be turned OFF, for example, upon entry of an
25    incorrect PIC and/or after a period of time has passed since the entry of the PIC
      and/or after the detection of a particular number of swipes by a read-head detector
      (e.g., one or two).
      [0522]    Persons skilled in the art will appreciate that a credit/debit card number
      (or any other information) may remain static until an event occurs and then may
30    become dynamic (e.g., change based on swipes and/or time). For example, a
      particular PIC may change from a static to a dynamic topology and/or a topology
      may be changed from static to dynamic after a pre-determined period of time.

  WO 2009/082760                                                          PCT/US2008/088321
                                          156
      Additionally a card and/or device may include a wireless receiver and a topology
      may be changed from a static to a dynamic topology upon, for example, receiving
      an appropriate signal from the wireless receiver. Accordingly, a validation process
      may change at a validation server depending upon whether a card is utilizing a
 5    static and/or dynamic topology at any given time. Additionally, a static
      credit/debit card number may be printed on the face of a card and information (e.g.,
      a security code) may be displayed via a display and remain static over time (or
      with use) or be provided dynamically.
      [0523]    A card or other device (e.g., a mobile telephone) may accept a pre
10    determined number of consecutive incorrect PICs before locking the card for a
      period of time or until an appropriate secondary PIC is entered. Accordingly, a
      user may enter in an incorrect PIC a number of times and then, after a card
      becomes locked, call a support center for a secondary one-time use PIC. A card
      may cycle through unlocking PICs based, for example, on time or the number of
15    previous unlock attempts.
      [0524]    FIG. 117 shows personal electronic device 11702 which may be, for
      example, a portable telephonic device, portable media player, or any type of
      electronic device. Persons skilled in the art will appreciate that the functionality of
      a card may be provided on a personal device and displayed through a graphical
20    user interface. Personal electronic device 2000 may include, for example, user
      inputs 11740 and display 11710. Virtual card 11720 may be displayed on display
       11720. Display 11720 may be a touch-sensitive display such that, for example,
      virtual button 5030 may be provided on virtual card 11720. Persons skilled in the
      art will appreciate that cards may be provided as virtual cards and a user may
25    interact with such virtual cards in order to provide a variety of functions. Personal
      electronic device 11702 may communicate to a card reader such as, for example,
      an RFID reader.
      [0525]    FIG. 118 shows card 11850 that includes buttons 11851-11864, light
      sources 11891-11894, displays 11852-11853, permanent information 11851 and
30     11870, buttons 11881-11884, and hologram 11899.
      [0526]    Buttons may be provided on a card that may be associated with, for
      example, different types of loyalty-based benefits. In this manner, a user may

  WO 2009/082760                                                           PCT/US2008/088321
                                            157
      select the different type of reward the user desires to obtain for each purchase. In
      doing so, the user can select the type of reward that the user may found most useful
      for a particular period of time. For example, suppose a user is about to take an
      airplane trip and is only a few miles away from being awarded a free ticket. In
 5    such an instance, a user may find more utility in obtaining airline miles.
      Furthermore, allowing for multiple rewards on a card may, for example, provide a
      user with the ability to reduce the number of cards in his/her wallet while reducing
      card issuance costs at the card issuer.
      [0527]     Button 11881 may be provided and may be associated with permanently
10    printed information 11871. Accordingly, for example, button 11881 may be
      utilized by a user to instruct a processor that a particular reward associated with
      permanently printed information 11871 is desired. Accordingly, the processor may
      communicate information through a reader communications component indicative
      of the user's desire to utilize a particular type of reward (e.g., RFID antenna,
15    magnetic encoder, magnetic emulator, or IC chip). The processor may also
      display, for example, a code that may be entered online that is indicative of the
      type of reward a user desires. For example, a security code may be displayed on a
      display and a digit of this code may be associated to a particular reward.
      Alternatively, for example, a particular code may be representative of a particular
20    reward. Alternatively still, for example, a particular code may take on a particular
      format such that an algorithm (e.g., a decryption algorithm) can both validate a
      code for security but also determine the type of reward that is desired.
      [0528]     For example, a security code may be generated based on one of a
      particular number (e.g., 4) of time-based encryption algorithms. Accordingly, a
25    user may select a particular type of reward (or other feature) and an algorithm
      associated to that feature may be utilized to encrypt a private number. The code
      may be communicated through an online payment portion to a remote server. In
      turn, this remote server may decrypt the security code with all of the time-based
      encryption algorithms that could have been utilized. The algorithm that results in a
30    particular private number may be determined to have been the algorithm selected
      by a user. In turn, the remote server may be able to determine the type of reward
      the user desires. In doing so, for example, information may be communicated

  WO 2009/082760                                                          PCT/US2008/088321
                                          158
      through an online security code. Persons skilled in the art will appreciate that
      encryption algorithms may be chosen that, for example, do not result in the same
      encrypted number for any particular period of time.
      [0529]     Button 11882 may be associated with permanently printed information
 5     11872. Button 11882 may be associated with, for example, a type of reward. For
      example, button 11882 may be associated with a cash-back reward. Accordingly,
      for example, a user may receive cash-back from a purchase if a cash-back reward
      is chosen. The cash-back may take many forms. For example, the user may
      receive a discount at the actual point-of-sale. Alternatively, the user's payment
10    card account may be debited with the cash-back amount periodically (e.g., monthly
      or annually) or after a particular amount of cash-back has been accumulated (e.g.,
      $100).
      [0530]     Button 11883 may be associated with display 11854. Display 11854 may
      show a type of reward (e.g., charity). Similarly, button 11883 may be associated
15    with display 11855. Display 11855 may show a type of reward (e.g., reward
      points).
      [0531]     FIG. 118 also shows flow chart 11890. Step 11891 may be provided in
      flow chart 11890, in which a transaction may be initiated. A transaction may be
      initiated in a variety of ways. For example, a card may be swiped through a
20    payment card terminal. A user may select one of a variety of payment types. For
      example, a user may select to pay by a particular type of payment account (e.g., a
      credit account). Accordingly, step 11892 may be initiated, in which a remote
      server determines from the received payment information that a user desired to pay
      with this particular payment account. Similarly, a user may select to pay via a
25    different type of payment account (e.g., a debit account). Accordingly, step 11893
      may be initiated, in which a remote server determines from the received payment
      information that a user desired to pay with this different payment account. A user
      may also select to pay via a particular type of rewards. Accordingly, step 11894
      may be initiated, in which a remote server determines from the received payment
30    information that a user desired to pay with this particular reward account. A user
      may pay for an item using one of multiple reward accounts. Step 11895 may
      initiate to complete a transaction.

  WO 2009/082760                                                          PCT/US2008/088321
                                            159
      [0532]     FIG. 119 shows card 11900 that may include buttons 11910, 11920, and
       11930. A user may utilize buttons 11910, 11920, and 11930 to select a type of
      reward. For example, a user may select to purchase an item and have the purchase
      price utilized as part of a charity reward. In such a reward, for example, a
 5    particular percentage of the purchase price may be donated to charity. The user
      may be provided with an online or paper tax statement at the end of the year
      indicating how much money the user earned in rewards and provided to the
      charity.
      [0533]    Persons skilled in the art will appreciate that a user may be provided with
10    a personalized webpage indicating to the user the types of rewards that were
      chosen for each transaction as well as summary information for the total amount of
      rewards earned during a period (e.g., a billing period) for each type of reward. A
      user may also be provided with the ability to transfer earned rewards to different
      types of rewards. Particular exchange rates may be provided for transferring
15    rewards as well as transfer costs.
      [0534]    Display 11940 may be provided on card 11900. Display 11940 may
      display, for example, a portion of an account number as well as information
      indicative of any user selection.
      [0535]     Buttons 11951-11955 maybe provided, for example, such that a user may
20    enter in various types of codes (e.g., unlocking codes, gift codes, discount codes,
      programming codes for changing the types of rewards on a card). Persons skilled
      in the art will appreciate that buttons 11951-11955 may also be utilized, for
      example, to select a reward. Accordingly, a user may enter in his personal
      unlocking code and then, when prompted, pick a particular button for a particular
25    type of reward.
      [0536]     FIG. 120 shows card 12000 that may include buttons 12004-12008 for
      entering in various types of codes as well as making various types of user
      selections. Button 12001 may be provided to allow a user, for example, to select
      that the user desires to earn points for a purchase. Button 12002 may be provided
30    for example, to allow a user to select that the user desires to spend points for a
      purchase. Persons skilled in the art will appreciate that a server may determine
      how many points are needed for a purchase, deduct that amount from a user's total,

  WO 2009/082760                                                           PCT/US2008/088321
                                           160
      and, if applicable, deduct an amount of money from a particular payment account
      if the rewards points are exhausted with a remaining amount due.
      [0537]     Button 12003 may be utilized by a user to see the user's point balance on
      display 12010. Persons skilled in the art will appreciate that a card may receive
 5    balance information in a variety of ways. For example, a card may receive
      information via a magnetic emulator, IC chip, or an active RFID antenna.
      [0538]     FIG. 121 shows card 12100 that may include buttons 12101-12108 for
      selecting various types of rewards. Display 12110 may be utilized to indicate to a
      user the type of reward that was selected. For example, display 12110 may be a
10    one-character display. Button 12109 may be utilized to indicate that a user desires
      to lock or unlock a card. A user may then utilize buttons 12101-12108 to enter in
      an unlocking code. Person skilled in the art will appreciate that a user may lock a
      card simply by pressing, for example, button 12109. Light source 12120 may be
      utilized, for example, to indicate to a user whether the card is locked or unlocked.
15    For example, light source 12120 may turn a particular color (e.g., GREEN) upon
      card 12100 receiving an appropriate unlocking code. Light source may then, for
      example, periodically blink that color while a card is unlocked and the card's
      reader communicating components are activated for communication by a
      processor. Light source 12120 may turn a different color (e.g., RED or ORANGE)
20    if, for example, an incorrect code is entered. Light source 12120 may similarly
      flash the same color as an incorrect unlocking code when the card locks (e.g.,
      automatically or as a result of user input). Persons skilled in the art will appreciate
      that a card provided in the United States may be programmed to include GREEN
      as an unlocking color and RED as a locking color and a card provided in a
25    different country (e.g., a European country) may provide RED as an unlocking
      color and GREEN as a locking color.
      [0539]     FIG. 122 shows card 12200 that may include buttons 12211-12213.
      Button 12211 may be utilized to indicate to a processor that a user desires to split a
      bill between two different payment accounts. Button 12212 may be utilized to
30    indicate to a processor that the user desires to split a bill between a credit and cash
      payment. Button 12213 may be utilized to indicate to a processor that the user
      desires to split a bill between credit and rewards points. Buttons 12214-12216 may

  WO 2009/082760                                                           PCT/US2008/088321
                                           161
      be utilized, for example, to indicate the proportions of the split. Display 12220
      may be utilized to display a portion of a payment account number as well as
      indicate the types of splits and the proportions of the splits that were selected by a
      user.
 5    [0540]     FIG. 123 shows card 12300 that may include buttons 12311 and 12312.
      Persons skilled in the art will appreciate that a card may include any components
      (e.g., buttons, display, and light source) on either side of a card. Similarly, a
      magnetic emulator or encoder may be provided on either side of a card or,
      alternatively, in substantially the middle of a card. Any card may include a display
10    or may not include a display.
      [0541]     Button 12311 may be utilized to indicate a particular type of payment
      parameters - such as an installment payment. Additional buttons may be utilized
      to allow a user to select one of a variety of different installment payments. For
      example, numerical buttons may be included such that a user may enter in the
15    amount of installments that are desired for a particular period of time. A button
      may be provided, for example, that allows a user to pay at his/her bonus time (e.g.,
      a bonus paid by the user's employer). Button 1112 may be provided, for example,
      to indicate that a dynamic account number is desired to be used but that the number
      is desired to remain visually hidden. Accordingly, a dynamic account number may
20    be provided via a magnetic emulator or stripe (e.g., or via an IC chip or RFID
      antenna).
      [0542]     FIG. 124 shows card 12400 and may include button 12411. Button 12411
      may be utilized, for example, to provide two bundles of payment information
      serially to a reader via a magnetic emulator or magnetic encoder. Person skilled in
25    the art will appreciate that a magnetic encoder communicating data serially may
      communicate data faster than a static magnetic stripe (e.g., over 2, 10, 20, or 30
      times as fast) to a magnetic stripe reader. Accordingly, additional data may be
      communicated. Readers that are coupled, for example, to computers (e.g., cash
      registers) with programming operable to receive serial bundles of payment
30    information may receive multiple bundles of payment information with a single
      swipe. For example, if a user desires a split order between credit and debit, two
      bundles of payment information (one for credit and one for debit) may be

  WO 2009/082760                                                           PCT/US2008/088321
                                           162
      communicated. Information may be included in the discretionary fields of both
      bundles of payment information indicative of the user's desire for a split order.
      [0543]     FIG. 125 shows card 12500. Card 12500 may include any number of card
      reader communication devices such as a magnetic stripe encoder, magnetic
 5    emulator, RFID antenna, or IC chip. Card 12500 may also include a magnetic
      stripe. Card 12500 may include, for example, a serial magnetic emulator for track
       1 data, a different serial magnetic emulator for track 2 data, and a static magnetic
      stripe for track 3 data.
      [0544]     Processor 12540 may control the data transmitted and received from any
10    RFID antenna, IC chip, or magnetic emulator or encoder. Additionally, for
      example, an IC chip located on the card may be utilized to transmit and receive
      information to other communications components (e.g., an RFID). In this manner,
      a processor may, for example, drive information through a magnetic emulator
      while an IC chip may drive information through an RFID antenna. One or more
15    memories may be provided to store payment information that is utilized by, for
      example, a card reader communications device.
      [0545]     Any number of batteries 12560 may be included on card 12500. Such
      batteries may be lithium polymer batteries and may, for example, be coupled
      together in a series configuration. Such batteries may be stacked or may lie
20    adjacent to one another in card 12550. Batteries may be recharged from power
      received via a reader (e.g., via a power signal supplied to an IC chip or an
      electromagnetic field supplied to an RFID antenna).
      [0546]     One or more displays may be provided on card 12550. For example,
      display 12580 may be provided. Such a display may take many forms. For
25    example, display 12580 may be an electrochromic display or an LCD display.
      Various forms of user interfaces, such as mechanical or capacitive buttons, may be
      provided on card 12550.
      [0547]     IC chip 12530 maybe provided on card 12550 such that IC chip 12530
      may transmit information to, and receive information by, an IC chip reader.
30    Similarly, card 12550 may include RFID antenna 12510 which may, in turn,
      transmit information to, and receive information by, an RFID reader.

  WO 2009/082760                                                        PCT/US2008/088321
                                           163
      [0548]     Card 12550 may include dynamic magnetic device 12550 that may
      communicate different information to a magnetic stripe reader. For example,
      dynamic magnetic device 12550 may be provided as a magnetic emulator or a
      magnetic stripe encoder. Additionally, for example, a magnetic stripe reader
 5    having a magnetic encoder may communicate information to, for example, a
      magnetic stripe emulator.
      [0549]     Biometric sensor 12520 may be provided. A biometric sensor may take
      many forms such as, for example, a fingerprint reader. A fingerprint reader may
      capture and compare partial fingerprints or full-fingerprints. Images may be
10    initially stored during a setup procedure in which a user is prompted (e.g., via a
      display) to scan in his/her fingerprint. Such images may be retrieved (e.g., from a
      memory) and compared to fingerprints as new fingerprints are scanned to confirm
      a user's identity.
      [0550]     Light communication device 12570 may be included on card 12550 and
15    may, for example, transmit and receive light-based information signals. Sound
      based communication device 12571 may be included on card 12550 and may, for
      example, transmit and receive sound-based information signals. Power generator
       12572 may be utilized, for example, to harvest power such that a rechargeable
      battery located on card 12550 may be recharged. For example, such a power
20    generator may harvest kinetic, thermal, solar, or electromagnetic energy and
      convert this energy to an electrical energy.
      [0551]     FIG. 126 shows card 12600 that may include single track emulators
       12621-12623 that communicate information serially to a magnetic read-head at the
      direction of processor 12630. Battery 12610 may be included to power processor
25     12630 and the rest of the circuitry of card 12600. Processor 12630 may also
      perform the functions of a payment IC chip. Particularly, for example, contacts
      (such as contacts 12641 and 12642) may be provided that may be able to couple
      with an IC chip reader. The contacts may route information between the IC chip
      reader and processor 12630. In doing so, for example, the cost of card 12600 may
30    be reduced. Processor 12630 may be coupled to additional reader communications
      devices such as, for example, one or more different types of RFID antennas (e.g.,
      RFID antenna 12650).

  WO 2009/082760                                                          PCT/US2008/088321
                                           164
      [0552]    FIG. 127 shows website 12700. A card issuer may provide website
       12700 to a user to allow that user to, for example, configure his/her payment card.
      For example, a user may select a number of features for a card using website
       12700, be provided with a preview of a card that incorporates the selected features,
 5    and be provided with instructions on how to reconfigure the user's card. Website
       12700 may also, for example, provide a user with a preview of the user's card as
      currently configured. For example, website 12700 may provide card layout 12710.
      [0553]    One type of feature that may be selected and configured by a user is that
      of a loyalty selection card. A user may select different types of rewards and
10    generate a code, using virtual button 12730, for reconfiguring the user's card.
      Persons skilled in the art will appreciate that different rewards may change the
      general terms of a user's payment contract (e.g., credit contract). For example, a
      particular type of reward may raise or lower a user's APR, annual fee, late fees, or
      other costs. A user may also be charged a fee for reconfiguring a card (e.g., $1) or
15    may be provided with a pre-determined number of reconfigurations before a cost is
      applied to a reconfiguration. A user may, for example, select reward 12721 and
      reward 12722. A user may upload a particular picture via upload 1523.
      [0554]    FIG. 128 includes webpage 12800. Persons skilled in the art will
      appreciate that the graphical user interface utilized by webpage 12800 may be
20    utilized as a graphical user interface for a different medium (e.g., an application
      running on a mobile telephonic device). Similarly, card features may be provided
      on a mobile telephonic device either physically or embodied virtually. For
      example, a physical buttons may be provided as a virtual button on a graphical user
      interface displayed on a display screen of a mobile telephonic device.
25    [0555]    Website 12800 may be initiated, for example, after a user has selected a
      configuration for his/her card. Such a configuration may associate, for example,
      different functionalities to different buttons as well as provide additional
      functionality. A user may be charged a monthly fee for particular features. For
      example, a user may be charged a periodic fee to introduce a dynamic account
30    number capability to a card. As such, a user may configure a card to include both
      his/her personal and business accounts (e.g., via two buttons) and may configure a
      card to also include two types of rewards (e.g., miles and points). Accordingly, a

  WO 2009/082760                                                          PCT/US2008/088321
                                          165
      user may select the type of card the user desires in a store as well as the type of
      rewards. If a dynamic account number capability was purchased (e.g., $5 or more
      per month or per year), then one or both of the accounts may be provided with
      time-based or use-based dynamic account numbers as well a time-based or use
 5    based codes. Such codes may be displayed as well as communicated via a reader
      communications device (e.g., RFID, magnetic emulator or encoder, and IC chip).
      Displayed codes may be the same as codes communicated through a reader
      communications device or may be different codes.
      [0556]    Webpage 12800 may show an example of the reconfigured card via
10    preview image 12810. Similarly, webpage 12800 may include either
      reconfiguration code 12830, virtual light transmission objet 12820, or both.
      Persons skilled in the art will appreciate that a card may have a table of possible
      configurations. Each entry of the table may correspond to a reconfiguration code.
      Accordingly, for example, a processor may reconfigure itself based on previously
15    stored reconfiguration data. Alternatively, for example, the code for
      reconfiguration may be structured into a code that a user can enter manually or that
      can be wirelessly communicated to a card via signals (e.g., light-based signals from
      object 12820). Persons skilled in the art will appreciate that object 12820 may
      communicate information as light pulses and that a large amount of information
20    may be communicated via object 12820. For example, a user may be directed to
      hold a card up to object 12820 for a particular period of time (e.g., approximately
      at least 10 seconds, 30 seconds, or at least 60 seconds or more). A user may be
      provided with a virtual button on the graphical user interface to initiate data
      transfer. A user may be provided with a virtual object (e.g., a red light may be
25    replaced with a green light) on webpage 12800 after data is communicated. A card
      may provide a signal indicative that data was properly received (e.g., an LED may
      blink a particular color, such as GREEN, or a display may display indicia
      representative of successful receipt of data. Objects for communicating light
      pulses may be provided by any number of physical structures (e.g., an LED on a
30    different payment card for card-to-card communications) or any number of virtual
      objects (e.g., on a television commercial).

  WO 2009/082760                                                           PCT/US2008/088321
                                            166
      [0557]    Persons skilled in the art will appreciate that a reconfiguration may
      change the type of information that is communicated through reader
      communications devices as well as the functionality of any component (e.g., when
      an LED provides a particular color of light). For example, suppose a
 5    reconfiguration provides particular a particular buttons with a miles-based reward
      and provides a different button with a points-based reward. A magnetic encoder,
      magnetic emulator, IC chip (e.g., an EMV chip), or an RFID antenna may
      communicate a chosen reward by sending different data through the
      communications device.
10    [0558]    The card may provide information indicative of the type of reward or
      functionality selected (e.g., a miles-based reward is desired). The card may
      provide information indicative of the button that was pressed. In this manner, a
      remote serve may have knowledge of the reconfiguration, receive the data
      indicative of the button that was pressed, utilize a look-up table to determine the
15    functionality associated with the selected button for the particular reconfiguration,
      and utilize this retrieved information or forward this retrieved information to a
      different server.
      [0559]    FIG. 129 shows card 12900 that may include buttons 12914-12918 for
      entering data (e.g., a Personal Identification Number) and display 12920.
20    Additional buttons may be included. For example, button 12911 may be included.
      A user may utilize button 12911 in order to rate a transaction. Accordingly, a user
      may press button 12911 and then provide a rating (e.g., a 1-5 rating) using buttons
       12914. The rating may be indicative of the waitress, cashier, or purchase
      experience in general. Different buttons may be provided to rate different
25    attributes of a store or purchase. A user may receive a promotional code on his/her
      receipt as a result of rating a transaction. Alternatively, for example, a user may be
      provided with a display (e.g., on a cash-register) for communicating the data
      wirelessly (e.g., via light-based signals). Alternatively, for example, a user may
      receive additional rewards for rating a purchase or store attribute (e.g., a waitress,
30    cook, meal, wait lines, customer service). Such additional rewards may include
      additional points or miles such as a set amount of additional points or miles, points
      or miles associated with a cost of a purchase, or a multiplier of points or miles

  WO 2009/082760                                                          PCT/US2008/088321
                                           167
      (e.g., double, tripe, or quadruple points or miles). A rating may also provide an
      immediate discount on a purchase (e.g., 20% or less than 20%). A user may view
      his/her ratings on a website associated with a user's account. A rating may be
      utilized by a card issuer to further prove that the appropriate user was in possession
 5    of a card at the time of a particular purchase. Display 12920 may indicate a
      selection of a functionality as well as any additional entered data (e.g., button "A"
      was pressed before button "5" was pressed).
      [0560]    Button 12912 may be included such that a user may select a marketing
      opt-in 12912. The selection of marketing op-in 12912 may result in personal
10    information being provided to a merchant that, for example, completes an
      associated transaction. In exchange for the personal information, a merchant may
      provide the user with a number of benefits - such as rewards, discounts, or
      promotional codes. Personal information (e.g., telephone number, email address,
      mailing address, annual income, shopping history, age) may be pre-loaded onto
15    card 12900 and communicated via a reader communications device separately
      from, or with, a payment account number and associated data for completing a
      payment purchase. For example, a cashier may be directed by the card to swipe
      the card twice - once to communicate personal information and a second time to
      communicate payment information. Alternatively, for example, information may
20    be sent indicative of a user's desire to execute an opt-in marketing functionality.
      Accordingly, a remote server may recognize this received information, retrieve
      associated personal data, and forward this personal data to the appropriate
      location(s) (e.g., a remote server of the merchant). An opt-in marketing
      functionality may result in, for example, the emailing of a coupon to a user or the
25    inclusion of a coupon on a webpage associated with the user's payment account.
      [0561]    Button 12913 may be included such that a user may select, for example,
      the entry or use of a promotional code. For example, a user may be provided with
      a promotional code on a receipt at time of checkout (e.g., as a result of using an
      opt-in marketing functionality). The promotional code may be entered into the
30    card using buttons (or via wireless light-based signals) and may be communicated
      via a reader communications device (e.g., a dynamic magnetic stripe
      communications device comprising two magnetic emulators that simultaneously

  WO 2009/082760                                                           PCT/US2008/088321
                                          168
      serially communicate different tracks of data to a magnetic stripe reader). The
      promotional code may be displayed on a display and the result of the promotional
      code may be displayed on a display. For example, the result of the promotional
      code (e.g., "Walmart -10%") may be displayed on a display next to a button. A
 5    user may press the associated button to provide the promotional code in the data
      communicated via a reader communications device. Software on the merchant
      side may recognize the code and apply the code to a purchase. Such codes may
      automatically expire after a period of time, expire after a number of uses (e.g, via
      button presses, light-based signals acknowledging completion of a purchase, or
10    detection of a data communication to a reader such as a detection of a read-head),
      or expire after a particular number of new codes are received, and a processor may
      delete the code from its memory. A display may be a bistable display or a non
      bistable display.
      [0562]     FIG. 130 shows card 13000 that may include IC chip 13020 (e.g., an
15    EMV chip), buttons 13011 and 13012, and display 13030. Button 13011 may be
      utilized to pay for a purchase with points. Button 13012 may be utilized to show
      the remaining number of points a user has on display 13030. A card may receive
      information from a variety of devices such as light sensors, IC chip 13020, an
      RFID antenna, or a dynamic magnetic device such as a magnetic emulator or a
20    magnetic encoder. Persons skilled in the art will appreciate that IC chip 13020
      may have conductive physical contacts on the surface of card 13000. IC chip
       13020 may be, for example, approximately 3mm x 5mm and may be located in the
      proximity of the center of the left side of the front of card 13000.
      [0563]     FIG. 131 shows flow charts 13110, 13120, 13130, and 13140. Flow chart
25     13110 may be initiated with step 13110, in which one or more rewards (or other
      functionalities) are selected by a user. Such a selection may occur at the time the
      card is originally requested or when the card is in the passion of the user. Step
       13120 may commence, in which the card is programmed with the various rewards
      (or other functionalities). Such programming may occur via a programming
30    machine at a manufacturing or programming facility or by the user through the use
      of configuration codes or light-based signals.

  WO 2009/082760                                                           PCT/US2008/088321
                                            169
      [0564]     Persons skilled in the art will appreciate that a card may be manufactured
      at a printed circuit board manufacturer. The board may then be send to an
      assembler. In, the assembler may put various components onto the board (e.g.,
      solder on a display, chip, LEDs and buttons). Particular components may be
 5    fabricated at the printed circuit board manufacturer. For example, displays and
      buttons (e.g., capacitive buttons) may be fabricated as the board is fabricated.
      Additionally, reader communication devices (e.g., a magnetic emulator or RFID
      antenna) may be fabricated at the printed circuit board manufacturer.
      Microprocessors may be, for example, pre-programmed with the appropriate
10    software before being sent to the assembler. Alternatively, software may be
      programmed into a card at the assembler. A card may be laminated before or after
      programming. A card may be partially programmed with certain data and later
      programmed with additional data. The different programming steps may occur at
      different locations. For example, an assembler may program code into a card so
15    that the card can later receive personalization data from programming at a
      personalization facility. A personalization facility may also print indicia onto the
      surfaces of a card, provide holograms and static magnetic stripes onto a card.
      Lamination may also occur at a personalization facility. A card may be, for
      example, laminated and personalized except for programming of the card. Such a
20    card may then be programmed at a different facility. Such programming may
      occur capacitively through the laminant to programming contacts of a
      microprocessor. The cards may then be mailed in envelopes with personalized
      letters to users. The card issuer may be notified that the cards were mailed. A user
      may utilize his/her card in a, POS, ATM, or call an activation telephone number to
25    activate his/her card.
      [0565]     A transaction may be initiated in step 13113. Such an initiation may
      occur, for example, via interaction with a card reader or interaction with an online
      payment portal. Step 13114 may initiate when, for example, a remote server
      recognizes data indicative of a user's desire to earn a particular reward. For in
30    store purchases, such data may take the form of data communicated through a card
      reader. For online purchase or other manual entry purchases, the data may be
      provided in an account number, security code, or another code such as a

  WO 2009/082760                                                         PCT/US2008/088321
                                          170
      discretionary data code. An online portal may request multiple codes for
      purchases. For example, an online portal may request entry of a security code or a
      discretionary data code. A card may thus display a security code and a
      discretionary data code. Such codes may, for example, change based on use or
 5    based on time. Rewards may be applied to the purchase in step 13125 (e.g., certain
      rewards may be earned for a particular purchase).
      [0566]     Flow chart 13120 may be provided in which step 13121 is initiated when,
      for example, a user selects a particular reward. Step 13122 may commence, in
      which a database may associated the selected rewards (or other functionalities) to
10    particular buttons. A user may select which buttons are associated to which
      rewards. A user may also select a default application that does not require a button
      to initiate. For example, a user may select a default type of payment (e.g., a credit
      card number) as well as a default type of reward (e.g., miles for a particular
      airline). A database may store the configuration of a card. A transaction may be
15    initiated in step 13123. Step 13124 may receive information of which button(s)
      were pressed and retrieve the current configuration of the card to determine the
      functionalities desired by the user. The remote server may apply those
      functionalities in step 13125.
      [0567]     Flow-chart 13130 may be included, in which a user logs into a website
20    associated with the user's account in step 13131. Persons skilled in the art will
      appreciate that a payment account may include multiple statements for various
      types of payment a user includes on one or more payment cards. A payment
      account may include a combined statement for all types of payment (e.g., personal
      credit, business credit, and personal debit).
25    [0568]     Step 13132 may commence in which the current configuration of a card is
      retrieved from a server in step 13132. Step 13133 may also retrieve the current
      payment terms for a user. Step 13134 may be initiated via the reception of a
      request to change the configuration of a card (or other device). Step 13135 may
      change the payment contract terms according to the configuration changes. A user
30    may be provided with a confirmation screen to manually confirm the changes.
      [0569]     Flow chart 13140 may be included. Step 13141 may be initiated and a
      graphical user interface may be provided with text boxes for the entry of data.

  WO 2009/082760                                                          PCT/US2008/088321
                                          171
      Such data may include, for example, payment card number, expiration date,
      address with zip code, name on card, a security code, and a discretionary data
      code. Step 13142 may commence when a remote server receives the data
      including the security code and discretionary data code. Such a graphical user
 5    interface may be provided on a website as part of an online payment process.
      Alternatively, for example, such a graphical user interface may be provided on a
      cash register application, portable telephonic device, or other device. Step 13143
      may commence in which the card is validated as authentic using the security code.
      Step 13144 may commence, in which the discretionary data code is utilized to
10    retrieve a variety of associated additional functionalities. These functionalities are
      executed in step 13145. Person skilled in the art will appreciate that discretionary
      data (e.g., such as discretionary data communicated through a reader
      communications device) may be embedded into a payment card number, address
      information, name information, as well as a security code. Accordingly, a remote
15    server may remove the discretionary data from this information. Alternatively, for
      example, the use of the above data may be replaced to be that of a discretionary
      data use. For example, a user's name may be replaced by a code that does not
      include information associated with a user's name. A server may accordingly
      utilize this data to determine the discretionary or other data. For example, a
20    security code may be utilized as discretionary data. Furthermore, such codes may
      include a parity bit or character. Moreover, for example, a limited number of
      operable codes may be utilized in order to reduce, for example, the mistaken entry
      and execution of a non-desired code. A confirmation screen may be provided to
      confirm correct entry of data. Such a confirmation screen may exist via a webpage
25    or on a display of a card.
      [0570]     FIG. 132 shows network topology 13200. Network topology 13200 may
      include communications network 13290. Communications network 13290 may
      include any number of communications servers, transmitters, and receivers.
      Communications network 13290 may also include, for example, any type of
30    communication medium or multiple types of communication mediums.
      Communication mediums may include, for example, wireless or wire-based
      communications.

  WO 2009/082760                                                            PCT/US2008/088321
                                           172
      [0571]     Reward server 13210 may be included in topology 13200. Reward server
       13210 may perform a variety of functions. For example, reward server 13210 may
      receive information that was extract from a received information packet from a
      card reader. Reward server 13210 may determine the type of reward that was
 5    requested based on the extracted data. Reward server 13210 may execute a
      reward-based function such as point/reward management, point redemption/usage.
      For example, server 13210 may keep a running total of the amount of a particular
      reward (e.g., miles or points). Server 13210 may provide information regarding
      the total number of rewards, reward acquisition history, and reward usage history
10    to other facilities. For example, this information may be communicated to a server
      at a facility managed by a card issuer such that the card issuer can incorporate this
      data into a webpage customized for a particular user.
      [0572]     Authorization server 13210 may be included in topology 13200.
      Authorization server 13210 may authorize an event - such as a payment or other
15    transaction. Authorization server 13210 may receive card information (e.g.,
      payment number and zip code) and may authorize this data. Routing server 13230
      may be included. Routing server 13230 may route information based on the
      contents of the information. For example, routing server 13230 may receive
      payment information from point-of-sale device 13250 and look at the beginning
20    digits of a payment number to determine which facility of a list of facilities to send
      the payment data. Such a routing server may transmit all of the information that
      was received or may extract information such that a smaller amount of information
      is forwarded to other facilities (e.g., extract the portions of the payment number
      used to route the payment information). The information may be forwarded to a
25    variety of facilities such as, for example, a facility housing another routing server,
      an authorization sever, or a card issuer's server.
      [0573]     Card issuer server 13240 may be managed by the issuer of a particular
      payment card. Card issuer server 13240 may, for example, issue a webpage for a
      user or may perform particular functions such as online access verification (e.g.,
30    using an access code communicated via a display). Persons skilled in the art will
      appreciate that a card issuer may manage, for example, their own routing and
      authorization servers.

  WO 2009/082760                                                            PCT/US2008/088321
                                           173
      [0574]    POS terminal 13250 may communicate information received from a card.
      POS terminal 13250 may take many forms such as, for example, a cash-register
      having a display and a magnetic stripe reader. POS terminal 13250 may receive
      information from topology 13200. For example, POS terminal may receive a
 5    signal indicative of the result of a transaction authorization (e.g., failed, verified,
      destroy card, or hold card and customer until a representative or authority arrives).
      Additional information may be communicated to the POS terminal such as, for
      example, a point or reward balance and information associated with a functionality
      of a card. Such information may be printed on a receipt directly or in a code form
10    or communicated to the card (e.g., via light-based signals).
      [0575]    Point redemption server 13260 may be utilized to redeem rewards such as
      miles or points. Online discretionary data server 13270 may be included and may,
      for example, receive discretionary data and perform functions based on the
      received discretionary data. Such discretionary data may be received from
15    multiple tracks of magnetic data where each track includes discretionary data.
      Such discretionary data may be received from an online purchase application that
      includes a window for receiving manually input discretionary data.
      [0576]    Dynamic number authentication and linking server 13280 may be utilized
      to authorize a dynamic payment card number (as well as dynamic codes). Such
20    dynamic card numbers and codes may be based on use or on time. Server 13280
      may also keep track of merchants that have utilized a number such that those
      merchants can utilize the number again at a future time (e.g., for period billing and
      one-click shopping).
      [0577]    FIG. 133 shows cards 13310, 13330, 13350, and 13370. Card 13310 may
25    be included. Dynamic magnetic communications device 13314 may be provided
      on the front, back, or middle of a card. Dynamic magnetic communications device
       13314 may be configured to provide electromagnetic signals, operable to be read
      by a magnetic stripe reader, to any one or both sides of card 13310. Display 13312
      may be provided on the front or back of card 13310. Display 13322 may display
30    discretionary data for use with online transactions. Data displayed on display
       13310 may be entered into a security code input text box of an online purchase
      application or a discretionary data text box of an online purchase application. Card

  WO 2009/082760                                                          PCT/US2008/088321
                                           174
       13310 may include additional displays for a separate code (e.g., a security code) or
      for displaying other information such as a dynamic payment number.
      [0578]    Persons skilled in the art will appreciate that display 13312 may be a six
      digit seven segment display. Accordingly, display 13312 may display 13312 may
 5    display four digits and may have fourteen segments to display. Such segments can
      be utilized to display information other than numbers. For example, segment
       13313 may be utilized to indicate that a particular functionality is activated. Such
      a functionality may be associated with permanently written data 13314. For
      example, a user may activate button 13318 and segment 13313 may be displayed.
10    Persons skilled in the art will appreciate that multiple segments on a digit display
      may be utilized at any given time. For example, a user may be provided with the
      ability to split the rewards earned by a purchase between two different types of
      rewards. For example, a user may press button 13318 to turn segment 13313 ON
      and press button 13318 again to turn segment 13314 OFF (and the associated
15    functionality). Accordingly, a user may press button 13319 and an associated
      segment may be displayed or a user may press button 13320 and an associated
      segment may be displayed. A user may thus press buttons 13318 and 13320 and
      rewards earned may be split (e.g., 50/50 between miles and charity. A user may
      select all of the buttons and may evenly split rewards earned between those types.
20    A user may be provided with the ability to select the distribution of rewards for
      every purchase (e.g., via additional buttons). Segments may also be utilized to
      display status information. For example, segment 13317 may be displayed to
      indicate that a battery is low or that a battery is not low. Permanent information
       13311 may be printed in the proximity of segment 13317 to aide a user in
25    understanding the functionality associated with segment 13317.
      [0579]     Card 13330 may be provided with, for example, display 13336, light
      source (e.g., LED) 13331, light source 13335, dynamic magnetic communications
      device 13333, button 13332 and button 13334. Display 13336 may display a
      partial payment number or a full payment number. Additional data may be
30    displayed. For example, display 13336 may display a dynamic payment number
      and a static security code. Such a static security code may, for example, be
      constructed such that each number is printed as a single segment such that the

  WO 2009/082760                                                         PCT/US2008/088321
                                           175
      number cannot be changed. Alternatively, the security code may be changed (e.g.,
      based on time or based on use). A user may utilize button 13332 to display a
      particular payment number while utilizing button 13334 to display a different
      payment number. Such selected information may be communicated via magnetic
 5    communications device 13333 (along with other discretionary data). Discretionary
      data may also be displayed via a display for online use. Light source 13331 may
      be utilized to indicate that button 13332 has been activated. Light source 13334
      may be utilized to indicate that button 13335 has been activated. Persons skilled in
      the art will appreciate that cards may show payment numbers (e.g., credit and debit
10    card numbers) or other types of data. Such other types of data may include, for
      example, serial numbers for authorizing brokerage trades, video gaming numbers
      for accessing access to particular video games or video game characters, gambling
      numbers for different gambling accounts, or identification numbers for different
      loyalty programs (e.g., a grocery store chain's discount card and an electronic
15    store's reward and discount card). Card 13330 may be pre-programmed with
      various numbers that are associated with particular buttons. Card 13330 may
      include buttons such that a user can reconfigure a card with different numbers
      either through manual input via buttons or wireless signals (e.g., light-based
      signals).
20    [0580]    Card 13350 may be included that includes button 13352, light source
       13351 and display 13354. A number may be hidden on display 13353 until an
      appropriate code is entered via buttons, which may be indicated via light source
       13351.
      [0581]    Card 13370 may be included that includes button 13373, light source
25     13372 and display 13374. A number may be hidden on display 13353 until an
      appropriate code is entered via buttons, which may be indicated via light source
       13351. Such a number may change based on time such that the number associated
      with the time period in which a correct PIN was entered is displayed on display
       13374.
30    [0582]    Persons skilled in the art will appreciate that any communications device
      may be added to a card. For example, an IC chip (e.g, EMV chip) may be added to
      card 13330 and may be utilized to provide information to an RFID antenna.

  WO 2009/082760                                                           PCT/US2008/088321
                                            176
      [0583]    Persons skilled in the art will appreciate that data may be transferred, such
      as gift card and/or pre-paid card data, to a card in a variety of ways. For example,
      a card may be swiped a second time through a magnetic stripe reader that includes
      a magnetic stripe encoder. A coil on the card may be utilized to receive the
 5    information and provide the received information to a processor. In doing so,
      information may be loaded into the card. Similarly, an IC chip may be utilized to
      receive data as well as a passive or active RFID. Additionally, one or more
      microphones may be included to receive audio information that may be
      representative of data. Accordingly, for example, a user may hold his/her card, or
10    other device, next to a device that is operable to transmit audio via a speaker (e.g.,
      laptop, stationary computer, or mobile telephonic device). The audio information
      may be discerned by the card and utilized to load information into the card (e.g., a
      gift card or pre-paid card. An application may also be loaded that enhances the
      functionality of the card. Such an application may include, for example, a user's
15    medical information such that medical information can be displayed via the card
      (or other device) during a medical emergency. Accordingly, applications and/or
      payment cards may be purchased online and a speaker may communicate
      information to a card. Similarly, the card may include a speaker for transmitting
      information such that bi-directional communications are established. A light
20    detector may be provided on a card that may receive light pulses indicative of data.
      Accordingly, for example, a user may hold a card up to a display - such as the
      screen of a laptop, stationary computer, or mobile phone - and information may be
      communicated from the display to the card via the light detector. Similarly, a light
      source may be utilized to communicate information from one device to another.
25    For example, a light source (e.g., LED) may be utilized to communicate
      information from one card to another. Similarly, a magnetic stripe reader may
      include a light source. A card may be positioned over the light source such that a
      light detector of the card is aligned with the light source to receive light.
      Accordingly, the light of a magnetic stripe reader (or other type of reader) may be
30    utilized to communicate information back to a card. A user may utilize interfaces
      on the card (e.g., buttons) to initiate a transfer of data from one card to another card
      or from a device to a card. A variety of types of data may be communicated. For

  WO 2009/082760                                                           PCT/US2008/088321
                                           177
      example, money may be communicated from one debit card to another debit card
      such that payments may occur between the cards. Accordingly, for example, the
      next time a card is utilized via a reader (e.g., a magnetic stripe reader) information
      of the transfer may be communicated to a server for processing. Light may be
 5    utilized to transfer data from a card to a computer using, for example, a camera
      (e.g., webcam) on the computer. Sound may be utilized to transfer data from a
      card to a computer using, for example, a microphone on the computer.
      [0584]    A display may also be utilized as an interface. For example, a display
      may include a contact and an electronic ink. The electronic ink may change colors
10    in response to, for example, a particular electrical signal being supplied to the
      contact. A capacitive sensor may be coupled to such a contact, however, such that
      a user interaction with the contact may be sensed by the capacitive sensor.
      Accordingly, a card may include a display that can also receive user input. Persons
      skilled in the art will appreciate that a display may include multiple contacts. For
15    example, a display may include multiple 7-segment (e.g., to display digits) or 11
      segment, 14-segment, or 16-segment (e.g., to display alphanumerics) regions
      where each segment may be coupled to a capacitive sensor.
      [0585]    A biometric sensor may be placed on a card or other device. Such a
      biometric sensor may be, for example, a fingerprint reader. Accordingly, one or
20    more fingerprints may be stored in the memory of a card and compared to scanned
      fingerprints. Different fingerprints may activate the card differently (e.g., utilize a
      different user's payment card info).
      [0586]    Persons skilled in the art will appreciate that a user's payment card
      number (e.g., credit card or debit card number) does not have to change. A display
25    may hide this payment card number until an appropriate unlocking code is entered
      into buttons of the card. Similarly, a magnetic emulator may not be provided
      current until the proper unlocking code is entered - thus keeping magnetic
      information private and not allowing undesirable readers to read a card. A security
      code may be displayed on the same or a different display. A button may be
30    provided representative of an online purchase (or a user may utilize buttons to
      instruct the processor that an online purchase is desirable). For such an online
      purchase, the credit card number and the security code may be displayed - but the

  WO 2009/082760                                                           PCT/US2008/088321
                                           178
      magnetic emulator may not be activated. In doing so, the level of security of the
      card is increased. Furthermore, for example, a button may be provided
      representative of in-store purchases (or a user may utilize buttons to instruct the
      processor that an in-store purchase is desirable). Accordingly, a processor may be
 5    signaled that an in-store purchase is desired. A different operation may be
      associated with different types of purchases (e.g., online or in-store). Accordingly,
      for example, magnetic emulators may be activated for an in-store environment
      but not the displays. Accordingly, for example, a restaurant cashier may not be
      able to read the credit card number from the card, but may still be able to swipe the
10    card. If a reader is down or a cashier requires reading particular information (e.g.,
      a security code or credit card number information) then controls may be utilized to
      communicate this information. A record of the types of transactions may be stored
      and may be communicated in discretionary fields of data within a transmitted data
      track. Such record information may be utilized, for example, to further increase
15    security and/or introduce a variety of additional functionality.
      [0587]    Different types of cards may be provided on a card. For example, a
      security ID number and a credit card number may both be provided on the same
      card. A button may be utilized to allow a user to provide instruction to a processor
      such that the processor can display (e.g., visually and/or magnetically) the desired
20    information. For example, a user may determine to use one of a variety of
      payment accounts (e.g., credit and/or debit) for a purchase. An entire payment
      number (e.g., credit or debit) may be changed and/or hidden visually and/or
      magnetically. A portion of a payment card number (e.g., credit or debit) may be
      changed and/or hidden visually and/or magnetically.
25    [0588]    Persons skilled in the art will appreciate that a display on the card may
      display a credit card number that does not change with time (or transaction or
      button press). Additionally, for example, a magnetic emulator (or multiple
      magnetic emulators) may magnetically communicate financial data that does not
      change with time. Such a card may reduce, for example, the effects of physical
30    card theft and card cloning.
      [0589]    Persons skilled in the art will appreciate that any numbers of a credit card
      number may remain static and/or change either with time or based off a transaction

  WO 2009/082760                                                           PCT/US2008/088321
                                           179
      (e.g., by sensing a read-head "swipe"). Additionally, any static and/or dynamic
      numbers may be displayed via a display or printed on a card. For example, a
      middle 6 digits of a credit/debit card number may be static and may be displayed
      on a display. Such a middle 6 digits may be displayed, for example, upon the entry
 5    of a correct PIC. Similarly, a magnetic emulator may not communicate
      information until a correct PIC has been entered by a user. Doing so may, for
      example, reduce fraud associated with card cloning. Additionally, a receipt may be
      provided that includes masked credit card numbers except for the last few digits of
      credit card numbers. Accordingly, displaying a static middle 6 digits of credit card
10    numbers may allow for such a receipt to be provided while still reducing credit
      card fraud from hiding numbers that are not displayed on such a receipt. Any
      amount of numbers and/or characters may be displayed through a display. For
      example, nineteen digits may be displayed as part of a credit/debit numbers and
      these numbers may also be communicated through one or more magnetic
15    emulation circuits. The entry of particular PICs may provide different results. For
      example, a first PIC may only display a string of alphanumeric characters. A
      second PIC may only activate a magnetic emulation circuit to transmit information
      including that string of alphanumeric characters (or a different string). A third PIC
      may activate a magnetic emulation circuit and a display. A display and/or
20    magnetic emulation circuit may be turned OFF, for example, upon entry of an
      incorrect PIC and/or after a period of time has passed since the entry of the PIC
      and/or after the detection of a particular number of swipes by a read-head detector
      (e.g., one or two).
      [0590]    Persons skilled in the art will appreciate that a credit/debit card number
25    (or any other information) may remain static until an event occurs and then may
      become dynamic (e.g., change based on swipes and/or time). For example, a
      particular PIC may change from a static to a dynamic topology and/or a topology
      may be changed from static to dynamic after a pre-determined period of time.
      Additionally a card and/or device may include a wireless receiver and a topology
30    may be changed from a static to a dynamic topology upon, for example, receiving
      an appropriate signal from the wireless receiver. Accordingly, a validation process
      may change at a validation server depending upon whether a card is utilizing a

  WO 2009/082760                                                            PCT/US2008/088321
                                           180
      static and/or dynamic topology at any given time. Additionally, a static
      credit/debit card number may be printed on the face of a card and information (e.g.,
      a security code) may be displayed via a display and remain static over time (or
      with use) or be provided dynamically.
 5    [0591]    A card or other device (e.g., a mobile telephone) may accept a pre
      determined number of consecutive incorrect PICs before locking the card for a
      period of time or until an appropriate secondary PIC is entered. Accordingly, a
      user may enter in an incorrect PIC a number of times and then, after a card
      becomes locked, call a support center for a secondary one-time use PIC. A card
10    may cycle through unlocking PICs based, for example, on time or the number of
      previous unlock attempts.
      [0592]    FIG. 134 shows personal electronic device 13400 which may be, for
      example, a portable telephonic device, portable media player, or any type of
      electronic device. Persons skilled in the art will appreciate that the functionality of
15    a card may be provided on a personal device and displayed through a graphical
      user interface. Personal electronic device 13400 may include, for example, user
      inputs 13440 and display 13410. Virtual card 13420 may be displayed on display
       13420. Display 13420 may be a touch-sensitive display such that, for example,
      virtual button 13430 may be provided on virtual card 13420. Persons skilled in the
20    art will appreciate that cards may be provided as virtual cards and a user may
      interact with such virtual cards in order to provide a variety of functions. Personal
      electronic device 13400 may communicate to a card reader such as, for example,
      an RFID reader.
      [0593]    A display may be bi-stable or non bi-stable. A bi-stable display may
25    consume electrical energy to change the information displayed on the bi-stable
      display but may not consume electrical energy to maintain the display of that
      information. A non bi-stable display may consume electrical energy to both
      change and maintain information on the non bi-stable display. A display driving
      circuit may be provided, for example, for a bi-stable display (or a non bi-stable
30    display). Such a display driving circuit may step-up a supply voltage (e.g., 1-5
      volts) to a larger voltage (e.g., 6-15 volts) such that a bi-stable display may change
      displayed information. A controller (e.g., a processor) may be utilized to control

  WO 2009/082760                                                          PCT/US2008/088321
                                           181
      such a display driving circuit. Persons skilled in the art will appreciate that a
      display may be configured to display numerical data or alphanumerical data. A
      display may also be configured to display other indicia (e.g., the image of a battery
      and its remaining life).
 5    [0594]    A magnetic stripe reader may, for example, determine information on a
      magnetic stripe by detecting the frequency of changes in magnetic fields (e.g., flux
      transversals). A particular frequency of flux transversals may correlate to, for
      example, a particular information state (e.g., a logic "1" or a logic "0").
      Accordingly, for example, a magnetic emulator may change the direction of an
10    electromagnetic field at particular frequencies in order to communicate a different
      state of information (e.g., a logic "1" or a logic "0").
      [0595]    Persons skilled in the art will appreciate, for example, that a card may
      include an IC chip (e.g., EMV chip), RFID, and a dynamic magnetic
      communications device (e.g., a magnetic emulator or encoder). The same
15    information may be communicated through, for example, any number of such
      devices (e.g., a dynamic magnetic communications device, RFID, and an EMV
      chip). A central processor may cause each device to communicate the information
      (in the same format or a different format). Each component may have its own
      processor or driving circuitry. Such individual processors or driving circuitry may
20    be coupled to a central processor. An EMV chip may be utilized, for example, to
      provide control signals to other devices (e.g., circuitry driving a display as well as
      a dynamic magnetic communications device). Such an EMV chip may receive
      signals provided by one or more buttons to determine, for example, that a
      particular button, or sequence of buttons, was pressed by a user.
25    [0596]     FIG. 135 shows control signals 13510 and 13520 and magnetic stripe
      reader sense signals 13530 and 13540. Control signals 13510 may be utilized to
      drive, for example, a magnetic emulator serially communicating data to a magnetic
      stripe reader. A magnetic emulator may be, for example, driven by a current
      having a positive polarity or being able to swing between a positive and a negative
30    polarity. Such a current may be generated, for example, from a transistor
      providing a drive voltage over a drive resistor. An H-bridge may be utilized, for
      example, to drive current through a coil in both directions.

  WO 2009/082760                                                         PCT/US2008/088321
                                          182
      [0597]    Range 13510 shows current signal 13511 that is provided in a single
      polarity. A magnetic stripe reader may read the timing of phase transversals to
      determine whether a one ("1") or a zero ("0") was received. For example, a short
      period of time before a phase transversal may be determined to be a particular bit
 5    of information while a long period of time before a phase transversal may be a
      different bit of information. Information may be encoded using, for example, F2F
      encoding such that a magnetic stripe reader may be configured to perform F2F
      decoding to extract information.
      [0598]    Range 13520 shows signal 13521, which may be the signal sensed by a
10    magnetic stripe reader. Persons skilled in the art will appreciate that signal 13521.
      Signal 13521 may, for example, be provided as a series of pulses. An increase of
      current through an emulator may, for example, correspond to a positive pulse and a
      decrease of current through an emulator may, for example, correspond to a
      negative pulse. The magnitude of a magnetic stripe reader sense pulse may, for
15    example, be correlated with the rate of change of the drive signal of a magnetic
      stripe emulator. Accordingly, for example, a larger rate of change may correlate to
      larger sense pulses. Information may be determined at the reader by, for example,
      F2F decoding. Persons skilled in the art will appreciate that, for example, a longer
      period of a pulse may lengthen the distance between pulses. Decoding may, for
20    example, determine a swipe rate (e.g., by looking at a string of leading zero bits).
      A logic zero may provide pulses that define the beginning and end of a LONG
      period of time. Thus, a string of logic zeros may allow a reader to determine the
      LONG period for that swipe. A logic one may recognized, for example, when a
      pulse is provided in the middle of a LONG period of time such that the reader sees
25    two SHORT periods of time. Accordingly, changing the time between when a
      current increase and decrease occurs may be utilized to communicate a logic one or
      logic zero. Similarly, the amount of time before a current decrease and increase
      occurs may be utilized to communicate a logic one or a logic zero.
      [0599]    Range 13530 may correlate to a current drive signal that swings between
30    a positive and a negative polarity. As a result, the amplitude of sense signal 13541
      on range 13540 may be increased with respect to signal 13531 having the same
      amplitude, but a single polarity.

  WO 2009/082760                                                          PCT/US2008/088321
                                          183
      [0600]    FIG. 136 shows magnetic emulator 13600 that may be utilized, for
      example, to communicate data serially to a magnetic stripe reader. Emulator
       13600 may include coil 13611 around material 13610. Material 13610 may be, for
      example, a soft magnetic material.
 5    [0601]    Magnetic emulator 13650 may be utilized, for example, to communicate
      data serially to a magnetic stripe reader. Emulator 13650 may include coil 13661
      and 13662 around material 13660. Material 13660 may be, for example, a soft
      magnetic material. Persons skilled in the art will appreciate that the increased
      number of coil turns may, for example, result in a larger electromagnetic field.
10    Coil 13661 may be fabricated on one layer above and one layer below material
       13660. Coil 13662 may be fabricated, for example, on a different layer above and
      a different layer below material 13660.
      [0602]    FIG. 137 shows manufacturing process 13700 that may be utilized, for
      example, to provide a card that includes a coil (e.g., coil 13790). Coil 13790 may
15    take the form of birds-eye view perspective 13791 and angled cross-sectional
      perspective 13792.
      [0603]    Layer 13710 may be provided. Coil segments 13711 may be printed on,
      for example, layer 13710. Material 13753 may be provided between layer 13710
      and layer 13730. Material 13754 may be provided on layer 13720 (e.g., printed on
20    layer 13720). Vias may be provided on layer 13720 to couple, for example, coil
      segments 13711 to coil segments 13731 of layer 13730. Additional layers may be
      provided. For example, layer 13710 may be provided and may include printed
      contacts for interconnecting circuitry. Layer 13760 may be provided, for example,
      at locations 13761-963. For example, layer 13760 may be provided as shown and
25    at location 13763. Each such layer may include, for example, coil segments for a
      second coil. Layers 13710, 13720, and 13730 may, for example, include vias for
      coupling the coil segments for the second coil together. Any layer of FIG. 137
      may include contacts to, and interconnections between, card components such as a
      processor, LEDs, buttons, battery, RFID, and IC chip (e.g., EMV chip).
30    [0604]    FIG. 138 shows materials 13890 that includes material 13891 and 13893.
      Material 13891 may be magnetostrictive such that, for example, material 13891
      mechanically distorts in the presence of a magnetic field. For example, material

  WO 2009/082760                                                          PCT/US2008/088321
                                           184
       13891 may distort from a resting location to distorted location 13892. Material
       13891 may affect an electromagnetic field as material 13891 distorts. Materials
       13893 may, for example, be a soft-magnetic material with zero, or substantially
      zero, parts per million of magnetostriction. Material 13893 may be operable to
 5    affect an electromagnetic field without distorting.
      [0605]    Person skilled in the art will appreciate that a magnetostrictive material
      may, for example, have a better performance if allowed to mechanically distort.
      Accordingly, for example, layer 13820 may be provided with aperture 13854.
      Magnetostrictive material 13821 may be placed within cavity 13854 such that
10    magnetostrictive material 13821 may mechanically distort within aperture 13854.
      Layer 13810 may be provided with coil segments 13811 coupled to vias on layer
       13820 to couple the coil segments on layer 13810 to layer 13830.
      [0606]     FIG. 139 shows card 13900 that may include, for example, permanent
      magnet 13911 located about coil 13913. Coil 13913 may be located around
15    material 13912. Material 13912 may be, for example, a soft-magnetic material.
      Persons skilled in the art will appreciate that permanent magnet 13911 may
      provide a bias magnetic field that may increase the field located at the exterior of
      coil 13913 by providing bias to the field located at the exterior of coil 13913.
      [0607]     Cross-section 13950 may be, for example, a cross section of any type of
20    card (e.g., payment card, gambling card, phone card, security access card). Coil
       13953 may be provided, for example, to communicate data serially to a magnetic
      stripe reader. Soft-magnetic material 13951 may be provided within coil 13953.
      Similarly, for example, permanent magnet 13952 may be provided inside of coil
       13953. Soft-magnetic material 13951 may be, for example, thicker (or thinner)
25    than magnet 13952. Similarly, for example, soft magnetic material 13951 may be
      physically touching permanent magnet 13952 or may be separated (e.g., via an
      insulator).
      [0608]    FIG. 140 shows flow charts 14000 that may include, for example, flow
      chart 14010, 14020, 14030, and 240. Flow chart 14010 may include step 14011, in
30    which a number, such as a payment number, may be retrieved. Step 14013 may
      determine, for example, whether the payment number is associated with a security
      code, discretionary code, a code for both security and discretionary data, or no

  WO 2009/082760                                                          PCT/US2008/088321
                                            185
      code. The code may be executed in step 14013. For example, if a security code is
      associated with a payment number then the security code may be, for example,
      validated. As per another example, if a discretionary code is associated with a
      payment number then the discretionary code may be, for example, validated.
 5    Persons skilled in the art will appreciate that no code may be associated to a
      payment number or only in particular instances (e.g., online purchases). Similarly,
      a card may have both a security component and a discretionary data portion. A
      transaction (e.g., a payment transaction) may be validated in step 14014. Step
       14015 may, for example, be included to allow for a device to provide information
10    to a card (e.g., via a magnetic stripe emulator, RFID antenna, or IC chip).
      [0609]    Process 14020 may be provided. Step 14021 may be included in process
       14020 that may, for example, include producing an interior and two exterior layers.
      Such layers may be, for example, a printed circuit board layer (e.g., an FR4 layer).
      Step 14021 may include, for example, steps such as layer printing, cutting, and
15    testing. Step 14022 may be included to cut, for example, an aperture into the
      interior board layer. Such an aperture may be sized to approximately the size of
      one or more materials that may be utilized in the interior of a coil of a magnetic
      emulator. The aperture may, for example, be larger than the one or more materials
      utilized in the interior of a coil of a magnetic emulator. Persons skilled in the art
20    will appreciate that such a material may be a magnetostrictive material that distorts
      in the presence of a magnetic field in order to provide a particular influence on that
      magnetic field. Accordingly, a magnetostrictive material may be utilized with, for
      example, a two-dimensional coil (e.g., underneath or above) or another type of
      device (e.g., a magnetic encoder). Persons skilled in the art will also appreciate,
25    for example, that a magnetostrictive material may distort if the material is placed in
      a cavity that is the same size as the magnetostrictive material. A magnetostrictive
      material may be configured to distort, for example, so long as the magnetostrictive
      material is not adhered to adjacent board layers.
      [0610]    Step 14022 may be utilized to place a material into the aperture. Person
30    skilled in the art will appreciate that an aperture may be cut through a board layer
      and that a cut may be provided that only provides space partially through a board
      such that a trough is formed. Any material may be placed in a space that is cut for

  WO 2009/082760                                                            PCT/US2008/088321
                                           186
      the material. For example, a permanent magnet or non-magnetostrictive material
      may be placed in such a space. In doing so, for example, a multiple layer board
      may be formed that has even exterior surfaces void of bulges. Without a space, for
      example, a bulge may appear. Bulges may be useful, however, in that apertures
 5    may increase the cost of making a multiple layer card. Apertures may also be cut
      into layers exterior to the layer housing the material (e.g., all layers) in order to
      reduce bulges as well as provide a thin card. For example, a permanent magnet
      may be placed outside of a coil and an aperture may be cut through all layers of the
      multiple layer circuit board such that a relatively thick permanent magnet may be
10    provided. A material and board layer including an aperture may, for example, be
      configured to have substantially the same thickness. A machine may
      autonomously cut spaces and place materials into those spaces. Layers of a
      multiple-layer board may be adhered together in step 14024 and the board may be
      tested in step 14025.
15    [0611]     Process 14030 may be provided in which a single or multiple-layer board
      (e.g., utilizing FR4) is produced in step 14031. The board may include a
      magnetostrictive material and the magnetostriction of the magnetostrictive material
      may be tested in step 14032. The magnetostriction of a material may be tested, for
      example, by providing a particular amount of current through a coil in which the
20    magnetostrictive material resides and determining the amount of electromagnetic
      field produced by the magnetostrictive material.
      [0612]      The magnetism associated with a permanent magnetic included in a
      multiple layer board (if a permanent magnet is provided) may be tested in step
       14033. Tests for any shorts, such as shorts in one or more coils, may be tested in
25    step 14034. Boards that pass all tests may be, for example, assembled in step
       14035 by placing electrical components (e.g., microprocessors, LEDs, oscillators,
      buttons, IC chips) on a board. Persons skilled in the art will appreciate that boards
      for cards may be fabricated in sheets and assembly and lamination may also occur
      in sheets. Programming may also be performed while cards are in sheet form as
30    well as any additional personalization (e.g., printing and embossing). Sheets may
      be cut into cards at any time (e.g., after the cards are ready for mailing).

  WO 2009/082760                                                         PCT/US2008/088321
                                          187
      [0613]    Process 14040 may be included. A single or multiple layer board may be
      fabricated in step 14041. Non-magnetostrictive material may be tested in step
       14042. Permanent magnets may be tested in step 14043. Magnetostrictive
      material (if provided on a board) may also be tested. Shorts may be tested for in
 5    step 14044 and boards may be assembled or sent to an assembler in step 14045.
      [0614]    FIG. 141 shows card 14100 that may include a number of components for
      use in cards such as payment cards. Card 14100 may include RFID 14112,
      dynamic magnetic device 14150 (which may include one or more magnetic
      encoders or emulators), IC chip 14130, processor 14140, battery 14160, display
10     14180, biometric sensor 14120, permanent magnetic 14199, light communications
      device 14170 (for receiving and/or sending light-based information signals), sound
      communications device 14171 (for receiving and/or sending sound-based
      information signals), and power generator 14172 (for generating electrical energy
      to recharge battery 14160). Persons skilled in the art will appreciate that additional
15    components may be provided on card 14100. For example, an oscillator may be
      provided as component 14198 such that time may be kept (e.g., to assist the
      deployment of time-based encryption).
      [0615]    FIG. 142 shows card 14200 that may include, for example, magnetic
      emulator 14222 (e.g., for serially communicating track 1 information), magnetic
20    emulator 14223 (e.g., for serially communicating track 2 information), and
      permanent magnet 14224. Persons skilled in the art will appreciate, for example,
      that a permanent magnet may be configured to provide a bias magnetic field that
      does not substantially emit from card 1300 such that the bias magnetic field may
      not substantially affect objects placed outside of card 14200 (e.g., a static magnetic
25    stripe of a nearby payment card). Furthermore, permanent magnet 14224 may be
      configured such that permanent magnet 14224 is not strong enough to, for
      example, erase information of any nearby static magnetic stripes. Similarly, the
      coercivity of such a permanent magnet may be large such that the permanent
      magnet may have an expected lifespan of a relatively long period of time (e.g.,
30    over 10 years).
      [0616]    Card 14200 may include, for example, RFID 14250, battery 14210,
      processor 14230 and EMV chip contacts 14241 and 14242 such that processor

  WO 2009/082760                                                          PCT/US2008/088321
                                          188
       14230 may perform the processing of an EMV chip such that card 14200 may not
      include, for example, an EMV chip.
      [0617]     FIG. 143 shows control signals 14300. Range 14300 may include control
      signal 14312. Persons skilled in the art will appreciate that skewing control signal
 5     14311 to produce curved signal 14312 may increase the ability for a magnetic
      stripe reader to recognize information. Similarly, range 14330 shows control
      signal 14331 skewed to provide a curved control signal in both a positive and
      negative polarity.
      [0618]    FIG. 144 shows driving circuit 14400. Driving circuit 14400 may
10    include, for example, node 14401, node 14402, transistor 14410, resistor 14420,
      coil 14430, diode 14440, and node 14403. Persons skilled in the art will appreciate
      that a voltage may be coupled to note 14401. A processor may be coupled to, for
      example, node 14402. processor may control when the voltage coupled to node
       14401 is coupled to resistor 14420 via transistor 14410. Resistor 14420 may be
15    utilized, for example, to provide a drive current through coil 14430. Node 14403
      may be coupled, for example, to ground. Diode 14440 may be coupled in parallel
      with coil 14430 in order to, for example, protect against voltage pulses that may be
      generated as the result of the inductance of coil 14430. Coil 14430 may be
      provided, for example, without diode 14440.
20    [0619]     FIG. 145 shows card 14500 that may include emulators 14520 and 14530
      located above a surface of permanent magnet 14510. Persons skilled in the art will
      appreciate that a permanent magnet may be provided above one or more coils and
      another permanent magnet may be provided below, for example, those one or more
      coils. Persons skilled in the art will appreciate that a permanent magnet may be
25    polarized and oriented in a number of ways. For example, arrangement 14550 may
      be provided in which soft-magnetic material 14570 may be provide adjacent to
      permanent magnet 14560. Permanent magnet 14560 may be polarized such that
      region 14561 has one pole (e.g., a North pole) and region 14562 has another pole
      (e.g., a South pole). Persons skilled in the art will appreciate that materials may be
30    polarized to form a permanent magnet. For example, a polarized metal, such as a
      magnetized steel allow, may be utilized.

  WO 2009/082760                                                          PCT/US2008/088321
                                           189
      [0620]    Card portion 14570 shows layer 14571, 14572 and 14573. A cavity may
      be provided, for example, by cutting out a portion of layer 14572. A material (e.g.,
      magnetostrictive material 14575 may be provided in the cavity. Persons skilled in
      the art will appreciate that, for example, apertures may be provided (e.g., aperture
 5     14581 of layer 14571 and aperture 14582 of layer 14573). Such apertures may, for
      example, be provided before board layers are adhered together in order to, for
      example, prohibit a vacuum from forming inside of a cavity. Similarly, for
      example, apertures may be cut after a board is adhered to remove a vacuum from
      forming in a cavity. Such apertures may also be utilized to test characteristics of
10    material 14581 as well as an associated device (e.g., a dynamic magnetic
      communications device). For example, testing probes may be placed in such
      apertures to determine, for example, if material 14581 shorted to other circuitry.
      Any number of apertures may be provided in any number of locations. A board
      having apertures may be, for example, laminated over after testing. For example, a
15    board may be laminated via injection molding.
      [0621]    Persons skilled in the art will appreciate that data may be transferred, such
      as gift card and/or pre-paid card data, to a card in a variety of ways. For example,
      a card may be swiped a second time through a magnetic stripe reader that includes
      a magnetic stripe encoder. A coil on the card may be utilized to receive the
20    information and provide the received information to a processor. In doing so,
      information may be loaded into the card. Similarly, an IC chip may be utilized to
      receive data as well as a passive or active RFID. Additionally, one or more
      microphones may be included to receive audio information that may be
      representative of data. Accordingly, for example, a user may hold his/her card, or
25    other device, next to a device that is operable to transmit audio via a speaker (e.g.,
      laptop, stationary computer, or mobile telephonic device). The audio information
      may be discerned by the card and utilized to load information into the card (e.g., a
      gift card or pre-paid card. An application may also be loaded that enhances the
      functionality of the card. Such an application may include, for example, a user's
30    medical information such that medical information can be displayed via the card
      (or other device) during a medical emergency. Accordingly, applications and/or
      payment cards may be purchased online and a speaker may communicate

  WO 2009/082760                                                           PCT/US2008/088321
                                            190
      information to a card. Similarly, the card may include a speaker for transmitting
      information such that bi-directional communications are established. A light
      detector may be provided on a card that may receive light pulses indicative of data.
      Accordingly, for example, a user may hold a card up to a display - such as the
 5    screen of a laptop, stationary computer, or mobile phone - and information may be
      communicated from the display to the card via the light detector. Similarly, a light
      source may be utilized to communicate information from one device to another.
      For example, a light source (e.g., LED) may be utilized to communicate
      information from one card to another. Similarly, a magnetic stripe reader may
10    include a light source. A card may be positioned over the light source such that a
      light detector of the card is aligned with the light source to receive light.
      Accordingly, the light of a magnetic stripe reader (or other type of reader) may be
      utilized to communicate information back to a card. A user may utilize interfaces
      on the card (e.g., buttons) to initiate a transfer of data from one card to another card
15    or from a device to a card. A variety of types of data may be communicated. For
      example, money may be communicated from one debit card to another debit card
      such that payments may occur between the cards. Accordingly, for example, the
      next time a card is utilized via a reader (e.g., a magnetic stripe reader) information
      of the transfer may be communicated to a server for processing. Light may be
20    utilized to transfer data from a card to a computer using, for example, a camera
      (e.g., webcam) on the computer. Sound may be utilized to transfer data from a
      card to a computer using, for example, a microphone on the computer.
      [0622]    A display may also be utilized as an interface. For example, a display
      may include a contact and an electronic ink. The electronic ink may change colors
25    in response to, for example, a particular electrical signal being supplied to the
      contact. A capacitive sensor may be coupled to such a contact, however, such that
      a user interaction with the contact may be sensed by the capacitive sensor.
      Accordingly, a card may include a display that can also receive user input. Persons
      skilled in the art will appreciate that a display may include multiple contacts. For
30    example, a display may include multiple 7-segment (e.g., to display digits) or 11
      segment, 14-segment, or 16-segment (e.g., to display alphanumerics) regions
      where each segment may be coupled to a capacitive sensor.

  WO 2009/082760                                                           PCT/US2008/088321
                                           191
      [0623]    A biometric sensor may be placed on a card or other device. Such a
      biometric sensor may be, for example, a fingerprint reader. Accordingly, one or
      more fingerprints may be stored in the memory of a card and compared to scanned
      fingerprints. Different fingerprints may activate the card differently (e.g., utilize a
 5    different user's payment card info).
      [0624]    Persons skilled in the art will appreciate that a user's payment card
      number (e.g., credit card or debit card number) does not have to change. A display
      may hide this payment card number until an appropriate unlocking code is entered
      into buttons of the card. Similarly, a magnetic emulator may not be provided
10    current until the proper unlocking code is entered - thus keeping magnetic
      information private and not allowing undesirable readers to read a card. A security
      code may be displayed on the same or a different display. A button may be
      provided representative of an online purchase (or a user may utilize buttons to
      instruct the processor that an online purchase is desirable). For such an online
15    purchase, the credit card number and the security code may be displayed - but the
      magnetic emulator may not be activated. In doing so, the level of security of the
      card is increased. Furthermore, for example, a button may be provided
      representative of in-store purchases (or a user may utilize buttons to instruct the
      processor that an in-store purchase is desirable). Accordingly, a processor may be
20    signaled that an in-store purchase is desired. A different operation may be
      associated with different types of purchases (e.g., online or in-store). Accordingly,
      for example, magnetic emulators may be activated for an in-store environment
      but not the displays. Accordingly, for example, a restaurant cashier may not be
      able to read the credit card number from the card, but may still be able to swipe the
25    card. If a reader is down or a cashier requires reading particular information (e.g.,
      a security code or credit card number information) then controls may be utilized to
      communicate this information. A record of the types of transactions may be stored
      and may be communicated in discretionary fields of data within a transmitted data
      track. Such record information may be utilized, for example, to further increase
30    security and/or introduce a variety of additional functionality.
      [0625]    Different types of cards may be provided on a card. For example, a
      security ID number and a credit card number may both be provided on the same

  WO 2009/082760                                                           PCT/US2008/088321
                                           192
      card. A button may be utilized to allow a user to provide instruction to a processor
      such that the processor can display (e.g., visually and/or magnetically) the desired
      information. For example, a user may determine to use one of a variety of
      payment accounts (e.g., credit and/or debit) for a purchase. An entire payment
 5    number (e.g., credit or debit) may be changed and/or hidden visually and/or
      magnetically. A portion of a payment card number (e.g., credit or debit) may be
      changed and/or hidden visually and/or magnetically.
      [0626]    Persons skilled in the art will appreciate that a display on the card may
      display a credit card number that does not change with time (or transaction or
10    button press). Additionally, for example, a magnetic emulator (or multiple
      magnetic emulators) may magnetically communicate financial data that does not
      change with time. Such a card may reduce, for example, the effects of physical
      card theft and card cloning.
      [0627]    Persons skilled in the art will appreciate that any numbers of a credit card
15    number may remain static and/or change either with time or based off a transaction
      (e.g., by sensing a read-head "swipe"). Additionally, any static and/or dynamic
      numbers may be displayed via a display or printed on a card. For example, a
      middle 6 digits of a credit/debit card number may be static and may be displayed
      on a display. Such a middle 6 digits may be displayed, for example, upon the entry
20    of a correct PIC. Similarly, a magnetic emulator may not communicate
      information until a correct PIC has been entered by a user. Doing so may, for
      example, reduce fraud associated with card cloning. Additionally, a receipt may be
      provided that includes masked credit card numbers except for the last few digits of
      credit card numbers. Accordingly, displaying a static middle 6 digits of credit card
25    numbers may allow for such a receipt to be provided while still reducing credit
      card fraud from hiding numbers that are not displayed on such a receipt. Any
      amount of numbers and/or characters may be displayed through a display. For
      example, nineteen digits may be displayed as part of a credit/debit numbers and
      these numbers may also be communicated through one or more magnetic
30    emulation circuits. The entry of particular PICs may provide different results. For
      example, a first PIC may only display a string of alphanumeric characters. A
      second PIC may only activate a magnetic emulation circuit to transmit information

  WO 2009/082760                                                           PCT/US2008/088321
                                           193
      including that string of alphanumeric characters (or a different string). A third PIC
      may activate a magnetic emulation circuit and a display. A display and/or
      magnetic emulation circuit may be turned OFF, for example, upon entry of an
      incorrect PIC and/or after a period of time has passed since the entry of the PIC
 5    and/or after the detection of a particular number of swipes by a read-head detector
      (e.g., one or two).
      [0628]    Persons skilled in the art will appreciate that a credit/debit card number
      (or any other information) may remain static until an event occurs and then may
      become dynamic (e.g., change based on swipes and/or time). For example, a
10    particular PIC may change from a static to a dynamic topology and/or a topology
      may be changed from static to dynamic after a pre-determined period of time.
      Additionally a card and/or device may include a wireless receiver and a topology
      may be changed from a static to a dynamic topology upon, for example, receiving
      an appropriate signal from the wireless receiver. Accordingly, a validation process
15    may change at a validation server depending upon whether a card is utilizing a
      static and/or dynamic topology at any given time. Additionally, a static
      credit/debit card number may be printed on the face of a card and information (e.g.,
      a security code) may be displayed via a display and remain static over time (or
      with use) or be provided dynamically.
20    [0629]    A card or other device (e.g., a mobile telephone) may accept a pre
      determined number of consecutive incorrect PICs before locking the card for a
      period of time or until an appropriate secondary PIC is entered. Accordingly, a
      user may enter in an incorrect PIC a number of times and then, after a card
      becomes locked, call a support center for a secondary one-time use PIC. A card
25    may cycle through unlocking PICs based, for example, on time or the number of
      previous unlock attempts.
      [0630]    Persons skilled in the art will also appreciate that the present invention is
      not limited to only the embodiments described. Instead, the present invention
      more generally involves dynamic information. Persons skilled in the art will also
30    appreciate that the apparatus of the present invention may be implemented in other
      ways then those described herein. All such modifications are within the scope of
      the present invention, which is limited only by the claims that follow.

1002123210
                                             194
CLAIMS
1.        A device comprising:
           a circuit operable to emit an electromagnetic field and to electrically couple
to, and transmit data to, a read-head located on a magnetic stripe reader; and
           a processor for controlling the circuit,
           wherein the circuit is operable to communicate the data to the read-head
while located outside of the magnetic stripe reader at a distance of at least a quarter of
an inch from the read-head.
2.         The device of claim 1, wherein the device is thicker than a payment card.
3.         The device of claim 1, wherein the device is a wireless communication
device.
4.         The device of claim 1, wherein the device is a portable telephonic device.
5.         The device of claim 1, wherein the device is a portable media player.
6.         The device of claim 1, further comprising a display operable to display a
virtual card.
7.         The device of claim 1, further comprising a touch-sensitive display operable
to display a virtual card.
8. The device of claim 1, wherein the circuit is operable to emit a second
electromagnetic field.
9.         The device of claim 1, wherein the circuit is operable to emit a second
electromagnetic field in parallel with the electromagnetic field.
10.        The device of claim 1, wherein the circuit is operable to serially transmit the
data.

1002123210
                                             195
11.        The device of claim 1, wherein the circuit is operable to transmit the data in a
parallel operation.
12.       A portable telephonic device comprising:
           a circuit operable to emit an electromagnetic field and to electrically couple
to, and transmit data to, a read-head located on a magnetic stripe reader; and
           a processor for controlling the circuit, wherein the circuit is operable to
communicate the data to the read-head while located outside of the magnetic stripe
reader.
13.        The portable telephonic device of claim 12, further comprising a graphical
user interface.
14.        The portable telephonic device of claim 12, wherein the circuit is operable to
communicate the data to the read-head located at a distance of at least a quarter of an
inch from the portable telephonic device.
15.        The portable telephonic device of claim 12, wherein the portable telephonic
device is a portable media player.
16.        The portable telephonic device of claim 12, further comprising a display
operable to display a virtual card.
17.        The portable telephonic device of claim 12, further comprising a touch
sensitive display operable to display a virtual card.
18.        The portable telephonic device of claim 12, further comprising a second
circuit operable to emit a second electromagnetic field.
19.        The portable telephonic device of claim 12, further comprising a second
circuit operable to emit a second electromagnetic field in parallel with the
electromagnetic field.

1002123210
                                           196
20.        The portable telephonic device of claim 12, wherein the circuit is operable to
serially transmit the data.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
