                                  ABSTRACT
An outside roof crest engagement clip comprises first and second opposed
legs extending downward from a head portion and first and second feet
located at ends of the first and second legs, the first and second feet having
return portions extending inwardly from the first and second legs respectively;
wherein the first and second feet are interspaced to snap lock over a crest of
a roof profile.   The clip may be used in a method for installing a weight
distribution assembly on roof sheeting of a type including a plurality of spaced
apart longitudinal crests. The method comprises installing a plurality of the
outside roof crest engagement clips onto the crests of the roof profile and then
locating weight bearing members over the pairs of said clips the weight
bearing members are preferably rectangular metal sections having mitered
ends, said members being elongate with sufficient length to span between
pairs of said clips and fastening the mitered ends of the weight bearing
members to the clips.

    9/15
coo
       CYa)
                 cJ (07
            c"Ju
         C)

                                 AUSTRALIA
                             PATENTS ACT 1990
                       COMPLETE SPECIFICATION
        IMPROVED METHOD AND APPARATUS FOR NON
             PENETRATIVELY ATTACHING TO A ROOF
The following statement is a description of the invention:

                                           1
            IMPROVED METHOD AND APPARATUS FOR NON
                 PENETRATIVELY ATTACHING TO A ROOF
   TECHNICAL FIELD
 5
   The present invention relates to roofing that involves the use of profiled steel
   roofing sheets for concealed fixing. The steel roofing sheets include central
   crests or ribs that are designed to be snap locked over complementary
   decking clips which are screwed to purlins of the roof.      Such profiled roofing
10 sheets are typically used in large commercial roofing applications for example
   where roofing must be quickly installed over a large area such as a
   warehouse or factory roof.
   BACKGROUND
15
   Any references to methods, apparatus or documents of the prior art are not to
   be taken as constituting any evidence or admission that they formed, or form
   part of the common general knowledge.
20 Figure 1 is a perspective view of the topside of an area of profiled roof
   sheeting 3, or as it is sometimes simply called "roof profile".
   Referring now to Figure 1a, there is depicted an axonometric view of a prior
   art decking clip assembly 1. The decking clip 1 is comprised of four clips
25 6a,..,6d which are fastened to a interconnecting elongate, rigid support
   member 10.
   Figure 2 is an end view of a section of roof 3 showing a portion of clip
   assembly 1 in use fastening a sheet of concealed profile roofing 3 to a purlin
30 5. It will be observed that the clips 6e, 6f, are screwed to purlin 5 with hex
   head self-drilling and threading screws 7a, 7b.       The crests 9a, 9b of the
   roofing sheet 3 are pushed down and over the clips 6e and 6f so that they are

                                             2
   snap locked in place on the inside of the crests. Accordingly, the clips 6e and
   6f may be referred to as "inner roofing crest clips".
   One issue that occurs with commercial roofing which involves large areas of
 5 roofing sheets, such as sheet 3 of Figure 2, is that it is frequently necessary to
   make attachments to the roof. It may be necessary to attach to the roof for
   any one of a number of reasons such as to:
   -     Connect a roof sheet on top of a roof sheet whether that be for re-roofing
   over the top of existing roofing or to cover a penetration such as a vent
10 through the existing roof
   -     Installation of solar systems (connection point)
   -     Installation of a roof walkway (connection point)
   -     Installation of TV antenna/satellite antenna or other roof mounted
   devices
15 -     Installation of roof mounted lights
   Figure 3 shows one prior art approach to mounting a solar panel to roof
   sheeting 3. This approach involves screwing mounting brackets 4a, 4b to the
   crests of the roofing sheet 3 and then fastening a beam 6 between the
20 brackets. The solar panel 2 is then mounted to the beam 6. Obviously it is
   time consuming to screw the brackets to the crests of the mounting sheet.
   Furthermore, each bracket 4a, 4b requires fastening with screws 8 that
   penetrate the roofing sheet 3.           Although rubber washers and silicon
   waterproofing may be used to try to prevent ingress of water the fact remains
25 that the integrity of the roofing sheet 3 is destroyed.
   Referring now to Figure 4, there is shown a typical prior art approach for
   attaching a covering roofing sheet 20 over an existing sheet 3 beneath. In the
   example of Figure 4 it will be observed that the roofing clips 6g, 6h of the
30 roofing clip assembly 17 have been screwed through the crests 9g, 9h of the
   roofing sheet 3 below, by means of screws 7c and 7d. It will be realized that
   screwing through the roofing sheet 3 is highly undesirable since it results in
   holes being formed through the roofing sheet and thus the integrity of the roof
   being compromised.

                                            3
   It is an object of the present invention to provide an improved apparatus and
   method for attaching to profiled steel roofing sheets whilst avoiding the
   problems described above.
 5
   SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
   According to a first aspect of the present invention there is provided an
   outside roof crest engagement clip comprising:
          first and second opposed legs extending downwardly from a head
10 portion; and
          first and second feet located at ends of the first and second legs, the
   first and second feet having return portions extending inwardly from the first
   and second legs respectively; wherein
          the first and second feet are interspaced to snap lock over a crest of a
15 roof profile.
   Preferably the first and second feet include crest contact surfaces that
   converge inwardly and upwardly to assist in pressing the engagement clip
   over the crest.
20
   It is preferred that the crest engagement clip is formed with at least one crest
   head stop member that extends into a space between the legs and which is
   dimensioned to abut an upper surface of the crest as the first and second feet
   pass a head of the crest.
25
   Preferably the at least one crest head stop member comprises first and
   second head stop members that extend inwardly toward each other from the
   first and second legs.
30 In a preferred embodiment of the invention the first and second legs bend
   outwardly and downwardly from adjacent the first and second head stop
   members.

                                               4
   The head portion of the roof crest engagement clip may comprise a planar
   spacer between the two legs. In other embodiments the head portion could
   be arcuate or may comprise an angle.
 5 The outside roof crest engagement clip is preferably formed of extruded steel
   though it may also be formed of other suitably strong and resilient substances,
   for example or other types of durable plastic may be suitable.
   According to another aspect of the present invention there is provided a roof
10 clip assembly comprising:
         a rigid support member;
         at least one clip for the inside of a concealed fixing roof profile; and
         at least one outside roof crest engagement clip of the previously
   described type.
15
   According to another aspect of the present invention there is provided a
   method for roofing over an existing concealed fixing roof comprising the steps
   of:
         applying outside roof crest engagement clips to the concealed fixing roof;
20       fastening internal roof crest engagement clips to the outside roof crest
   engagement clips; and
         snap locking a span of concealed fixing roof profile to the internal roof
   crest engagement clips wherein all attachments are made without penetrating
   roof profile.
25
   According to a further aspect of the present invention there is provided a
   method for installing a weight distribution assembly on roof sheeting of a type
   including a plurality of spaced apart longitudinal crests, the method
   comprising:
30         installing a plurality of the outside roof crest engagement clips onto the
   crests;
           locating weight bearing members over pairs of said clips, said
   members being elongate with sufficient length to span between pairs of said
   clips; and

                                            5
          fastening the mitred ends of the weight bearing members to the clips.
   Preferably the weight bearing members comprising rectangular metal sections
   having mitred ends,
 5
   The weight bearing members may be disposed at right angles to the
   longitudinal crests.
   Alternatively, the weight bearing members may be disposed along the
10 longitudinal crests and thus parallel thereto.
   Preferably the step of fastening the mitred ends of the weight bearing
   members to the clips comprises drilling self-tapping fasteners through the
   mitred ends into corresponding clips.
15
   The method may further include fastening a walking surface over the weight
   bearing members. For example, the method may include laying a rigid metal
   grid over the weight bearing members for a person to walk over.
20 Where the roof is steep the fastened weight bearing members may be used
   as rungs of a ladder.
   According to a further aspect of the present invention there is provided a
   weight distribution assembly comprising:
25        a plurality of non-penetrating clips of the previously described type for
   fastening to crests of roof sheeting; and
          a number of weight bearing members each of a length corresponding
   to an integral number of distances between adjacent crests of the roof
   sheeting.
30
   Preferably each of the weight bearing members comprises rectangular metal
   sections having mitered ends for fastening over pairs of said clips

                                              6
   BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
   Preferred features, embodiments and variations of the invention may be
   discerned from the following Detailed Description which provides sufficient
 5 information for those skilled in the art to perform the invention. The Detailed
   Description is not to be regarded as limiting the scope of the preceding
   Summary of the Invention in any way. The Detailed Description will make
   reference to a number of drawings as follows:
          Figure 1 is a perspective view of the outer side of a sheet of roof profile.
10        Figure 1a shows a prior art roof clip assembly for attachment to a purlin
   and having a number of clips for snap locking to the insides of crests of a
   sheet of roof profile.
          Figure 2 is an end view of a sheet of roof profile attached to a purlin by
   means of a clip assembly similar to the assembly of Figure 1.
15        Figure 3 illustrates a prior art approach to mounting solar panel to a
   sheet of roof profile.
          Figure 4 depicts a prior art arrangement for attaching a section of roofing
   over an existing roof profile.
          Figure 5 is an isometric view of an outside roof crest engagement clip
20 according to a preferred embodiment of the present invention.
          Figure 6 depicts a concealed roof profile clip assembly according to a
   preferred embodiment of the invention and incorporating a number of clips as
   illustrated in Figure 5.
          Figure 7 depicts an arrangement for installing a roof cover according to a
25 preferred embodiment of the present invention.
          Figures 8a to 8c progressively illustrate the installation of a clip according
   to the preferred embodiment of the invention being installed on to a crest of a
   roof sheet.
          Figure 9 is a diagram illustrating the clip's response to a lifting load.
30        Figure 10 is a perspective view of the outer side of a sheet of roof profile
   to which a number of the clips have been attached as a first step in
   assembling a walkway.
          Figure 10a is a perspective view of the underside of weight distribution
   member.

                                             7
         Figure 11 illustrates the fastening of a weight distribution member
   between a pair of adjacent clips.
         Figure 12 is a perspective view of the sheet of roofing profile with two
   weight distribution members attached at right angles to the crests of the
 5 profile.
         Figure 13 is a top plan view of a sheet of roofing profile wherein a
   walkway mesh has been located over three of the weight distribution
   members parallel to the crests of the roof sheeting profile.
         Figure 14 is a top plan view of a sheet of roofing profile wherein a
10 walkway mesh has been located over three of the weight distribution
   members at a right angle to the crests of the roof sheeting profile.
   DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF PREFERRED EMBODIMENTS
15 Referring    now to Figure 5, there is illustrated an outside roof crest
   engagement clip 19 according to a preferred embodiment of the present
   invention. It will be observed that the clip 19 has first and second opposed
   legs 21 a and 21 b which diverge downward and outwardly from a head portion
   23.    In the preferred embodiment that is illustrated in Figure 5, the head
20 portion 23 of the roof crest engagement clip 19 comprises a planar spacer
   between the two legs 21 and 21 b though it could be arcuate or angular.
   First and second feet 25a and 25b are located at the lower ends of the first
   and second legs 21 a, 21 b. The first and second feet 25a and 25b are formed
25 with return portions 27a and 27b that extend inwardly from the first and
   second feet respectively. The return portions have crest contact surfaces 29a,
   29b that converge inwardly and upwardly to assist in guiding the engagement
   clip 19 over the outside of a crest of concealed roofing sheet.
30 The first and second feet 25a and 25b are interspaced to snap lock over a
   crest of a roof profile. In a preferred embodiment the interspacing "d", which is
   indicated in Figure 6, is 23.7mm.        Obviously the clip dimensions may be
   varied depending on the shape and size of the crest of the roofing sheet to
   which it is intended to be fitted.

                                           8
   The clip 19 is formed with crest head stop members in the form of first and
   second head stop members 31a, 31b. The stop members extend inwardly
   toward each other from the first and second legs 21a and 21b. In use, as the
 5 clip is being applied about the outside of a crest of the roof profile, the stop
   members 31a and 31b abut an upper surface of the crest as the first and
   second feet pass the head of the crest. This process will be discussed further
   shortly with reference to Figures 8a-8c.
10 As shown in Figure 5, the first and second legs 21a and 21b bend outwardly
   and downwardly from bend angles 33a, 33b adjacent the first and second
   head stop members 31 a, 31 b.
   The outside roof crest engagement clip 19 is preferably formed of extruded
15 aluminum though it may also be formed of other suitably strong and resilient
   substances, for example various types of durable, UV stable, plastic may be
   suitable.
   Referring now to Figure 6, there is shown a roof clip assembly 33 according to
20 a preferred embodiment of the present invention. The roof clip assembly 33 is
   comprised of a rigid support member 35. A number of clips 6a,..,6n for snap
   locking to the inside of a concealed fixing roof sheet are mounted along the
   topside of the support member 35.
25 Beneath each of the inside snap locking clips 6a,..,6n, there is mounted an
   outside snap lock clip 19a,..,19n of the type previously discussed with
   reference to Figure 5.
   In the embodiment shown in Figure 6 screws 9a,..,9n fasten the clips 6a,..,6n
30 and 19a,...,19n to the support member 35.
   Figure 7 shows the use of the clip assembly 33 according to the present
   invention to cover over an underlying roof sheet 3.      In Figure 7 the clips
   19a,...,19n of the clip assembly 33 have been pushed over the crests 9a,.., 9n

                                              9
   of the underlying roofing profile 3, thereby snap locking the clips 19a,...,19n to
   the crests and fastening them in place.
   Figure 7a shows the use of clips 19 to assist in mounting a solar panel 2 to
 5 the roofing sheet 3.     It will be observed that the problem of roof penetration
   that occurred with the prior art approach to mounting the solar panel, which is
   illustrated in Figure 3 is avoided by the use of the outer mounting clips 19. In
   Figure 7A the solar panel 2 is mounted to a beam 6 which is in turn fastened
   with screws 8 to the heads of clips 19. While the clips 19 are penetrated by
10 the screws 8 the underlying roofing sheet 3 remains intact.
   With reference to Figure 8, as clip 19 is pushed down over a crest 9 the return
   portions 27a and 27b of the feet 25a and 25b of the clip 19 abut the sides of
   the head (Figure 8a) of the crest and so are forced apart to a distance d+Ad
15 until the feet are pushed down past the shoulders 36 of the crest so that they
   lock in necked portion 37 of the crest beneath the shoulders 36. The stops
   31a and 31b abut the top of the crest and so prevent the clip 19 from being
   pushed too far down on the crest.
20 Once locked in place any attempt to pull the clip 19 up as indicated in Figure
   8d, tends to draw the feet 25a, 25b together so that their interspacing distance
   reduces a little from "d"to "d-6d" so that they bite into the neck region 37 of
   the sheet 3.
25 Figure 9 illustrates the forces that are understood to be in play during
   operation of the clip 19 in resisting a lifting load "A" pulling up the head portion
   23.    For example, the lifting load "A" may be a wind load on a solar panel,
   antenna, roofing cover or other assembly that is mounted to the clip 19.
30 As the load "A" increases the legs 21a and 21b straighten and their
   intermediate portions move outwards as indicated by arrow "B" to assume the
   position indicated in dashed lines in Figure 9.         As the legs 21a and 21b
   straighten they cause the feet 25a, 25b of the clip to rotate in an inwards and
   upwards motion as indicated by arrow "D".

                                              10
   As the load lifting force "A" increases on the head portion 23, and the legs 21a
   and 21b straighten out the lower portions of legs 21a and 21b tend to pull
   inwards in the direction indicated by the arrows "C".
 5
   The crest contact surfaces 29a and 29b of the return portions 27a and 27b of
   feet 25a, 25b make contact with the sheet 3. The crest contact surfaces 29a
   and 29b are rounded to distribute the load and maximize the area of contact
   so that the feet do not pierce through the thin roofing sheet 3. The internal
10 radius "r "of the arcuate portion between the lower ends of the inside of legs
   21a and 21b is sufficient to provide enough room for the feet to do what is
   commonly known as "digging in" or "biting" so that while not penetrating the
   roofing sheet the crest contact portions 29a and 29b may leave an impression
   or dent in the roof sheeting illustrating the extent of the force with which the
15 clip holds on to the crest of the roofing sheet.
   As previously mentioned, as the lifting force "A" increases the legs tend to
   straighten outwardly in the direction "B". At the same time the opposed stops
   31 a and 31 b also move outwards as indicated by double headed arrow "F". It
20 will be realized therefore that it is highly preferable that there is a gap between
   the stops 31a and 31b and that they are not formed as a single member
   interconnecting the legs 21a and 21b since if that were the case the legs
   would be unable to straighten in response to the lifting load "A" and so the
   inward biting of the feet against the crest of the roofing sheet would be
25 substantially prevented, which is undesirable.
   Referring now to Figures 10 to 14 a method according to an embodiment of
   the invention, for installing a weight distribution assembly, for example to
   provide a walkway, on roof sheeting will be explained. Figure 10 illustrates an
30 initial step in the method wherein there is shown a roofing profile 3 of the type
   that has been previously discussed which includes a plurality of equally
   spaced longitudinal crests 9a, 9b, 9c. Two pairs of the outside roof crest
   engagement clips 19, that have been previously discussed have been
   installed onto the crests 9a and 9c.

                                           11
   Referring now to Figures 10a, 11 and 12, a number of weight bearing
   members 39 are provided. As best seen in Figure 1Oa, which is a perspective
   view of a side and underside of one of the members 39, in the preferred
 5 embodiment the weight bearing members 39 each comprise rectangular metal
   sections having mitred ends 41. It will be realised though weight bearing
   members having other profiles such as a "C" profile might also be used in
   other embodiments. The weight bearing members 39 are elongate with
   sufficient length to span between pairs of clips 9. Although not essential, it is
10 convenient if the weight bearing members have a length that is approximately
   a multiple of the distance between adjacent crests of the roofing profile so that
   ends of the weight bearing members will fit over clips 9 that are mounted on
   corresponding positions on say every second or every third or every fourth
   crest. For example, in Figure 11, the weight bearing member 39 has a length
15 L that is about twice the distance "d"between adjacent crests 9 of the roofing
   profile 3.
   As illustrated in Figure 11 the preferred method includes fastening the mitred
   ends 41 of the weight bearing members 39 to the clips 19 by drilling self
20 tapping screws 8 through the mitred ends 41 into corresponding clips 19. This
   method of attachment is very quick and readily performed with a cordless drill
   43. Furthermore, the diagonal sides 42 of the mitred ends interfere with the
   front and back sides of the clip 19 so that the weight bearing members 39 are
   restrained by the clip la from moving laterally. In addition the inward edge
25 transverse edges 45 of the mitred ends (identified in Figure 10a) abut the
   opposed sides of the clips so that the weight bearing member 39 does not
   move longitudinally either.      Consequently, the mitred ends 41 of the
   rectangular cross-section, weight bearing members 39 allow the members to
   be easily located over a pair of the clips so that they remain in place for
30 convenient and speedy fastening thereto.
   Once the weight bearing members have been attached to the clips with the
   self-tapping screws 8 the roof section appears as shown in Figure 12.

                                            12
   Figure 13 is a plan view of the roof profile 3 illustrating a walkway assembly
   51 resulting from a subsequent step of the method wherein a rigid walkway
   mesh 45 has been fastened over three weight bearing members 39. The rigid
   walkway mesh 45 is preferably made of galvanised steel and is sufficient
 5 strong for a person to walk safely over.        It will be realised that by using a
   sufficient number of the weight bearing members 39 the weight can be safely
   distributed over the roofing profile so that it is undamaged and unpenetrated.
   Figure 14 is a further plan view of the roof profile 3 illustrating a walkway
10 assembly 52, wherein pairs of clips 19 have been located along crests 9a, 9c
   and 9e and thus the weight bearing members 39 are mounted to the clips
   parallel to the crests. The rigid walkway mesh 45 has been fastened over the
   weight bearing members 39 and so is disposed at right angles to the crests
   9a,..,9f. It will therefore be realised that the method encompasses placing a
15 portion of the walkway parallel to the crests and a further portion at right
   angles to the crests. As a result a walkway with corners may be built to
   proceed around installations such as skylights and air-conditioning units
   without penetrating the roof.
20 An embodiment of the invention further comprises a weight distribution
   assembly such as the assemblies 51 and 53 illustrated in Figures 13 and 14
   for fastening to profiled roof sheeting. For example, such an assembly may
   include a plurality of outside roof crest engagement clips 19 for fastening to
   crests 9 of the roof sheeting 3 and also a number of weight bearing members
25 39 that each have mitred ends for fastening over pairs of said clips. The
   assembly can further include a rigid mesh walkway 45 for fastening over the
   weight bearing members 39. However, the rigid mesh walkway, while
   preferred is not essential since other members such as planks could be
   located over the weight bearing members or alternatively, and whilst much
30 less preferred, a person could step from one weight bearing member to the
   next with no intermediate walking surface being in place.
   In compliance with the statute, the invention has been described in language
   more or less specific to structural or methodical features.

                                            13
   The term "comprises" and its variations, such as "comprising" and "comprised
   of" is used throughout in an inclusive sense and not to the exclusion of any
   additional features.
 5 It is to be understood that the invention is not limited to specific features
   shown or described since the means herein described comprises preferred
   forms of putting the invention into effect.
   The invention is, therefore, claimed in any of its forms or modifications within
10 the proper scope of the appended claims appropriately interpreted by those
   skilled in the art.
   Throughout the specification and claims (if present), unless the context
   requires otherwise, the term "substantially" or "about" will be understood to
15 not be limited to the value for the range qualified by the terms.
   Any embodiment of the invention is meant to be illustrative only and is not
   meant to be limiting to the invention. Therefore, it should be appreciated that
   various other changes and modifications can be made to any embodiment
20 described without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention.

                                         14
The claims defining the invention are as follows:
1.    An outside roof crest engagement clip comprising:
      first and second opposed legs extending downwardly from a head
portion; and
      first and second feet located at ends of the first and second legs, the
first and second feet having return portions extending inwardly from the first
and second legs respectively; wherein
      the first and second feet are interspaced to snap lock over a crest of a
roof profile.
2.    A clip according to claim 1, wherein the first and second feet include
crest contact surfaces that converge inwardly and upwardly to assist in
pressing the engagement clip over the crest.
3.    A clip according to claim 1 or claim 2, formed with at least one crest head
stop member that extends into a space between the legs and which is
dimensioned to abut an upper surface of the crest as the first and second feet
pass a head of the crest.
4.    A clip according to claim 3, wherein the at least one crest head stop
member comprises first and second head stop members that extend inwardly
toward each other from the first and second legs.
5.    A clip according to claim 3 or claim 4, wherein the first and second legs
bend outwardly and downwardly from adjacent the first and second head stop
members.
6.    A clip according to any one of the preceding claims wherein the head
portion comprises a planar spacer between the two legs.
7.    A clip according to any one of the preceding claims formed of extruded
steel or aluminum.

                                           15
8.    A roof clip assembly comprising:
      a rigid support member;
      at least one clip for the inside of a concealed fixing roof profile fastened
to the rigid support member; and
      at least one outside roof crest engagement clip according to any one of
claims 1 to 7 fastened to the rigid support member.
9.    A method for roofing over an existing concealed fixing roof comprising
the steps of:
      applying outside roof crest engagement clips according to any one of
claims 1 to 7 to the concealed fixing roof;
      fastening internal roof crest engagement clips to the outside roof crest
engagement clips; and
      snap locking a span of concealed fixing roof profile to the internal roof
crest engagement clips wherein all attachments are made without penetrating
roof profile.
10.     A method for installing a weight distribution assembly on roof sheeting
of a type including a plurality of spaced apart longitudinal crests, the method
comprising:
        installing a plurality of outside roof crest engagement clips according to
any one of claims 1 to 7 onto the crests;
        locating weight bearing members over pairs of said clips; and
        fastening the mitred ends of the weight bearing members to the clips.
11.     A method according to claim 10, wherein the weight bearing members
comprise rectangular metal sections having mitred ends,
12.     A method according to claim 10, including disposing the weight bearing
members at right angles to the longitudinal crests.
13.     A method according to claim 10, including disposing the weight bearing
members along the longitudinal crests and thus parallel thereto.

                                         16
14.    A method according to claim 13, further including fastening the mitred
ends of the weight bearing members to the clips by drilling self-tapping
fasteners through the mitred ends into corresponding clips.
15.    A method according to any one of claims 10 to 14, including fastening a
walking surface over the weight bearing members.
16.    A method according to claim 15, wherein the fastening of the walking
surface over the weight bearing members includes laying a rigid metal grid
over the weight bearing members for a person to walk over.
17.    A weight distribution assembly for fastening to profiled roof sheeting
comprising:
       a plurality of outside roof crest engagement clips according to any one
of claims 1 to 7 for fastening to crests of the roof sheeting; and
       a number of weight bearing members each of a length corresponding
to an integer number of distances between adjacent crests of the roof
sheeting.
18.    An assembly according to claim 17, wherein each of the weight bearing
members comprise rectangular metal sections having mitered ends for
fastening over pairs of said clips
                            *            *              *

                        <removed-apn>   <removed-date>

    D             F       G
         E
                                                   
              ),*

                                                <removed-apn>              <removed-date>
                                                                             
                              E                                                 G
                                                          F
           D
                                       
                    ),*D
                                                          E
     D
                                                                   
                                                     I
                                                                                      
H
                                   
                        
                                                               E
          D
                                            
                         ),*

                                            <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                               
                                                 
                                                              
                                              
             
             D                                               E
                                                                       
                                  
        D                                               E
                                        
                  ),*

                                          <removed-apn>     <removed-date>
                                              
                                     
     J                                                         K
                   
                                                                       
                                                    
                        
                                     
D
                                                           E
               
                            ),*

                                                                     <removed-apn>        <removed-date>
                                                                                                   
                                        
                                                     D                           Q
                                                          D                            Q
                                                               D                           Q
                                                                       
                        D                    E
      D                                            G                            G
                                                                     ),*                             
                                        E
                                    C
  D               E
                  D
                              E
D         D         E
                                         E
                  ),*

                              <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                                                      
          D                                              
                                                Q
D
                                 Q
                                               
          
     D                                  E
                ),*                

                                          <removed-apn>       <removed-date>
                                 
                                                     
                                                                    
              
                                                                         
D                                              Q
                                    
         D                                                    E
                                            
                   ),*$

                                                                 <removed-apn>      <removed-date>
                                     
                                                                 
                                                                                            
          D       E
                G
                          
                                                G
                                               G<U+01FB>G                                              
                          
                                                                              G
                                                                              GiG
                                        
     
                                                                                      
            D                                    E                              F
                                               ),*

                                              <removed-apn>        <removed-date>
                       $
                                         
    %                                                   %
                     D           E
                             )
                                                  E
        D                                                                   
&                                                           &
                   U D          E    U
               '      D        E          '
         D                                      E
                                                  
                            ),*

                              <removed-apn>     <removed-date>
          
                                        
      
                                   F
     D        E
                                                            

                                                       
                    ),*

                                    <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                               
                                                    
                                               
                                          
                                                           
                    ),*D

                                      <removed-apn>          <removed-date>
                                      
                                                                        
                                 
                   /
                   
                                              
                                                 
                               
               G             G
                        ),*

                                            <removed-apn>       <removed-date>
                        
                                                         
              
                                                  
          
                                               F
         D                  E
                                                                           
                   
                                                                      
     
                                                                           

                                  ),*

                         <removed-apn>        <removed-date>
                             
          
     D
                                  F

     E
                                                         
    
                                      
    
               ),*

                                    <removed-apn>        <removed-date>
    D   E
                               F
                                    G
                                                            I
                                            H

                      
                                    
                                             
                                                                    
                                                 
    
                                                 
                             
                        ),*

