                                         ABSTRACT
[000208]        Therapeutic compositions and methods for treatment of attention deficit
disorder (ADD) or attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) include dosage forms that
deliver a therapeutic amount of active drug in a delayed and controlled release formulation.
The dosage form can be administered at night and drug release is delayed for from 3 to 8
hours, followed by an ascending release rate.

 WO 2012/129551                                                            PCT/US2012/030472
Title of Invention
Methods and Compositions for Treatment of Attention Deficit Disorder
Cross-References To Related Applications
[00011             This application claims benefit of priority to US Provisional Application
No. 61/591,129, filed January 26, 2012, US Provisional Application No. 61/561,763,
filed November 18, 2011 and US Provisional No. 61/466,684, filed March 23, 2011, the
contents of all of which are incorporated herein by reference in their entirety for all
purposes.
Background of The Invention
[00021             Attention disorder- hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) is a developmental
disorder characterized by symptoms such as impulsiveness, hyperactivity and/or
 inattentiveness. Hyperactivity is common among children with ADHD but tends to
 disappear during adulthood. However, over half of children with ADHD continue to have
 some symptoms of inattention throughout their lives.
[00031             Stimulant medications are widely used as a pharmacological treatment for
 ADHD. Stimulants, in the short term, have been found to be safe in the appropriately
 selected patient and appear well tolerated over five years of treatment. Active
 pharmaceutical agents now approved in the USA for use in treatment of ADHD or ADD
 are primarily affectors of the dopamine or norepinephrin neural pathways. Approved
 agents include salts and isomers of amphetamine and methylphenidate, the
 dextroamphetamine prodrug, lisdexamfetamine dimesylate, and atomoxotine.
[0004]             One of the challenges of treating ADHD and other CNS stimulant
 responsive conditions is delivering and maintaining an effective concentration in patients
 throughout the day and in particular, in the morning hours when cognitive abilities and
 concentration are needed for school or work and in the late afternoon or evening when
 students often do homework. Early formulations relied on a twice daily administration of
 an immediate release formulation, causing problems with compliance. Various long
 acting formulations were developed and are now available that have been shown in
 clinical trials to be effective for from 8-14 hours (Brams et al., CurrentMedical Research
 and Opinion, vol. 26 no. 8, pgs 1809-1825, August 2010).
                                                  1

     WO 2012/129551                                                            PCT/US2012/030472
Summary
[00051            The compositions and methods of the present disclosure provide novel
formulations and methods for treating diseases or conditions that are responsive to central
nervous system stimulants. Such conditions include but are not limited to attention deficit
disorder, attention deficit hyperactivity disorder, narcolepsy, excessive daytime
 sleepiness, major depressive disorder, bipolar depression, negative symptoms in
 schizophrenia, chronic fatigue, fatigue associated with chemotherapy or binge eating
 disorder. The compositions and methods are effective for treating the adult, pediatric and
 adolescent populations that are in need of such treatment.
 [00061            The disclosed compositions and methods provide a convenient method of
 administration in that a single dose can be taken typically in the evening prior to going to
 bed, or at whatever time of day one retires for an extended period of sleep and the release
  of the drug is delayed for from 4 to 12 hours in some examples and then released in a
  controlled or sustained manner. In certain embodiments, the compositions are water
  soluble capsules that contain coated particles such as beads or minitablets. These particles
  are coated with an outer, delayed release coating and an inner, sustained release coating
  over a drug containing core. The delayed release allows the subject to sleep, and as the
  outer layer of the composition dissolves and the sustained release layer begins to lose
  some of its integrity, the drug starts to slowly release. This results in a low, but
  therapeutic level of drug in the serum of the patient when that patient would normally
  wake up and prepare for the day. Subsequent to this slow release, the drug release rate
  increases over a period of about eight to ten hours or more, to continue to provide a
   therapeutic amount during the typically active part of the day. The compositions and
   methods disclosed herein thus provide a single dose that is conveniently taken prior to
   sleeping and that provides a therapeutic effect from the time a subject normally awakes
   and through the productive portion of the day.
   [0007/           Although the present compositions are described as effective as a once a
    day dosage, it is understood that additional doses can be administered as needed at the
    direction of a physician. The description herein is primarily directed to treatment of
    persons with a typical schedule of going to sleep from around 9 P.M. to about midnight.

     WO 2012/129551                                                          PCT/US2012/030472
for example, and sleeping for 6 to 9 hours. It is understood, however, that the use and
efficacy of the compositions and methods is not limited to such a schedule, but can be
adopted for use with different daily schedules, such as night workers, or people with
longer, shorter or more variable sleep patterns.
[0008]             In certain embodiments, the compositions disclosed herein include, but are
not limited to tablets, minitablets or beads contained in a water soluble capsule. The
 minitablets or beads can include a drug containing core or a drug coated inert bead core
 in which the drug core or drug layer can also contain an optional disintegrant, osmagent
 or pore forming agent. In certain embodiments the disintegrant can be a
 superdisintegrant. In certain embodiments the drug layer or core is enclosed by a
 sustained release layer that can include a water insoluble and water permeable polymer
  layer that controls the rate of absorption of water and release of the drug. The outer,
  delayed release layer is coated on the sustained release layer. The delayed release layer
  may contain a plasticizer or solubility is pH dependent. The delayed release layer can
  thus be a pH dependent layer that is insoluble in aqueous solution at a pH below 5.0 and
  soluble at the higher pH in the ilium or colon, or it can be a pH independent layer. In
  certain embodiments, an outer, pH dependent layer dissolves in the higher pH of the
  ilium or colon. As the sustained release layer then loses integrity the sustained release
  layer ruptures and releases the remaining drug in the core.
  [00091            The active ingredients include central nervous system stimulants that are
   effective to treat ADD and ADHD or other conditions associated with dopamine or
   norepinephrin neural pathways. The active ingredients include, but are not limited to the
   active isomers of amphetamines and amphetamine salts including salts of
   dextroamphetamine, and methylphenidate and its active salts, all of which can be used as
   racemic mixtures or pure isomers such as d-threo methylphenidate. The disclosed
   compositions can also include one or more prodrug of central nervous system stimulants,
   including but not limited to amino acid conjugated active ingredients such as 1-lysine-d
   amphetamine, for example.
   [000101           The compositions and methods of the present disclosure can be described
    in certain embodiments, therefore, as a solid, oral pharmaceutical composition including
    a core comprising a therapeutic amount of a central nervous system stimulant. at least one

     WO 2012/129551                                                        PCT/US2012/030472
pharmaceutically acceptable excipient and optionally a disintegrant, osmagent, or a pore
forming agent; a sustained release layer coating the core; and a delayed release layer
enclosing the sustained release layer, wherein the combination of the sustained release
and delayed release layers provide a three to eight, ten or even twelve to thirteen hour
delay during which no more than 10% of the central nervous system stimulant is released
when the composition is placed in a simulated gastric environment. The term simulated
 gastric environment is intended to be used herein to convey its ordinary meaning as
 understood in the art, and is understood in a broad sense to mean an aqueous environment
 of low pH, 1-5 for example, followed after a period of up to about 2 hours with
 immersion in a higher pH aqueous environment, such as pH 6.8, for example, or a three
 stage environment in which the low pH is followed by an intermediate pH of about 6
 wherein the environments are maintained at about 37.0'C. Alternatively, for certain
 embodiments a simulated gastric environment is described as the USP Apparatus I
 (Baskets) with agitation in which the composition is placed in 700 ml aqueous solution of
 0. IN HCl pH 1.1, v for up to 2 hours followed by 2-6hr in sodium phosphate buffer at pH
 6.0; followed by 6-20 hr in sodium phosphate buffer, pH 7.2, adding NaOH to adjust pH
 to 7.2.
 1000111          Any of the solid oral pharmaceutical compositions disclosed herein can be
  in the form of coated beads, or they can be compressed into tablet or minitablet form. The
  beads or minitablets can then be apportioned in single dose amounts into water soluble
  gelatin capsules, or into a liquid or gel suspension for administration.
  1000121         An aspect of the compositions and methods of the present disclosure can
  also be described as a solid, oral pharmaceutical composition including a core comprising
  a therapeutic amount of a central nervous system stimulant and at least one
  pharmaceutically acceptable excipient wherein the core is substantially free of a
  disintegrant, osmagent, or a pore forming agent; a sustained release layer coating the
  core; and a delayed release layer enclosing the sustained release layer, wherein the
  combination of the sustained release and delayed release layers provide a three to twelve
   hour delay during which no more than 10% of the central nervous system stimulant is
   released when the composition is placed in a simulated gastric environment.
                                                  4

   WO 2012/129551                                                          PCT/US2012/030472
[00013]          A solid, oral pharmaceutical composition of the disclosure can be
described as a formulation in which the in vitro dissolution rate of the dosage form when
measured by the USP Apparatus I (Baskets) with agitation in which the composition is
placed in 700 ml aqueous solution of 0. IN HCl pH 1.1, v for up to 2 hours followed by 2
6hr in sodium phosphate buffer at pH 6.0; followed by 6-20 hr in sodium phosphate
buffer, pH 7.2, adding NaOH to adjust pH to 7.2 at 37'C t 0.5'C is between 0 and about
 20% drug released after 8 hours, between about 2 and about 30% released after 10 hours,
 between about 10 and about 65% released after 12 hours and between 45% and 95%
 released after 15 hours, and wherein the amount of active ingredient released per each
 hour increases from the period between 20% released and 65% released. The
 compositions and methods of the present disclosure can also be described as a solid, oral
 pharmaceutical composition in which the in vitro dissolution rate of the dosage form
 when measured by the USP Apparatus I (Baskets) with agitation in which the
 composition is placed in700 ml aqueous solution of 0. IN HCl pH 1.1, v for up to 2 hours
 followed by 2-6 hr in sodium phosphate buffer at pH 6.0; followed by 6-20 hr in sodium
 phosphate buffer, pH 7.2, adding NaOH to adjust pH to 7.2 at 37'C ± 0.5*C is between 0
 and about 10% drug released after 6 hours, between about 15 and about 28% released
  after 10 hours, between about 40 and about 60% released after 12 hours and between
  about 80% and about 95% released after 15 hours, and wherein the amount of active
  ingredient released per each hour increases from the period between 20% released and
  65% released, or as a solid, oral pharmaceutical composition as described when measured
  by the USP Apparatus I (Baskets) with agitation in which the composition is placed 700
  ml aqueous solution of 0. IN HCl pH 1.1, for up to 2 hours followed by 2-6hr in sodium
  phosphate buffer at pH 6.0; followed by 6-20 hr in sodium phosphate buffer, pH 7.2,
  adding NaOH to adjust pH to 7.2 at 37'C ± 0.5'C, no more than about 10% of the agent
  is released within 6 hours and no more than about 50% of the agent is released within 12
  hours, and wherein, when the composition is administered to a human, a plot of plasma
  concentration versus time after administration exhibits a single maximum between 12 and
   20 hours after administration.
  [000141         The solid oral pharmaceutical compositions of the present disclosure can
   also include a plurality of core pellets that in certain embodiments are substantially

    WO 2012/129551                                                           PCT/US2012/030472
spherical beads. The core can consist essentially of a central nervous system stimulant
and one or more excipients, or the core can consist essentially of the stimulant and one or
more excipients coated on an inert non-pareil bead. These cores are then coated with two
or more release control layers to produce a population of particles for drug delivery. It is
an aspect of the compositions and methods of the present disclosure, however, that it is
advantageous to provide a smooth spherical core to the extent possible in order to obtain
a more consistent coating and a reproducible release profile of the active ingredient from
the populations of particles.
[000151           The solid oral pharmaceutical compositions of the present disclosure also
include a central nervous system stimulant which can be generally defined as a chemical
entity that affects the dopamine or norepinephrine neural pathways. Preferred
pharmaceutically active ingredients include, but are not limited to amphetamine,
 dextroamphetamine, the active isomers of amphetamines and amphetamine salts
 including salts of dextroamphetamine, methylphenidate and its active salts, or
 combinations thereof, all of which can be used as racemic mixtures or pure isomers such
 as d-threo methylphenidate, or a prodrug or pharmaceutical salt, or mixed pharmaceutical
 salts of any thereof alone or in combination. The disclosed compositions can also include
 a prodrug, including but not limited to amino acid conjugated active ingredients such as 1
 lysine-d-amphetamine, Suitable excipients in the core of the pharmaceutical composition
 can include polyvinyl pyrollidone, hydroxypropylmethyl cellulose, lactose, sucrose,
 microcrystalline cellulose or combinations of any thereof.
 [000161          It is an aspect of the disclosed compositions that the delayed release layer
 can include a pH dependent polymer or copolymer that is insoluble in aqueous medium at
 pH lower than 5.5. Such a delayed release layer can include, but is not limited to
  cellulose acetate phthalate, cellulose acetate trimaletate, hydroxyl propyl methylcellulose
  phthalate, polyvinyl acetate phthalate, acrylic polymers, polyvinyl acetaldiethylamino
  acetate, hydroxypropyl methylcellulose acetate succinate, cellulose acetate trimellitate,
  shellac, methacrylic acid copolymers, Eudragit L3OD, Eudragit L100, Eudragit FS30D,
  Eudragit S100 or combinations of any thereof. The delayed release layer can also include
  a plasticizer. or in certain embodiments the delayed release layer can include methacrylic
  acid copolymer Type B, mono- and diglycerides. dibutyl sebacate and polysorbate 80.
                                                  6

   WO 2012/129551                                                            PCT/US2012/030472
[00017J           In certain embodiments of the disclosed solid oral pharmaceutical
compositions, the sustained release layer includes a water-insoluble and water-permeable
polymer and can further include a water soluble polymer. In certain embodiments, the
sustained release layer includes, but is not limited to a cellulose ether derivative, an
acrylic resin, a copolymer of acrylic acid and methacrylic acid esters with quaternary
 ammonium groups, a copolymer of acrylic acid and methacrylic acid esters or a
 combination of any thereof, or it can include ethyl cellulose, hydroxypropyl cellulose,
 dibutyl sebacate and magnesium stearate.
 [000181           In certain emodiments the core can include a disintegrant and can include
 corn starch, potato starch, a pre-gelatinized starch, a modified starch, a sweetener, a clay,
 bentonite, microcrystalline cellulose, carboxymethylcellulose calcium, croscarmellose
 sodium, alginic acid, sodium alginate, cellulose polyacrilin potassium, an alginate,
 sodium starch glycolate, a gum, agar, guar, locust bean, karaya, pectin, tragacanth,
 crospovidone or low substituted hydroxypropyl cellulose. The compositions can also
  include a disintegrant, osmagent, or a pore forming agent, which can be a salt, an acid, a
  base, a chelating agent, sodium chloride, lithium chloride, magnesium chloride,
  magnesium sulfate, lithium sulfate, polyol, mannitol, sulfatol, xylitol, a carbohydrate, a
  carbonate, a bicarbonate, electrolyte, potassium chloride, sodium sulfite, calcium
  bicarbonate, sodium sulfate, calcium sulfate, calcium lactate, d-mannitol, urea, tartaric
  acid, raffinose, sucrose, alpha-d-lactose monohydrate, glucose, alpha-hydroxy acids,
  citric acid, ascorbic acid, or a combination of any thereof. It is a further aspect of the
  disclosure that the disclosed formulations can include an abuse deterrent agent that can be
  a nasal irritant such as a capsaicinoid or sodium lauryl sulfate.
  [00019]           In certain embodiments the optional disintegrant, osmagent, or pore
  forming agent constitutes from 0 to about 75% of the core by weight. The compositions
  can also include a swellable layer or a sealing layer disposed between the core and the
   sustained release layer. The swellable layer can include a superdisintegrant, an osmotic
   agent, or a combination thereof, and in certain embodiments includes a hydrophilic
   polymer such as polyethylene oxide and a binder and can further include a drug
   containing layer between the swellable layer and the sustained release layer and can
   include a seal between the swellable layer and the drug containing layer.

   WO 2012/129551                                                         PCT/US2012/030472
1000201          In certain embodiments the compositions and methods of the present
disclosure can be described as a method of treating a condition in a subject with a
disorder or condition responsive to the administration of a central nervous system
stimulant, comprising orally administering the disclosed solid, oral pharmaceutical
compositions. The method of treatment can include administering a single dosage form or
two per day depending on the need of a particular patient. It is an aspect of the
compositions and methods of the present disclosure that the administration of the dosage
form on a once-a-day basis provides a delayed release of from about 4 to about 12 hours,
followed by an increasing plasma concentration profile, which for a 24 hour period
commencing with an administration of the dosage form results in a single maximum
serum concentration (Cmax) which occurs at least 12 hours, at least 14 hours, or at least
 15 hours after administration.
[000211           The compositions and methods of the present disclosure can also be
described in certain embodiments as a solid, oral pharmaceutical composition including a
therapeutic amount of a central nervous system stimulant wherein the composition, when
 orally administered to a human, provides a delayed release of from 4 to 12 hours, an
 ascending serum concentration of central nervous system stimulant for a period of from 7
 to 12 hours and a maximum serum concentration (Cmax) from 10 to 16 hours after
 administration. In certain embodiments, the serum concentration exhibits a single
 maximum.
 100022]          The compositions and methods of the present disclosure can also be
 described in certain embodiments as a solid, oral pharmaceutical composition comprising
 a core comprising a therapeutic amount of a central nervous system stimulant and at least
 one pharmaceutically acceptable excipient wherein the core is substantially free of a
 disintegrant, osmagent, or a pore forming agent; a sustained release layer coating the
 core; and a delayed release layer enclosing the sustained release layer, wherein when the
 composition is placed in a simulated gastric environment, the combination of the
 sustained release and delayed release layers provide: a mean three to twelve hour delay
 during which no more than 10% of the central nervous system stimulant is released and a
 mean ascending release of central nervous system agent from 8 to 16 hours after being
  placed in the simulated gastric environment.
                                               8

   WO 2012/129551                                                                  PCT/US2012/030472
[000231           Conditions or disorders that can be treated include, but are not limited to
attention deficit disorder, attention deficit hyperactivity disorder, excessive daytime
 sleepiness, major depressive disorder, bipolar depression, negative symptoms in
 schizophrenia, chronic fatigue, fatigue associated with chemotherapy or binge eating
 disorder. Attention deficit disorders are characterized by hyperactive, impulsive or
 inattentive symptoms that cause impairment in social, academic, or occupational functioning, and
 are often present in two or more settings, school (or work) and at home, for example. For the
 Inattentive Type, at least 6 of the following symptoms have persisted for at least 6 months: lack
 of attention to details/careless mistakes; lack of sustained attention; poor listener; failure to follow
 through on tasks; poor organization; avoids tasks requiring sustained mental effort; loses things;
 easily distracted; and forgetful. For the Hyperactive-Impulsive Type, at least 6 of the following
 symptoms have persisted for at least 6 months: fidgeting/squirming; leaving seat; inappropriate
 running/climbing; difficulty with quiet activities; "on the go;" excessive talking; blurting answers;
 can't wait turn, and intrusive. The combined type includes both inattentive and hyperactive
 impulsive behaviors.
 1000241           It is understood that the term treatment as used herein is not limited to the
 cure or elimination of any condition or disorder nor is that term limited to the
  achievement of certain milestones or improvement criteria in a particular subject, but
  includes the administration of an agent for the purpose of achieving positive effects in
  terms of cognitive or behavioral function, reduction of symptoms or side effects. All such
  activities are considered to be treatment whether or not any improvement is immediately
  observable or measureable.
  [00025/           It is well known, for example, that certain side effects may occur in
  conjunction with administration of CNS stimulants. These side effects can include, but
  are not limited to headache, nausea, dizziness, hot flush, decreased appetite, insomnia,
  abdominal discomfort (stomach ache), dry mouth, fast heartbeat, nervousness, mood
   swings, irritability, weight loss, or complaints of just not feeling good. It is contemplated
  that treatment with the disclosed formulations will result in reduced incidence or severity
   of side effects relative to treatments in which the active agent is rapidly released in the
   stomach. As such. treatment would encompass not only reduction of symptoms of the
   condition or disorder but also reduction in side effects.

    WO 2012/129551                                                             PCT/US2012/030472
[00026]           The compositions and active agents of this disclosure are administered in
an "effective amount," "effective dose," or "therapeutically effective amount or dose." By
an "effective" amount or a "therapeutically effective amount" or dose of a drug or
pharmacologically active agent is meant a nontoxic but sufficient amount of the drug or
 agent to provide the desired effect. In the current disclosure, an "effective amount" is the
 amount of that composition or active agent that is effective to improve, ameliorate or
 prevent one or more symptoms of the condition being treated. The amount that is
 "effective" will vary from subject to subject, depending on the age and general condition
 of the individual, or the particular active agent. A therapeutic or effective dose or amount
 is determined by a physician and is often based on empirical data obtained by
 administering increasing doses until the best balance of benefit vs. side effects is reached.
 [000271           An effective dose in the compositions of the present disclosure, particular
 for treatment of ADHD include doses shown to be effective in the treatment of those
 conditions by oral dosage, including but not limited to 5, 9, 10, 15, 18, 20, 25, 27, 30, 35,
 36, 45 or 54 mg once or twice daily. It is also understood that other dosage ranges may be
 effective for conditions or symptoms other than ADHD and as such, the therapeutically
 effective drug concentration in the disclosed compositions can be from 0.1 to 1000 mg
 inclusive of any particular concentration within that range.
 [000281           As used herein, the term "pharmaceutically acceptable salt" refers to non
  toxic pharmaceutically acceptable salts as described (Ref. International J. Pharm., 1986,
  33, 201-217; J. Pharm. Sci., 1997 (January), 86, 1, 1). Other salts well known to those in
  the art may, however, be useful in the preparation of compositions of the disclosure
  including, but are not limited to, hydrochloric, hydrobromic, hydriodic, perchloric,
  sulfuric, nitric, phosphoric, acetic, propionic, glycolic, lactic, succinic, maleic, fumaric,
  malic, tartaric, citric, benzoic, mandelic, methanesulfonic, hydroxyethanesulfonic,
  benzenesulfonic, oxalic, pamoic, 2-naphthalenesulfonic, p-toluenesulfonic,
  cyclohexanesulfamic, salicylic, saccharinic or trifluoroacetic acid. Representative organic
   or inorganic bases include, but are not limited to, basic or cationic salts such as
   benzathine. chloroprocaine, choline, diethanolarnine, ethylenediamine, meglumine,
   procaine, aluminum. calcium, lithium, magnesium, potassium, sodium and zinc.
                                                  10

     WO 2012/129551                                                        PCT/US2012/030472
[000291          The compositions and methods of the present disclosure can also be
described in certain embodiments as a solid, oral pharmaceutical composition comprising
a therapeutic amount of a central nervous system stimulant wherein the composition,
when orally administered to a human, provides a delayed release of from 3 to 8 hours, an
 ascending rate of release of central nervous system stimulant for a period of from 7 to 12
 hours and a serum concentration Cmax from 10 to 16 hours after administration, and
 wherein a plot of the serum concentration versus time after release exhibits a single
 maximum. The solid oral pharmaceutical can be further defined as one in which no more
 than 10% of the central nervous system stimulant is released within 6 hours after
 administration.
 [000301          In certain embodiments the compositions and methods of the present
 disclosure can be defined as a solid, oral pharmaceutical composition comprising: a core
 comprising a therapeutic amount of a central nervous system stimulant and at least one
 pharmaceutically acceptable excipient a sustained release layer coating the core; and a
 delayed release layer enclosing the sustained release layer, wherein the core is
  substantially free of a disintegrant, osmagent, or a pore forming agent; wherein when the
  composition is administered to a human, the combination of the sustained release and
  delayed release layers provide: a mean three to eight hour delay during which no more
  than 10% of the central nervous system stimulant is released; a mean ascending serum
  concentration of central nervous system agent from the onset of absorbance to a period of
  from 12 to 16 hours after administration and in which the serum concentration exhibits a
  single maximum.
  Brief Description of the Drawings
  [000311          The following drawings form part of the present specification and are
   included to further demonstrate certain aspects of the present inventions. The disclosure
   can be better understood by reference to one or more of these drawings in combination
   with the detailed description of specific embodiments presented herein.
   (000321         FIG. 1A is a schematic representation of a bead pharmaceutical
   composition with a drug containing core surrounded by a sustained release layer and a
   delayed release layer. FIG. IB a composition as in IA with an added swellable layer
    disposed between the sustained release layer and the delayed release layer.
                                                ii

    WO 2012/129551                                                            PCT/US2012/030472
[00033]           Fig. 2A is a schematic representation of a minitablet pharmaceutical
composition with a drug containing core surrounded by a sustained release layer and a
delayed release layer. FIG. 2B a composition as in 2A with an added swellable layer
disposed between the sustained release layer and the delayed release layer.
[00034]           Fig. 3 is a schematic representation of a bead pharmaceutical composition
that includes a core surrounded by 4 layers, an inert inner core, a swelling polymer, a
 drug layer, a sustained release layer and an enteric layer.
[00035]           Fig. 4 is a graph of dissolution profiles of DOE 1-8.
[00036]           Fig. 5 is a graph of dissolution profiles of DOE 9, 10, 11, 3, 4.
[00037]           Fig. 6 is a graph of stability dissolution profile of DOE 4.
 [00038]          Fig. 7 is a graph of stability dissolution profile of DOE 3.
 [00039]          Fig. 8 is a graph of enteric coating on DOE 3 (3-Stage) dissolution profile.
 [00040]          Fig. 9 is a graph of dissolution of DOE 3 coatings.
 [00041]          Fig. 10 is a graph of dissolution profile of Lot 2009-138-45 (30 % Weight
 Gain).
 [00042]          Fig. 11 is a graph of two-week stability dissolution profile.
 [00043]          Fig. 12 is a graph of dissolution profile of DOE 3 (Lot 2009-138-45) cured
 at 500 C.
 [00044]          Fig. 13 is a graph of dissolution profile DOE 3 (Lot 2009-138-45) cured at
  550 C.
 [00045]          Fig. 14 is a graph of dissolution profile of DOE 3 (Lot 2009-138-45) cured
  at 550 C on stability.
  [00046]          Fig. 15 is a graph of dissolution profile of DOE 3 (Lot 2009-138-45) 8
  month stability.
  1000471          Fig. 16 is a graph of the dissolution profiles of the fonnulations described
  in Examples 14-18.
  [00048]          Fig. 17 is a graph of the serum concentration of healthy volunteers after
   ingesting the formulations of Examples 14-18.
  [000491          Fig. 18 is a comparison of the data of Fig. 17 with commercially available
   formulations.
   Detailed Description of the Invention
                                                   12

    WO 2012/129551                                                          PCT/US2012/030472
[000501           The present disclosure provides therapeutic compositions and methods for
treatment of attention deficit disorder (ADD), attention deficit hyperactivity disorder
(ADHD) or other conditions or disorders responsive to central nervous system stimulants
by providing dosage forms that deliver a therapeutic amount of active drug in a delayed
 and controlled release pattern in order to maintain a therapeutic amount of drug through
 the active portion of the day. For pediatric patients including adolescents and also for
 adults, a therapeutic amount is desirable upon arising and throughout the morning, as
 well as through the afternoon hours in which work or homework needs to be done.
 [000511          The disclosed formulations can provide a therapeutic amount of drug
 during extended periods of the day with a single administration. The dosage forms
 provide a delayed release such that the dosage form can be administered conveniently
 prior to the patient's sleeping. A small percentage of the drug can be released over the
 first 6 to 8 hours after administration such that the patient has already received a minimal
 therapeutic dose at the normal awakening time. The patient thus does not need to be
  awakened, given a pill, and then required to have breakfast and prepare for their day prior
  to experiencing a therapeutic effect.
 [00052           The formulations disclosed herein also provide an ascending release of the
  drug over the next 8 to 16 hours or so after the delay period, or up to 16 hours after
  administration of the dosage forms. The dosage forms thus can provide a delayed release
  followed by a sigmoidal release curve as shown in the accompanying drawings, Figs. 3
  and 5.
  Central Nervous System Stimulants
  [000531          Stimulant medications (e.g., methylphenidate and amphetamines and
  prodrugs) are often prescribed to treat individuals diagnosed with attention-deficit
  hyperactivity disorder (ADHD). According to the National Institute of Health, all
   stimulants work by increasing dopamine levels in the brain. Dopamine is a brain
   chemical (or neurotransmitter) associated with pleasure, movement, and attention. The
   therapeutic effect of stimulants is achieved by slow and steady increases of dopamine,
   which are similar to the natural production by the brain. The doses prescribed by
   physicians start low and increase gradually until a therapeutic effect is reached.
                                                 13

   WO 2012/129551                                                          PCT/US2012/030472
[000541           Treatment of ADHD with stimulants, often in conjunction with
psychotherapy, helps to improve the symptoms of ADHD, as well as the self-esteem,
cognition, and social and family interactions of the patient. The most commonly
prescribed medications include amphetamines and methylphenidate. These medications
have a paradoxically calming and "focusing" effect on individuals with ADHD.
 Researchers speculate that because methylphenidate amplifies the release of dopamine, it
 can improve attention and focus in individuals who have dopamine signals that are weak.
 [000551          Amphetamines that are useful in the disclosed formulations and methods
 include amphetamine and its isomers such as dextroamphetamine, d,l amphetamines and
 their pharmaceutically acceptable salts, such as sulfate, saccharate, and aspartate salts, for
 example. Amphetamines are non-catecholamine, sympathomimetic amines with CNS
 stimulant activity. Peripheral actions include elevations of systolic and diastolic blood
 pressures and weak bronchodilator and respiratory stimulant action.
 [000561          Dextroamphetamine is the dextro isomer of the compound d,l
 amphetamine sulfate, a sympathomimetic amine of the amphetamine group. Chemically,
 dextroamphetamine is d-alpha-methylphenethylamine. Dextroamphetamine can be used
  in the practice of the present disclosure, or various pharmaceutically acceptable salts of
  dextroamphetamine can be used.
  Methylphenidate
 [00057]          Methylphenidate is another central nervous system (CNS) stimulant that
  has been used since the 1960's in the treatment of ADD, ADHD, fatigue, and narcolepsy.
  Methylphenidate can be prescribed in a racemic mix of dextro and levo conformations or
  as the pure dextro isomer. Methylphenidate has two chiral centers in the molecule and
  thus can also be further refined to enrich the d threo isomer. The use of pharmaceutically
  acceptable salts of methylphenidate, such as methylphenidate hydrochloride are also
  contemplated by the present disclosure.
  [000581          It is understood that the active pharmaceutical ingredients of the present
  disclosure can be present as prodrugs that are activated in the body of a user. One form of
  prodrug has an amino acid conjugated to the active ingredient. When the amino acid is
   enzymatically cleaved, the active drug is released. Prodrugs comprising a lysyl. isoleucyl
                                                  14

    WO 2012/129551                                                           PCT/US2012/030472
or aspartyl conjugate are contemplated to be useful in the practice of the present
disclosure.
Formulations
[00059]           The formulations of the disclosure are designed to provide novel release
and serum profiles that include a first lag phase followed by a sigmoidal release phase.
 By providing this profile, the dosage forms provide a timed, prolonged therapeutic effect
 when taken once a day. Based on the release characteristics, in which the dosage form
 passes through the stomach prior to release, the formulations disclosed herein are
 expected to provide at least the following further advantages, low variability in gastric
 emptying, low dependence on nutrition state (fed or fasting), low risk of sudden dose
 dumping, and low intra- and inter-individual variability.
 [00060]          A first example of a dosage form is a single population of beads that can
 be administered in a capsule or a liquid or gel suspension containing the beads. An
  example of a bead structure 10 is shown in schematic form in Fig. lA-B. In Fig. 1A, the
  inner circle represents a drug containing core, which includes the active ingredient or pro
  drug, the appropriate excipients and optionally a superdisintegrant or osmagent. A core
  can include, for example, an active agent, a disintegrant, osmagent, or pore forming
  agent, and a binder. An exemplary core includes about 20-25% active agent, about 45
  60% microcrystalline cellulose, about 10-30% potassium chloride and about 3-5% binder
  such as polyvinyl pyrrolidone or hydroxypropyl cellulose, for example. The drug
  containing core can be made by a variety of processes known in the art, including wet
  granulation, extrusion, and spheronization. In this embodiment, two layers cover the core.
  The first layer is a sustained release layer and the outer layer is a delayed release layer
  that is optionally pH dependent. In certain embodiments, the core as shown in Fig. 1A
   can be an inert non-pareil bead. The inner core is a bead of sugar and starch or it can be
   composed of microcrystalline cellulose. Any spherical bead that is suitable for forming
   the core bead and is pharmaceutically acceptable can be used. In such embodiments, the
   drug and excipients of the core are layered onto the core bead, providing a three layer
   formulation.
   100061/         The outermost layer 14 is a delayed release or an enteric coating. In
   certain embodiments this layer comprises a water soluble polymer. a water insoluble
                                                 15

    WO 2012/129551                                                          PCT/US2012/030472
polymer, a plasticizer and a lubricant. The time of delay of drug release is controlled by
the ratio of water soluble and insoluble polymers, the plasticizer concentration, amount of
lubricant, and the coating weight gain, which can be up to 35-45%. Alternatively this
layer is a pH dependent polymer that dissolves at pH above 5.0.
[000621           A sustained release layer 16 is designed to provide a slower initial rate of
 release that increases over a period of up to 8-10 hours after the layer is exposed to an
 aqueous environment. The increasing drug profile can be achieved by a membrane that
 becomes more permeable over time. An example of a sustained release layer includes a
 water soluble polymer, a water insoluble polymer, a plasticizer and a lubricant. The rate
 of drug release can be controlled or sustained by varying the ratio of water soluble and
 water insoluble polymers and by varying the coating thickness up to 15-45% weight
 gain.
 [00063]          An alternative embodiment is shown in Fig. 1B. In this figure, a swellable
  layer 18, including a superdisintegrant or osmotic agent is disposed between the core and
  the sustained release layer.
 [00064]          In certain embodiments, the compositions and methods of the present
  disclosure include a formulation of 4 layers 30 as shown in Fig. 3. This formulation can
  include an inner core 15 of a non-pareil bead and 4 concentric layers from inner to outer
  described as, a swelling polymer layer 18, drug layer 12, a sustained release layer 16 and
  a pH dependent delayed release layer 14, which can be a pH dependent layer.
  [00065]         In certain embodiments, the 4 layer composition can be made in a step
  wise fashion. In the first step, a hydrophilic polymer suspended in ethanol with a binder
  is coated onto nonpareil beads to a 30-50% weight gain. In certain embodiments PolyOx
   Coagulant SFP (PEO) marketed by the Dow Chemical Company is the hydrophilic
  polymer and hydroxypropyl cellulose (HPC LF) is added as the binder. The PolyOx layer
   is then sealed with a hydroxypropyl cellulose such as Klucel* EF to a 10% weight gain.
   The API is then suspended in ethanol with a binder and coated onto the layered bead and
   the sustained release and delayed release coatings are applied as described herein.
   [000661         Figs. 2A-B represent embodiments in which the core is a minitablet 20
   rather than a bead. The core and layers in Figs. 2A and B are functionally the same as the
   like numbered layers on the beads in Fig. IA-B. except there is no optional inert core.
                                                 16

   WO 2012/129551                                                           PCT/US2012/030472
[00067]          Various water soluble polymers can be used in the disclosed formulations.
Such polymers include, but are not limited to polyethylene oxide (PEO), ethylene oxide
propylene oxide co-polymers, polyethylene-polypropylene glycol (e.g. poloxamer),
carbomer, polycarbophil, chitosan, polyvinyl pyrrolidone (PVP), polyvinyl alcohol
(PVA), hydroxyalkyl celluloses such as hydroxypropyl cellulose (HPC), hydroxyethyl
 cellulose, hydroxymethyl cellulose and hydroxypropyl methylcellulose, sodium
 carboxymethyl cellulose, methyleellulose, hydroxyethyl methylcellulose, hydroxypropyl
 methylcellulose, polyacrylates such as carbomer, polyacrylamides, polymethacrylamides,
 polyphosphazines, polyoxazolidines, polyhydroxyalkylcarboxylic acids, alginic acid and
 its derivatives such as carrageenate alginates, ammonium alginate and sodium alginate,
 starch and starch derivatives, polysaccharides, carboxypolymethylene, polyethylene
 glycol, natural gums such as gum guar, gum acacia, gum tragacanth, karaya gum and
 gum xanthan, povidone, gelatin or the like.
 [00068]          In certain embodiments, at least the delayed release layer includes one or
 more polymers such as an acrylic polymer, acrylic copolymer, methacrylic polymer or
 methacrylic copolymer, including but not limited to Eudragit@ L100, Eudragit@ L100
  55, Eudragit@ L 30 D-55, Eudragit@ S100, Eudragit@ 4135F, Eudragit® RS, acrylic acid
 and methacrylic acid copolymers, methyl methacrylate, methyl methacrylate copolymers,
  ethoxyethyl methacrylates, cyanoethyl methacrylate, aminoalkyl methacrylate
  copolymer, polyacrylic acid, polymethacrylic acid, methacrylic acid alkylamine
  copolymer, polymethyl methacrylate, polymethacrylic acid anhydride, polymethacrylate,
  polyacrylamide, polymethacrylic acid anhydride and glycidyl methacrylate copolymers,
  an alkylcellulose such as ethylcellulose, methylcellulose, calcium carboxymethyl
  cellulose, certain substituted cellulose polymers such as hydroxypropyl methylcellulose
  phthalate, and hydroxypropyl methylcellulose acetate succinate, cellulose acetate
  butyrate, cellulose acetate phthalate, and cellulose acetate trimaleate, polyvinyl acetate
  phthalate, polyester, waxes, shellac, zein, or the like.
  1000691          Eudragits are well known polymers and copolymers useful for controlled
  release applications. The EUDRAGIT* grades for enteric coatings are based on anionic
  polymers of methacrylic acid and methacrylates. They contain -COOH as a functional
   group. They dissolve at ranges from pH 5.5 to pH 7. EUDRAGIT* FS 30 D is the
                                                 17

   WO 2012/129551                                                           PCT/US2012/030472
aqueous dispersion of an anionic copolymer based on methyl acrylate, methyl
methacrylate and methacrylic acid. It is insoluble in acidic media, but dissolves by salt
formation above pH 7.0. Eudragit LOO-55 and L30-55 dissolve at pH above 5.5.
Eudragit L100 and S100 dissolve at pH above 6.0.
[00070]            Sustained-release EUDRAGIT* formulations are employed for many oral
dosage forms to enable time-controlled release of active ingredients. Drug delivery can
be controlled throughout the whole gastro-intestinal tract for increased therapeutic effect
and patient compliance. Different polymer combinations of EUDRAGIT* RL (readily
permeable) and RS (sparingly permeable) grades allow custom-tailored release profiles
and enable a wide range of alternatives to achieve the desired drug delivery performance.
The EUDRAGIT* NE polymer is a neutral ester dispersion which requires no plasticizer
and is particularly suitable for granulation processes in the manufacture of matrix tablets
 and sustained release coatings.
[00071]            Exemplary osmagents or osmotic agents include organic and inorganic
 compounds such as salts, acids, bases, chelating agents, sodium chloride, lithium
 chloride, magnesium chloride, magnesium sulfate, lithium sulfate, potassium chloride,
 sodium sulfite, calcium bicarbonate, sodium sulfate, calcium sulfate, calcium lactate, d
 mannitol, urea, tartaric acid, raffinose, sucrose, alpha-d-lactose monohydrate, glucose,
 combinations thereof and other similar or equivalent materials which are widely known
 in the art.
 [000721           As used herein, the term "disintegrant" is intended to mean a compound
 used in solid dosage forms to promote the disruption of a solid mass (layer) into smaller
 particles that are more readily dispersed or dissolved. Exemplary disintegrants include,
 by way of example and without limitation, starches such as corn starch, potato starch,
 pre-gelatinized and modified starches thereof, sweeteners, clays, bentonite,
 microcrystalline cellulose (e.g., AvicelTM), carboxymethylcellulose calcium,
  croscarmellose sodium, alginic acid, sodium alginate, cellulose polyacrilin potassium
  (e.g., AmberliteIM), alginates, sodium starch glycolate, gums, agar, guar, locust bean,
  karava. pectin, tragacanth. crospovidone and other materials known to one of ordinary
  skill in the art. A superdisintegrant is a rapidly acting disintegrant. Exemplary
  superdisintegrants include crospovidone and low substituted HPC.
                                                 is

    WO 2012/129551                                                             PCT/US2012/030472
[00073]           In preferred embodiments, a plasticizer is also included in the oral dosage
form. Plasticizers suitable for use in the present invention include, but are not limited to,
low molecular weight polymers, oligomers, copolymers, oils, small organic molecules,
 low molecular weight polyols having aliphatic hydroxyls, ester-type plasticizers, glycol
 ethers, poly(propylene glycol), multi-block polymers, single block polymers, low
 molecular weight poly(ethylene glycol), citrate ester-type plasticizers, triacetin,
 propylene glycol and glycerin. Such plasticizers can also include ethylene glycol, 1,2
 butylene glycol, 2,3-butylene glycol, styrene glycol, diethylene glycol, triethylene glycol,
 tetraethylene glycol and other poly(ethylene glycol) compounds, monopropylene glycol
 monoisopropyl ether, propylene glycol monoethyl ether, ethylene glycol monoethyl ether,
 diethylene glycol monoethyl ether, sorbitol lactate, ethyl lactate, butyl lactate, ethyl
  glycolate, dibutyl sebacate, acetyltributylcitrate, triethyl citrate, acetyl triethyl citrate,
  tributyl citrate and allyl glycolate.
  [000741          It is an aspect of the compositions and methods of the present disclosure
  that the formulations or dosage forms can also incorporate one or more ingredients that
  discourage or prevent abuse of the active ingredients by crushing and inhaling a
  powdered form of the formulations. As such, a nasal irritant can be included, either as a
  separate layer, or incorporated into an outer layer, a sustained release layer or the core of
  the dosage forms. Exemplary irritants include, but are not limited to sodium lauryl
   sulfate, which is also called sodium dodecyl sulfate or capsaicinoids including capsaicin
   and synthetic capsaicins. In certain embodiments, the dosage forms include from 1 to
   10% sodium lauryl sulfate.
   [000751          The compositions of the present disclosure can also include one or more
   functional excipients such as lubricants, thermal lubricants, antioxidants, buffering
   agents, alkalinizing agents, binders, diluents, sweeteners, chelating agents, colorants,
   flavorants, surfactants, solubilizers, wetting agents, stabilizers, hydrophilic polymers,
   hydrophobic polymers, waxes, lipophilic materials, absorption enhancers, preservatives,
   absorbents, cross-linking agents, bioadhesive polymers, retardants. pore formers, and
    fragrance.
                                                   109

    WO 2012/129551                                                         PCT/US2012/030472
[000761          Lubricants or thermal lubricants useful in the present invention include,
but are not limited to fatty esters, glyceryl monooleate, glyceryl monostearate, wax,
carnauba wax, beeswax, vitamin E succinate, and a combination thereof.
[000 771         As used herein, the term "antioxidant" is intended to mean an agent that
 inhibits oxidation and thus is used to prevent the deterioration of preparations by
 oxidation due to the presence of oxygen free radicals or free metals in the composition.
 Such compounds include, by way of example and without limitation, ascorbic acid,
 ascorbyl palmitate, butylated hydroxyanisole (BHA), butylated hydroxytoluene (BHT),
 hypophophorous acid, monothioglycerol, sodium ascorbate, sodium formaldehyde
 sulfoxylate and sodium metabisulfite and others known to those of ordinary skill in the
 art. Other suitable antioxidants include, for example, vitamin C, sodium bisulfite,
 vitamin E and its derivatives, propyl gallate or a sulfite derivative.
 [00078J          Binders suitable for use in the present invention include beeswax,
  carnauba wax, cetyl palmitate, glycerol behenate, glyceryl monostearate, glyceryl
  palmitostearate, glyceryl stearate, hydrogenated castor oil, microcrystalline wax, paraffin
  wax, stearic acid, stearic alcohol, stearate 6000 WL1644, gelucire 50/13, poloxamer 188,
  and polyethylene glycol (PEG) 2000, 3000, 6000, 8000, 10000 or 20000.
  [000791         A buffering agent is used to resist change in pH upon dilution or addition
  of acid or alkali. Such compounds include, by way of example and without limitation,
  potassium metaphosphate, potassium phosphate, monobasic sodium acetate and sodium
  citrate anhydrous and dihydrate, salts of inorganic or organic acids, salts of inorganic or
  organic bases, and others known to those of ordinary skill in the art,
  [00080]          As used herein, the term "alkalizing agent" is intended to mean a
   compound used to provide alkaline medium for product stability. Such compounds
   include, by way of example and without limitation, ammonia solution, ammonium
   carbonate, diethanolamine, monoethanolamine, potassium hydroxide, sodium borate,
   sodium carbonate, sodium bicarbonate, sodium hydroxide, triethanolamine, and trolamine
   and others known to those of ordinary skill in the art.
   [000811         Exemplary binders include: polyethylene oxide; polypropylene oxide;
   polyvinylpyrrolidone: polvvinylpyrrolidone-co-vinylacetate; acrylate and methacrylate
   copolymers: polyethylene: polycaprolactone: polvethylene-co-polypropylene:
                                                 20

    WO 2012/129551                                                            PCT/US2012/030472
alkylcelluloses and cellulosic derivatives such as low substituted HPC (L
HPC),methylcellulose; hydroxyalkylcelluloses such as hydroxymethylcellulose,
hydroxyethylcellulose, hydroxypropylcellulose, and hydroxybutylcellulose; hydroxyalkyl
alkylcelluloses such as hydroxyethyl methylcellulose and hydroxypropyl
methylcellulose; starches, pectins; PLA and PLGA, polyesters (shellac), wax such as
carnauba wax, beeswax; polysaccharides such as cellulose, tragacanth, gum arabic, guar
gum, and xanthan gum.
[000821           Exemplary chelating agents include EDTA and its salts, alphahydroxy
acids such as citric acid, polycarboxylic acids, polyamines, derivatives thereof, and others
known to those of ordinary skill in the art.
[000831           As used herein, the term "colorant" is intended to mean a compound used
 to impart color to solid (e.g., tablets) pharmaceutical preparations. Such compounds
 include, by way of example and without limitation, FD&C Red No. 3, FD&C Red No.
 20, FD&C Yellow No. 6, FD&C Blue No. 2, D&C Green No. 5, D&C Orange No. 5,
 D&C Red No. 8, caramel, and ferric oxide, red, other F.D. & C. dyes and natural coloring
 agents such as grape skin extract, beet red powder, beta carotene, annato, carmine,
 turmeric, paprika, and other materials known to one of ordinary skill in the art. The
 amount of coloring agent used will vary as desired.
 [000841           As used herein, the term "flavorant" is intended to mean a compound used
  to impart a pleasant flavor and often odor to a pharmaceutical preparation. Exemplary
  flavoring agents or flavorants include synthetic flavor oils and flavoring aromatics and/or
  natural oils, extracts from plants, leaves, flowers, fruits and so forth and combinations
  thereof. These may also include cinnamon oil, oil of wintergreen, peppermint oils, clove
  oil, bay oil, anise oil, eucalyptus, thyme oil, cedar leave oil, oil of nutmeg, oil of sage, oil
  of bitter almonds and cassia oil. Other useful flavors include vanilla, citrus oil, including
  lemon, orange, grape, lime and grapefruit, and fruit essences, including apple, pear,
  peach, strawberry, raspberry, cherry, plum, pineapple, apricot and so forth. Flavors that
  have been found to be particularly useful include commercially available orange, grape,
   cherry and bubble gum flavors and mixtures thereof. The amount of flavoring may
   depend on a number of factors, including the organoleptic effect desired. Flavors will be
                                                  21

   WO 2012/129551                                                          PCT/US2012/030472
present in any amount as desired by those of ordinary skill in the art. Particular flavors
are the grape and cherry flavors and citrus flavors such as orange.
[000851          Suitable surfactants include Polysorbate 80, sorbitan monooleate,
polyoxymer, sodium lauryl sulfate or others known in the art. Soaps and synthetic
detergents may be employed as surfactants. Suitable soaps include fatty acid alkali
metal, ammonium, and triethanolamine salts. Suitable detergents include cationic
 detergents, for example, dimethyl dialkyl ammonium halides, alkyl pyridinium halides,
 and alkylamine acetates; anionic detergents, for example, alkyl, aryl and olefin
 sulfonates, alkyl, olefin, ether and monoglyceride sulfates, and sulfosuccinates; nonionic
 detergents, for example, fatty amine oxides, fatty acid alkanolamides, and
 poly(oxyethylene)-block-poly(oxypropylene) copolymers; and amphoteric detergents, for
 example, alkyl   p-aminopropionates    and 2-alkylimidazoline quaternary ammonium salts;
 and mixtures thereof.
 [000861         A wetting agent is an agent that decreases the surface tension of a liquid.
 Wetting agents would include alcohols, glycerin, proteins, peptides water miscible
 solvents such as glycols, hydrophilic polymers Polysorbate 80, sorbitan monooleate,
 sodium lauryl sulfate, fatty acid alkali metal, ammonium, and triethanolamine salts,
 dimethyl dialkyl ammonium halides, alkyl pyridinium halides, and alkylamine acetates;
 anionic detergents, for example, alkyl, aryl and olefin sulfonates, alkyl, olefin, ether and
 monoglyceride sulfates, and sulfosuccinates; nonionic detergents, for example, fatty
 amine oxides, fatty acid alkanolamides, and poly(oxyethylene)-block-poly(oxypropylene)
  copolymers; and amphoteric detergents, for example, alkyl p-aminopropionates and 2
  alkylimidazoline quaternary ammonium salts; and mixtures thereof.
 100087]          Solubilizers include cyclodextrins, povidone, combinations thereof, and
  others known to those of ordinary skill in the art.
  [00088]         Exemplary waxes include carnauba wax, beeswax, microcrystalline wax
  and others known to one of ordinary skill in the art.
  /00089]         Exemplary absorption enhancers include dimethyl sulfoxide, Vitamin E
  PGS, sodium cholate and others known to one of ordinary skill in the art.
  [000901         Preservatives include compounds used to prevent the growth of
  microorganisms. Suitable preservatives include. by way of example and without

   WO 2012/129551                                                            PCT/US2012/030472
limitation, benzalkonium chloride, benzethonium chloride, benzyl alcohol,
cetylpyridinium chloride, chlorobutanol, phenol, phenylethyl alcohol, phenylmercuric
nitrate and thimerosal and others known to those of ordinary skill in the art.
[000911          Examples of absorbents include sodium starch glycolate (ExplotabTM,
PrimojelTM) and croscarmellose sodium (Ac-Di-SolTM), cross-linked PVP
(PolyplasdoneTM XL 10), veegum, clays, alginates, PVP, alginic acid,
carboxymethylcellulose calcium, microcrystalline cellulose (e.g., AvicelTM), polacrillin
potassium (e.g., AmberliteTM), sodium alginate, corn starch, potato starch, pregelatinized
 starch, modified starch, cellulosic agents, montmorrilonite clays (e.g., bentonite), gums,
 agar, locust bean gum, gum karaya, pectin, tragacanth, and other disintegrants known in
 to those of ordinary skill in the art.
 [000921          A cross-linking agent is defined as any compound that will form cross
 links between the moieties of the polymer. A cross-linking agent can include, by way of
 example and without limitation, an organic acid, an alpha-hydroxy acid, a beta-hydroxy
  acid. Suitable cross-linking agents include tartaric acid, citric acid, fumaric acid, succinic
  acid and others known to those of ordinary skill in the art.
 [000931          Bioadhesive polymers include polyethylene oxide, KLUCEL
  (hydroxypropylcellulose), CARBOPOL, polycarbophil, GANTREZ, Poloxamer, and
  combinations thereof, and others known to one of ordinary skill in the art.
  [000941         Retardants are agents that are insoluble or slightly soluble polymers with a
  glass transition temperature (Tg) above 45'C, or above 50'C before being plasticized by
  other agents in the formulation including other polymers and other excipients needed for
  processing. The excipients include waxes, acrylics, cellulosics, lipids, proteins, glycols,
   and the like.
  [000951         Exemplary pore formers include water soluble polymers such as
   polyethylene glycol, propylene glycol, polaxamer and povidone; binders such as lactose,
   calcium sulfate, calcium phosphate and the like; salts such as sodium chloride,
   magnesium chloride and the like; combinations thereof and other similar or equivalent
   materials which are widely known in the art.
   1000961         As used herein, the term "sweetening agent" is intended to mean a
   compound used to impart sweetness to a preparation. Such compounds include, by way'

   WO 2012/129551                                                            PCT/US2012/030472
of example and without limitation, aspartame, dextrose, glycerin, mannitol, saccharin
sodium, sorbitol, sucrose, fructose and other such materials known to those of ordinary
skill in the art.
[000971            It should be understood that compounds used in the art of pharmaceutical
formulation generally serve a variety of functions or purposes. Thus, if a compound
named herein is mentioned only once or is used to define more than one term herein, its
 purpose or function should not be construed as being limited solely to that named
 purpose(s) or function(s).
 [000981           It is an aspect of the compositions and methods of the present disclosure
 that the disclosed pharmaceutical formulations provide novel release profiles in vivo and
 when orally administered to a human. The formulations provide a lag time of from 4-12
 hours in certain embodiments followed by release of 85% of the drug over the following
  9 hours in an ascending dose.
 [000991            The dissolution profile is performed in conditions designed to mimic the
  gastric environment, or the environment that is encountered by an oral composition that is
  swallowed by a human. Although residence time in the stomach varies, a typical test
  places the composition in the low pH solution of 0.lN HCl for two hours to mimic the
  residence time in stomach acid. The composition is then placed in a higher pH aqueous
  solution, about pH 6 for 2-6 hours followed by typically pH 6.8 to mimic the
  environment of the ilium and colon. As used herein, simulated gastric conditions
  encompasses both the acidic first stage and the subsequent higher pH stages of a normal
  human gastrointestinal tract.
  [0001001          Following the delay period, the serum concentration increases over
   approximately 9 to 10 hours to a reach a maximum serum concentration (Cmax). Based
   on this release profile, a dose taken at 9:00 P.M with a 6 hour delay begins to release the
   drug at about 3 A.M. and the maximum serum concentration is reached about 16 hours
   later. At that point, the drug is cleared from the system at essentially the same rate at
   which it is absorbed.
   [0001011          It is a further aspect of the compositions and methods of the present
   disclosure that the drug can bemin to be slowly released during the lag time. This release
    is determined by the composition of the delayed release layer as described herein. Some
                                                     214

   WO 2012/129551                                                            PCT/US2012/030472
examples of a small release during the lag time are those in which no more than about
10% of the drug is released during the 3 to 12 hour lag. It is also understood that a
greater percentage, 12%, 15%, 18% or even 20%, can be released as the delayed release
layer becomes more permeable.
[0001021          Disclosed herein, therefore, are pharmaceutical preparations for once daily
administration of a central nervous system stimulant for treatment of conditions that
respond to such drugs, such as ADD, ADHD, bipolar depression, narcolepsy, sleeping
disorders, and fatigue. The dosage is formulated to be taken prior to going bed and starts
to release after a lag of several hours so the patient has absorbed a sufficient amount of
 drug to have a therapeutic effect while awakening and preparing to leave for work or
 school. It is a further aspect of the formulations that the drug is released in an ascending
 dose through the day to overcome any acute tolerance effect and maintain a therapeutic
 level of drug.
 [0001031         An embodiment of the compositions and methods of the present disclosure
 is a dosage form that includes a capsule enclosing a single population of beads or
 minitablets that include a core and 2 or more coatings surrounding the core. The inner
 core is a bead or minitablet containing an active pharmaceutical ingredient (API) and one
 or more excipients. The core is enclosed in a sustained release layer, and an outer,
  delayed release layer.
 [000104]          In certain embodiments the sustained release layer includes a combination
  of water soluble polymers and water insoluble polymers. The sustained release coating
  can contain a combination of polyethylene oxide and an ethylcellulose, for example, or a
  hydroxypropylmethyl cellulose and ethylcellulose. An ethylcellulose product that can be
  used in the disclosed dosage forms is EthocelTM, marketed under a trade mark of The
  Dow Chemical Company. The rate of dissolution of the sustained release layer can be
  controlled by adjusting the ratio of water soluble polymer to water insoluble polymer in
  the coating or layer. The weight ratio of water insoluble to water soluble polymers can be
  adjusted, for example, from 90:10 to 10:90, from 80:20 to 20:80, from 75:25 to 25:75,
  from 70:30 to 30:70, from 67.5:33.5 to 33.5:67.5 from 60:40 to 40:60, from 56:44 to
  44:56, or to 50:50.

  WO 2012/129551                                                             PCT/US2012/030472
[0001051         The sustained release coating can also contain plasticizers such as triethyl
citrate (TEC) at levels of from 3% to 50% of the combined weight of the polymers. Other
additives to the coating can include titanium dioxide, talc, colloidal silicone dioxide or
citric acid.
[0001061         Some examples of sustained release layers are shown in the following
table. The various formulations include those in which the ratios of water insoluble to
water soluble polymers are varied and one in which the ratios are reversed. Citric acid
 was added to a formula keep the micro environment pH in the film low to inhibit the
 dissolution of HPMCAS-LF, which dissolves at > pH5.5 thus creating a lag at the
 beginning of the dissolution curve. In certain embodiments, the active ingredient, or API
 can be included in the sustained release layer. In initial testing, a model drug,
 metronidazole was micronized and added to the formulation as a suspension. Any of the
 appropriate disclosed API's can be added to the sustained release layer, however.
 Table 1 Exemplary Sustained Release Layers
 Component            A             B           C             D           E          F
                      (%w/w)        (%w/w)      (% w/w)       (% w/w)     (% w/w)    (%w/w)
 Ethocel              51.0          34.9        34.5          34.4        60.2       36.1
 API                                                          47.2
 PEO                                                                      36.1        60.2
 HPMC E5 P             17.0          13.1
  HPMCAS-LF                                     27.6           11.5
  Talc                3.6           2.8          3.6           2.4
  Titanium            24.0           18.5        24.0
  Dioxide
  Citric acid                                    6.9
  Colloidal silicon    0.4
  dioxide
  TEC                  4.0           26.2        3.4           4.6         3.6        3.6
  Totals               100.0         100.0       100.0          100.0      100.0

    WO 2012/129551                                                          PCT/US2012/030472
[000107]        An exemplary core was synthesized as shown in Table 2. In this example,
an osmotic agent is added to the core.
 Table 2
 Component                               Pellet Core
                                         (% w/w)
 API                                     20.0
 Avicell PH101                           47.0
 Potassium chloride                      30.0
 Klucell EF                               3.0
 Totals                                   100.0
 [000108J        A sustained release layer with the formula shown in the right hand column
 (F) of Table 1 was synthesized on an API containing bead. The formula was designated
 2009-043-10A when the sustained release layer provided a 25% wt gain and 2009-043-10
 when the sustained release layer provided a 35% gain. Additional layers were synthesized
  as shown in columns A and B of Table 1. In column B, the formula of column A was
  modified such that the colloidal silicon dioxide was removed and the plasticizer was
  increased to 50% w/w of the polymer level. All of the other ratios as shown in column A
  were maintained.
  [000109J        The formula of column A was also modified to produce the sustained
  release layer of column C of Table 1. In this formula, the colloidal silicon dioxide was
  removed and citric acid was added. The ratio of Ethocel:HPMCAS was decreased from
  75:25 to 56:44. This formula was expected to provide a lower pH in the
  microenvironment to increase the lag time. A sample layered to produce a 25% wt gain
   and another sample with a 45% wt gain were subjected to dissolution testing.
   [000110]       Another embodiment of a sustained release layer was produced in which
   the drug or API was included in the sustained release layer. This layer is described in
   column D of Table 1. In this formula, the ratio between Ethocel and HPMCAS was
   75:25. A micronized drug was added to the formula as a suspension. A sample with a
    25% wt gain was subjected to dissolution testing.
                                                 -7

    WO 2012/129551                                                          PCT/US2012/030472
[000111]          Core tablets as described in Table 2 were coated with a sustained release
layer formulated as in column A of Table 1. This formulation exhibited an initial slow
drug release (3% in the first 3 hours).
1000112]          Another embodiment of a sustained release coating was designed with
 polyethyleneoxide (PEO) to ethyl cellulose ratio of 37.5:62.5. Talc was also added to one
 sample at 10% to improve the coating process. The presence of talc did not affect drug
 release. The release profiles for these formulations processed with a 25% wt gain and a
 40% wt gain were also determined. The formulations exhibited a 1 hour lag and the drug
 was substantially completely released within 9 hours.
 [000113]          While the disclosed compositions of a capsule containing a single
 population of beads or minitablets with a sustained release layer and an outer, delayed
  release layer are shown here in to be an effective delivery system with novel release
  characteristics and surprisingly low variability in absorbance when administered to
  humans, it is understood that alternative compositions can be used in light of the present
  disclosure.
  [000114]         In certain embodiments a drug containing core bead or minitablet is coated
  with a delayed release layer that includes one or more water insoluble polymers, one or
  more water soluble polymers and a silicone oil to achieve a desired delay or lag time
  prior to release as in the present disclosure. Lag time and release are controlled by the
   proportion of the two types of polymers and the thickness of the layer. In such
   embodients, the delayed release layer can include, but is not limited to cellulose acetate
   phthalate, cellulose acetate trimaletate, hydroxyl propyl methylcellulose phthalate,
   polyvinyl acetate phthalate, acrylic polymers, polyvinyl acetaldiethylamino acetate,
   hydroxypropyl methylcellulose acetate succinate, cellulose acetate trimellitate, shellac,
   methacrylic acid copolymers, Eudragit L30D, Eudragit L100, Eudragit FS30D, Eudragit
   S100 or combinations of any thereof. The delayed release layer can also include a
   plasticizer, or in certain embodiments the delayed release layer can include methacrylic
   acid copolymer Type B, mono- and diglycerides, dibutyl sebacate and polysorbate 80.
   The delayed release layer can also include a cellulose ether derivative, an acrylic resin, a
   copoly mer of acrylic acid and methacrylic acid esters with quaternary ammonium groups,
    a copolymer of acrylic acid and methacrylic acid esters or a combination of any thereof.
                                                  28

   WO 2012/129551                                                         PCT/US2012/030472
The layer can further include a powder component such as talc as a carrier for the silicone
oil.
[0001151         In certain embodiments of the invention, a central nervous system
stimulant can be contained in a delayed and/or controlled release capsule. In such
embodiments a water insoluble capsule contains one or more compartments in which the
drug or active agent is held. Additionally one or more absorbents, superabsorbents or
osmagents are included in the drug containing compartments. The capsules also include
 one more apertures plugged with a water soluble polymer, at least one in fluid
 communication with each compartment and a delayed release layer enclosing the entire
 capsule.
 [0001161         In such embodiments the length of initial delay can be controlled by the
 composition and thickness of the outer, delayed release layer. This layer can be a pH
 dependent layer or a pH independent layer as disclosed herein. When the capsule is
 administered to a human, the delayed release layer begins to lose integrity as the capsule
 passes through the GI tract. When the water soluble plugs are exposed and dissolve,
 aqueous fluid enters the drug containing compartment(s) and is absorbed by the absorbent
 or osmagent, thus driving the active agent from the capsule through the aperture. The
 release profile can be controlled by the concentration and absorbance characteristics of
 the absorbent or osmagent to obtain the desired profile.
  Sustained Release Coatings on Dextroamphetamine Sulfate Pellets
  [000117J         Formulations of the disclosure are made in which hydrophobic excipients
  are introduced to give an added delay in the drug release. The plasticizer level is kept at
  7.26 %of the Ethocel " level. The formulations are described in Table 3.
  Table 3: Sustained Release Formulations
                                     t~ON    ~      r-   ON           kn   0
                                                                           cc
   Component                                    %W/[W
   Ethocel" Std. 10      35.8  35.8   38.5  43.0 45.4 55.9     53.2  50.7  45.4
   KLueel"(EF)           8.9   8.9    6.1   L.      IL         2.9   5.6   113

    WO 2012/129551                                                          PCT/US2012/030472
_Triethylg   tae        26      .6   2.8    3.13 3.3
JImerialiralc 500       5.
Dibutyl Sebacate                                         4.1   3.9    3.7   3.
Magnesium Stearate            52652.6       52.6  40.0 |40.0 |40.0    40.0  4.
[000118]          These formulations were coated to a 30 % weight gain level and samples
 were submitted for testing at 10 mg free base capsule dose. The dissolution testing took
 place in pH 7.0 buffer with a paddle speed of 75 rpm.
 [0001191         Lot 2009-066-51 has a water insoluble to water-soluble ratio of 80:20.
 This results in a significantly faster release profile. The API releases 25 % in the first
 hour. In further formulations talc was removed and replaced with magnesium stearate.
 [000120]         In Lot 2009-066-53, which contained magnesium stearate, the initial
 release was significantly slower. Further changes included increasing the Ethocel       level
  in Lot -59 and -64 while decreasing the Klucel* level. The ratio of Ethocel" to Klucel*
  in Lot -59 and -64 respectfully is 86:14 and 97:3. This change was expected to slow the
  release from Lot 53, but the dissolution release time actually increased. Lot -67 included
  a decrease of the magnesium stearate and decrease in the Ethocel"M to Klucel* ratio (back
  to 80:20). This resulted in a release faster than the model profile.
  [000121]        Replacement of the hydrophilic plasticizer TEC with dibutyl sebacate
  (DBS), a hydrophobic plasticizer resulted in a significantly longer delay prior to initial
  release. Lot 2009-066-69 was the first lot utilizing DBS as a plasticizer. With the
  addition of DBS and the removal of Klucel*, the initial drug release was less than 2 %
  over 8 hours.
  [000122]         Klucel* was added back into the formulation in Lot 2009-066-72. The
   ratio of Ethocel  to Klucel* was 95:5. The dissolution profile was similar to Lot 2009
   066-69. In Lot 2009-066-75, the ratio of Ethoce " to Klucel* decreased from 95:5 to
   90:10. This change did not result in a different release profile compared to the two
   previous formulations.
   [000123]        For Lot 2009-066-78, the ratio of Ethoce'T    to Klucel* was decreased to
   80:20, for a higher level of water-soluble polymer. Fornulation 2009-066-78 exhibited
   a 20 % drug release over 4 hours followed by an increasing release until over 80%
    release.
    DOE Sustained Release Coatings

    WO 2012/129551                                                        PCT/US2012/030472
[000124]         A design of experiment (DOE) was set up with three ratios of EthocelTM to
Klucel* ratios: 70:30, 75:25, and 80:20. The coatings were applied in the GPCG2 with a
 1.0 mm spray nozzle. For a DOE coating run 650.0 g of pellets were used. The pellets
 consisted of 80 % w/w placebo pellets and 20 % Dextroamphetamine sulfate pellets. The
 pellets were diluted to conserve the D-amphetamine sulfate pellets. The DOE
 formulations are shown in Table 4. Each coating formulation contained 12 % solids w/w.
 The solvents consisted of ethanol to DI water at a ratio of 95:5.
 Table 4 DOE Formulations
                  .0tr      a                   III   V)
                   C"      Cl1          Cl     C      C       l      d,l            Cl     Cl
    DOE Run         1      2     3      4      5       6     7        8      9      10     11
  Component                                         % W/W
     Ethocel"      41.   36.6   49.1   39.2  34.8 43.3 41.5         46.4   41.8   57.5    44.0
      Std.10       18      4      5     9      4       0     9        3      6       8      8
  Klucel (EF)      17.    15.7  12.2   9.82   14.9   18.5   10.4    11.6   13.9    14.3   11.0
                   65      0      9            3       6      0       1      5       9      2
      Dibutyl      6.1   2.66   3.56   5.89  5.23    3.14   3.02    6.96   4.19   3.03    4.91
     Sebacate       8
   Magnesium       35.   45.0   35.0   45.0  45.0    35.0   45.0    35.0   40.0   25.0    40.0
      Stearate     00       0     0      0      0      0      0       0      0       0      0
  [0001251         Each of the DOE formulations was coated to 30 % weight gain, then
  samples were loaded into capsules at 13.6 mg dose (equivalent to 10.0 mg free base
  dose), and submitted for dissolution testing in pH 7.2 phosphate buffer with a paddle
  speed of 75 rpm (this was the paddle speed for all of the dissolution testing).
  [000126]          A standard mixing procedure was developed for the sustained released
   coating preparations as follows. Charge the ethanol into an appropriate sized beaker.
   Place the beaker under a lab mixer with a Cowles blade attached. Create a vortex by
                                                      T ", Klucel', and DBS into the ethanol.
   increasing the mixing speed and charge the Ethocel
   The speed of the mixer is turned down so there is no vortex and the excipients mixed
   until dissolved. Once the excipients dissolve, a vortex can be created for the addition of
   the magnesium stearate. The magnesium stearate is mixed for a minimum of 30 minutes
                                                 31

   WO 2012/129551                                                             PCT/US2012/030472
or until no agglomerates are present. Adding the DI water to the mixing dispersion is the
last step of the process. The first eight DOE dissolution profiles are shown in Fig. 4.
[000127]          As shown in Fig. 5, DOE 9 had an Ethoce TM to Klucel* ratio of 75:25 and
produced a faster dissolution release. In DOE 10 the EthocelTMto Klucel* ratio was
 80:20 and the magnesium stearate level was decreased from 40 % w/w/ to 25 % w/w. By
 making these changes, the dissolution profile shifts to the right far beyond the model
 profile. The DOE 11 formulation is similar to Lot 2009-066-78 (see Table 3 and Table 4
 for formulations). DOE 11, 3, and 4 have release profiles that are close to the model
 profile. All three have an Ethoce T to Klucel* ratio of 80:20, but differ in percent w/w
 of the hydrophobic excipients. The DOE 3 coating was the closest profile to the model.
  Stability of DOE 3 and DOE 4
 [0001281         For a stability study, 13.6 mg (equivalent to 10.0 mg free base dose) dose
  capsules were loaded into HDPE bottles and loaded into the following stability chambers
  for the study: 40'C/75 % RH, 25'C/60 % RH, and 30'C/65 % RH. Pellets were also
  loaded into HDPE bottles with no capsules at 40'C/75 % RH for an open container study.
  After 2 and 4 weeks for the open container study at 40'C/ 75 % RH dissolution testing of
  the pellets took place in pH 7.2 phosphate buffer. The dissolution results are shown in
  Fig. 6 and Fig. 7.
  [000129]         All of the dissolution profiles from the different stability time points had
  similar drug release profiles, demonstrating that the sustained release coatings are stable.
  The next step in the development was to add a pH dependent coating on top of the
   sustained release coating.
   pH Dependent Coatings
   10001301        For the pH dependent coatings studies, the DOE 3 pellets were used.
   Samples of 13.6 mg dose (10.0 mg free base dose) were loaded into capsules. The
   dissolution testing took place for 2 hours (T=0-2 hour) in 0.1N HCl, then in pH 6.0
   phosphate buffer for 4 hours (T=2-6 hour). and finally in pH 7.0 phosphate buffer for the
   remaining time. The formulations are shown in Table 5.

   WO 2012/129551                                                                   PCT/US2012/030472
Table 5: pH dependent Formulations
     Lot Number          2009-104-76     2009-104-78      2009-104-921     2009-138-22   2009-138
     Component                                              % W/W
   Eudragit* S 100           60.6                              60.0            76.9          80.6
    Triethyl Citrate          913.29.
   Dipfil Sebace                                                                7.7           8.1
Maesium Stearat                                                                15.4
   ImperialTale 500           30.3            32.3             30.3       MMMME                I
    Iwitoe
 Eat44         900 K
                / t . %wwan wit
                            FS 30 D h                  cotn6s4qeu.nl.Tedislto                 8.1
  Same formulation as Lot 2009-104-76, but coated at a product temperature 4C higher.
[000131                    The S 100 coatings are made with alcohol/DI water as the solvent
at 94.4 % w/w to 5.6 % w/w and the FS 30 D coating is aqueous only. The dissolution
profiles are shown in Fig. 8.
[0001324           Lot 2009-104-78 exhibited a delay of 6 hours followed by a fast release.
 The S 100 formulation with GMS (Imwitor 900 K) at 10% w/w was then coated on the
 DOE 3 pellets. Lot 2009-138-25B exhibits a delay at the start of the drug release
 followed by a release curve that is similar to the model profile.
 pH Dependent/SR Coated DOE 3 Pellets
 [000133]           The study with a pH dependent coating on the DOE 3 SR coating was
 repeated with a 100 % active core pellet batch (no placebo pellets). The coating
 parameters are shown in Table 6.
 Table 6: Lot 2009-138-32 Coating Parameters
           Parameters                     Ranges
      Product Temperature              32.0-33.0 0 C
        Inlet Temperature              48.4-54.1 C
      Exhaust Temperature               29.3-30 0 C
            Process Air                 40-53 m3/h
         Atomization Air                  2.0 Bar
            Spray Time                  126.75 min
            Spray Rate                   12.8 g/min
  [0001341           The dissolution profiles of the active and placebo diluted pellets of the
  DOE 3 coatings are shown in Fig. 9.
  10001351           The pH dependent coating (Lot 2009-138-45) containing GMS was then
  coated on the sustained release DOE 3 coating. The pellets were coated to a 30 % weight

  WO 2012/129551                                                           PCT/US2012/030472
gain with a sample pulled at 25 % weight gain. The pellets were dosed into 13.6 mg
capsules (10.0 mg freebase) and tested in the 3-stage dissolution study. The coating
parameters are in Table 7 and the dissolution profiles are shown in Fig. 10.
Table 7: Lot 2009-138-45 Coating Parameters
       Parameters                   Ranges
  Product Temperature             32.0-33.0 0 C
    Inlet Temperature             48.4-54.10 C
  Exhaust Temperature              29.3-30 0 C
       Process Air                 40-53 m3 /h
     Atomization Air                 2.0 Bar
       Spray Time                  126.75 min
        Spray Rate                 12.8 g/min
[0001361         At the 10-hour time point, DOE 3 had released 20 % of the drug, closely
matching the target profile. A portion of the pellets from DOE 3 (Lot 2009-138-45) were
 encapsulated to 13.6 mg dose (equivalent to 10 mg free base dose) in gelatin capsules and
 placed on stability. Bottles were filled with 16 capsules and placed in the following
 conditions: 4 bottles at 40'C/75 % relative humidity, 4 bottles at 30'C/65 % relative
 humidity, 1 bottle at 25'C/60 % relative humidity. Two bottles just containing pellets
 equivalent to 16 capsules placed in 40'C/ 75 % relative humidity for an open dish
 accelerated study. After being in stability for two weeks samples were pulled from open
 container, 30'C/ 65 % relative humidity, and 40'C/ 75 % relative humidity. The
 dissolution profiles for these samples are shown in Fig. 11.
 [00013 7J        The two-week open container pellets started to release the drug at the 4
 hour time point. The initial pellets and the other closed container samples did not start
 drug release until after the 6-hour time point. The two closed container samples released
 the drug slower than the initial release. It was presumed that pellets were absorbing
 moisture causing the GMS (Imwitor*) to become unstable and releasing the drug faster in
 the open container study. To try to stabilize the GMS, samples from Lot 2009-138-45
 were placed in an oven and cured for 12 hours, 24 hours, and 48 hours at 50'C. The
  dissolution results are located in Fig. 12.
 [0001381         At 50'C, the curing time did not affect the drug release. Another curing
  study was set up with the oven set at 55'C. Samples from Lot 2009-138-45 (DOE 3) were
  cured for 24. 48, and 108 hours (4.5 days). The dissolution profiles are shown in Fig. 13.

    WO 2012/129551                                                            PCT/US2012/030472
[000139]          The release of drug after curing the pellets at 55'C was not directly
dependent on time. For the samples cured at 55'C, the pellets were dosed (13.6 mg /10.0
mg free base dose) into gelatin and HPMC capsules. The HPMC capsules contain a one
gram desiccant in each bottle to absorb any excess moisture. The samples were cured at
 50'C dosed only in the HPMC capsules with the one-gram desiccant in each bottle.
 Sixteen capsules were loaded into each bottle. The stability conditions are shown in
 Table 8.
 Table 8 Stability Conditions for Cured Pellets
 Capsule Type          ________Number                of Bottles per Condition
 HPMC at 550 C                      4              4                  12
 Gelatin at 550 C                   4              4                  12
 HPMCat5      0                0C 4                4                  1                 2
 [000140J         After 2 and 4 weeks, the samples cured at 55 0 C were pulled and
 dissolution testing performed on them. The dissolution results for the stability samples
 are shown in Fig. 14.
 [0001411          For pellets cured at 55'C loaded into the HPMC capsules the dissolution
 profile for the initial, 2-week, and 4-week samples gave similar results. This
  demonstrates product stability under those conditions. The gelatin-loaded capsules
  produced a dissolution profile a little slower than the initial release at 2 and 4 week
  samples.
  [0001421         Lot 2009-138-45 (DOE 3, SR and pH Coated) containing HPMC capsules
  with desiccant was left on stability 40'C/75 % RH (closed container) for 8 months.
  Samples were pulled at 2, 3, and 8 months for dissolution testing. The dissolution
  profiles for the HPMC capsules containing the D-amphetamine sulfate pellets are shown
  in Fig. 15.
  /0001431         After 8 months in accelerated stability, the D-amphetamine sulfate has a
   similar profile to the initial release profile (T=0). The only difference is a slower release
   between hours 7-10.

  WO 2012/129551                                                           PCT/US2012/030472
Example 1
[0001441         An example of a core pellet as described herein contains the following
components as produced in a 5 kg batch.
[0001451         Batch size 5,000 grams
[0001461         Granulation Medium Solids 6%
Component                 mg/lmg pellet          % w/w                   g/batch
Dextroamphetamine         22.0                   22.0                    1100.0
 Sulfate, USP
Avicel PH-101             65.0                   65.0                    3250.0
 Starch 1500              10.0                   10.0                    500.0
 Methocel E5 P LV 1       3.0                    3.0                     150.0
 Total                    10.0                   100.0                   5000.0
 DI Water                 removed during processing                      2356.0
[0001471         In processing the extra water is added into the granulation medium. Water
 is 47.12% of the dry blend batch size. The granulation medium is 2506.0 grams and the
 spray rate is 418 ± 20 g/min.
 Example 2
 [0001481        An example of a sustained release coating to be applied to the core pellet
 is prepared with the following components.
 [0001491         Core batch size - 1100.0 g
 [0001501         Coating wt. gain - 30%
 [000151]         Solids - 12.0 %
  Component                  mg/ 1g pellet        solvent ratio    %w/w           g/batch
  Ethocel S 10                14.75                                49.15          162.2
  Klucel EF                   3.69                                 12.29          40.6
  Dibutyl Sebacate            1.07                                 3.56           11.7
  Mag Stearate 2257           10.50                                35.00          115.5
                                                                   100.00         330.0
                                               36

  WO 2012/129551                                                    PCT/US2012/030472
Component                 mg/lg pellet      solvent ratio    %w/w         g/batch
Ethanol                                     95                            2299.0
DI Water                                    5                             121.0
Theoretical amount of coated pellets (g)    1430
Example 3
[0001521       An S100 pH dependent coating formulated for a 30% weight gain is
formulated with the following components.
[0001531        Coating wt gain - 30%
10001541        Solids - 10.0%
[0001551        Batch size - 715 g
[0001561        Core pellet amount - 550 g
Component                 mg/lg pellet      solvent ratio    %w/w          g/batch
Eudragit S100             24.18                               80.6         133.0
Imwitor 900K              2.43                                8.1          13.4
Dibutyl Sebacate          2.43                                8.1          13.4
 Tween 80                  0.96                               3.2          5.3
 Ethanol                                     94.4                          1402.5
 DI Water                                    5.6                           82.5
                                                              100.0        1650.0
 Theoretical amount of coated pellets (g)    880.0
 Example 4
 [0001571       An S100 pH dependent coating formulated for a 50% weight gain contains
 the following components.
 10001581       Coating wt gain - 50.0%
 [0001591       Solids - 10.0%
 [0001601       Batch size - 715 g
 [000161/       Core pellet amount - 550 g
  Component                mg/I g pellet      solvent ratio j %w/w          g/batch
                                           37

  WO 2012/129551                                                      PCT/US2012/030472
Eudragit S100            40.30                                 80.6          221.7
Imwitor 900K             4.05                                  8.1           22.3
Dibutyl Sebacate         4.05                                  8.1           22.3
Tween 80                 1.60                                  3.2            8.8
Ethanol                                      94.4                             2337.5
DI Water                                     5.6                              137.5
                                                               100.0          2750.0
Theoretical amount of coated pellets (g)     990.0
Example 5
[000162]        A formulation was made with a pellet core as in Example 1, a sustained
release coating as in Example 2 and a pH dependent coating with a 30% weight gain as in
Example 3.
Component                                    mg/i g pellet           %w/w
Dextroamphetamine Sulfate USP                22.00                    13.75
 Avicel PH-101                               65.00                   40.63
 Starch 1500                                  10.00                   6.25
 Methocel E5 P LV'                           3.00                     1.88
 Ethocel Std 10                               14.75                   9.22
 Klucel EF                                   3.69                     2.30
 Dibutyl Sebacate                             1.07                    0.67
 Mag Stearate 2257                            10.50                   6.56
 Eudragit S100                                24.18                   15.11
 Imwitor 900K                                 2.43                    1.52
 Dibutyl Sebacate                             2.43                     1.52
 Tween 80                                     0.96                    0.60
                                              160.00                   100.00
 Example 6
                                           38

   WO 2012/129551                                                        PCT/US2012/030472
[000163]        A formulation was made with a pellet core as in Example 1, a sustained
release coating as in Example 2 and a pH dependent coating with a 50% weight gain as in
Example 3.
Component                                        mg/lg pellet           %w/w
Dextroamphetamine Sulfate USP                    22.00                  12.22
Avicel PH-101                                    65.00                  36.11
 Starch 1500                                     10.00                  5.56
 Methocel E5 P LV1                               3.00                   1.67
 Ethocel Std 10                                  14.75                  8.19
 Klucel EF                                       3.69                   2.05
 Dibutyl Sebacate                                1.07                   0.59
 Mag Stearate 2257                               10.50                  5.83
 Eudragit S100                                   40.30                  22.39
 Imwitor 900K                                    4.05                   2.25
 Dibutyl Sebacate                                4.05                   2.25
 Tween 80                                         1.60                   0.89
                                                  180.00                 100.00
 Example 7
 [0001641        An example of a sustained release coating with an alternate ratio of water
  soluble (Klucel) to water insoluble polymer (Ethocel) is prepared with the following
  components to obtain a faster release profile.
  [0001651       Core batch size - 1100.0 g
  [0001661       Coating wt. gain - 30%
  [0001671       Solids - 12.0 %
  Component                 mg/1g pellet          solvent ratio   %w/w           g/batch
  Ethocel Std 10             12.48                                41.59          137.2
  Klueel EF                 3.12                                  10.40          34.3
   Dibutvl Sebacate         0.90                                  3.01           9.9
   Mag Stearate 2257         13.50                                45.00           148.5

  WO 2012/129551                                                      PCT/US2012/030472
Component                 mg/i g pellet       solvent ratio    %w/w          g/batch
                                                                             330.0
Ethanol                                       95                             2299.0
DI Water                                      5                               121.0
                                                               100.00        2750.0
Theoretical amount of coated pellets (g)      1430
Example 8
[0001681        A formulation was made with a pellet core as in Example 1, a sustained
release coating as in Example 7 and a pH dependent coating with a 30% weight gain as in
Example 3.
Component                                      mg/i g pellet          %w/w
Dextroamphetamine Sulfate USP                  22.00                  13.75
 Avicel PH-101                                 65.00                  40.63
 Starch 1500                                   10.00                  6.25
 Methocel E5 P LV'                             3.00                   1.88
 Ethocel Std 10                                12.48                  7.80
 Klucel EF                                     3.12                    1.95
 Dibutyl Sebacate                              0.90                   0.56
 Mag Stearate 2257                              13.50                 8.44
 Eudragit S100                                 24.18                   15.11
 Imwitor 900K                                  2.43                    1.52
 Dibutyl Sebacate                              2.43                    1.52
 Tween 80                                       0.96                   0.60
                                                160.00                 100.00
 Example 9
 [0001691        A formulation was made with a pellet core as in Example 1, a sustained
  release coating as in Example 7 and a pH dependent coating with a 50% weight gain as in
  Example 4.
                                             40

   WO 2012/129551                                                         PCT/US2012/030472
Component                                    mg/i g pellet             %w/w
Dextroamphetamine Sulfate USP                22.00                      12.22
Avicel PH-101                                65.00                     36.11
Starch 1500                                   10.00                     5.56
Methocel E5 P LV'                            3.00                       1.67
Ethocel Std 10                                12.48                     6.93
Klucel EF                                    3.12                       1.73
Dibutyl Sebacate                              0.90                      0.50
Mag Stearate 2257                             13.50                     7.50
Eudragit S100                                 40.30                     22.39
Imwitor 900K                                  4.05                      2.25
Dibutyl Sebacate                              4.05                      2.25
Tween 80                                      1.60                      0.89
                                              180.00                     100.00
Example 10
[000170J        Another example of a sustained release coating according to the disclosure
 is prepared with the following components.
[000171J        Core batch size - 1100.0 g
[0001721        Coating wt. gain - 30%
[000173J        Solids - 12.0 %
 Component                 mg/lg pellet        solvent ratio   %w/w             g/batch
 Ethocel Std 10             13.22                              44.08            145.5
 Klucel EF                  3.1                                 11.02           36.4
 Dibutyl Sebacate           1.47                                4.90            16.2
 Mag Stearate 2257          12.00                               40.00           132.0
 Ethanol                                       95                               2299.0
 DI Water                                      5                                121.0
                                                                1100.00         2750.0
                                            41

  WO 2012/129551                                                        PCT/US2012/030472
Component                mg/1g pellet          solvent ratio     %w/w          g/batch
Theoretical amount of coated pellets (g)       1430
Example 11
[000174]        A formulation was made with a pellet core as in Example 1, a sustained
release coating as in Example 10 and a pH dependent coating with a 30% weight gain as
in Example 3.
Component                                       mg/lg pellet            %w/w
Dextroamphetamine Sulfate USP                   22.00                   13.75
Avicel PH- 101                                  65.00                   40.63
 Starch 1500                                    10.00                   6.25
 Methocel E5 P LV'                              3.00                    1.88
 Ethocel Std 10                                 13.22                   8.27
 Klucel EF                                      3.31                    2.07
 Dibutyl Sebacate                               1.47                    0.92
 Mag Stearate 2257                              12.00                   7.50
 Eudragit S100                                  24.18                    15.11
 Imwitor 900K                                   2.43                     1.52
 Dibutyl Sebacate                               2.43                     1.52
 Tween 80                                       0.96                     0.60
                                                 160.00                  100.00
 Example 12
 [000175]        An example of a core pellet free of starch or osmagent as described herein
 contains the following components as produced in a 2 kg batch. These core pellets are
 used in Examples 17-21.
  Component             mg/l g pellet            % w/w                 g/batch
  Dextroamphetamine     220                      22.0                  440
  Sulfate, USP
  Microcrystalline      780                      78.0                   1560

  WO 2012/129551                                                             PCT/US2012/030472
Cellulose, NF
Total                    1000                      100.0                   2000
DI Water                removed during processing                          1440
Example 13
[000176]         An example of a slow sustained release coating as described herein for use
in Slow Release Formulation (1 and 2) 25%SR + 20% or 30% pH Coating.
  SR Coat Slow Release (1 and 2)
                           Coating Wt gain:                  25.0
                           Solids %:                         12.0
                                                           solvent
        Component                      mg/g                  ratio     %w/w        g/batch
  Ethyl Cellulose, NF                  81.5                             8.15          123
  Hydroxypropyl
  Cellulose, NF                        20.4                             2.04          31
  Dibutyl Sebacate, NF                  5.9                             0.59           9
  Magnesium Stearate,
  NF                                   58.0                             5.80          88
  Ethanol (denatured)                                         95                     1742
  DI Water                                                     5                      92
         Theoretical amount of coated pellets (g)            1250
 Example 14
 [000177]        An example of a slow enteric coatings as described herein for use in Slow
 Release Formulation (1 and 2) 25%SR + 20% or 30% pH Coating.
  S100 pH Dependent Coat Slow Release (1)
                                      Coating Wt gain:                             20%
                                      Solids %:                                     10%
                                      Batch size (g)                               1500
                                      Core pellet amount (g)                       1250
   Component                                             mg/g      solvent      %w/w      g/batch
                                                                   ratio
   Methacrylic Acid Copolymer Type-B                     133.7                  13.37     202
   Mono-and Di-glycerides, NF                            13.4                   1.34      20
   Dibutyl Sebacate. NF                                  13.4                   1.34      20
   Polysorbate 80. NF                                    5.3                    0.53      8
   Ethanol (denatured)                                             94.4                   2138
   DI Water                                                        5.6                     113

 WO 2012/129551                                                              PCT/US2012/030472
 Theoretical amount of coated pellets (g)                 1500
 S100 pH Dependent Coat Slow Release (2)
                                      Coating Wt gain:                             30%
                                      Solids %:                                    10%
                                      Batch size (g)                               1625
                                      Core pellet amount (g)                       1250
                                                               solvent
         Component                       mg/g                   ratio      %w/w        g/batch
 Methacrylic Acid
 Copolymer Type-B                        185.1                             18.51         302
 Mono-and Di
 Glycerides, NF                           18.6                              1.86          30
 Dibutyl Sebacate, NF                     18.6                              1.86          30
 Polysorbate 80, NF                       7.4                               0.74          12
 Ethanol (denatured)                                             94.4                   3206
 DI Water                                                         5.6                    169
          Theoretical amount of coated pellets (g)               1625
Example 15
[000178]          An example of a medium sustained release coating as described herein for
use in Medium Release Formulation (1 and 2) 20%SR + 20% or 30% pH Coating.
  SR Coat Medium Release (1 and 2)
                                    Coating Wt gain:                       20%
                                     Solids %:                             12%
                                                      solvent
       Component                   mg/g                ratio        %w/w   g/batch
  Ethyl Cellulose, NF               134.0                            13.40     98
  Hydroxypropyl
  Cellulose, NF                     33.5                             3.35      25
  Dibutyl Sebacate, NF               9.7                              0.97      7
  Magnesium Stearate,
  NF                                95.5                              9.55     70
  Ethanol (denatured)                                    95                   1393
  DI Water                                                5                    73
            Amount of coated pellets (g)                1200
   SI 00 pH Dependent Coat Medium Release (1)
                           Coating Wt gain:             20.0
                           Solids%:                      10.0
                                                   44

 WO 2012/129551                                                           PCT/US2012/030472
                       Batch size (g)              1440
                       Core pellet amount (g)      1000
                                                 solvent
     Component                   mg/g              ratio    %w/w       g/batch
Methacrylic Acid
Copolymer Type-B                 120.3                       12.03        193
Mono-and Di
Glycerides, NF                    13.6                        1.36         19
Dibutyl Sebacate, NF              13.6                        1.36         19
 Polysorbate 80, NF               5.4                         0.54         8
 Ethanol (denatured)                               94.4                  2077
 DI Water                                           5.6                   123
          Amount of coated pellets (g)              1440
 S100 pH Dependent Coat Medium Release (2)
                        Coating Wt gain:            30%
                        Solids %:                   10%
                        Batch size (g)              1560
                        Core pellet amount (g)      1200
                                                  solvent
      Component                  mg/g               ratio    %w/w       g/batch
 Methacrylic Acid
 Copolymer Type-B                185.1                        18.51       290
 Mono-and Di
 Glycerides, NF                   18.6                         1.86        29
 Dibutyl Sebacate, NF              18.6                        1.86        29
 Polysorbate 80, NF                7.3                        0.73          12
 Ethanol (denatured)                                94.4                  3210
 DI Water                                            5.6                   190
          Amount of coated pellets (g)              1560
Example 16
[000179J         An example of fast release coatings for Fast Release Formulation 20% SR +
20% pH Coating.
  SR Coat Fast Release
                                               45

 WO 2012/129551                                                              PCT/US2012/030472
                        Coating Wt gain:           20.0
                        Solids %:                   12
                                                 solvent
     Component                  mg/g              ratio       %w/w    g/batch
Ethyl Cellulose, NF             57.5                           5.75       83
Hydroxypropyl
 Cellulose, NF                  14.4                            1.44      21
 Dibutyl Sebacate,
NF                               4.2                           0.42        6
 Magnesium
 Stearate, NF                   6.22                           6.22       90
 Ethanol (denatured)                                95                   1393
 DI Water                                            5                    73
         Amount of coated pellets (g)              1200
 S100 pH Dependent Coat Fast Release
                           Coating Wt gain:              20%
                           Solids %:                      10%
                           Batch size (g)                 1440
                           Core pellet amount (g)         1200
                                                        solvent
       Component                     mg/g                ratio       %w/w      g/batch
 Methacrylic Acid
 Copolymer Type-B                    133.7                           13.37        193
 Mono-and Di
 Glycerides, NF                       13.4                            1.34         19
  Dibutyl Sebacate, NF                13.4                            1.34         19
  Polysorbate 80, NF                  5.3                             0.53         8
  Ethanol (denatured)                                     94.4                   2077
  DI Water                                                 5.6                    123
            Amount of coated pellets (g)                  1440
Example 17
[0001801         An example of a composition of Dextroamphetamine Sulfate, 30 mg
capsules (Slow Release Formulation 1, ) with a core as described in Example 12, 25%
 sustained release coating weight gain, +20% delayed release (enteric) coating weight
 gain.
     Component and Quality Standard (and                  Function             Strength (label claim)
               Grade, if applicable)                                                   30 mg
                                                 46

 WO 2012/129551                                                        PCT/US2012/030472
                                                                     Quantity per          %
                                                                      unit (mg)
Dextroamphetamine Sulfate, USP                   Active ingredient       30.00           14.59
Microcrystalline Cellulose, NF (Avicel PH-                Binder        106.36           51.74
 101)
Ethyl Cellulose, NF (Ethocel Standard 10             Film Former         16.76            8.15
Premium)
Hydroxypropyl Cellulose, NF (Klucel EF               Film Former          4.19            2.04
Pharm)
Dibutyl Sebacate, NF                               Film Plasticizer       1.21            0.59
 Magnesium Stearate, NF                          Hydrophobic Film        11.93            5.80
                                                      Component
 Methacrylic Acid Copolymer Type-B (Eudragit         Film Former         27.48            13.37
 S 100)
 Mono-and Di-Glycerides, NF (Imwitor 900K)         Film Plasticizer       2.76             1.34
 Dibutyl Sebacate, NF                              Film Plasticizer       2.76             1.34
 Polysorbate 80, NF                                    Solubilizer         1.09            0.53
 Talc USP, EP                                                              1.02            0.50
 Total                                                                   205.56           100.0
Example 18
[000181J         An example of a composition of Dextroamphetamine Sulfate, 30 mg
capsules (Slow Release Formulation 2, ) with a core as in Example 12, 25% sustained
release coating weight gain, +30% delayed release (enteric) coating weight gain.
     Component and Quality Standard (and                 Function        Strength (label claim)
               Grade, if applicable)
                                                                                  30 mg
                                                                      Quantity per           %
                                                                        unit (mg)
  Dextroamphetamine Sulfate, USP                   Active ingredient      30.00            13.47
  Microcrystalline Cellulose, NF (Avicel PH-               Binder         106.36          47.76
  101)
  Ethyl Cellulose, NF (Ethocel Standard 10             Film Former         16.76            7.53
  Premium)
  Hydroxypropyl Cellulose, NF (Klucel EF               Film Former         4.19             1.88
  Pharm)                                       ___________
  DibutVl Sebacate, NF                              Film Plasticizer        1.21            0.54
  Magnesium Stearate, NF                           Hydrophob Film            1.93           5.36
                                                        Co47ponet
                                             47

 WO 2012/129551                                                       PCT/US2012/030472
   Component and Quality Standard (and              Function           Strength (label claim)
             Grade, if applicable)                                              30 mg
                                                                    Quantity per          %
                                                                      unit (mg)
 Methacrylic Acid Copolymer Type-B (Eudragit      Film Former           41.22            18.51
 S100)
 Mono-and Di-Glycerides, NF (Imwitor 900K)      Film Plasticizer         4.14             1.86
 Dibutyl Sebacate, NF                           Film Plasticizer         4.14             1.86
 Polysorbate 80, NF                                Solubilizer           1.64            0.74
 Talc USP, EP                                                            1.11            0.50
 Total                                                                  222.7            100.0
Example 19
[000182]         An example of a composition of Dextroamphetamine Sulfate, 30 mg
capsules (Medium Release Formulation 1) with a core as in Example 12, 20% sustained
release coating weight gain, +20% delayed release (enteric) coating weight gain.
    Component and Quality Standard (and             Function            Strength (label claim)
              Grade, if applicable)
                                                                                30 mg
                                                                     Quantity per           %
                                                                      unit (mg)
 Dextroamphetamine Sulfate, USP                 Active ingredient        30.00           15.44
 Microcrystalline Cellulose, NF (Avicel PH-           Binder            106.36           54.73
 101)
 Ethyl Cellulose, NF (Ethocel Standard 10          Film Former           13.40            6.90
 Premium)
 Hydroxypropyl Cellulose, NF (Klucel EF            Film Former            3.35             1.72
 Pharm)
 Dibutyl Sebacate, NF                            Film Plasticizer         0.97            0.50
 Magnesium Stearate, NF                         Hydrophobic Film          9.55            4.91
                                                    Component
 Methacrylic Acid Copolymer Type-B (Eudragit       Film Former           26.38            12.03
 S 100)
 Mono-and Di-Glycerides, NF (Imwitor 900K)       Film Plasticizer         2.65             1.36
 Dibutyl Sebacate, NF                            Film Plasticizer         2.65             1.36
 Polysorbate 80, NF                                 Solubilizer            1.05            0.54
 Talc USP, EP                                                             0.98             0.50
 Total                                                                   194.34           100.0
                                             48

  WO 2012/129551                                                      PCT/US2012/030472
Example 20
[0001831         An example of a composition of Dextroamphetamine Sulfate, 30 mg
capsules (Medium Release Formulation 2) with a core as in Example 12, 20% sustained
release coating weight gain, +30% delayed release (enteric) coating weight gain.
     Component and Quality Standard (and             Function           Strength (label claim)
               Grade, if applicable)
                                                                                30 mg
                                                                     Quantity per          %
                                                                      unit (mg)
 Dextroamphetamine Sulfate, USP                  Active ingredient      30.00            14.03
 Microcrystalline Cellulose, NF (Avicel PH-           Binder            106.36           49.75
  101)
  Ethyl Cellulose, NF (Ethocel Standard 10         Film Former           13.40            6.27
  Premium)
  Hydroxypropyl Cellulose, NF (Klucel EF           Film Former            3.35            1.57
  Pharm)
  Dibutyl Sebacate, NF                            Film Plasticizer        0.97            0.45
  Magnesium Stearate, NF                         Hydrophobic n            9.55            4.47
                                                    Component
  Methacrylic Acid Copolymer Type-B (Eudragit      Film Former           39.57            18.51
  S 100)
  Mono-and Di-Glycerides, NF (Imwitor 900K)       Film Plasticizer        3.98             1.86
  Dibutyl Sebacate, NF                            Film Plasticizer        3.98             1.86
  Polysorbate 80, NF                                 Solubilizer          1.57            0.73
  Talc USP, EP                                                            1.06            0.50
  Total                                                                 213.79            100.0
 Example 21
 [0001841         An example of a composition of Dextroamphetamine Sulfate, 30 mg
 capsules (Fast Release Formulation) with a core as in Example 12, 20% sustained release
 coating weight gain, +20% delayed release (enteric) coating weight gain.
     Component and Quality Standard (and              Function           Strength (label claim)
               Grade, if applicable)
                                                                                 30 mg
                                                                     Quantity per            %
                                                                       unit (mg)
   Dextroamphetamine Sulfate. USP                 Active ingredient       30.00            15.20
                                              49

  WO 2012/129551                                                           PCT/US2012/030472
    Component and Quality Standard (and              Function                Strength (label claim)
              Grade, if applicable)                                                  30 mg
                                                                        Quantity per              %
                                                                          unit (mg)
 Microcrystalline Cellulose, NF (Avicel PH-            Binder                106.36            53.90
 101)
 Ethyl Cellulose, NF (Ethocel Standard 10          Film Former                11.34             5.75
 Premium)
 Hydroxypropyl Cellulose, NF (Klucel EF             Film Former               2.84               1.44
 Pharm)
 Dibutyl Sebacate, NF                             Film Plasticizer             0.82              0.42
 Magnesium Stearate, NF                          Hydrophobic Film             12.27              6.22
                                                    Component
 Methacrylic Acid Copolymer Type-B (Eudragit        Film Former               26.38             13.37
 S 100)
 Mono-and Di-Glycerides, NF (Imwitor 900K)        Film Plasticizer             2.65              1.34
 Dibutyl Sebacate, NF                             Film Plasticizer             2.65              1.34
 Polysorbate 80, NF                                  Solubilizer               1.05              0.53
 Talc USP, EP                                                                  0.98              0.50
 Total                                                                        197.34             100.0
Example 22
[000185]         The five formulations described in Examples 17-21 were subjected to
dissolution testing as described. The dissolution data are shown in the following table.
     TIME      FAST (446604) MEDIUM (446603)  MEDIUM (446605)      SLOW (446602)      SLOW (446606)
   (HOURS)    20%SR, 20%EC 20%SR; 30%EC        20%SR; 20%EC        25% SR; 20%EC      25%SR; 30% EC
       0.           0.0              0.0             0.0                0.0                 0.0
       2.           1.6              2.9             0.2                0.0                  0.5
       4.           2.4              5.7             0.6                0.0                  1.3
       6.           4.0              9.9             1.4                0.0                  2.1
       7.           6.6             13.1             2.5                 1.1                 2.7
       8.           9.7             16.3             5.0                3.0                  3.1
       9.           15.0            19.6             11.9               7.9                  3.3
       10.         25.8             23.0             25.7               18.0                 4.4
       12.         57.7             39.1             60.6               47.6                14.4
       14.         81.5             64.0             81.4               71.9                41.7
       16.         91.7             79.7             90.5               85.1                66.4
      20.           97.7            89.8             96.2               94.8                85.7

   WO 2012/129551                                                           PCT/US2012/030472
[0001861         A graph of the dissolution data is shown in Fig. 16. As can be seen in the
graph, the formulations provided a delayed release of from 6-10 hours followed by a
sustained increasing release over the next 10 hours.
Example 23
[000187]          A parallel, five-arm, open-label, single-dose, fasting study of
Dextroamphetamine 30 mg capsules in healthy, non-smoking male subjects was
conducted, administering the five formulations described in Examples 13-17 to 56
healthy male volunteers aged 18 to 45 years during each trial.
[000188]          Five formulations were administered orally during the trial:
[000189]          Treatment A: 1 Dextroamphetamine Sulfate Capsule, 30 mg, CII (20%
 SR, 30% ER coat, Medium Release);
[000190]          Treatment B: 1 Dextroamphetamine Sulfate Capsule, 30 mg, CII (25%
 SR, 20% ER coat, Slow Release);
 [000191]         Treatment C: 1 Dextroamphetamine Sulfate Capsule, 30 mg, CII (20%
 SR, 20% ER coat, Fast Release),
 [000192]         Treatment D: 1 Dextroamphetamine Sulfate Capsule, 30 mg, CII (25%
 SR, 30% ER coat, Slow Release);
 [000193]         Treatment E: 1 Dextroamphetamine Sulfate Capsule, 30 mg, CII (20% SR,
 20% ER coat, Medium Release).
 [000194]         The pharmaceuticals were administered daily at 8 AM and serum
 amphetamine concentrations were determined hourly for 20 hours. Using the validated
 method (D24 Version 00), dextroamphetamine and the internal standard, amphetamine
 d5, were extracted from human plasma (200.0 tL), with potassium
 ethylenediaminetetraacetic acid (K2EDTA) as an anticoagulant, by liquid-liquid
 extraction, evaporation under nitrogen, and reconstitution in 200.0 IL of mobile phase
  (0.05% Triflouroacetic Acid : Acetonitrile, 80 : 20, v/v). An aliquot of this extract was
  injected into a High Perfonnance Liquid Chromatography (HPLC) system, detected using
  an API 3000 with HSID tandem mass spectrometer, and quantitated using peak area ratio
  method.

   WO 2012/129551                                                           PCT/US2012/030472
[000195]          Method sensitivity and selectivity were achieved by detecting distinct
precursor to product ion mass transitions for dextroamphetamine (136.2+119.1) and the
internal standard, amphetamine-d5 (141.2+4124.1), at defined retention times under
reverse chromatographic conditions.
1000196]          Evaluation of the assay, using defined acceptance criteria, was carried out
 by the construction of an eight (8) point calibration curve (excluding zero concentration)
 covering the range of 0.200 ng/mL to 51.200 ng/mL for Dextroamphetamine in human
 plasma. The slope and intercept of the calibration curves were determined through
 weighted linear regression analysis (1/conc. 2 ). Two calibration curves and duplicate QC
 samples (at three concentration levels) were analyzed along with each batch of the study
 samples. Peak area ratios were used to determine the concentration of the standards,
 quality control samples, and the unknown study samples from the calibration curves.
 [0001971          The serum concentrations are shown in Fig. 17, in which the beginning
 time of day is set to 9 PM. An overlay of the pharmacokinetic data of three commercial
 formulations, Dexedrine, Adderall XR and Vyvanse are overlayed with the data of Fig.
  17 in Fig. 18.
 [0001981          As shown in the table below early exposure 0-6 hr and 0-10 hr was highest
 for Treatment A and this correlated with the early dissolution observed for this
 formulation. Exposure from 0 to Tmax was marginally higher for Treatment A than the
  other treatments, but was more variable than Treatments B and C. Treatment C was
  higher than B but was more variable. For Treatment D the exposure 0 to Tmax was
  relatively high (considering total AUCo-inf), but the Treatment D T      values occurred
  later than the other treatments.
                        AUC 0-6              AUC 0 10          AUC O-rmax
                      (ng-hr/mL)            (ng-hr/mL)         (ng-hr/mL)         AUCo-inf (ng/mL)
                    Mean        CV        Mean       CV
    Treatment         (N)       (%)        (N)       (%)    Mean     CV (%)      Mean CV(%)
         A        16.7 (10)    29.9       63.8       23.9   286.0      60.2      991.5      42.6
         B        2.1 (12)      78.8      32.9       41.2   234.6      20.6      1142.4      16.7
         C         6.5 (10)     38.1      30.7       40.5   278.5      37.4      1250.3     20.7
         D         1.6 (12)     44.7       7.3       41.3   266.0      50.7       869.9     27.7
         E         2.1 (12)     33.3      27.3       34.0   264.2      60.2      1069.5     35.8
     The mean Tnax values       for treatments A. B, C, D and E were 17.9. 16.4, 17.7, 22.6 and

   WO 2012/129551                                                        PCT/US2012/030472
                                    17.8 hours, respectively.
[0001991        The early exposure (0-6 and 0-10) provided by these formulations was
very low relative to AUCo-if and is shown in the Table below together with AUC O-Tma in
terms of percentages of the mean values of these partial exposure metrics relative to mean
values of AUCo-inf for each of the five treatments
       Treatment             AUCO- 6           AUCoo10                AUC O-Tma
           A                    1.7               6.4                    28.8
           B                   0.1                2.9                    20.5
            C                   0.5               2.5                    22.3
           D                    0.2               0.8                    30.6
            E                   0.2               2.6                    24.7
 The exposure was less than 2% for all treatments (0-6 hours) and less than 5% for the
 AUC (0-10 hours) except for Treatment A (6.4%).
[0002001         Seventeen subjects experienced a total of 25 adverse events ("AEs")
 during the study. The most frequent AEs are expressed as fractions, relative to the total
 number of AEs experienced after each treatment.
 [0002011        No AE was reported more than once after administration of Treatment A
 [Dextroamphetamine Sulfate Capsule, 30 mg, CII (20% SR, 30% pH coat, Medium
 Release)], Treatment C [Dextroamphetamine Sulfate Capsule, 30 mg, CII (20% SR, 20%
 pH coat, Fast Release)] and Treatment D [Dextroamphetamine Sulfate Capsule, 30 mg,
 CII (25% SR, 30% pH coat, Slow Release)].
 [000202]        After administration of Treatment B (Dextroamphetamine Sulfate
 Capsule, 30 mg, CII (25% SR, 20% pH coat, Slow Release), the most frequently AEs
 were headache (2/7) and somnolence (2/7).
 [000203]        After administration of Treatment E [(Dextroamphetamine Sulfate
  Capsule, 30 mg, CII (20% SR, 20% pH coat, Medium Release)], the most frequently AE
  was dry mouth (2/8).
 [000204]        No AE was reported after the end-of-study exam.
  [0002051       Five AEs were "probably" related to the study drug, and 12 AEs were
   possibly" related to the study drug. All subjects who experienced AEs during this study
  recovered completely.

        WO 2012/129551                                                        PCT/US2012/030472
      [000206]        No serious adverse events (SAEs) were reported.
       Example 24
          Composition of Methylphenidate, 54 mg Capsules (Slow Release Formulation, 25%SR
                             Weight Gain + 30% pH Dependent Weight Gain)
                                                                             Strength (label claim)
  Component and Quality Standard (and Grade, if            Function                  54 mg
                      applicable)
                                                                          Quantity per          %
                                                                           unit (mg)
Methylphenidate Hydrochloride, USP, CII               Active ingredient       54.00           13.54
Microcrystalline Cellulose, NF (Avicel PH-10l)              Binder           191.45           48.00
Ethyl Cellulose, NF (Ethocel Standard 10 Premium)        Film Former          30.16            7.56
 Hydroxypropyl Cellulose, NF (Klucel EF Pharm)           Film Former           7.54            1.89
 Dibutyl Sebacate, NF                                  Film Plasticizer        2.18            0.55
 Magnesium Stearate, NF                              Hydrophobic Film         21.48            5.39
                                                          Component
 Methacrylic Acid Copolymer Type-B (Eudragit S 100)      Film Former          74.19            18.60
 Mono-and Di-Glycerides, NF (Imwitor 900K)             Film Plasticizer        7.46             1.87
 Dibutyl Sebacate, NF                                  Film Plasticizer        7.46             1.87
 Polysorbate 80, NF                                       Solubilizer          2.95            0.74
                                                                    Total    398.87            100.0
Example 25
          Composition of Methylphenidate, 54 mg Capsules (Slow Release Formulation, 20%SR
                              Weight Gain + 20% pH Dependent Weight Gain)
                                                                             Strength (label claim)
  Component and Quality Standard (and Grade, if                                       54 mg
                      applicable)                          Function          ~m
                                                                          Quantity per           %
                                                                            unit (mg)
 Methylphenidate Hydrochloride, USP, CII               Active ingredient       54.00           15.28
 Microcrystalline Cellulose, NF (Avicel PH-101)              Binder           191.45           54.16
 Ethyl Cellulose, NF (Ethocel Standard 10 Premium)        Film Former          20.42            5.78
 Hydroxypropyl Cellulose, NF (Klucel EF Pharm)            Film Former           5.11            1.45
 Dibutyl Sebacate, NF                                   Film Plasticizer        1.48            0. 42
 Magnesium Stearate, NF                                Hydrophobic Film        22.09            6.25
                                                          Component
                                                    54

       WO 2012/129551                                                           PCT/US2012/030472
                                                                               Strength (label claim)
 Component and Quality Standard (and Grade, if             Function                    54 mg
                     applicable)
                                                                           Quantity per           %
                                                                             unit (mg)
Methacrylic Acid Copolymer Type-B (Eudragit S 100)       Film Former            47.48           13.43
Mono-and Di-Glycerides, NF (Imwitor 900K)               Film Plasticizer         4.77            1.35
Dibutyl Sebacate, NF                                    Film Plasticizer         4.77            1.35
Polysorbate 80, NF                                         Solubilizer           1.89            0.53
                                                                     Total     353.46           100.0
      [0002071        All of the compositions and methods disclosed and claimed herein can be
      made and executed without undue experimentation in light of the present disclosure.
      While the compositions and methods of this invention have been described in terms of
      preferred embodiments, it will be apparent to those of skill in the art that variations may
      be applied to the compositions and/or methods and in the steps or in the sequence of steps
      of the methods described herein without departing from the concept, spirit and scope of
      the invention. More specifically, it will be apparent that certain agents that are
      chemically or physiologically related may be substituted for the agents described herein
      while the same or similar results would be achieved. All such similar substitutes and
      modifications apparent to those skilled in the art are deemed to be within the spirit, scope
      and concept of the invention as defined by the appended claims.

                                             CLAIMS
1.      A solid, oral pharmaceutical composition comprising a plurality of particles, each
comprising: a core comprising an amphetamine or a pharmaceutical salt thereof and at least
one pharmaceutically acceptable excipient; a sustained release layer enclosing the core; and a
delayed release layer enclosing the sustained release layer, wherein when the composition is
orally administered to a human subject, (i) there is a lag period of at least 6 hours during
which the area under the curve of plasma concentration versus time (AUCo. 6) of
amphetamine or a pharmaceutical salt thereof is less than 10% of the total area under the
curve at Tmax (AUCO-Tmax); and (ii) the time to Cmax (Tmax) is between 12 and 19 hours after
administration.
2.      The solid, oral pharmaceutical composition of claim 1, wherein the core comprises a
substantially spherical bead.
3.      The solid, oral pharmaceutical composition of claim 1, wherein the core comprises
dextroamphetamine sulfate.
4.      The solid, oral pharmaceutical composition of claim 1, wherein the core comprises
one or more excipients selected from polyvinyl pyrollidone, hydroxypropylmethyl cellulose,
lactose, sucrose, microcrystalline cellulose and combinations of any thereof.
5.      The solid, oral pharmaceutical composition of claim 1, wherein the pharmaceutically
acceptable excipient is microcrystalline cellulose.
6.      The solid, oral pharmaceutical composition of claim 1, wherein the core comprises a
non-pareil bead coated with a layer comprising the amphetamine or a pharmaceutical salt
thereof and at least one pharmaceutically acceptable excipient.
7.      The solid, oral pharmaceutical composition of claim 1, wherein the delayed release
layer comprises a pH dependent polymer or copolymer that is insoluble in aqueous medium
at pH lower than 5.5.
8.      The solid, oral pharmaceutical composition of claim 1, wherein the delayed release
layer comprises cellulose acetate phthalate, cellulose acetate trimaletate, hydroxyl propyl
methylcellulose phthalate, polyvinyl acetate phthalate, acrylic polymers, polyvinyl
acetaldiethylamino acetate, hydroxypropyl methylcellulose acetate succinate, cellulose
acetate trimellitate, shellac, methacrylic acid copolymer, or combinations of any thereof.
9.      The solid, oral pharmaceutical composition of claim 1, wherein the delayed release
layer comprises a plasticizer.
                                                 56

10.       The solid, oral pharmaceutical composition of claim 9, wherein the plasticizer is
dibutyl sebacate (DBS), tributyl citrate, acetyl tributyl citrate, acetyl triethyl citrate, mineral
oil, castor oil or a fixed oil.
11.       The solid, oral pharmaceutical composition of claim 8, wherein the delayed release
layer comprises methacrylic acid copolymer Type B.
12.       The solid, oral pharmaceutical composition of claim 8, wherein the delayed release
layer comprises methacrylic acid copolymer Type B, mono- and diglycerides, dibutyl
sebacate and polysorbate 80.
13.       The solid, oral pharmaceutical composition of claim 1, wherein the sustained release
layer comprises a water-insoluble and water-permeable polymer.
14.       The solid, oral pharmaceutical composition of claim 13, wherein the sustained release
layer further comprises a water soluble polymer.
15.       The solid, oral pharmaceutical composition of claim 1, wherein the sustained release
layer comprises one or more of a cellulose ether derivative, an acrylic resin, a copolymer of
acrylic acid and methacrylic acid esters with quaternary ammonium groups, and a copolymer
of acrylic acid and a methacrylic acid ester.
16.       The solid, oral pharmaceutical composition of claim 1, wherein the sustained release
layer comprises ethyl cellulose, hydroxypropyl cellulose, dibutyl sebacate and magnesium
stearate.
17.       The solid, oral pharmaceutical composition of claim 1, further comprising an abuse
deterrent agent.
18.       The solid, oral pharmaceutical composition of claim 1, further comprising a nasal
irritant.
19.       The solid, oral pharmaceutical composition of claim 18, wherein the nasal irritant is a
capsaicinoid or sodium lauryl sulfate.
20.       The solid, oral pharmaceutical composition of claim 1, wherein the plurality of
particles are contained in a unit dose water soluble capsule.
21.       The solid, oral pharmaceutical composition of claim 20, wherein the unit dose is from
1 mg to 150 mg amphetamine or a pharmaceutical salt thereof.
22.       The solid, oral pharmaceutical composition of claim 1, wherein the particles release
no more than 10% of the total amphetamine or a pharmaceutical salt thereof in the first five
hours when placed in a simulated gastric environment.
23.       The solid, oral pharmaceutical composition of claim 1, wherein the particles release
no more than 10% of the total amphetamine or a pharmaceutical salt thereof within the first 5
                                                57

hours when the composition is placed in 700 ml aqueous solution of 0. IN HCl pH 1.1, for up
to 2 hours followed by 2-6 hours in sodium phosphate buffer at pH 6.0; followed by 6-20
hours in sodium phosphate buffer, pH 7.2 at 370 C..+-.0.5' C., measured by the USP
Apparatus I.
24.     The solid, oral pharmaceutical composition of claim 1, wherein the plasma area under
the curve at 6 hours (AUCo. 6) after administration is less than about 5% of total plasma area
under the curve at   Tmax (AUCO-Tmax).
25.     A water soluble capsule containing a unit dose of an amphetamine or a
pharmaceutical salt thereof, wherein when the composition is orally administered to a human
subject, there is a lag period of at least 5 hours during which the plasma concentration of
amphetamine or a pharmaceutical salt thereof is less than 10% of the maximum concentration
(Cmax), and wherein the time to   Cmax  (Tmax) is between 12 and 19 hours after administration.
26.     The water soluble capsule of claim 25, wherein the unit dose is from I to 150 mg
amphetamine or a pharmaceutical salt thereof.
27.     A solid, oral pharmaceutical composition comprising a plurality of particles, each
particle comprising: a substantially spherical core comprising a therapeutic amount of a
dextroamphetamine or a pharmaceutical salt thereof and at least one pharmaceutically
acceptable excipient; a sustained release layer enclosing the core and comprising
ethylcellulose, hydroxypropylcellulose, dibutyl sebacate and from 25-50% magnesium
stearate; and a delayed release layer enclosing the sustained release layer and comprising
methacrylic acid copolymer B, mono- and di-glycerides and polysorbate 80.
28.     The solid, oral pharmaceutical composition of claim 27, wherein the sustained release
layer is coated on the bead to achieve from 15% to 35% weight gain and the delayed release
layer is coated on the sustained release layer coated bead to achieve an additional 15% to
35% weight gain.
29.     A solid, oral pharmaceutical composition comprising a plurality of particles, each
comprising: a core comprising an amphetamine or a pharmaceutical salt thereof and at least
one pharmaceutically acceptable excipient; a sustained release layer enclosing the core; and a
delayed release layer enclosing the sustained release layer, wherein the particles release no
more than 5% of the total amphetamine or a pharmaceutical salt thereof from hour 0 to hour
6; and release no more than 10% of the total amphetamine or a pharmaceutical salt thereof
from hour 0 to hour 8; and, exhibit sustained release over the following 10 hours when the
composition is placed in 700 ml aqueous solution of 0.IN HCl pH 1.1, for 2 hours followed
                                                  58

by 4 hours in sodium phosphate buffer at pH 6.0; followed by 6-20 hours in sodium
phosphate buffer, pH 7.2 at 370 C..+-.0.5     C., as measured by the USP Apparatus I.
30.     A method of treating a condition in a subject with a disorder or condition responsive
to the administration of a central nervous system stimulant, comprising orally administering
an effective amount of an amphetamine, an amphetamine salt, an amphetamine prodrug, or a
combination thereof to the subject, wherein the amphetamine, amphetamine salt,
amphetamine prodrug, or combination thereof is administered orally in a single delayed
release dosage comprising a core comprising a therapeutic amount of a central nervous
system stimulant and at least one pharmaceutically acceptable excipient; a sustained release
layer coating the core; and a delayed release layer coating the sustained release layer, which
exhibits (i) a lag period of at least 5 hours during which the plasma concentration of
amphetamine, an amphetamine salt, an amphetamine prodrug, or a combination thereof is
less than 10% of the maximum concentration (Cmax); (ii) a plasma area under the curve at 10
hours (AUCoio) after administration of less than about 7% of AUCo. 4 8; and (iii) wherein the
time to Cmax (Tmax) is between 12 and 19 hours after administration.
31.     The method of claim 30, wherein the effective amount is administered once a day.
32.     The method of claim 30 wherein the amphetamine is amphetamine, a pharmaceutical
amphetamine salt, dextroamphetamine or a pharmaceutical salt thereof, or lisdexamfetamine
dimesylate, or a pharmaceutical salt thereof.
33.     The method of claim 30 wherein Cmax occurs at greater than 15 hours after the
administration.
34.     The method of claim 30, wherein the disorder or condition is attention deficit
disorder, attention deficit hyperactivity disorder, excessive daytime sleepiness, major
depressive disorder, bipolar depression, negative symptoms in schizophrenia, chronic fatigue,
fatigue associated with chemotherapy or binge eating disorder.
35.     A method of treating a condition in a subject with a disorder or condition responsive
to the administration of a central nervous system stimulant, comprising orally administering
an effective amount of a solid, oral pharmaceutical composition comprising: a core
comprising a therapeutic amount of a central nervous system stimulant and at least one
pharmaceutically acceptable excipient; a sustained release layer coating the core; and a
delayed release layer coating the sustained release layer, and further wherein when the
composition is administered to a human, i) no more than about 10% of the Cmax of central
nervous system stimulant is detectable in the plasma 5 hours after administration, ii) plasma
area under the curve at 10 hours (AUCo-io) after administration is less than about 7% of
                                                  59

AUCo. 48 , and (iii) wherein the time to Cmax (Tmax) is between 12 and 19 hours after
administration.
36.      The method of claim 35, wherein the disorder or condition is attention deficit
disorder, attention deficit hyperactivity disorder, excessive daytime sleepiness, major
depressive disorder, bipolar depression, negative symptoms in schizophrenia, chronic fatigue,
fatigue associated with chemotherapy or binge eating disorder.
37.      The method of claim 35, wherein the central nervous system stimulant is
amphetamine, dextroamphetamine, or an isomer, racemic mixture, prodrug or pharmaceutical
salt of any thereof.
38.      The method of claim 35, wherein the central nervous system stimulant is
amphetamine or a pharmaceutical salt thereof.
39.      The method of claim 35, wherein the central nervous system stimulant is
dextroamphetamine or a pharmaceutical salt thereof.
40.      The method of claim 35, wherein the central nervous system stimulant is
lisdexamfetamine dimesylate or a pharmaceutical salt thereof.
41.      The method of claim 35, wherein the effective amount is from 5 mg-54 mg.
42.      The method of claim 30, wherein the disorder or condition is attention deficit disorder
or attention deficit hyperactivity disorder.
43.      The method of claim 42, wherein the effective amount is from 5 mg-54 mg.
                                                 60

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
