                                           TITLE
DECENTRALIZED FINANCIAL INTELLIGENCE BASED ON DECENTRALIZED CONSENSUS AND ANONYMIZED
TRANSACTION HISTORY
                                        ABSTRACT
A computerized transaction scoring system may include a decentralized network of
multiple transaction scoring analytic nodes (computers of any kind) operatively coupled
over a computerized network. The computerized transaction scoring system may include
a distributed file system for storage of anonymized transaction history this file system will
be capable of analysing transaction data to store unalterable data, remove duplicated
files across the network, and obtain hashedversion information for accessing storage
nodes to search for files in the network. The computerized transaction scoring system
may also include automated consensus algorithm of any kind to identify faulty nodes or
clusters and flag them as faulty to ensure the trust in between the nodes. The nodes in
computerized transaction scoring system may include predictive analytics algorithms to
score each new transaction based on the history of existing transactions in the file
system.

                                             2/2
                              Transaction Origin
                               Bank / Insttton
      Score                                            Score
Aggregation and ---              ---          --- Aggregation and
  Consensus                                         Consensus
Anltc    Aayd       ntcAalytic                            .-
                                                 Analytc lti
      Noe Nd          oe ode Nd                        Nod
               Distributed Storage Layer
                                   Figure 2

                                            1
                                  FIELD OF INVENTION
[0001]       The present invention relates generally to credit scoring systems and
transaction scoring systems and methods of assessing and rating a consumer credibility or
a consumer engagement in the transaction and, in particular, to a computer implemented
decentralized network and system for rating a consumer or a transaction dynamically
based on up to date data. Typically, any transaction between any two parties.
                           BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
[0002]       Growth in the electronic payments sector has surpassed general economic
growth and growth in other financial sectors. Electronic payments include credit, debit,
and other electronic instruments used to transfer payments from consumers to
merchants.
[0003]       The growth in the electronic payments sector is accompanied by numerous
economic and transactional benefits. Electronic payments improve economic
inefficiencies, make payments more secure and convenient, and, as a corollary to the
lessons learned from micro finance, provide the force for further economic and social
development.
[0004]       For developing countries, those gains could be significant, but they would
depend on the concurrent development of the appropriate network and payments
infrastructure, government regulation, consumer education, and competition within the
sector.

                                             2
[0005]       As governments in developed economies have learned, adequate regulatory
oversight in the electronic payments sector is essential to maintaining financial stability,
consumer confidence, and data privacy and security of the sector.
[0006]       Although electronic payments growth could represent an opportunity for
developing countries to rebalance their economies by encouraging domestic
consumption and it is essential to educate consumers to use electronic payments
responsibly and securely.
[0007]       Financial fraud continues to grow faster than consumer spending. Data
breaches have resulted in more card details being compromised, and the growth in online
shopping has led to more opportunities for ecommerce fraud.
[0008]       Fraudulent transactions are the ones that are not initiated by the account
holder. Hackers may obtain sensitive information about the card or the account and could
make a transaction on behalf of the card user.
[0009]       In order to decrease these losses, the financial industry has developed many
different strategies that -predict fraud using data analytics, predictive analytics, artificial
intelligence and machine learning.
                                SUMMARY OF INVENTION
[0010]       The present invention is to provide decentralised transaction scores, which
provide a dynamic marker for the customer engagement in a transaction. It is another
objective of the present invention is to provide a method and system to generate the
transaction scores in a decentralised way.

                                             3
[0011]       The present invention is to provide a system to identify the customer using
hashes generated on the unique personal details which there by providing security. It is
still another objective of the present invention to provide a system to assess the
consumer rating transaction by transaction, in real-time, based on the previous
transaction history and alternative data.
[0012]       The present invention is directed to a computer-implemented method of
rating a transaction initiated by the consumer. This method includes the steps of: (a)
providing the unique customer hash as a part of the transaction. (b) providing the
transaction data set including the details of the transaction. (c) providing the details of
the origin, type and account hash of the transaction (d) calculating the transaction score
based upon a scoring formula utilizing at least one data field value from at least one of
the provided transaction data set and (e) presenting the transaction score to the
card/account issuer. (f) The scoring formula is executed by many computers which are
interconnected with a computer network, and these computers come to an agreement
(consensus) about the transaction score. In addition, the computer implemented method
described above is initiated substantially at the same time the credit transaction is
initiated. Therefore, the presently invented method is performed in a real-time or
dynamic process.
[0013]       The present invention is also able to include a distributed file system for
storage of anonymized transaction history this file system will be capable of analysing
transaction data to store unalterable data, remove duplicated files across the network,
and obtain address information for accessing storage nodes to search for files in the
network.

                                               4
[0014]        The present invention is also able to include an automated consensus
algorithm of any kind to identify faulty nodes or clusters and flag them as faulty to ensure
the trust in between the nodes. The nodes in computerized transaction scoring system
may include predictive analytics algorithms to score each new transaction based on the
history of existing transactions in the file system.
[0015]        The present invention, both as to its construction and its method of
operation, together with the additional objects and advantages thereof, will best be
understood from the following description of exemplary. Embodiments when read in
connection with the accompanying drawings.
                                    TECHNICAL PROBLEM
[0016]        The global financial intelligence is centralised, incomplete, and not portable
as they are specific to a country or a region. Along with the incompleteness it also has
security risks. There have been multiple data breaches and hacks which has resulted in
significant loss of money and sensitive information like identity and personal details of
the customers.
[0017]        As information becomes more centralized it becomes monopolised and
incomplete. This leads to decisions being made without all the available information at
hand, significantly increasing the associated risk. Moreover, the credit scores are not
updated in real time, with the delay prejudicing millions of consumers and businesses as
their current credit history is not factored into the decision-making process.

                                               5
[0018]        Lack of live transaction scores is the major problem the financial industry, by
analysing and scoring the transactions in real time helps the institutions to minimize
losses and allows them to take well informed decisions.
                                 SOLUTION TO THE PROBLEM
[0019]        To combat fraud at a global scale we need a decentralized system with high
availability and providing live risk scores for transactions. Storing the anonymous
transaction data securely on a decentralized data network and building a shared layer to
access this network on a block chain will create an entirely new set of possibilities for Al
capabilities and insights.
[0020]        The benefits of decentralized/shared control, particularly as a foundation for
Al results in more data, thus improved modelling capabilities and Qualitatively new data
leading to entirely new models.
[0021]        Such an open network will yield many interesting by-products such as Credit
scores providing financial inclusion for Credit invisibles. Transaction scores to predict
transaction fraud, Shared Global Intelligence which would make the risk models portable
especially online transaction patterns and eventually becoming a playground for data
scientists, which will encourage them to mine the up to date data and even come up with
revolutionary risk models to safeguard the global community from fraud.
                        ADVANTAGEOUS EFFECTS OF THE INVENTION
[0022]        The present invention will have the following positive effects to the existing
industry problems,

                                        6
1. Secures the identity information from any possible data breaches, because the
   identity is established only with the help of unique customer hash or hashes,
   which cannot be reverse engineered to obtain any of the customer's sensitive
   information.
2. By making the identity secure from (point 1), all the transaction data which will
   be received by the present invention (a decentralised system) will be
   anonymized, this provides another level of security and protection from any
   possible data breaches, as the data is useless as it cannot be linked to a particular
   individual or entity.
3. By providing a decentralised computerized consensus mechanism in providing
   the transaction scores, the present invention will assure that the decisions which
   were made are reliable and accurate. Consensus mechanism eradicates the
   necessity of human interaction in validating the results, there by providing a layer
   of trust which is completely independent and un-influenced.
4. The present invention brings a lot of value to the financial system as it will be
   able to predict and detect fraud in real time and is reported, unlike the existing
   methodologies where the fraud is realised only after it has happened.
5. The present invention also provides modularity and extensibility for the data
   models, where each data set can be independently scored by various models and
   they consent without any human interaction. This also means that the models
   can be dynamically adjusted and updated automatically based on the previous
   transaction.

                                                7
                                BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF DRAWINGS
[0023]         Fig. 1 is a flow diagram of computerised anonymization of the customer
identity information according to the present invention.
[0024]         Fig. 2 is a flow diagram of the computerised decentralised transaction scoring,
with a consensus mechanism according to the present invention.
                                 DESCRIPTION OF EMBODIMENTS
[0025]        The present invention is a method of decentralised scoring of a transaction in
real-time with a consensus mechanism using anonymised customer information. The
method of present invention about ananomysing the customer information is illustrated
with the help of Figure 1. The present invention also involves a computerized generation
of real-time transaction scores with consensus mechanism is illustrated in Figure 2.
[0026]        As per the present invention, Step 10 in Figure 1 illustrates the collection of
unique details of a customer, including but not limited to details like, Name, date of birth,
Social security number / Tax file number, Account Number.
[0027]        The Step 11 in Figure 1, represents a hashing function, The input to this
function are the unique details of the customer as represented in Step 10. this hash
function is any function that can be used to map data of arbitrary size to data of fixed
size, in this case the fixed size customer identity details. This function generates the
hashes of the pairs of the unique customer identity information details, for example
Hash(Name, date of birth), Hash(Name, Social security number) and so on.

                                              8
[0028]       The Step 12 in Figure 1 is the output of the hash function, all the hashes of
the pairs of unique customer identity information as explained in the Step 11.
[0029]       As depicted in Figure 2, the present invention is deployed to a computerised
system consisting of multiple interconnected computers sharing a distributed file system
for storage of anonymized transaction history this file system will be capable of analysing
transaction data to store unalterable data, remove duplicated files across the network,
and obtain address information for accessing storage nodes to search for files in the
network.
[0030]       The system 20, is the originator of the financial transaction, this origin may be
a point of sale, a computer for online transaction including but not limited to a funds
transfer request, loan request, online payment request, crypto currency transfer request.
This transaction is then received by the system 21.
[0031]       The system 21 represents the authority to process the transaction, which
issued the account or instrument of the transaction originator, typically this could be a
financial institution like bank, credit agency, crypto bank, lending institutions. This system
requests the method 22 (the entry point to the present invention) to get a score of the
transaction. Due to the nature of large customer base of the system 21, the system
expects multiple simultaneous transaction scoring requests coming in to the present
invention, typically several thousand requests per second. The present invention should
and will scale to process those levels of transactions per second.
[0032]       The method 22 is responsible for the distribution of the transaction across the
decentralised processing nodes, there may be multiple nodes which are interconnected,

                                             9
we can call these master nodes which aggregatesand come to aconsensus with other
master nodes and also keep an account of the performance statistics of the nodes
represented as a group in system 23. The system 23 shall also record the processed
transaction in the storage layer which is the method 24.
[0033]       Further the system 23 is a group of computers which are interconnected and
independently generate the score for a transaction, the scoring algorithm includes
predictive analytic models which rely on the data models built on the transaction history
of a unique customer hash.
[0034]       The method 24 is implemented as a distributed file system storage of
anonymized transaction history, this file system will be capable of analysing transaction
data to store unalterable data, remove duplicated files across the network, and obtain an
immutable version information and acts as a swarm database.
[0035]       This invention has been described with reference to the preferred
embodiments. Obvious modifications and alterations will occur to others upon reading
and understanding the preceding detailed description. It is intended that the invention be
construed as including all such modifications and alteration.
                                 INDUSTRIAL APPLICABILITY
[0036]       This present invention has been described with reference to the preferred
embodiments can be applied to provide a wide range of analytic services like Up to date
Credit Scores, Real time Transaction Scores to predict fraud, Business credit scores. The
beneficiaries of this invention are Banks, Financial Institutions, Lenders, Crypto Banks,
Credit unions.

                                            10
[0037]      Apart from the above services, the present invention shall also provide real
time insights about transaction patterns and fraud patterns to thedata scientists. This
helps them to build realistic and up to date portable data risk models based on the
shared global financial intelligence.

                                         1
                                        CLAIMS
1. A computerized method of scoring a transaction initiated by the consumer including
   the following steps:
        a. providing the unique customer hash as a part of the transaction.
        b. providing the transaction data set including the details of the transaction.
        c. providing the details of the origin, type and account hash of the transaction
        d. calculating the transaction score based upon a scoring formula by various
            independent computers utilizing at least one data field value from at least
            one of the provided transaction data set, and the computers come to an
            agreement (consensus) about the transaction score and presenting them in
            real-time.
        e.  presenting the transaction score to the card/account issuer.
2. The process of claim 1 is performed by a computing device and includes one or more
   steps in claim 1.
3. The process of claim 1 uses a hash generated by a hashing algorithm, which uniquely
   identifies a customer.
4. The process of claim 1, where the transaction scores are generated using statistic
   alanalytic models on the transaction history independently analysed and scored by
   multiple computing devices interconnected over a network and share a distributed
   file system which is capable of store unalterable data, remove duplicated files and
   provides versioning ability to the transaction history.

                                          2
5. The process of claim 1, where a transaction is scored by multiple computing devices
   will also facilitate a decentralised consensus mechanism in which all the devices will
   come to a consensus with the help of a consensus algorithm without any external
   influence and human interaction.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
