ABSTRACT OF THE DISCLOSURE
[00128]    A dual utilization liquid and gaseous fuel CPOX reformer includes first and
second CPOX reaction zones for the CPOX reforming of, respectively, liquid and
gaseous reformable fuels.

              DUAL UTILIZATION LIQUID AND GASEOUS FUEL
                  REFORMER AND METHOD OF REFORMING
CROSS REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS
[0001]      This utility application claims the benefit of Finnerty et al. U.S.
provisional patent application Serial Nos. 61/900,5 10 and 61/900,543, filed
November 6, 2013, the entire contents of which are incorporated by reference herein.
BACKGROUND
[0002]      The present teachings relate to reformers and methods of reforming of
liquid and gaseous reformable fuels to produce hydrogen-rich reformates.
[0003]      The conversion of a gaseous or liquid reformable fuel to a hydrogen-rich
carbon monoxide-containing gas mixture, a product commonly referred to as
"synthesis gas" or "syngas," can be carried out in accordance with any of such well
known fuel reforming operations as steam reforming, dry reforming, autothermal
reforming, and catalytic partial oxidation (CPOX) reforming. Each of these fuel
reforming operations has its distinctive chemistry and requirements and each is
marked by its advantages and disadvantages relative to the others.
[0004]      The development of improved fuel reformers, fuel reformer components,
and reforming processes continues to be the focus of considerable research due to the
potential of fuel cells, i.e., devices for the electrochemical conversion of
electrochemically oxidizable fuels such hydrogen, mixtures of hydrogen and carbon
monoxide, and the like, to electricity, to play a greatly expanded role for general
applications including main power units (MPUs) and auxiliary power units (APUs).
Fuel cells also can be used for specialized applications, for example, as on-board
electrical generating devices for electric vehicles, backup power sources for
residential-use devices, main power sources for leisure-use, outdoor and other power
consuming devices in out-of-grid locations, and lighter weight, higher power density,
ambient temperature-independent replacements for portable battery packs.
[0005]      Because large scale, economic production of hydrogen, infrastructure
required for its distribution, and practical means for its storage (especially as a
transportation fuel) are widely believed to be a long way off, much current research
                                              -1-

and development has been directed to improving both fuel reformers as sources of
electrochemically oxidizable fuels, notably mixtures of hydrogen and carbon
monoxide, and fuel cell assemblies, commonly referred to as fuel cell "stacks," as
convertors of such fuels to electricity, and the integration of fuel reformers and fuel
cells into more compact, reliable and efficient devices for the production of electrical
energy.
[0006]       In general, reformers are designed and constructed to process either
gaseous or liquid reformable fuel but not both. A reformer that was capable of
selectively processing one of these types of fuel and at some point, switching over to
the processing of the other type of fuel would have considerable advantages over
reformers that are capable of processing only one of these types of fuel. For example,
a dual utilization liquid and gas reformer would be able to switch from processing one
type of fuel to the other in response to a change in circumstances such as the altered
economics of operating the reformer with one or the other fuel or the relative
availability of the fuels at a particular time and/or in a particular place.
[0007]       Accordingly, there exists a need for a reformer capable of utilizing both
liquid and gaseous reformable fuels and a method for the selective reforming of such
fuels within the same reformer.
SUMMARY
[0008]       In accordance with the present disclosure, a dual utilization liquid and
gaseous fuel CPOX reformer is provided which comprises:
                 a liquid fuel gas phase reforming reaction zone;
                 a gaseous fuel gas phase reforming reaction zone;
                 a gas flow conduit comprising an oxygen-containing gas inlet, a liquid
fuel inlet, a gaseous fuel inlet or oxygen-containing gas and gaseous fuel reforming
reaction mixture inlet, a first heating zone thermally coupled to a first heater, a second
heating zone thermally coupled to an internal and/or external source of heat, a liquid
fuel vaporizer, and a gaseous reforming reaction mixture outlet in gas-flow
communication with the liquid fuel and gaseous fuel reforming reaction zones;
                                             -2-

                  a gaseous reforming reaction mixture igniter in thermal
communication with each of the liquid and gaseous fuel reforming reaction zones;
and,
                  a hydrogen-rich reformate outlet.
[0009]        Further in accordance with the present disclosure, a method is provided for
reforming within a dual utilization liquid and gaseous fuel reformer comprising a
first, or liquid fuel, gas phase reforming reaction zone, a second, or gaseous fuel, gas
phase reforming reaction zone, or a common, or liquid and gaseous fuel, reforming
reaction zone, the method comprising:
                  (a)     reforming first gaseous reforming reaction mixture comprising
         oxygen-containing gas and vaporized liquid fuel within the first or common
         reforming reaction zone to produce hydrogen-rich reformate;
                  (b)     before or after reforming step (a), reforming second gaseous
         reforming reaction mixture comprising oxygen-containing gas and gaseous
         fuel within the second or common reforming reaction zone to produce
         hydrogen-rich reformate; and,
                  (c)     transitioning from reforming step (a) to reforming step (b) such
         that heat recovered from reforming step (a), with or without additional heat, is
         utilized to initiate reforming step (b), or transitioning from reforming step (b)
         to reforming step (a) such that heat recovered from reforming step (b), with or
         without additional heat, is utilized to vaporize liquid fuel and heat the second
         or common reforming reaction zone before the start of reforming step (a).
[0010]        The dual utilization liquid and gaseous fuel reformer and reforming
methods of this disclosure, given their capability for the selective reforming of liquid
and gaseous fuels, are able to effectively and efficiently respond to circumstances that
would tent to temporarily favor the reforming of one of these types of fuel over the
other. This capability for flexible and selective reforming of liquid and gaseous fuels,
whichever fuel may have the advantage in view of current circumstances, can be
especially advantageous where the reformer may be expected to operate in different
                                              -3-

locations as, for example, the case with a mobile or portable reformer in contrast to a
fixed-site reformer.
[0011]       Another major operational advantage of the reformesr and reforming
methods herein can be their capability for achieving a cold start, i.e., a start with little
or no heat available from a previous reforming operation, with gaseous fuel which
requires no preheating procedure and after only a relatively brief period of reforming
of gaseous fuel during which hot reformate heats up the vaporizer and CPOX reaction
zone, discontinuing reforming of the gaseous fuel and quickly transitioning to a
steady-state mode of reforming of liquid fuel. In effect, heat of exotherm recovered
from the initial reforming of gaseous fuel can be efficiently utilized by the reformer
upon switching over to reforming of liquid fuel to vaporize the fuel and preheat the
reaction zone. Operated in this manner, the reformer herein allows the subsequent
reforming of liquid fuel to dispense with a cold-start mode of operation and
immediately enter into a steady-state mode of operation.
BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
[0012]       It should be understood that the drawings described below are for
illustration purposes only. The drawings are not necessarily to scale, with emphasis
generally being placed upon illustrating the principles of the present teachings. The
drawings are not intended to limit the scope of the present teachings in any way. Like
numerals generally refer to like parts.
[0013]       FIGS. 1A and lB are schematic block diagrams of two embodiment of
dual utilization liquid and gaseous fuel reformer, specifically, a CPOX reformer, in
accordance with the present teachings and an exemplary control system for managing
their operation.
[0014]       FIGS. 2A and 2B are flowcharts of exemplary control routines executed
by a controller such as that illustrated in the embodiments of dual utilization liquid
and gaseous fuel reformers of FIGS. 1A and lB for managing the operation of the
reformers for reforming liquid fuel (FIG. 2A) and gaseous fuel (FIG. 2B).
[0015]       FIGS. 3A and 3B are flowcharts of exemplary control routines executed
by a controller such as that illustrated in the embodiments of dual utilization liquid
                                            -4-

and gaseous fuel reformers of FIGS. 1A and 1B for managing the operation of the
reformers when transitioned from reforming liquid fuel to reforming gaseous fuel
(FIG. 3A) and when transitioning from reforming gaseous fuel to reforming liquid
fuel (FIG. 3B).
[0016]       FIG. 4A is a longitudinal cross section view of an embodiment of dual
utilization gaseous and liquid fuel reformer in accordance with the present teachings.
FIG.4B illustrates a modification of the reformer of FIG. 4A in accordance with the
present teachings whereby the modified reactor comprises a single reactor having a
common reaction zone for the reforming of both liquid and gaseous fuels.
[0017]       FIG. 5 is longitudinal cross section view of another embodiment of CPOX
reformer in accordance with the present teachings featuring the use of heat recovered
from an eternal heat source in the operation of the reformer.
[0018]       FIGS. 6A and 6B present graphical data showing the relationship between
the molar ratios of oxygen to carbon of liquid fuel (diesel) and gaseous fuel (propane)
reforming reaction mixtures within the respective liquid fuel and gaseous fuel
reforming reaction zone(s) of the dual utilization gaseous and liquid fuel CPOX
reformer of the present teachings at varying percentages of maximum fuel conversion
capacity when the reformer is operating in a steady-state mode.
DETAILED DESCRIPTION
[0019]       It is to be understood that the present teachings herein are not limited to
the particular procedures, materials and modifications described and as such can vary.
It is also to be understood that the terminology used is for purposes of describing
particular embodiments only and is not intended to limit the scope of the present
teachings which will be limited only by the appended claims.
[0020]       For brevity, the discussion and description herein will mainly focus on
partial oxidation reforming reactions and reactants including catalytic partial
oxidation reforming reactions and reactants (a reformable fuel and an oxygen
containing gas). However, the devices, assemblies, systems and methods described
herein can apply to other reforming reactions such as steam reforming and
autothermal reforming and their respective reactants (a reformable fuel and steam,
                                             -5-

and a reformable fuel, steam and an oxygen-containing gas, respectively).
Accordingly, where an oxygen-containing gas is referenced herein in connection with
a device or method, the present teachings should be considered as including steam in
combination or alone, i.e., an oxygen-containing gas and/or steam, unless explicitly
stated otherwise or understood by the context. In addition, where a reformable fuel is
referenced herein in connection with a device or method, the present teachings should
be considered as including steam in combination or alone, i.e., a reformable fuel
and/or steam, unless explicitly stated otherwise or as understood by the context.
[0021]      In addition, the reformers and methods of the present teachings should be
understood to be suitable to carry out steam reforming and auto thermal reforming,
for example, within the same structure and components and/or with the same general
methods as described herein. That is, the reformers and methods of the present
teachings can deliver the appropriate liquid reactants, for example, liquid reformable
fuel and/or liquid water, from a liquid reformable fuel reservoir to a vaporizer to
create a vaporized liquid reformable fuel and steam, respectively, and the appropriate
gaseous reactants, for example, at least one of an oxygen-containing gas, a gaseous
reformable fuel and steam, from their respective sources to a desired component of a
fuel cell unit or system. In other words, various liquid reactants can be delivered
through the liquid delivery part of the system and various gaseous reactants can be
delivered through the gas delivery part of the system.
[0022]       Where water is used in the delivery system, recycled heat from one or
more of a reformer, a fuel cell stack and an afterburner of a fuel cell unit or system
can be used to vaporize the water to create steam, which can be present in the
delivery system and/or introduced into the delivery system from an independent
source.
[0023]      Throughout the application, where compositions are described as having,
including or comprising specific components, or where methods are described as
having, including, or comprising specific method steps, it is contemplated that such
compositions also consist essentially of, or consist of, the recited components and that
such methods also consist essentially of, or consist of, the recited method steps.
                                           -6-

[0024]      In the application, where an element or component is said to be included
in and/or selected from a list of recited elements or components, it should be
understood that the element or component can be any one of the recited elements or
components, or the element or component can be selected from a group consisting of
two or more of the recited elements or components. Further, it should be understood
that elements and/or features of a composition, an apparatus, or a method described
herein can be combined in a variety of ways without departing from the focus and
scope of the present teachings whether explicit or implicit therein. For example,
where reference is made to a particular structure, that structure can be used in various
embodiments of the apparatus and/or method of the present teachings.
[0025]      The use of the terms "include," "includes," "including," "have," "has,"
"having," "contain," "contains," or "containing," including grammatical equivalents
thereof, should be generally understood as open-ended and non-limiting, for example,
not excluding additional unrecited elements or steps, unless otherwise specifically
stated or understood from the context.
[0026]      The use of the singular herein, for example, "a," "an," and "the," includes
the plural (and vice versa) unless specifically stated otherwise.
[0027]      Where the use of the term "about" is before a quantitative value, the
present teachings also include the specific quantitative value itself, unless specifically
stated otherwise. As used herein, the term "about" refers to a ±10% variation from
the nominal value unless otherwise indicated or inferred.
[0028]      It should be understood that the order of steps or order for performing
certain actions is immaterial so long as the present teachings remain operable. For
example, the methods described herein can be performed in any suitable order unless
otherwise indicated herein or otherwise clearly contradicted by context. Moreover,
two or more steps or actions can be conducted simultaneously.
[0029]      At various places in the present specification, values are disclosed in
groups or in ranges. It is specifically intended that a range of numerical values
disclosed herein include each and every value within the range and any subrange
thereof. For example, a numerical value within the range of 0 to 40 is specifically
intended to individually disclose 0, 1, 2,3,4,5,6,7,8,9,10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16,
                                            -7-

17,18,19,20,21,22,23,24,25,26,27,28,29,30,31,32,33,34,35,36,37,38,39
and 40, and any subrange thereof, for example, from 0 to 20, from 10 to 30, from 20
to 40, etc.
[0030]       The use of any and all examples, or exemplary language provided herein,
for example, "such as," is intended merely to better illuminate the present teachings
and does not pose a limitation on the scope of the invention unless claimed. No
language in the specification should be construed as indicating any non-claimed
element as essential to the practice of the present teachings.
[0031]       Terms and expressions indicating spatial orientation or attitude such as
"upper," "lower," "top," "bottom," "horizontal," "vertical," and the like, unless their
contextual usage indicates otherwise, are to be understood herein as having no
structural, functional or operational significance and as merely reflecting the
arbitrarily chosen orientation of the various views of liquid fuel CPOX reformers of
the present teachings illustrated in certain of the accompanying figures.
[0032]       As used herein, a "reformable fuel" refers to a liquid reformable fuel
and/or a gaseous reformable fuel.
[0033]       The term "ceramic," in addition to its art-recognized meaning, shall be
understood herein to include glasses, glass-ceramics and cermets (i.e., ceramic-metal
composites).
[0034]       The expression "gas permeable" as it applies to a wall of a CPOX reactor
unit herein shall be understood to mean a wall structure that is permeable to gaseous
CPOX reaction mixtures and gaseous product reformate including, without limitation,
the vaporized liquid reformable fuel component of the gaseous CPOX reaction
mixture and the hydrogen component of the product reformate.
[0035]       The expression "liquid reformable fuel" shall be understood to include
reformable carbon- and hydrogen-containing fuels that are a liquid at standard
temperature and pressure (STP) conditions, for example, methanol, ethanol, naphtha,
distillate, gasoline, kerosene, jet fuel, diesel, biodiesel, and the like, that when
subjected to reforming undergo conversion to hydrogen-rich reformates. The
expression "liquid reformable fuel" shall be further understood to include such fuels
whether they are in the liquid state or in the gaseous state, i.e., a vapor.
                                             -8-

[0036]      As used herein, "gaseous refonning reaction mixture" refers to a mixture
including a gaseous liquid reformable fuel (e.g., a vaporized liquid reformable fuel), a
gaseous reformable fuel or combinations thereof, and an oxygen-containing gas (e.g.,
air) and/or water (e.g., in the form of steam). A gaseous reforming reaction mixture
can be subjected to a reforming reaction to create a hydrogen-rich product
("reformate"), which also can contain carbon monoxide. Where a catalytic partial
oxidation reforming reaction is to be carried out, the gaseous reforming reaction
mixture can be referred to a "gaseous CPOX reforming reaction mixture," which
includes a reformable fuel and an oxygen-containing gas. Where a steam reforming
reaction is to be carried out, the gaseous reforming reaction mixture can be referred to
as a "gaseous steam reforming reaction mixture," which includes a reformable fuel
and steam. Where an autothermal reforming reaction is to be carried out, the gaseous
reforming reaction mixture can be referred to as a "gaseous AT reforming reaction
mixture," which includes a reformable fuel, an oxygen-containing gas and steam.
[0037]      The expression "gaseous reformable fuel" shall be understood to include
reformable carbon- and hydrogen-containing fuels that are a gas at STP conditions,
for example, methane, ethane, propane, butane, isobutane, ethylene, propylene,
butylene, isobutylene, dimethyl ether, their mixtures, such as natural gas and liquefied
natural gas (LNG), which are mainly methane, and petroleum gas and liquefied
petroleum gas (LPG), which are mainly propane or butane but include all mixtures
made up primarily of propane and butane, ammonia, and the like, that when subjected
to reforming undergo conversion to hydrogen-rich reformates.
[0038]      The term "reforming reaction" shall be understood to include the
exothermic and/or endothermic reaction(s) that occur during the conversion of a
gaseous reaction medium to a hydrogen-rich reformate. The expression "reforming
reaction" herein therefore includes, for example, CPOX, autothermal and steam
reforming.
[0039]      The expression "CPOX reaction" shall be understood to include the
reaction(s) that occur during catalytic partial oxidation reforming or conversion of a
reformable fuel to a hydrogen-rich reformate.
                                            -9-

[0040]       The expression "gaseous CPOX reaction mixture" refers to a mixture of
gaseous reformable fuel or vaporized liquid reformable fuel, and an oxygen
containing gas, for example, air.
[0041]       The expression "open gaseous flow passageway" refers to a conduit or
channel for the passage of gas therethrough where a solid, including a porous solid or
material, is not present across the entire cross-sectional plane of the conduit or
channel, i.e., a conduit or channel free of solids, including porous solids. For
example, in the case of a CPOX reactor unit, CPOX catalyst including a porous
catalyst such as a monolith cannot be present across the entire internal cross-sectional
plane perpendicular to the longitudinal axis of a tubular CPOX reactor unit. Such a
structure is distinct from passageways that are packed with a porous catalyst. An
open gaseous flow passageway can also be present in a CPOX reactor unit which can
be defined as a tube which defines a hollow bore, or a cylindrical substrate defining a
hollow bore therethrough along its longitudinal axis. In these exemplary descriptions,
the hollow bore can be considered an open gaseous flow passageway. Although an
open gaseous flow passageway usually can extend along a longitudinal axis of a
CPOX reactor unit, a tortuous conduit or channel is also contemplated by the present
teachings and can be capable of having an open gaseous flow passageway provided
that the tortuous conduit or channel is free of solids across a cross-sectional plane of
the CPOX reactor unit. It should also be understood that the cross-sectional
dimension(s) of an open gaseous flow passageway can vary along its longitudinal axis
or along the tortuous conduit or channel.
[0042]       The expression "cold start-up mode of reforming" shall be understood
herein to refer to a start-up mode of operation of the reformer wherein there is little or
no heat recoverable from a previous reforming operation. A reformer at essentially
ambient temperature requires a cold start-up mode of operation before it can enter
into a steady-state mode of reforming.
[0043]       The expression "hot start-up mode of operation of reforming" shall be
understood herein to refer to a start-up mode of operation of the reformer wherein
residual heat recovered from a previous exothermic reforming operation is effectively
utilized to facilitate transitioning from the processing of liquid fuel to the processing
                                            - 10 -

of gaseous fuel and, conversely, transitioning from the processing of gaseous fuel to
the processing of liquid fuel.
[0044]       Again, as stated previously for brevity, the discussion and description
herein will focus on partial oxidation reforming reactions and reactants including
catalytic partial oxidation reforming reactions and reactants (a reformable fuel and an
oxygen-containing gas). However, the devices, assemblies, systems and methods
described herein can equally apply to other reforming reactions such as steam
reforming and autothermal reforming and their respective reactants. For example, for
steam reforming steam can replace an oxygen-containing gas in the description
herein. For autothermal reforming, steam can be introduced along with an
oxygen-containing gas and/or a reformable fuel in the description herein.
[0045]       The dual utilization liquid and gaseous fuel reformer and method of
reforming herein are capable of processing either a liquid or gaseous fuel and after a
shut-down period during which heat of exotherm produced by reforming has largely
dissipated, for example, to such an extent that the reactor has reached ambient or
near-ambient air temperature, and thereafter switching over to operating on the other
type of fuel.
[0046]       The reformer and method of reforming herein are also capable of initially
processing liquid fuel and thereafter transitioning to processing gaseous fuel, in this
way utilizing heat of exotherm recovered from the conversion of liquid fuel to
reformate, possibly augmented by additional heat supplied, for example, by an
electrical resistance heater unit, to initiate the conversion of gaseous fuel.
[0047]       The reactor and method of reforming herein are also capable of initially
processing gaseous fuel and thereafter transitioning to processing liquid fuel, this time
utilizing heat of exotherm recovered from the conversion of gaseous fuel, with or
without additional heat, to vaporize the liquid fuel and heat the reforming reaction
zone prior to conducting the conversion of the liquid fuel to reformate.
[0048]       In particular embodiments, a vaporizer for vaporizing liquid reformable
fuel is in fluid flow communication with the inlet of the reforming reaction zone
wherein conversation of the liquid fuel to reformate is made to take place. The
                                             - 11 -

vaporizer can be operated to eliminate or reduce the risk of heating the fuel to a
temperature at or above its flash point and/or causing appreciable pyrolysis of fuel.
[0049]      In various embodiments, an igniter for initiating the reaction within a
reforming reaction zone, for example, during a start-up mode of operation of the
reformer, is in thermal communication with a reforming reaction zone.
[0050]      The dual utilization liquid and gaseous fuel reformer herein can comprise
a single reaction zone, or in other embodiments, a plurality, or array, of spaced-apart
tubular reforming reactor units, each reactor unit having its own reforming reaction
zone. A hydrogen barrier can be attached to the external surface of at least the wall
section of such tubular reforming reactor unit corresponding to its reforming reaction
zone in order to prevent or inhibit the loss of hydrogen therefrom.
[0051]      The dual utilization liquid and gaseous fuel reformer of the present
teachings can include a conduit for managing the flow of gas(es) to its reforming
reaction zone(s). The conduit can include an inlet for the admission of oxygen
containing gas, an inlet for the admission of liquid fuel, vaporized liquid fuel or both,
an inlet for the admission of gaseous fuel or mixture of oxygen-containing gas and
gaseous fuel, and an outlet for gaseous reforming reaction mixture. The conduit is
advantageously U-shaped for a more compact reformer configuration.
[0052]      In certain embodiments, the reformer herein can have a split routing
system for directing the flow of the oxygen-containing gas component of the gaseous
reforming reaction mixture where one portion of the oxygen-containing gas can be
combined with vaporized liquid in order to provide a relatively fuel-rich gaseous
reaction mixture which is resistant to flashing and another portion of the oxygen
containing gas can be combined with the fuel-rich reaction mixture such as to provide
a gaseous reforming reaction mixture that comes within a preset molar ratio of
oxygen to carbon for a desired CPOX reforming reaction.
[0053]      In some embodiments, a manifold, or plenum, in fluid communication
with the inlets of reforming reactor units comprising the aforedescribed plurality, or
array, of such units can be configured to provide a more uniform distribution of
gaseous reforming reaction mixture thereto, for example, at a substantially uniform
composition, at a substantially uniform temperature and/or at a substantially uniform
                                           - 12 -

rate. In certain embodiments, the manifold can have a housing or enclosure that
defines a manifold chamber. The manifold or manifold chamber can include a gas
distributor, for example, a gas distributor disposed within the manifold chamber, for
more evenly distributing gaseous reforming reaction mixture to the inlets of the
reforming reactor units. The manifold housing, or manifold enclosure, can be
fabricated from a relatively low cost, readily moldable thermoplastic or thermosetting
resin and/or can feature "cold seal" connections between its outlets and the inlets of
the CPOX reactor units.
[0054]       The reformer of the present teachings includes a first heating zone and
first heater thermally linked thereto operable during a start-up mode of operation of
the reformer to heat oxygen-containing gas introduced into the conduit within an
initial range of elevated temperature. The reformer also includes a second heating
zone and internal or external source of heat thermally linked thereto operable during a
steady-state mode of operation of the reformer to heat oxygen-containing gas to
within an initial range of elevated temperature.
[0055]       The reformer of the present teachings can also include a third heating zone
and second heater thermally linked thereto operable during start-up and steady-state
modes of operation of the reformer to heat oxygen-containing gas to within a further
elevated range of elevated temperature.
[0056]       The reformer of the present teachings can include a mixer, for example, a
static mixer, disposed within a mixing zone, in order to more uniformly mix oxygen
containing gas and vaporized liquid reformable fuel.
[0057]       The reformer of the present teachings can include a reformate processing
unit or device, for example, a carbon monoxide removal device to reduce the carbon
monoxide content of the product reformate. A reformate processing unit or device
can include a water gas shift converter, a preferential oxidation reactor, and/or a
hydrogen-selective membrane for separating reformate into a hydrogen stream and a
carbon monoxide-containing stream.
[0058]       In various embodiments, the reformer of the present teachings can include
one or more outlets for hydrogen-rich reformate directly connected to inlet(s) of
another device, for example, a fuel cell.
                                           - 13 -

[0059]       A reformer of the present teachings can include thermal insulation for
reducing heat loss from the reforming reaction zone(s) and/or other heat-radiating
components of the reformer.
[0060]       The reformer of the present teachings can include a gaseous stream driver
for driving gaseous flow to, within and/or through the reformer. For example, the
gaseous stream driver can be a single centrifugal blower unit or a blower system
comprising a series of interconnected blower units. A blower or blower unit in a
series can include a casing having an axial inlet and a radial outlet, an impeller
disposed within the casing for drawing in a gas, for example, an oxygen-containing
gas such as air, in the axial inlet and expelling the gas through the radial outlet; and a
motor for driving the impeller. In certain embodiments, the blower can draw in a gas
at a first pressure and expel the gas at a second, for example, higher, pressure. A
blower can also include a duct connecting the radial outlet of at least one blower unit
in the series with the axial inlet of at least one other blower unit in the series.
[0061]       A reformer of the present teachings can include a liquid fuel pump.
Examples of suitable liquid fuel pumps include metering pumps, rotary pumps,
impeller pumps, diaphragm pumps, peristaltic pumps, positive displacement pumps,
gear pumps, piezoelectric pumps, electrokinetic pumps, electroosmotic pumps,
capillary pumps and the like.
[0062]       A reformer of the present teachings can include one or more sensor
assemblies for monitoring and controlling reformer operation. Examples of sensor
assemblies include flow meters, thermocouples, thermistors and resistance
temperature detectors.
[0063]       A reformer of the present teachings also can include a controller for
automating the operation of the reformer in its start-up, steady-state and/or shut-down
modes. The controller can include a plurality of sensor assemblies such as those
aforementioned in communication therewith.
[0064]       The dual utilization liquid and gaseous fuel reformer and method of
reforming according to the present teachings are described generally above and
elsewhere herein. The following description with reference to the figures of drawing
embellishes upon certain of these features and others of the reformer and reforming
                                             - 14 -

method of the present teachings and should be understood to discuss various and
specific embodiments without limiting the essence of the invention and that can be
applicable to the discussion above.
[0065]      Referring now to the drawings, FIGS. 1A and 1B illustrate embodiments
of the dual utilization liquid and gaseous fuel CPOX reformer in accordance with the
present teachings.
[0066]      As shown in FIG. 1A, dual utilization liquid and gaseous fuel CPOX
reformer 100 includes centrifugal blower 102 for introducing oxygen-containing gas,
exemplified here and in the other embodiments of the present teachings by air, into
conduit 103, and for driving this and other gaseous streams (inclusive of vaporized
fuel-air mixture(s) and hydrogen-rich reformates) through the various passageways,
including the open gaseous flow passageways of tubular CPOX reactor units 109 of
the reformer. Conduit 103 can include flow meter 104 and thermocouple 105. These
and similar devices can be placed at various locations within CPOX reformer 100 in
order to measure, monitor and control the operation of the reformer as more fully
explained below in connection with controller 126.
[0067]      In an ambient temperature, or "cold", start-up mode of operation of CPOX
reformer 100 in which a first gaseous CPOX reaction mixture (i.e., oxygen-containing
gas and vaporized liquid fuel) is made to undergo conversion to hydrogen-rich
reformate, air at ambient temperature, introduced by blower 102 into conduit 103,
passes through first heating zone 106, where the air is initially heated by first heater
107, for example, of the electrical resistance type, to within a preset, or targeted, first
range of elevated temperature at a given rate of flow. The initially heated air then
passes through heat transfer zone 108 which in the steady-state mode of operation of
CPOX reformer 100 is heated by heat of exotherm recovered from the CPOX reaction
occurring within CPOX reaction zones 110 of tubular CPOX reactor units 109. Once
such steady-state operation of reformer 100 is achieved, i.e., upon the CPOX reaction
within CPOX reaction zones 110 becoming self-sustaining, the thermal output of first
heater 107 can be reduced or its operation discontinued since the incoming air will
have already been heated by passage through heat transfer zone 108 to within, or
approaching, its first range of elevated temperature.
                                           - 15 -

[0068]       Continuing further downstream within conduit 103, the air which has
initially been heated, either by passage through first heating zone 106 during a start
up mode of operation or by passage through heat transfer zone 108 during a steady
state mode of operation, passes through second heating zone 111 where it is further
heated by second heater 112, which can also be of the electrical resistance type, to
within a second range of elevated temperature. Second heater 112 operates to top-off
the temperature of the previously heated air thereby satisfying several operational
requirements of CPOX reformer 100 when processing liquid fuel, namely, assisting in
the regulation and fine-tuning of the thermal requirements of the reformer on a rapid
response and as-needed basis, providing sufficient heat for the subsequent
vaporization of liquid reformable fuel introduced further downstream into conduit
103 and providing heated gaseous CPOX reaction mixture.
[0069]       Liquid reformable fuel, exemplified here and in other embodiments of the
present teachings by diesel, is continuously introduced from storage via pump 113
through fuel line 114, equipped with optional flow meter 115 and optional flow
control valve 116, and into conduit 103 where the fuel is vaporized by vaporizer
system 117 utilizing heat provided by heated air flowing from second heating zone
111. The vaporized, i.e., gaseous, fuel combines with the stream of heated air in
mixing zone 118 of conduit 103. A mixer, for example, a static mixer such as in-line
mixer 119, and/or vortex-creating helical grooves formed within the internal surface
of conduit 103, or an externally powered mixer (not shown), are disposed within
mixing zone 118 of conduit 103 in order to provide a more uniform vaporized liquid
fuel-air gaseous CPOX reaction mixture than would otherwise be the case.
[0070]       The heated vaporized liquid fuel-air CPOX reaction mixture enters
manifold, or plenum, 120 which functions to distribute the reaction mixture more
evenly and, for example, at a more uniform temperature, into tubular CPOX reactor
units 109. While the conduit and the manifold will ordinarily be surrounded by
thermal insulation (e.g., insulation 410 of CPOX reformer 400 illustrated in
FIG. 4A), the CPOX reaction mixture can still undergo a drop in temperature due to
heat loss through the walls of the manifold, which typically has a greater volume, and
hence a greater wall surface area, than that of a comparable length of conduit 103.
                                          - 16 -

Another factor that can cause a drop in the temperature of the CPOX reaction mixture
within manifold 120 is the reduction in pressure and velocity which the reaction
mixture undergoes as it exits conduit 103 and enters the larger space of manifold 120.
[0071]      Reductions in the temperature of a CPOX reaction mixture due to either of
these factors, particularly those occurring in regions of the reaction mixture that are
proximate to, or in contact with interior walls, corners and/or other recesses of
manifold 120, can induce localized condensation of vaporized fuel. To minimize the
possibility of such condensation, a manifold can be provided with means for
maintaining the temperature of the gaseous CPOX reaction mixture above the
condensation threshold of its vaporized fuel component. For example, as shown in
FIG. 1A, heater 121 of the electrical resistance type, and thermocouple or thermistor
probe 122 for purposes of temperature control, are disposed within manifold 120 in
order to accomplish this objective. As an alternative to a heater or in addition thereto,
a reformer can be provided with thermally conductive structure(s), (e.g., thermally
conductive elements 434 of the CPOX reformer illustrated in FIG. 4A) for
transferring heat of exotherm recovered from the CPOX reaction occurring within
CPOX reaction zones 110 of tubular CPOX reactor units 109 to such locations within
the manifold where the potential for condensation of fuel vapor can be greatest, for
example, wall surfaces in the vicinity of the fuel-air outlets and/or other sites such as
comers and other recesses of the manifold that could cause localized condensation of
vaporized fuel.
[0072]      From manifold 120, the heated CPOX reaction mixture is introduced into
tubular CPOX reactor units 109. In a "cold" start-up mode of operation of CPOX
reformer 100, igniter 123 initiates the CPOX reaction of the gaseous CPOX reaction
mixture within CPOX reaction zones 110 of tubular CPOX reactor units 109 thereby
commencing the production of hydrogen-rich reformate. Once steady-state CPOX
reaction temperatures have been achieved (e.g., 250 'C to 1,100 'C), the reaction
becomes self-sustaining and operation of the igniter can be discontinued.
Thermocouples 124 and 125 are provided to monitor the temperatures of,
respectively, the vaporization operation occurring within conduit 103 and the CPOX
                                          - 17  -

reaction occurring within CPOX reactor units 109, the temperature measurements
being relayed as monitored parameters to reformer control system 126.
[0073]       As further shown in FIG. 1A, in an ambient temperature, or "cold", start
up mode of operation of CPOX reformer in which a second CPOX reaction mixture
comprising oxygen-containing gas and gaseous fuel is made to undergo conversion to
hydrogen-rich reformate, air introduced by blower 102 into conduit 103 combines
with gaseous reformable fuel, exemplified here and in the other embodiments of the
present teachings by propane, introduced into conduit 103 at a relatively low pressure
from gaseous fuel storage tank 131 through gaseous fuel line 132 equipped with
optional thermocouple 133, flow meter 134 and flow control valve 135. Air
introduced by blower 102 and propane introduced into conduit 103 through gaseous
fuel line 132 into conduit 103 initially combine in mixing zone 136 occupied by static
mixer 137 and emerge therefrom as a more uniform propane-air CPOX reaction
mixture than would otherwise be the case. The propane-air mixture then enters first
heating zone 106 where it is heated to gaseous fuel CPOX reaction temperature by
first heater 107, effectively functioning as an igniter for the CPOX reaction mixture,
thereby commencing the production of hydrogen-rich reformate. First heating zone
106 may be disposed proximate to gaseous fuel CPOX reaction zone 138 (as shown)
or be partly or completely coincident therewith. Gaseous fuel CPOX reaction zone
138 is shown as coincident with heat transfer zone 108. Once a steady-state CPOX
reaction temperature has been achieved in CPOX reaction zone 138 (e.g. 250 C to
1,100 C), the reaction becomes self-sustaining and operation of first heater 107 can
be discontinued.
[0074]       When CPOX reactor 100 is operated in such manner as to transition from
a steady-state mode of liquid fuel CPOX reforming to a "hot" start-up mode of
gaseous fuel CPOX reforming, residual heat recovered from CPOX reaction zones
110 of tubular CPOX reactor units 109, with or without the input of additional heat, is
transferred to heat transfer zone 108, and therefore CPOX reaction zone 138, where
such heat serves to ignite the air-propane mixture commencing the production of
hydrogen rich reformate.
                                           - 18 -

[0075]      Conversely, when CPOX reactor 100 is operated in such manner as to
transition from a steady state mode of gaseous fuel CPOX reforming to a "hot" start
up mode of liquid fuel CPOX reforming, residual heat recovered from CPOX reaction
zone 138, with or without the input of additional heat, is transferred to air introduced
into conduit 103, the heated air then being utilized to vaporize liquid fuel as
previously explained in connection with liquid fuel CPOX operation of the reactor,
and to preheat CPOX reaction zones 110 of CPOX reactor units 109.
[0076]      Where, as shown in FIG. 1A, heat transfer zone 108 of CPOX reactor 100
is provided to transfer heat recovered from CPOX reaction taking place within CPOX
reaction zones 110 to gas(es) flowing through zone 108, it is within the scope of the
present invention to omit gaseous CPOX catalyst 129 and with or without the
operation of first heater 107, to process the gaseous fuel-air CPOX reaction mixture
in the same tubular CPOX reactor units 109 used for processing a vaporized liquid
fuel-air CPOX reaction mixture. In this embodiment of the CPOX reactor (illustrated
in FIG. 4B), CPOX reaction zones 110 of tubular CPOX reactor units 109 function as
a single, shared or common CPOX reaction zone selectively operable to process
liquid or gaseous CPOX fuel.
[0077]      CPOX reactor 150 illustrated in FIG. lB is essentially identical to CPOX
reactor 100 shown in FIG. 1A except that in the former, gaseous fuel line 132
connects to inlet 160 of duct 161 connecting centrifugal blower units 162 and 163 of
centrifugal blower system 164 whereas in the latter, gaseous fuel line 132 connects to
inlet 103 at mixing zone 136 occupied by static mixer 137. In the CPOX reactor of
FIG. IB, air drawn into blower unit 162 on being expelled therefrom combines with
gaseous fuel introduced through inlet 160 into duct 161, the gaseous fuel-air stream
then entering blower unit 163 where it is expelled therefrom as a well-mixed uniform
CPOX reaction medium. This arrangement advantageously dispenses with mixing
zone 136 and static mixer 137 of CPOX reactor 100 of FIG. 1A while providing
perhaps an even more uniform reaction mixture, one formed without an
accompanying increase in back pressure.
[0078]      If desired, product effluent or hydrogen-rich reformate from liquid CPOX
reformer 100 can be introduced into one or more conventional or otherwise known
                                           - 19 -

carbon monoxide removal devices 128 for the reduction of its carbon monoxide (CO)
content, for example, where the product effluent is to be introduced as fuel to a fuel
cell stack utilizing a catalyst that is particularly susceptible to poisoning by CO, for
example, a polymer electrolyte membrane fuel cell. Thus, for example, the product
effluent can be introduced into a water gas shift (WGS) converter wherein CO is
converted to carbon dioxide (C0 2 ) while at the same time producing additional
hydrogen, or the product effluent can be introduced into a reactor wherein CO is
made to undergo preferential oxidation (PROX) to CO 2 . CO reduction can also be
carried out employing a combination of these processes, for example, WGS followed
by PROX and vice versa.
[0079]       It is also within the scope of the present teachings to reduce the level of
CO in the product reformate by passage of the product reformate through a known or
conventional clean-up unit or device equipped with a hydrogen-selective membrane
providing separation of the product reformate into a hydrogen stream and a
CO-containing by-product stream. Units/devices of this kind can also be combined
with one or more other CO-reduction units such as the aforementioned WGS
converter and/or PROX reactor.
[0080]       Reformer 100 can also include a source of electrical current, for example,
rechargeable lithium-ion battery system 127, to provide power for its electrically
driven components such as blower 102, flow meters 104 and 115, heaters 107, 112
and 121, liquid fuel pump 113, flow control valves 116 and 135, igniter 123, and
thermocouples 105, 122, 124, 125 and 133, and, if desired, to store surplus electricity
for later use.
[0081]       Controller 126 is provided for controlling the operations of a liquid fuel
CPOX reformer 100 in its start-up, steady-state and shut-down modes, when
operation. The controller can be software operating on a processor. However, it is
within the scope of the present teachings to employ a controller that is implemented
with one or more digital or analog circuits, or combinations thereof.
[0082]       Controller 126 further includes a plurality of sensor assemblies, for
example, flow meters 104 and 115, thermocouples 105, 122, 124, 125 and 133, and
                                             - 20 -

the like, in communication with the controller and adapted to monitor selected
operating parameters of CPOX reformer 100.
[0083]       In response to input signals from the sensor assemblies, user commands
from a user-input device and/or programmed subroutines and command sequences,
controller 126 can manage the operations of the CPOX reformer in accordance with
the present teachings. More specifically, controller 126 can communicate with a
control signal-receiving portion of the desired section or component of CPOX
reformer 100 by sending command signals thereto directing a particular action. Thus,
for example, in response to liquid fuel flow rate input signals from flow meters 104
and 115 and/or temperature input signals from thermocouples 105, 122, 124, 125 and
133, controller 126 can, for example, send control signals to liquid fuel pump 113
and/or liquid fuel flow control valve 116, to control the flow of liquid fuel through
fuel line 114 to conduit 103, to centrifugal blower 102 to control the flow of air into
conduit 103 and drive the flow of heated gaseous CPOX reaction mixture within and
through CPOX reformer units 109, to first and second heater units 107 and 112 to
control their thermal output, to manifold heater 121 to control its thermal output, to
igniter 123 to control its on-off states, and to battery/battery recharger system 127 to
manage its functions. Similarly, in response to gaseous flow rate input signals from
flow meter 134 and/or temperature input signals from thermocouple 133, controller
126 can send control signals to gaseous fuel flow control valve 136 to control the
flow of gaseous fuel through line 132, to centrifugal blower 102 to control the flow of
air into conduit 103, to first and second heater units 107 and 112 and manifold heater
121 to control their on-off states ( the off state when reformer 100 is processing
gaseous fuel) and igniter 123 to control its on-off state.
[0084]       The sensor assemblies, control signal-receiving devices and
communication pathways herein can be of any suitable construction such as those
known in the art. The sensor assemblies can include any suitable sensor devices for
the operating parameters being monitored. For example, fuel flow rates can be
monitored with any suitable flow meter, pressures can be monitored with any suitable
pressure-sensing or pressure-regulating device, and the like. The sensor assemblies
can also, but do not necessarily, include a transducer in communication with the
                                            - 21 -

controller. The communication pathways will ordinarily be wired electrical signals
but any other suitable form of communication pathway can also be employed.
[0085]      In FIG. 1A, communication pathways are schematically illustrated as
single- or double-headed arrows. An arrow terminating at controller 126
schematically represents an input signal such as the value of a measured flow rate or
measured temperature. An arrow extending from controller 126 schematically
represents a control signal sent to direct a responsive action from the component at
which the arrow terminates. Dual-headed pathways schematically represent that
controller 126 not only sends command signals to corresponding components of
CPOX reformer 100 to provide a determined responsive action, but also receives
operating inputs from CPOX reformer 100 and various components thereof
mechanical units such as fuel pump 113 and carbon monoxide removal device 128.
[0086]      FIGS. 2A and 2B present flow charts of exemplary control routines that
can be executed by a controller such as controller 126 of FIGS. 1A and 1B to
automate the operations of dual utilization liquid and gaseous fuel CPOX reformer in
accordance with the present teachings when, respectively, processing liquid fuel and
gaseous fuel in accordance with the present teachings. Similarly, FIGS. 3A and 3B
present flow charts of exemplary control routines than can be executed by a controller
such as controller 126 of FIGS. 1A and 1B to automate the operations of a CPOX
reactor herein when, respectively, made to transition from processing liquid fuel to
gaseous fuel (FIG. 3A) and transition from processing gaseous fuel to liquid fuel
(FIG. 3B). The flow charts can be executed by a controller at a fixed interval, for
example, every 10 milliseconds or so. The control logic illustrated in FIGS. 2A, 2B,
3A and 3B perform several functions including the management of gaseous flows,
heating and fuel vaporization in the case of liquid fuel reforming and reforming
reaction temperatures in start-up and steady-state modes of operation and
management of the procedure for the shut-down mode of reformer operation.
[0087]      As shown in the various views of exemplary dual utilization liquid and
gaseous fuel CPOX reformer 400 illustrated in FIG. 4A, which is further
representative of the present teachings, air as an oxygen-containing gas is introduced
at ambient temperature and at a preset mass flow rate via centrifugal blower system
                                           - 22 -

402 through inlet 403 of main conduit 404, which includes a generally U-shaped
conduit section favoring compactness. The ambient temperature air is initially heated
in the start-up mode operation of the reformer to within a preset range of elevated
temperature by passage through first heating zone 405 supplied with heat from first
heater unit 406. First heater unit 406 and second heater unit 413 downstream
therefrom can be of a conventional or otherwise known electrical resistance type
rated, for example, at from 10 to 80 watts or even greater depending upon the
designed range of liquid fuel processing capacity of the reformer. Such heaters are
capable of raising the temperature of ambient air introduced into main conduit 404 to
a desired level for a relatively wide range of CPOX reformer configurations and
operating capacities. During the steady-state mode of operation of CPOX reformer
400, first heater unit 406 can be shut off, the air introduced into main conduit 404
then being initially heated within heat transfer zone 407 by heat of exotherm
recovered from CPOX reaction zones 409 of elongate tubular gas-permeable CPOX
reactor units 408. In this manner, the temperature of the air introduced into conduit
404 can be increased from ambient to within some preset elevated range of
temperature with the particular temperature being influenced by a variety of design,
i.e., structural and operational, factors as those skilled in the art will readily
recognize.
[0088]       Thermal insulation 410, for example, of the microporous or alumina-based
refractory type, surrounds most of main conduit 404 and those portions of CPOX
reactor units 408 corresponding to their CPOX reaction zones 409 in order to reduce
thermal losses from these components.
[0089]       As the heated air flows downstream within main conduit 404, it can be
split, or divided, into two streams with one stream continuing to course through main
conduit 404 and the other stream being diverted into branch conduit 411 from which
it exits to re-enter main conduit 404 at merger zone 421 there to merge with
vaporized fuel-air mixing passing from first mixing zone 420 (having a first static
mixer and/or a helically-grooved internal wall surface disposed therein). The merged
gases then enter second mixing zone 422 (similarly having a second static mixture
and/or a helically-grooved internal wall surface disposed therein) to provide a
                                            - 23 -

gaseous CPOX reaction mixture of fairly uniform composition for introduction
through outlet 425 into gas distributor 427 of manifold 426, the structure and
operation of which are more fully described herein.
[0090]      By splitting the total amount of air for the desired CPOX reaction into two
streams, the amount of vaporized liquid fuel component contained in the fuel-air
mixture that starts to form as just-vaporized fuel and heated air begin to combine can
be kept high in proportion to the oxygen content of the air component thus
eliminating or reducing the possibility that some region(s) of this non-uniform initial
fuel-air mixture will contain a concentration of oxygen that is sufficiently high to
support ignition with consequent coke formation. Once the initial fuel-air mixture
passes through the first static mixer disposed within a first mixing zone thereby
attaining a degree of compositional uniformity that makes the presence of ignition
inducing regions of relatively high oxygen concentration much less likely, the
somewhat more uniform fuel-air mixture can then merge with the second heated air
stream exiting branch conduit 411 at merger zone 421 thereby satisfying the preset 0
to C molar ratio of the desired CPOX reaction mixture. This fuel-air mixture can then
flow through the second static mixer disposed within second mixing zone 422 to
provide a more compositionally uniform gaseous CPOX reaction mixture just prior to
the mixture entering gas distributor 427 of manifold 426.
[0091]      To raise the temperature of the air that had been initially heated by
passage through first heating zone 405 and/or heat transfer zone 407, as the initially
heated air continues to flow downstream in main conduit 404, it is routed through
second heating zone 412 supplied with heat from second heater unit 413. Because
second heater unit 413 need only increase the temperature of the initially heated air
by a relatively small extent, it can function as an incremental heater capable of
making the typically small adjustments in air temperature that are conducive to
precise and rapid thermal management of the reformer both with regard to the
functioning of its fuel vaporization system, described herein, and its tubular CPOX
reactor units 408.
[0092]      A liquid reformable fuel such as any of those mentioned above, and
exemplified in this and the other embodiments of the present teachings by diesel fuel,
                                           - 24 -

is introduced via fuel line 414 terminating within main conduit 404 in liquid fuel
spreader device 415, for example, wick 416 or spray device (not shown).
[0093]       Any conventional or otherwise known pump device 418 for introducing
liquid fuel to CPOX reformer 400, for example, a metering pump, rotary pump,
impeller pump, diaphragm pump, peristaltic pump, positive displacement pump such
as a gerotor, gear pump, piezoelectric pump, electrokinetic pump, electroosmotic
pump, capillary pump, and the like, can be utilized for this purpose. As indicated
above, the pressurized liquid fuel can be spread within main conduit 404 by a wick or
as a fine spray or otherwise in droplet form by any of such conventional or otherwise
known spray devices as fuel injectors, pressurized nozzles, atomizers (including those
of the ultrasonic type), nebulizers, and the like. First and second heater unit 406 and
413 and fuel spreader device 415 can function in unison to vaporize liquid fuel
introduced into main conduit 404 and together constitute the principal components of
the fuel vaporizer system of reformer 400 . In some embodiments, a pump or
equivalent device can deliver the fuel on an intermittent or pulsed flow basis or
substantially continuous flow. In particular embodiments, a pump or equivalent
device can make rapid adjustments in fuel flow rate in response to changing CPOX
reformer operating requirements.
[0094]       Although CPOX reformer 400 can use any source of heat for driving
vaporization of the liquid fuel during the start-up mode of operation, for example, a
heater of the electrical resistance type (as in the case of heaters 406 and 413),
especially where vaporization of the fuel is made to take place outside main conduit
404, the embodiment of liquid CPOX reformer illustrated in FIG. 4A employs heater
413 to not only incrementally raise the temperature of the initially heated ambient
temperature air but to heat the liquid fuel prior to its introduction into main conduit
404 and to provide sufficient heat for vaporizing the fuel once it enters the conduit.
This optional provision for heating liquid fuel prior to its introduction into main
conduit 404 can make it possible to vaporize a given amount of liquid reformable fuel
faster, or a greater amount of liquid fuel within a given time period, than the same
vaporizer system operating upon reformable fuel which is at ambient temperature at
the time it enters conduit 404.
                                           - 25  -

[0095]      To provide for the heating of the liquid fuel before it enters main conduit
404 and as shown in the vaporizer system, or assembly, illustrated in FIG. 4A, fuel
line 414 traverses the wall of main conduit 404 with section 419 of the fuel line being
extended in length to prolong the residence time of fuel flowing therein where the
fuel line passes through, or is proximate to, second heating zone 412 of main conduit
404. An extended fuel line section can assume a variety of configurations for this
purpose, for example, a coiled or helical winding (as shown) or a series of lengthwise
folds, disposed on, or proximate to, the exterior surface of main conduit 404
corresponding to second heating zone 412 or any similar such configuration disposed
within the interior of the conduit at or near second heating zone 412. Regardless of
its exact configuration and/or disposition, extended fuel line section 419 must be in
effective heat transfer proximity to second heating zone 412 so as to receive an
amount of heat sufficient to raise the temperature of the fuel therein to within some
preset range of temperature. Thus, a portion of the thermal output of heater 413
within second heating zone 412 of main conduit 404, in addition to further heating air
flowing within this zone, will transfer to fuel, for example, diesel fuel, flowing within
the distal section 419 of fuel line 414, which distal section of fuel line 414 can be
lengthened or extended as shown by section 419, thereby raising its temperature to
within the preset range. Whichever range of temperature values is chosen for the
liquid fuel within the fuel line, it should not exceed the boiling point of the fuel (from
150 0C to 350 0C in the case of diesel) if vapor lock and consequent shut-down of
reformer 400 are to be avoided.
[0096]      In the liquid fuel vaporizer described herein, there is little or no
opportunity for the liquid fuel to come into direct contact with a heated surface, for
example, that of an electrical resistance heater element, that would pose a risk of
raising the temperature of the diesel fuel to or above its flash point, to cause
spattering of the fuel rather than its vaporization and/or cause pyrolysis of the fuel
resulting in coke formation. Thus, in the vaporizer systems illustrated in FIG. 4A,
the temperature of the diesel fuel can be readily and reliably maintained at a level
below its flash point and without significant incidents of spattering or coking.
                                            - 26 -

[0097]       Liquid fuel spreader 415 is disposed within main conduit 404 downstream
from second heating zone 412 and associated heater 413 and upstream from first
mixing zone 420. Thermocouple 423 is disposed within main conduit 404
downstream from the vaporizer in order to monitor the temperature of the vaporized
fuel-air mixture beginning to form therein.
[0098]       Following its passage through the second static mixer disposed within
second mixing zone 422, gaseous CPOX reaction mixture exits main conduit 404
through outlet 425 and enters gas distributor 427 of manifold 426 which is configured
to provide a more uniform distribution of the reaction mixture to, and within, tubular
CPOX reactor units 408. Such an arrangement or other arrangement within the
present teachings can provide a distribution of gaseous CPOX reaction mixture where
the difference in flow rate of the gaseous CPOX reaction mixture within any two
CPOX reactor units is not greater than about 20 percent, for example, not greater than
about 10 percent, or not greater than about 5 percent.
[0099]       Manifold 426 includes manifold housing, or enclosure, 428 defining
manifold chamber 429 within which heated gaseous CPOX reaction mixture (gas)
distributor 427 is connected to outlet 425 of main conduit 404. Heated gaseous
CPOX reaction mixture exiting main conduit 404 through outlet 425 enters gas
distributor 427 thereafter passing outwardly through apertures (e.g., holes or slots)
430 located at the bottom or lower part of the gas distributor, the gas then flowing
around the exterior surface of the distributor to its top or upper part and from there
into inlets 431 of tubular CPOX reactor units 408.
[00100]      To eliminate or lessen the possibility that the temperature within some
region(s) and/or surface(s) of manifold chamber 429 will fall to or below the
condensation temperature of the vaporized liquid reformable fuel of the gaseous
CPOX reaction mixture present therein, electrical resistance heater 432 and
thermocouple 433 can be disposed within manifold chamber 429, for example, on one
or more of its internal surfaces or embedded within one or more of its walls, to
provide an active heater system for maintaining the temperature within the chamber
above the fuel condensation temperature. In addition to an active heater system, for
example, as described above, or as an alternative thereto, a passive heat transfer
                                          - 27 -

system comprising thermally conductive elements 434, for example, fabricated from a
good conductor of heat such as copper, thermally linking CPOX reaction zones 409
of tubular CPOX reactor units 408 with manifold chamber 429 can be arranged
within reformer 400 to convey heat of exotherm from CPOX reaction zones 409 to
regions and/or surfaces within manifold chamber 429 so as to maintain the
temperature of the vaporized fuel therein above its condensation temperature.
[00101]      In addition to their function of preventing or minimizing the occurrence of
fuel condensation, such active and/or passive heating systems can serve to make the
temperature of the gaseous CPOX reaction mixture more uniform as it is introduced
into inlets of CPOX reactor units with consequent benefits for both reformer
operation and control. Thus, for example, one or both manifold heating systems can
be operated to provide a gaseous CPOX reaction mixture of consistently uniform
temperature throughout a manifold chamber such that there will be not more than
about a 10% difference, for example, not more than about a 5% difference, in the
temperature of gaseous CPOX reaction mixture entering any two tubular CPOX
reactor units.
[00102]      Some specific factors that can bear upon the optimization of the design of
manifold 426 for accomplishing its function of promoting a more uniform distribution
of gaseous CPOX reaction mixture to CPOX reactor units 408 include the
configuration of its housing 428, the volume of its chamber 429 and the dimensions
of gas distributor 427 including the number, design and placement of its apertures
430. Such factors in turn depend on such reformer design and operational factors as
the target flow rates of gaseous CPOX reaction mixture within a conduit, the number
and arrangement of CPOX reactor units 408, the shape and dimensions of inlets 431
of CPOX reactor units 408, and similar considerations. A manifold of optimal fuel
air distribution performance for a particular liquid fuel CPOX reformer in accordance
with the present teachings can be readily constructed by those skilled in the art
employing routine testing methods.
[00103]      From manifold 426, heated gaseous CPOX reaction mixture enters inlets
431 of CPOX reactor units 408 and into CPOX reaction zones 409 where the reaction
mixture undergoes a gas phase CPOX reaction to produce a hydrogen-rich, carbon
                                            -28-

monoxide-containing reformate. In the start-up mode, one or more igniters 435
initiates CPOX. After CPOX becomes self-sustaining, for example, when the
temperature of the reaction zone reaches from about 250 C to about 1100 C, the
igniter(s) can be shut off as external ignition is no longer required to maintain the
now self-sustaining CPOX reaction.
[00104]      In addition to processing liquid reformable fuels, dual utilization liquid
and gaseous fuel reformer 400 includes structural components that enable it to
selectively process gaseous reformable fuels, a capability that optimizes fuel
management where both types of reformable fuel are available, for example, but not
necessarily at the same time, or for facilitating a subsequent hot start-up mode of
operation with liquid fuel. This, a relatively brief period of gaseous fuel CPOX
reforming can prepare the CPOX reactor for transitioning to a hot start-up mode of
liquid fuel CPOX reforming and a quick entry into the steady-state mode of liquid
fuel CPOX reforming.
[00105]      As shown in FIG. 4A, reformer 400 includes gaseous reformable fuel line
441 and gaseous fuel inlet 442 through which a gaseous fuel such as methane or
natural gas or propane is introduced into main conduit 404 at a location therein which
is downstream from centrifugal blower system 402 and inlet 403 and upstream from
static mixer 436 disposed within mixing zone 437. The gaseous fuel combines with
the previously introduced ambient temperature air by passing through mixing zone
437, the resulting gaseous fuel-air mixture then passing through first heating zone 405
where it is heated to CPOX reaction temperature and then into CPOX reactor zone
443 (essentially coincident with heat transfer zone 407).
[00106]      Gas-permeable CPOX catalyst-containing support 444, for example, a
close-fitting sleeve, insert, lining or coating provided as a porous refractory metal
and/or ceramic material, is disposed within CPOX reactor zone 443 of main conduit
404 and extends for at least part of the length, or the full length, of heat transfer zone
407. The fuel-air mixture, heated within first heating zone 405 during a start-up
mode of operation to a temperature sufficient to initiate CPOX, or to a CPOX
initiating temperature within heat transfer zone 407 during a steady-state mode of
                                            - 29 -

operation, undergoes CPOX upon contact with CPOX catalyst-containing support 444
to provide hydrogen-rich reformate.
[00107]      The provision of gas-permeable CPOX catalyst-containing support 444
within heat transfer zone 407 of main conduit 404 allows CPOX reforming of
gaseous fuel to proceed therein under the milder temperature conditions that are
typical of the more efficient CPOX conversion of gaseous fuels (e.g., from about
600 C to about 850 C) in contrast to the higher temperature regimes of the less
efficient CPOX conversion of liquid reformable fuels such as diesel (e.g., from about
650 -C to 1,100 -C). Conducting gaseous fuel CPOX reforming within CPOX
catalyst-containing support 444 at the aforementioned lower temperatures has the
considerable advantage of reducing the risk of cracking of the fuel and consequent
coke formation on the surfaces of the (main) conduit and CPOX reactor units. Such
events would be more likely to occur and lead to CPOX reformer failure were the
gaseous fuel to be added directly to a CPOX reaction zone with or following the
introduction of vaporized fuel-air mixtures therein. Therefore, the CPOX reformers
herein, transitioning from the sole processing of gaseous fuel and back again
following a period of liquid reformable fuel CPOX conversion can be readily and
smoothly accomplished without risk to the integrity of the CPOX reformer and its
proper functioning.
[00108]      An open gaseous flow passageway can allow for the substantially
unimpeded flow of gaseous CPOX reaction mixture and hydrogen-containing
reformate therein, a structural feature of CPOX reactor units of the present teachings
that contributes to the low back pressure which is characteristic of the operation of
liquid fuel CPOX reformers of the present teachings. In the operation of a liquid fuel
CPOX reformer in accordance with the present teachings, back pressures of not more
than about 3 inches of water (0.0075 bar), for example, not more than about 2 inches
of water, or not more than about 1 inch of water, are readily achievable.
[00109]      As previously mentioned, to prevent or inhibit the loss of hydrogen by
diffusion through and beyond a gas-permeable wall of tubular CPOX reactor unit
408, a hydrogen barrier is advantageously attached to an outer surface of the wall for
at least that portion of its length corresponding to CPOX reaction zone 409.
                                            - 30 -

Materials capable of functioning as effective hydrogen barriers must be thermally
stable at the high temperatures typical of CPOX reactions and sufficiently dense so as
to prevent or deter permeation or diffusion of reformate gases, particularly hydrogen,
beyond the external surface of the all corresponding to CPOX reaction zone 409.
[00110]      A variety of ceramic materials (inclusive of glasses and glass-ceramics)
and metals meeting these requirements are known and are therefore suitable for
providing the hydrogen barrier. Specific materials for the hydrogen barrier include,
for example, aluminum, nickel, molybdenum, tin, chromium, alumina, recrystallized
alumina, aluminides, alumino-silicates, titania, titanium carbide, titanium nitride,
boron nitride, magnesium oxide, chromium oxide, zirconium phosphate, ceria,
zirconia, mulite and the like, admixtures thereof and layered combinations thereof.
[00111]      Materials from which the catalytically active wall structure of a CPOX
reaction zone of a tubular CPOX reactor unit can be fabricated are those that enable
such wall structures to remain stable under the high temperatures and oxidative
environments characteristic of CPOX reactions. Conventional and otherwise known
refractory metals, refractory ceramics, and combinations thereof can be used for the
construction of the catalytically active wall structure of a CPOX reaction zone. Some
of these materials, for example, perovskites, can also possess catalytic activity for
partial oxidation and therefore can be useful not only for the fabrication of the
catalytically active wall structure of a CPOX reaction zone but can also supply part or
even all of the CPOX catalyst for such structure.
[00112]      Among the many known and conventional CPOX catalysts that can be
utilized herein are the metals, metal alloys, metal oxides, mixed metal oxides,
perovskites, pyrochlores, their mixtures and combinations, including various ones of
which are disclosed, for example, in U.S. Patent Nos. 5,149,156; 5,447,705;
6,379,586; 6,402,989; 6,458,334; 6,488,907; 6,702,960; 6,726,853; 6,878,667;
7,070,752; 7,090,826; 7,328,691; 7,585,810; 7,888,278; 8,062,800; and, 8,241,600,
the entire contents of which are incorporated by reference herein.
[00113]      While numerous highly active noble metal-containing CPOX catalysts are
known and as such can be useful herein, they are generally less often employed than
other known types of CPOX catalysts due to their high cost, their tendency to sinter at
                                           -31 -

high temperatures and consequently undergo a reduction in catalytic activity, and
their proneness to poisoning by sulfur.
[00114]     Perovskite catalysts are a class of CPOX catalyst useful in the present
teachings as they are also suitable for the construction of the catalytically active wall
structures of a CPOX reactor unit. Perovskite catalysts are characterized by the
structure ABX 3 where "A" and "B" are cations of very different sizes and "X" is an
anion, generally oxygen, that bonds to both cations. Examples of suitable perovskite
CPOX catalysts include LaNiO 3 , LaCoO 3 , LaCrO 3, LaFeO 3 and LaMnO 3 .
[00115]     A-site modification of the perovskites generally affects their thermal
stability while B-site modification generally affects their catalytic activity.
Perovskites can be tailor-modified for particular CPOX reaction conditions by doping
at their A and/or B sites. Doping results in the atomic level dispersion of the active
dopant within the perovskite lattice thereby inhibiting degradations in their catalytic
performance. Perovskites can also exhibit excellent tolerance to sulfur at high
temperatures characteristic of CPOX reforming. Examples of doped perovskites
useful as CPOX catalysts include Lai-xCexFeO 3 , LaCri_yRuyO 3 , LaixSrAli_yRuyO 3
and Lai-xSrxFeO 3 wherein x and y are numbers ranging, for example, from 0.01 to
0.5, from 0.05 to 0.2, etc., depending on the solubility limit and cost of the dopants.
[00116]     Alternatively or in combination with the connection of the outlet of the
CPOX reformer, the outlets of two or more CPOX reactor units of a multitubular
CPOX reformer can be in fluid communication with each other (and with additional
outlets of CPOX reactor units) and the hydrogen-rich reformate from the outlets can
be combined prior to introduction into a fuel cell. For example, the hydrogen-rich
reformate effluent from two or more CPOX reactor units can be combined in a
manifold or similar device and/or one or more conduits and then introduced into a
fuel cell, which can be a multitubular fuel cell or a single fuel cell unit. Accordingly,
a CPOX reformer of the present teachings can be adapted to various applications
depending on its end use, for example, providing hydrogen-rich reformate to a single
or multitubular fuel cell unit.
[00117]     Multiple centrifugal blower systems 152 of CPOX reformer 150 shown in
FIG. 1B and 501 of CPOX reformer 500 shown in FIG. 4B. Among its other
                                           - 32 -

advantages, a multiple centrifugal blower system of this construction possesses the
ability to make rapid adjustments in the volume of air introduced into a conduit
and/or in the rate of flow of the gaseous fuel-air mixture to CPOX reactor units in
response to changes in the demand for product hydrogen-rich reformate that single
centrifugal blowers of comparable air flow capacity are incapable of providing, as
explained herein, without resorting to blowers of relatively high power consumption.
[00118]     CPOX reformer 500 of FIG. 5 differs from CPOX reformer 400 of
FIG. 4A primarily in the manner in which the air component and/or liquid reformable
fuel component of the gaseous CPOX reaction mixture are heated during the
steady-state mode of operation of the reformer. In CPOX reformer 500, a pressurized
flow of ambient temperature air provided by centrifugal blower system 501 is
introduced into, and passes through, heat exchanger 502 through which is circulated a
flow of heat exchange fluid, for example, hot gases from an external heat-producing
source such as the afterburner section of a fuel cell stack (not shown). This
arrangement differs from the provision for heating air in CPOX reformer 400 of FIG.
4A in which ambient air entering the reformer during the steady-state mode of
operation of the reformer passes through heat transfer zone 407 of main conduit 404,
the air being heated within zone 407 by heat recovered from the exotherm of the
CPOX reaction occurring within CPOX reaction zones 409 of CPOX reactor units
408. In addition, in contrast to the fuel heating system shown in FIG. 4A in which
fuel flowing within fuel line section 414 is heated by heater 413, in CPOX reformer
500, a section of fuel line can be routed through heat exchanger 502 to similarly
provide heating of the fuel prior to its vaporization. In all other respects, CPOX
reformer 500 can operate in essentially the same way as CPOX reformer 400.
[00119]     FIGS. 6A and 6B present graphical data demonstrating the relationship
between the oxygen (0) to carbon (C) molar ratio of vaporized diesel fuel-air CPOX
reaction mixtures and CPOX reaction temperature. As the data show, as the 0 to C
molar ratio of the CPOX reaction mixture is gradually reduced, i.e., as the reaction
mixture is adjusted from a relatively carbon-lean one to a relatively carbon-rich one,
CPOX reaction temperature declines. These data hold several implications for
                                           - 33 -

optimized operations of the dual utilization liquid and gaseous fuel CPOX reformer in
accordance with the present teachings.
[00120]      To promote rapid heating of CPOX catalyst and, consequently, the onset
of the gaseous phase CPOX reaction, gaseous CPOX reaction mixtures having higher
O to C molar ratios (i.e., fuel-lean reaction mixtures) can be utilized during the start
up mode of operation of the reformer. The higher operating temperatures associated
with fuel-lean CPOX reaction mixtures can facilitate a more rapid increase in CPOX
catalyst temperature and reduced time to steady-state operation. Additionally, a
fuel-lean ratio tends to help inhibit coke formation before the CPOX catalyst has
attained its optimum temperature and become fully activated. Once the CPOX
catalyst has reached a temperature of about 650 C and above, the 0 to C molar ratio
can be reduced as fuel flow is increased. Reducing the 0 to C molar ratio lowers the
catalyst temperature and can enable more fuel to be processed without losing thermal
control of the CPOX reactor units and in turn, the fuel vaporizer unit. The opposite
action can be taken for the shut-down operation, i.e., fuel flow is reduced at a
maintained 0 to C molar ratio. As the temperature of the CPOX reaction zone(s) of
the reformer begin to approach or fall below a temperature resulting in coke
formation, for example, below about 650 C, the 0 to C molar ratio can be increased
to prevent or minimize coking as the CPOX catalyst deactivates. Typically, the
CPOX reformer can be shut down when the temperature of the CPOX reaction
mixture falls below about 500 C. The flow of oxygen-containing gas can be
continued for up to about 15 to 20 seconds or so after fuel flow has been
discontinued. Such a shut-down procedure can allow for vaporization and removal of
fuel from the reformer that can be contained within a conduit or a section of fuel line
between a fuel control valve and locus of introduction of the fuel into the conduit.
This control characteristic can be influenced by various reformer components
including the particular vaporizer system and controller unit components utilized in a
specific reformer design.
[00121]      The 0 to C molar ratio of the fuel-air CPOX reaction mixture can be
controlled during the operation to tailor its output thermal conditions, with the
understanding that changing the 0 to C molar ratio can result in changes to the
                                           - 34 -

quality and/or composition of the reformate. There is a range of 0 to C molar ratio
that shifts from fuel-lean to fuel-rich as CPOX temperature increases above about
650 'C. Different CPOX catalysts can affect the operational windows and CPOX
temperatures. Additionally, different fuels (gaseous or liquid) can change the CPOX
temperatures depending upon the efficiency of the reforming reactions.
[00122]      Those skilled in the art, taking into account the various embodiments of
the liquid fuel CPOX reformers described herein and the principles of operation of
the same, by employing routine experimental procedures can readily optimize the
design of a particular reformer of desired liquid reformable fuel conversion capacity,
structural characteristics and mechanical properties in accordance with the present
teachings.
[00123]      Further in accordance with the present teachings, steam can be introduced
into the reformer so that the reformer may be operated to carry out autothermal and/or
steam reforming reaction(s).
[00124]      In one embodiment, the reformer can be initially operated to perform
CPOX conversion of a liquid or gaseous reformable fuel thereby providing heat of
exotherm that, with or without additional heat, for example, supplied by an electric
heater, can be recovered to produce steam in a steam generator. The thus-generated
steam can be introduced into the reformer in one or more locations therein. One
suitable location is the vaporizer where the steam can provide heat to vaporize liquid
fuel. For example, steam introduced into wick 415 in reformer 400 illustrated in FIG.
4 can provide heat for vaporizing liquid fuel on wick surfaces at the same time
helping to eliminate or suppress clogging of such surfaces.
[00125]      In another embodiment, a reformer in accordance with the present
teachings can be connected to a fuel cell stack in which hydrogen-rich reformate from
the reformer is converted to electrical current. Operation of the fuel cell stack, and
where present an associated afterburner unit, can provide source(s) of waste heat that
can be recovered and utilized for the operation of a steam generator, again, with or
without additional heat such as that supplied by an electric heater. The steam from the
steam generator can then be introduced into the reformer, for example, through wick
415 of reformer 400 of FIG. 4, to support autothermal or steam reforming. In this
                                            - 35 -

arrangement of integrated reformer and fuel cell stack, the source(s) of waste heat
referred to can supply the necessary heat to drive endothermic reaction(s) that are
involved in autothermal and steam reforming processes.
[00126]     In sum, it should be understood that the delivery systems of the present
teachings can deliver the appropriate reactants for carrying out reforming reactions
including partial oxidation ("POX") reforming such as catalytic partial oxidation
("CPOX") reforming, steam reforming, and autothermal ("AT") reforming. The
liquid reactants such as liquid reformable fuels and water can be delivered from and
through the "liquid reformable fuel" delivery components, conduits, and assemblies
of the delivery system. The gaseous reactants such as gaseous reformable fuels,
steam, and an oxygen-containing gas such as air can be delivered from and through
the "gaseous reformable fuel" delivery components, conduits, and assemblies of the
delivery system. Certain gaseous reactants such as steam and an oxygen-containing
gas can be delivered from and through components and assemblies that are peripheral
or secondary to the delivery systems of the present teachings, for example, an
oxygen-containing gas can be delivered from a source of oxygen-containing gas that
is independently in operable fluid communication with at least one of a vaporizer, a
reformer, and a fuel cell stack of a fuel cell unit or system, for example, to mix with a
liquid reformable fuel and/or a vaporized liquid reformable fuel prior to reforming.
[00127]     The present teachings encompass embodiments in other specific forms
without departing from the spirit or essential characteristics thereof. The foregoing
embodiments are therefore to be considered in all respects illustrative rather than
limiting on the present teachings described herein. Scope of the present invention is
thus indicated by the appended claims rather than by the foregoing description, and
all changes that come within the meaning and range of equivalency of the claims are
intended to be embraced therein.
                                           - 36 -

        Claims
        1.       A method of reforming, within a dual utilization liquid and gaseous fuel reformer
comprising (i) a first liquid fuel gas phase reforming reaction zone and a second gaseous fuel gas
phase reforming reaction zone, or (ii) a common liquid fuel and gaseous fuel gas phase
reforming reaction zone, the method comprising:
                 (a)     reforming a first gaseous reforming reaction mixture comprising an
        oxygen-containing gas and a vaporized liquid fuel within the first or the common
        reforming reaction zone to produce a first hydrogen-rich reformate;
                 (b)     before or after reforming step (a), reforming a second gaseous reforming
        reaction mixture comprising an oxygen-containing gas and a gaseous fuel within the
        second or the common reforming reaction zone to produce a second hydrogen-rich
        reformate; and,
                 (c)     recovering an amount of heat from reforming step (a) and transitioning
        from reforming step (a) to reforming step (b), such that the heat recovered from
        reforming step (a), with or without additional heat, is utilized to initiate reforming step
        (b), or recovering an amount of heat from reforming step (b) and transitioning from
        reforming step (b) to reforming step (a), such that the heat recovered from reforming step
        (b), with or without additional heat, is utilized to vaporize the liquid fuel and heat the
        second or the common reforming reaction zone before the start of reforming step (a).
        2.       The method of Claim 1 wherein in reforming step (b), the oxygen-containing gas
and the gaseous fuel are drawn into a centrifugal blower and are expelled therefrom as a
substantially uniform second gaseous reforming reaction mixture, the second gaseous reforming
reaction mixture thereafter being introduced into the second or the common reforming reaction
zone.
        3.       The method of reforming of Claim 1, which comprises:
                 in a cold start-up mode of reforming of the liquid fuel:
                 (a)     heating the first gaseous reforming reaction mixture and introducing the
        heated first gaseous reforming reaction mixture into the first or the common reforming
        reaction zone,
                                                    37

         (b)     initiating reforming of the first gaseous reforming reaction mixture within
the first gaseous reforming reaction zone or the common reforming reaction zone,
thereby commencing the production of the first hydrogen-rich reformate and providing a
reforming reaction-sustaining exotherm;
         in a steady-state mode of reforming of the liquid fuel:
         (c)     heating the first gaseous reforming reaction mixture and introducing the
heated first gaseous reforming reaction mixture into the first or the common reforming
reaction zone as in step (a), and
         (d)     discontinuing step (b) prior to, during or following step (c), while
maintaining the reforming reaction and thereby continuing the production of the first
hydrogen-rich reformate and producing an amount of exotherm; and,
         in a mode of reforming wherein the steady-state mode of reforming of the liquid
         fuel is made to transition to a steady-state mode of reforming of the gaseous fuel:
         (e)     discontinuing step (c) of introducing the heated first gaseous reforming
reaction mixture into the first or the common reforming reaction zone,
         (f)     introducing the second gaseous reforming reaction mixture into the second
or the common reforming reaction zone,
         (g)     initiating reforming of the second gaseous reforming reaction mixture
within the first or the common reforming reaction zone utilizing the residual heat
recovered from the exotherm produced by reforming of the liquid fuel during step (d),
with or without additional heat, thereby commencing the production of the second
hydrogen-rich reformate and providing a reforming reaction-sustaining exotherm, and
         (h)     maintaining the reforming reaction initiated in step (g) thereby continuing
the production of the second hydrogen-rich reformate.
4.       The method of reforming of Claim 1 which comprises:
         in a cold start-up mode of reforming of the liquid fuel:
         (a)     heating the oxygen-containing gas,
                                            38

        (b)      vaporizing the liquid fuel previously introduced into the reactor by
contacting the liquid fuel with the heated oxygen-containing gas from step (a), the
vaporized liquid fuel combining with the heated oxygen-containing gas to provide a
heated first gaseous reforming reaction mixture,
        (c)      introducing the heated first gaseous reforming reaction mixture from step
(b) into the first or the common reforming reaction zone, and
        (d)      initiating reforming of the heated first gaseous reforming reaction mixture
within the reforming reaction zone, thereby commencing the production of the first
hydrogen-rich reformate and providing a reforming reaction-sustaining exotherm;
        in a steady-state mode of reforming of the liquid fuel:
        (e)      heating the oxygen-containing gas utilizing heat recovered from the
exotherm produced by reforming of the liquid fuel in step (d), with or without additional
heat,
        (f)      vaporizing the liquid fuel previously introduced into the reactor by
contacting the liquid fuel with the heated oxygen-containing gas from step (e), the
vaporized liquid fuel combining with the heated oxygen-containing gas to provide a
heated first gaseous reforming reaction mixture,
        (g)      introducing the heated first gaseous reforming reaction mixture into the
reforming reaction zone as in step (c) and
        (h)      discontinuing reforming initiating step (d) prior to, during or following
step (g) while maintaining the reforming reaction initiated in step (d) thereby continuing
the production of the first hydrogen-rich reformate and providing a steady-state
reforming reaction-sustaining exotherm; and,
        in a mode of reforming wherein the steady-state mode of reforming of the liquid
        fuel is made to transition to a steady-state mode of reforming of the gaseous fuel:
        (i)      discontinuing step (g) of introducing the heated first gaseous reforming
reaction mixture into the reforming reaction zone,
                                           39

        (j)     introducing the second gaseous reforming reaction mixture into the first or
the common reforming reaction zone,
        (k)     initiating reforming of the second gaseous reforming reaction mixture
within the second or the common reforming reaction zone utilizing residual heat
recovered from the steady-state exotherm produced by reforming of the liquid fuel during
step (h), with or without additional heat, thereby commencing the production of the
second hydrogen-rich reformate and providing the reforming reaction-sustaining
exotherm, and
        (1)     maintaining the reforming reaction initiated in step (k) thereby continuing
the production of the second hydrogen-rich reformate.
5.      The method of reforming of Claim 1 which comprises:
        in a cold start-up mode of reforming of the gaseous fuel:
        (a)     introducing the second gaseous reforming reaction mixture into the second
or the common reforming reaction zone, and
        (b)     initiating reforming of the second reforming reaction mixture within the
reforming reaction zone thereby commencing the production of the second hydrogen-rich
reformate and providing a reforming reaction-sustaining exotherm;
        in a steady-state mode of reforming of the gaseous fuel:
        (c)     introducing the second gaseous reforming reaction mixture into the second
or the common reforming reaction zone, and
        (d)     discontinuing reforming initiating step (b) prior to, during or following
step (c) while maintaining the reforming reaction initiated in step (b) thereby continuing
the production of the second hydrogen-rich reformate and producing and recovering an
amount of exotherm; and,
        in a mode of reforming wherein the steady-state mode of reforming of the gaseous
        fuel is made to transition to a steady-state mode of reforming of the liquid fuel:
                                           40

         (e)     discontinuing step (c) of introducing the second gaseous reforming
reaction mixture into the reforming reaction zone,
         (f)     heating the first gaseous reforming reaction mixture and introducing the
heated first gaseous reforming reaction mixture into the reforming reaction zone of the
first or the common reforming reaction zone,
         (g)     initiating reforming of the heated gaseous reforming reaction mixture
within the reforming reaction zone utilizing the residual heat recovered from the
exotherm produced by reforming of the gaseous fuel during step (d), with or without
additional heat, thereby commencing the production of the first hydrogen-rich reformate
and providing a reforming reaction-sustaining exotherm, and
         (h)     maintaining the reforming reaction initiated in step (g) thereby continuing
the production of the first hydrogen-rich reformate.
6.       The method of reforming of Claim 1 which comprises:
         in a cold start-up mode of reforming of the gaseous fuel:
         (a)     introducing the second gaseous reforming reaction mixture into the second
or the common reforming reaction zone,
         (b)     initiating reforming of the second gaseous reforming reaction mixture
within the reforming reaction zone thereby commencing the production of the second
hydrogen-rich reformate and providing a reforming reaction-sustaining exotherm;
         in a steady-state mode of reforming of the gaseous fuel:
         (c)     introducing the second gaseous reforming reaction mixture into the
reforming reaction zone as in step (a),
         (d)     discontinuing reforming initiating step (b) prior to, during or following
step (c) while maintaining the reforming reaction thereby continuing the production of
the second hydrogen-rich reformate and producing and recovering the reforming
reaction-sustaining exotherm; and,
                                           41

                 in a mode of reforming wherein the steady-state mode of reforming of the gaseous
                 fuel is made to transition to a steady-state mode of reforming of liquid fuel:
                 (e)     discontinuing step (c) of introducing the second gaseous reforming
        reaction mixture into the reforming reaction zone,
                 (f)     introducing the oxygen-containing gas into the reformer,
                 (g)     heating the oxygen-containing gas utilizing the residual heat recovered
        from the exotherm produced by reforming of the gaseous fuel during step (d), with or
        without additional heat,
                 (h)     vaporizing the liquid fuel previously introduced into the reactor by
        contacting the liquid fuel with the heated oxygen-containing gas from step (g), the
        vaporized liquid fuel combining with the heated oxygen-containing gas to provide a
        heated first gaseous reforming reaction mixture,
                 (i)     introducing the heated first gaseous reforming reaction mixture into the
        first or the common reforming reactor section,
                 (j)     initiating reforming of the heated first gaseous reforming reaction mixture
        within the reforming reaction zone utilizing the residual heat recovered from the
        exotherm produced by reforming of the gaseous fuel during step (d), with or without
        additional heat, thereby commencing the production the first hydrogen-rich reformate and
        providing the reforming reaction-sustaining exotherm, and
                 (k)     maintaining the reforming reaction initiated in step (j) thereby continuing
        the production of the first hydrogen-rich reformate.
        7.       The method of any of Claims 1-6, wherein the method comprises CPOX
reforming.
        8.       The method of any of Claims 1-7, wherein the reforming is controlled by a
controller.
        9.       The method of claim 1, wherein the reformer initially processes the liquid fuel
into the reformate, thereby producing and recovering an exotherm and then transitions into
                                                    42

processing gaseous fuel, and utilizes said heat of exotherm recovered from the conversion to
liquid fuel to initiate the conversion of the gaseous fuel to reformate.
        10.      The method of claim 1, wherein the reformer initially processes the gaseous fuel
into the reformate, thereby producing and recovering an exotherm and then transitions into
processing liquid fuel and utilizes the heat of the exotherm to vaporize the liquid fuel.
        11.      The method of claim 1, wherein a vaporizer is used to vaporize the liquid
reformable fuel.
        12.      The method of claim 1, wherein a heater is used to heat the oxygen-containing
gas.
        13.      The method of claim 1, wherein step (b) takes place before step (a).
        14.      The method of claim 1, wherein step (b) takes place after step (a).
        15.      The method of claim 1, wherein the reformer has a first liquid fuel gas phase
reforming reaction zone and a second gaseous fuel gas phase reforming reaction zone.
        16.      The method of claim 1, wherein the reformer has a common liquid fuel and
gaseous fuel gas phase reforming reaction zone.
                                                  43

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
