ABSTRACT
The invention provides a process for the preparation of a compound of Formula 1,
                                                        R5
                                           N
                           (Rx-X                   H
                                                   H    R2
                                           H
                                          Formula 1
comprising coupling a carboxylic acid of Formula 2
                                                0   0
                               (Rx-X                   OH
                                                H
                                         Formula 2
with an aniline of Formula 3
                                             R5
                                                  R4
                                     H2 N
                                             R2
                                        Formula 3
in the presence of a coupling agent.

            PROCESS FOR MAKING MODULATORS OF CYSTIC FIBROSIS
                   TRANSMEMBRANE CONDUCTANCE REGULATOR
                                       CLAIM OF PRIORITY
[0001]       This application is a divisional application of Australian Application No.
<removed-apn>, filed on 13 October 2016, which is a divisional application of Australian
Application No. 2010226400, filed on 19 March 2010, is related to International Application
No. PCT/US2010/028069 filed 19 March 2010, and claims priority to three U.S. Provisional
Applications having Serial Nos. 61/162,148, filed on March 20, 2009; 61/246,303, filed on
September 28, 2009; and 61/248,565, filed on October 5, 2009. Each of the aforementioned
applications are hereby incorporated by reference in their entirety.
                            TECHNICAL FIELD OF THE INVENTION
[0002]       The present invention relates to a process for making modulators of cystic fibrosis
transmembrane conductance regulator ("CFTR").
                              BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
[0003]       Cystic fibrosis (CF) is a recessive genetic disease that affects approximately 30,000
children and adults in the United States and approximately 30,000 children and adults in
Europe. Despite progress in the treatment of CF, there is no cure.
[0004]       CF is caused by mutations in the cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance
regulator (CFTR) gene that encodes an epithelial chloride ion channel responsible for aiding in
the regulation of salt and water absorption and secretion in various tissues. Small molecule
drugs, known as potentiators that increase the probability of CFTR channel opening represent
one potential therapeutic strategy to treat CF.
[0005]       Specifically, CFTR is a cAMP/ATP-mediated anion channel that is expressed in a
variety of cells types, including absorptive and secretory epithelia cells, where it regulates anion
flux across the membrane, as well as the activity of other ion channels and proteins. In
epithelia cells, normal functioning of CFTR is critical for the maintenance of electrolyte
transport throughout the body, including respiratory and digestive tissue. CFTR is composed of
approximately 1480 amino acids that encode a protein made up of a tandem repeat of
transmembrane domains, each containing six transmembrane helices and a nucleotide binding
domain. The two transmembrane domains are linked by a large, polar, regulatory (R)-domain
with multiple phosphorylation sites that regulate channel activity and cellular trafficking.
                                                   1

[0006]       The gene encoding CFTR has been identified and sequenced (See Gregory, R. J. et
al. (1990) Nature 347:382-386; Rich, D. P. et al. (1990) Nature 347:358-362), (Riordan, J. R. et
al. (1989) Science 245:1066-1073). A defect in this gene causes mutations in CFTR resulting
in cystic fibrosis ("CF"), the most common fatal genetic disease in humans. Cystic fibrosis
affects approximately one in every 2,500 infants in the United States. Within the
                                    [Text continues on page 2.]
                                                 la

general United States population, up to 10 million people carry a single copy of the defective
gene without apparent ill effects. In contrast, individuals with two copies of the CF
associated gene suffer from the debilitating and fatal effects of CF, including chronic lung
disease.
[0007]     In patients with CF, mutations in CFTR endogenously expressed in respiratory
epithelia leads to reduced apical anion secretion causing an imbalance in ion and fluid
transport. The resulting decrease in anion transport contributes to enhanced mucus
accumulation in the lung and the accompanying microbial infections that ultimately cause
death in CF patients. In addition to respiratory disease, CF patients typically suffer from
gastrointestinal problems and pancreatic insufficiency that, if left untreated, results in death.
In addition, the majority of males with cystic fibrosis are infertile and fertility is decreased
among females with cystic fibrosis. In contrast to the severe effects of two copies of the CF
associated gene, individuals with a single copy of the CF associated gene exhibit increased
resistance to cholera and to dehydration resulting from diarrhea - perhaps explaining the
relatively high frequency of the CF gene within the population.
[0008]     Sequence analysis of the CFTR gene of CF chromosomes has revealed a variety of
disease causing mutations (Cutting, G. R. et al. (1990) Nature 346:366-369; Dean, M. et al.
(1990) Cell 61:863:870; and Kerem, B-S. et al. (1989) Science 245:1073-1080; Kerem, B-S
et al. (1990) Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 87:8447-8451). To date, greater than 1000 disease
causing mutations in the CF gene have been identified
(http://www.genet.sickkids.on.ca/cftr/app). The most prevalent mutation is a deletion of
phenylalanine at position 508 of the CFTR amino acid sequence, and is commonly referred to
as AF508-CFTR. This mutation occurs in approximately 70% of the cases of cystic fibrosis
and is associated with a severe disease.
[0009]     The deletion of residue 508 in AF508-CFTR prevents the nascent protein from
folding correctly. This results in the inability of the mutant protein to exit the ER, and traffic
to the plasma membrane. As a result, the number of channels present in the membrane is far
less than observed in cells expressing wild-type CFTR. In addition to impaired trafficking,
the mutation results in defective channel gating. Together, the reduced number of channels in
the membrane and the defective gating lead to reduced anion transport across epithelia
leading to defective ion and fluid transport. (Quinton, P. M. (1990), FASEB J. 4: 2709
2727). Studies have shown, however, that the reduced numbers of AF508-CFTR in the
membrane are functional, albeit less than wild-type CFTR. (Dalemans et al. (1991), Nature
Lond. 354: 526-528; Denning et al., supra; Pasyk and Foskett (1995), J. Cell. Biochem. 270:
                                                 2

12347-50). In addition to AF508-CFTR, other disease causing mutations in CFTR that result
in defective trafficking, synthesis, and/or channel gating could be up- or down-regulated to
alter anion secretion and modify disease progression and/or severity.
[0010]      Although CFTR transports a variety of molecules in addition to anions, it is clear
that this role (the transport of anions) represents one element in an important mechanism of
transporting ions and water across the epithelium. The other elements include the epithelial
Na' channel, ENaC, Na*/2Cl-/K' co-transporter, Na*-K*-ATPase pump and the basolateral
membrane K+ channels, that are responsible for the uptake of chloride into the cell.
[0011]      These elements work together to achieve directional transport across the epithelium
via their selective expression and localization within the cell. Chloride absorption takes place
by the coordinated activity of ENaC and CFTR present on the apical membrane and the Nat
K*-ATPase pump and Cl ion channels expressed on the basolateral surface of the cell.
Secondary active transport of chloride from the luminal side leads to the accumulation of
intracellular chloride, which can then passively leave the cell via Cl- channels, resulting in a
vectorial transport. Arrangement of Na*/2Cl-/K* co-transporter, Na*-K*-ATPase pump and
the basolateral membrane K+ channels on the basolateral surface and CFTR on the luminal
side coordinate the secretion of chloride via CFTR on the luminal side. Because water is
probably never actively transported itself, its flow across epithelia depends on tiny
transepithelial osmotic gradients generated by the bulk flow of sodium and chloride.
[0012]      As discussed above, it is believed that the deletion of residue 508 in AF508-CFTR
prevents the nascent protein from folding correctly, resulting in the inability of this mutant
protein to exit the ER, and traffic to the plasma membrane. As a result, insufficient amounts
of the mature protein are present at the plasma membrane and chloride transport within
epithelial tissues is significantly reduced. In fact, this cellular phenomenon of defective ER
processing of ABC transporters by the ER machinery has been shown to be the underlying
basis not only for CF disease, but for a wide range of other isolated and inherited diseases.
[0013]      Accordingly, there is a need for modulators of CFTR activity, and compositions
thereof, which can be used to modulate the activity of the CFTR in the cell membrane of a
mammal.
[0014]      There is a need for methods of treating diseases caused by mutation in CFTR using
such modulators of CFTR activity.
[0015]      There is a need for methods of modulating CFTR activity in an ex vivo cell
membrane of a mammal.
                                                  3

[0016]        There is also a need for processes for the preparation of compounds which
modulate CFTR activity.
                                    SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
[0017]        In general, the invention provides processes for the preparation of compounds
useful as modulators of CFTR.
[0018]        In one aspect, the invention provides a process for the preparation of a compound
of Formula 1,
                                           (RXRX
                                                     N        H
                                                              N
                                                     H
                                                    Formula I
comprising coupling a carboxylic acid of Formula 2
                                                           0   0
                                        (RXX                 I     OH
                                                           H
                                                    Formula 2
with an aniline of Formula 3
                                                        R5
                                                             R4
                                               H2 N
                                                        R2
                                                  Formula 3
in the presence of a coupling agent selected from the group consisting of 2-chloro-1,3
dimethyl-2-imidazolium tetrafluoroborate, HBTU, HCTU, 2-chloro-4,6-dimethoxy-1,3,5
triazine, HATU, HOBT/EDC, and T3P@.
           Each R 2 and R 4 is independently selected from hydrogen, CN, CF 3, halo, C 1.6 straight
or branched alkyl, 3-12 membered cycloaliphatic, phenyl, C5 .10 heteroaryl or C 3 .7
heterocyclic, wherein said heteroaryl or heterocyclic has up to 3 heteroatoms selected from
0, S, or N, and each C 1.6 straight or branched alkyl, 3-12 membered cycloaliphatic, phenyl,
C 5 . 10 heteroaryl or C 3 .7 heterocyclic is independently and optionally substituted with up to
three substituents selected from -OR,          -CF   3, -OCF    3, SR', S(O)R', SO 2R', -SCF 3, halo,
CN,
                                                       4

-COOR',          -COR-, -O(CH            2) 2N(R')(R'),     -O(CH       2)N(R')(R'),  -CON(R')(R'),
-(CH     2) 2OR',      -(CH   2)OR', CH 2CN, optionally substituted phenyl or phenoxy, -N(R')(R'),
-NR'C(O)OR',              -NR'C(O)R',     -(CH       2) 2N(R')(R'),    or -(CH   2)N(R')(R').
          Each R5 is independently selected from hydrogen, -OH,                       NH 2 , CN, CHF2 , NHR',
N(R') 2 , -NHC(O)R',           NHC(O)OR', NHSO 2R', -OR',                  OC(O)OR', OC(O)NHR', OC(O)NR' 2,
CH 2OH, CH 2 N(R') 2 , C(O)OR', SO 2NHR', SO 2N(R') 2 , or CH 2NHC(O)OR'.
          Or R4 and R5 are taken together form a 5-7 membered ring containing 0-3 three
heteroatoms selected from N, 0, or S, wherein said ring is optionally substituted with up to
three R 3 substituents.
          Each X is independently a bond or is an optionally substituted C 1.6 alkylidene chain
wherein up to two methylene units of X are optionally and independently replaced by
-CO-, -CS-, -COCO-,                        -CONR'-,            -CONR'NR'-,         -CO     2-,   -OCO-,
-NR'CO        2 -,     -0-,    -NR'CONR'-,             -OCONR'-,           -NR'NR',      -NR'NR'CO-,
-NR'CO-, -S-,                -SO,    -SO     2 -,   -NR'-, -SO            2NR'-,   NR'SO 2-,      or
NR'SO 2NR'-.                   Each Rx is independently R', halo, NO 2 , CN, CF 3 , or OCF 3 .
          y is an integer from 0-4.
          Each R' is independently selected from hydrogen or an optionally substituted group
selected from a C1 .8 aliphatic group, a 3-8-membered saturated, partially unsaturated, or fully
unsaturated monocyclic ring having 0-3 heteroatoms independently selected from nitrogen,
oxygen, or sulfur, or an 8-12 membered saturated, partially unsaturated, or fully unsaturated
bicyclic ring system having 0-5 heteroatoms independently selected from nitrogen, oxygen,
or sulfur; or two occurrences of R' are taken together with the atom(s) to which they are
bound to form an optionally substituted 3-12 membered saturated, partially unsaturated, or
fully unsaturated monocyclic or bicyclic ring having 0-4 heteroatoms independently selected
from N, 0, or S.
          Each R 3 is independently -C            1 -C3   alkyl, C1-C 3 perhaloalkyl, -O(C        1 -C 3 alkyl),
CF 3 , -OCF        3 , -SCF   3, -F,  -Cl,     -Br,      -COOR',       -COR',    -O(CH      2) 2N(R')(R'),
-O(CH       2)N(R')(R'),     -CON(R')(R'),         -(CH      2)2 0R',  -(CH   2)OR',   optionally substituted
monocyclic or bicyclic aromatic ring, optionally substituted arylsulfone, optionally
substituted
5-membered heteroaryl ring, -N(R')(R'),                   -(CH     2 )2N(R')(R'), or -(CH      2)N(R')(R').
[0019]        Embodiments of this aspect include one or more of the following features. R5 is
independently -OC(O)OR',               -OC(O)NHR',             or -OC(O)N(R')      2,  and R' is not hydrogen; at
least one of R 4 or R 2 is independently a C1.6 straight or branched alkyl which is substituted
                                                               5

with -COOR' or -CON(R')(R'),         and R' is not hydrogen. The process further comprises
cleaving the -OC(O)OR',        -OC(O)NHR',      or -OC(O)N(R')     2 group to form -OH.     The
process further comprises hydrolyzing each -COOR',          or -CON(R')    2 group to form
COOH. The hydrolysis is performed by treating a compound of Formula 1 with an alcoholic
solvent in the presence of base such as NaOH, KOH or sodium methoxide. The alcoholic
solvent used in the hydrolysis is methanol. The coupling a compound of Formula 2 and a
compound of Formula 3 to produce a compound of Formula 1 is performed in the presence of
a base such as K2 CO 3 , Et 3N, NMM, pyridine or DIEA. The coupling a compound of Formula
2 and a compound of Formula 3 to produce a compound of Formula 1 is performed in the
presence of a solvent such as EtOAc, IPAc, THF, MEK, NMP, acetonitrile, DMF, or 2
methyltetrahydrofuran. The coupling a compound of Formula 2 and a compound of Formula
3 to produce a compound of Formula 1 is performed at a reaction temperature which is
maintained between about 10 'C and 78 'C such as between about 20 'C and 30 'C, between
about 40 'C and 50 'C, and between about 42 'C and 53 'C. The coupling reaction is stirred
for at least 2 hours such as for at least 70 hours or for at least 3 days.
[0020]      In some embodiments, R5 is independently -OC(O)OR',           -OC(O)NHR',      or
-OC(O)N(R')      2, and R' is not hydrogen; and each of R 2 and R 4 is independently selected
from hydrogen, CF 3 , C 1-C6 straight or branched alkyl, 3-12 membered cycloaliphatic or
phenyl.
[0021]      In some further embodiments, R5 is independently -OC(O)OR',          and R' is not
hydrogen; and each of R 2 and R 4 is independently C 1 -C6 straight or branched alkyl or 3-12
membered cycloaliphatic.
[0022]      In some embodiments, R 2 and R4 are t-butyl.
[0023]      In another aspect, the invention provides a process for the preparation of compound
27
                                                      OH
                                         0   0                    OH
                                                 N
                                         H       H
                                         N
                                         H
                                            Compound 27
comprising:
         (a) coupling compound 26
                                                   6

                                                 0   0
                                                        OH
                                                 H
                                             Compound 26
        with compound 13
                                      H2N              O
                                           0
                                             Compound 13
in the presence of EDCI, HOBT and DIEA using DMF as the solvent, wherein the reaction
temperature is maintained between about 20 'C and 30 'C, and the reaction is allowed
proceed for at least 70 hours, to produce compound 14
                                               0   0       0
                                       0   0
                                               N
                                               H
                                       N
                                       H
                                          Compound 14            ; and
        (b) treating compound 14 with KOH in methanol.
[0024]     In still another aspect, the invention provides a process for the preparation of
compound 28
                                                              0
                                                      OH
                                                                OH
                                         0    0
                                                 N
                                         H       H
                                         N
                                         H
                                             Compound 28
     comprising:
        (a) coupling compound 26
                                                   7

                                               0     0
                                                          OH
                                               H
                                           Compound 26
        with compound 20
                                          H2N
                                                  01
                                                        0
                                           Compound 20
in the presence of HATU and DIEA using acetonitrile as the solvent, wherein the reaction
temperature is maintained between about 40 'C and 50 'C, and wherein the reaction is
allowed proceed for at least 3 days, to produce compound 21
                                                            0
                                                       0
                                        0   0
                                                N
                                                H
                                        N
                                        H
                                        Compound 21           ; and
        (b) treating compound 21 with NaOH in methanol.
[0025]     In yet another aspect, the invention provides a process for the preparation of
compound 34
                                                         OH
                                          0   0
                                                   N
                                                   H
                                          N
                                          H
                                           Compound 34
comprising:
        (a) coupling compound 26
                                                 8

                                                0    0
                                                       OH
                                                H
                                          Compound 26
         with compound 32
                                         H2N
                                           0 Y0
                                              0
                                          Compound 32
in the presence of T3P@ and pyridine using 2-methyl tetrahydrofuran as the solvent, wherein
the reaction temperature is maintained between about 42 'C and 53 'C, and wherein the
reaction is allowed proceed for at least 2 hours, to produce compound 33
                                         00
                                         N         N
                                            I      H
                                         N
                                         H
                                         Compound 33
         (b) treating compound 33 with NaOMe/MeOH in 2-methyl tetrahydrofuran.
[0026]      In one embodiment, the method further includes the step of forming a slurry of
compound 34 in a mixture of acetonitrile and water, wherein the solid form of compound 34
is converted to Compound 34.
[0027]      Embodiments of the forgoing aspect include one or more of the following features.
The process further comprises dissolving Compound 34 in a biphasic solution of 2
methyltetrahydrofuran and 0. IN HCl, which is stirred. The process further comprises
separating the organic phase from the biphasic solution. The process further comprises
filtering and removing solid matter from the organic phase. The process further comprises
reducing the volume of the organic phase by approximately 50% using distillation. The
process further comprises performing thrice the procedure of: adding MeOAc, EtOAc, TPAc,
t-BuOAc, tetrahydrofuran (THF), Et 2 0 or methyl-t-butyl ether (MTBE) to the organic phase
until the volume of the organic phase increases by 100% and reducing the volume of the
                                                  9

organic phase by 50% using distillation. The process further comprises adding MeOAc,
EtOAc, IPAc, t-BuOAc, tetrahydrofuran (THF), Et 2 0 or methyl-t-butyl ether (MTBE) to the
organic phase until the volume of the organic phase increases by 100%. The process further
comprises heating the organic phase to reflux temperature, and maintaining said reflux
temperature for a time at least about 5 hours. The process further comprises cooling the
organic phase to a temperature between -5 'C and 5 'C over a time period of 4.5 hours to 5.5
hours.
[0028]     In still another aspect, the invention provides compounds produced by any process
described herein.
[0029]     In a further aspect, the invention provides a pharmaceutical composition
comprising a compound produced by any process described herein.
[0030]     In still a further aspect, the invention provides a method of modulating CFTR
activity in a biological sample comprising the step of contacting said biological sample with a
compound produced by any process described herein.
[0031]     In another aspect, the invention also provides a method of treating or lessening the
severity of a disease in a patient comprising administering to said patient one of the
compositions as defined herein, and said disease is selected from cystic fibrosis, asthma,
smoke induced COPD, chronic bronchitis, rhinosinusitis, constipation, pancreatitis,
pancreatic insufficiency, male infertility caused by congenital bilateral absence of the vas
deferens (CBAVD), mild pulmonary disease, idiopathic pancreatitis, allergic
bronchopulmonary aspergillosis (ABPA), liver disease, hereditary emphysema, hereditary
hemochromatosis, coagulation-fibrinolysis deficiencies, such as protein C deficiency, Type 1
hereditary angioedema, lipid processing deficiencies, such as familial hypercholesterolemia,
Type 1 chylomicronemia, abetalipoproteinemia, lysosomal storage diseases, such as I-cell
disease/pseudo-Hurler, mucopolysaccharidoses, Sandhof/Tay-Sachs, Crigler-Najjar type II,
polyendocrinopathy/hyperinsulemia, Diabetes mellitus, Laron dwarfism, myleoperoxidase
deficiency, primary hypoparathyroidism, melanoma, glycanosis CDG type 1, congenital
hyperthyroidism, osteogenesis imperfecta, hereditary hypofibrinogenemia, ACT deficiency,
Diabetes insipidus (DI), neurophyseal DI, neprogenic DI, Charcot-Marie Tooth syndrome,
Perlizaeus-Merzbacher disease, neurodegenerative diseases such as Alzheimer's disease,
Parkinson's disease, amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, progressive supranuclear plasy, Pick's
disease, several polyglutamine neurological disorders such as Huntington's, spinocerebullar
ataxia type I, spinal and bulbar muscular atrophy, dentatorubal pallidoluysian, and myotonic
dystrophy, as well as spongiform encephalopathies, such as hereditary Creutzfeldt-Jakob
                                                  10

disease (due to prion protein processing defect), Fabry disease, Straussler-Scheinker
syndrome, COPD, dry-eye disease, or Sjogren's disease, Osteoporosis, Osteopenia, bone
healing and bone growth (including bone repair, bone regeneration, reducing bone resorption
and increasing bone deposition), Gorham's Syndrome, chloride channelopathies such as
myotonia congenita (Thomson and Becker forms), Bartter's syndrome type III, Dent's
disease, hyperekplexia, epilepsy, hyperekplexia, lysosomal storage disease, Angelman
syndrome, and Primary Ciliary Dyskinesia (PCD), a term for inherited disorders of the
structure and/or function of cilia, including PCD with situs inversus (also known as
Kartagener syndrome), PCD without situs inversus and ciliary aplasia.
[0032]     In certain embodiments, the disease is cystic fibrosis.
[0033]     In another aspect, the invention provides a kit for use in measuring the activity of
CFTR or a fragment thereof in a biological sample in vitro or in vivo, comprising:
                i.      a composition comprising a compound produced by any process
  described herein; and
                ii.     instructions for:
                        a.      contacting the composition with the biological sample; and
                        b.      measuring the activity of said CFTR or a fragment thereof.
[0034]     In certain embodiments, the kit further comprises instructions for:
                i.      contacting an additional compound with the biological sample;
                ii.     measuring the activity of said CFTR or a fragment thereof in the
  presence of said additional compound; and
                iii.    comparing the activity of the CFTR in the presence of the additional
  compound with the density of the CFTR in the presence of a composition of Formula 1.
[0035]     Advantageously, the invention provides processes for the synthesis of compounds
useful as modulators of CFTR in higher yield and in higher purity relative to known
processes.
                                  DETAILED DESCRIPTION
[0036]     I.   DEFINITIONS
[0037] As used herein, the following definitions shall apply unless otherwise indicated.
[0038] The term "ABC-transporter"as used herein means an ABC-transporter protein or a
fragment thereof comprising at least one binding domain, wherein said protein or fragment
thereof is present in vivo or in vitro. The term "binding domain" as used herein means a
domain on the ABC-transporter that can bind to a modulator. See, e.g., Hwang, T. C. et al., J.
Gen. Physiol. (1998): 111(3), 477-90.
                                                11

[0039] The term "CFTR" as used herein means cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance
regulator or a mutation thereof capable of regulator activity, including, but not limited to,
AF508 CFTR and G551D CFTR (see, e.g., http://www.genet.sickkids.on.ca/cftr/, for CFTR
mutations).
[0040] The term "modulating" as used herein means increasing or decreasing by a
measurable amount.
[0041] For purposes of this invention, the chemical elements are identified in accordance
with the Periodic Table of the Elements, CAS version, Handbook of Chemistry and Physics,
75th Ed. Additionally, general principles of organic chemistry are described in "Organic
Chemistry", Thomas Sorrell, University Science Books, Sausalito: 1999, and "March's
Advanced Organic Chemistry", 5th Ed., Ed.: Smith, M. B. and March, J., John Wiley & Sons,
New York: 2001, the entire contents of which are hereby incorporated by reference.
[0042] As described herein, compounds of the invention may optionally be substituted with
one or more substituents, such as are illustrated generally above, or as exemplified by
particular classes, subclasses, and species of the invention. It will be appreciated that the
phrase "optionally substituted" is used interchangeably with the phrase "substituted or
unsubstituted." In general, the term "substituted", whether preceded by the term "optionally"
or not, refers to the replacement of hydrogen radicals in a given structure with the radical of a
specified substituent.
[0043] Unless otherwise indicated, an optionally substituted group may have a substituent at
each substitutable position of the group, and when more than one position in any given
structure may be substituted with more than one substituent selected from a specified group,
the substituent may be either the same or different at every position. Combinations of
substituents envisioned by this invention are preferably those that result in the formation of
stable or chemically feasible compounds.
[0044] The term "stable", as used herein, refers to compounds that are not substantially
altered when subjected to conditions to allow for their production, detection, and preferably
their recovery, purification, and use for one or more of the purposes disclosed herein. In
some embodiments, a stable compound or chemically feasible compound is one that is not
substantially altered when kept at a temperature of 40 'C or less, in the absence of moisture
or other chemically reactive conditions, for at least a week.
[0045] The term "aliphatic" or "aliphatic group", as used herein, means a straight-chain (i.e.,
unbranched) or branched, substituted or unsubstituted hydrocarbon chain that is completely
saturated or that contains one or more units of unsaturation, or a monocyclic hydrocarbon or
                                                 12

bicyclic hydrocarbon that is completely saturated or that contains one or more units of
unsaturation, but which is not aromatic (also referred to herein as "carbocycle",
"cycloaliphatic", or "cycloalkyl"), that has a single point of attachment to the rest of the
molecule. Unless otherwise specified, aliphatic groups contain 1-20 aliphatic carbon atoms.
In some embodiments, aliphatic groups contain 1-10 aliphatic carbon atoms. In other
embodiments, aliphatic groups contain 1-8 aliphatic carbon atoms. In still other
embodiments, aliphatic groups contain 1-6 aliphatic carbon atoms, and in yet other
embodiments aliphatic groups contain 1-4 aliphatic carbon atoms. In some embodiments,
"cycloaliphatic" (or "carbocycle" or "cycloalkyl") refers to a monocyclic C3 .8 hydrocarbon or
bicyclic or tricyclic C 8 14 hydrocarbon that is completely saturated or that contains one or
more units of unsaturation, but which is not aromatic, that has a single point of attachment to
the rest of the molecule wherein any individual ring in said bicyclic ring system has 3-7
members. Suitable aliphatic groups include, but are not limited to, linear or branched,
substituted or unsubstituted alkyl, alkenyl, alkynyl groups and hybrids thereof such as
(cycloalkyl)alkyl, (cycloalkenyl)alkyl or (cycloalkyl)alkenyl. Suitable cycloaliphatic groups
include cycloalkyl, bicyclic cycloalkyl (e.g., decalin), bridged bicycloalkyl such as norbomyl
or [2.2.2]bicyclo-octyl, or bridged tricyclic such as adamantyl.
[0046] The term "heteroaliphatic", as used herein, means aliphatic groups wherein one or two
carbon atoms are independently replaced by one or more of oxygen, sulfur, nitrogen,
phosphorus, or silicon. Heteroaliphatic groups may be substituted or unsubstituted, branched
or unbranched, cyclic or acyclic, and include "heterocycle", "heterocyclyl",
"heterocycloaliphatic", or "heterocyclic" groups.
[0047] The term "heterocycle", "heterocyclyl", "heterocycloaliphatic", or "heterocyclic" as
used herein means non-aromatic, monocyclic, bicyclic, or tricyclic ring systems in which one
or more ring members is an independently selected heteroatom. In some embodiments, the
"heterocycle", "heterocyclyl", "heterocycloaliphatic", or "heterocyclic" group has three to
fourteen ring members in which one or more ring members is a heteroatom independently
selected from oxygen, sulfur, nitrogen, or phosphorus, and each ring in the system contains 3
to 7 ring members.
[0048] The term "heteroatom" means one or more of oxygen, sulfur, nitrogen, phosphorus, or
silicon (including, any oxidized form of nitrogen, sulfur, phosphorus, or silicon; the
quaternized form of any basic nitrogen or; a substitutable nitrogen of a heterocyclic ring, for
example N (as in 3,4-dihydro-2H-pyrrolyl), NH (as in pyrrolidinyl) or NR' (as in N
substituted pyrrolidinyl)).
                                                 13

[0049] The term "unsaturated", as used herein, means that a moiety has one or more units of
unsaturation.
[0050] The term "alkoxy", or "thioalkyl", as used herein, refers to an alkyl group, as
previously defined, attached to the principal carbon chain through an oxygen ("alkoxy") or
sulfur ("thioalkyl") atom.
[0051] The terms "haloaliphatic" and "haloalkoxy" means aliphatic or alkoxy, as the case
may be, substituted with one or more halo atoms. The term "halogen" or "halo" means F, Cl,
Br, or I. Examples of haloaliphatic incude -CHF                    2, -CH    2F, -CF  3, -CF 2-,   or
perhaloalkyl, such as, -CF        2CF 3.
[0052] The term "aryl" used alone or as part of a larger moiety as in "aralkyl", "aralkoxy", or
"aryloxyalkyl", refers to monocyclic, bicyclic, and tricyclic ring systems having a total of five
to fourteen ring members, wherein at least one ring in the system is aromatic and wherein
each ring in the system contains 3 to 7 ring members. The term "aryl" may be used
interchangeably with the term "aryl ring". The term "aryl" also refers to heteroaryl ring
systems as defined herein below.
[0053] The term "heteroaryl", used alone or as part of a larger moiety as in "heteroaralkyl" or
"heteroarylalkoxy", refers to monocyclic, bicyclic, and tricyclic ring systems having a total of
five to fourteen ring members, wherein at least one ring in the system is aromatic, at least one
ring in the system contains one or more heteroatoms, and wherein each ring in the system
contains 3 to 7 ring members. The term "heteroaryl" may be used interchangeably with the
term "heteroaryl ring" or the term "heteroaromatic".
[0054] An aryl (including aralkyl, aralkoxy, aryloxyalkyl and the like) or heteroaryl
(including heteroaralkyl and heteroarylalkoxy and the like) group may contain one or more
substituents. Suitable substituents on the unsaturated carbon atom of an aryl or heteroaryl
group are selected from halo; -R         0;   -ORO;       -SRO;       1,2-methylene-dioxy; 1,2-ethylenedioxy;
phenyl (Ph) optionally substituted with R0 ; -O(Ph)                   optionally substituted with R0 ; -(CH   2) 1
2 (Ph), optionally substituted with R0 ; -CH=CH(Ph),                    optionally substituted with R0 ; -NO   2 ;
-CN;     -N(R)    2;
-NR    0 C(O)R;   -NR    0 C(O)N(R)                   0 CO                0 NR 0 C(O)R;
                                         2 ; -NR            2R;    -NR
NR0 NR0 C(O)N(R) 2 ; -NR          0 NR0 CO
                                              2R;     -C(O)C(O)R;           -C(O)CH    2 C(O)R;   -C0   2 RO;
C(O)R; -C(O)N(R)           2;
-OC(O)N(R)       2 ; -S(O)    2 R0 ; -SO    2 N(RO) 2 ; -S(O)R;          -NR   0 SO
                                                                                    2N(R) 2 ; -NR
                                                                                                   0 SO
                                                                                                        2R;
-C(=S)N(R)       2 ; -C(=NH)-N(R)              2 ; or  -(CH    2) 0-2NHC(O)R       wherein each independent
occurrence of R0 is selected from hydrogen, optionally substituted C 1-6 aliphatic, an
                                                            14

unsubstituted 5-6 membered heteroaryl or heterocyclic ring, phenyl, -O(Ph),                   or -CH    2(Ph),
or, notwithstanding the definition above, two independent occurrences of R 0 , on the same
substituent or different substituents, taken together with the atom(s) to which each R0 group is
bound, form a 3-8-membered cycloalkyl, heterocyclyl, aryl, or heteroaryl ring having 0-3
heteroatoms independently selected from nitrogen, oxygen, or sulfur. Optional substituents
on the aliphatic group of R0 are selected from NH 2 , NH(C 1.4aliphatic), N(C 1.4 aliphatic) 2 , halo,
C 1 .4 aliphatic, OH, O(C 1 .4 aliphatic), NO 2 , CN, CO 2 H, C0 2 (C1 .4 aliphatic), O(halo C 1 .4
aliphatic), or haloC 1.4 aliphatic, wherein each of the foregoing C 1.4 aliphatic groups of R0 is
unsubstituted.
[0055] An aliphatic or heteroaliphatic group, or a non-aromatic heterocyclic ring may contain
one or more substituents. Suitable substituents on the saturated carbon of an aliphatic or
heteroaliphatic group, or of a non-aromatic heterocyclic ring are selected from those listed
above for the unsaturated carbon of an aryl or heteroaryl group and additionally include the
following: =0, =S, =NNHR*, =NN(R*) 2, =NNHC(O)R*, =NNHCO 2(alkyl),
=NNHSO 2(alkyl), or =NR*, where each R* is independently selected from hydrogen or an
optionally substituted C1 .6 aliphatic. Optional substituents on the aliphatic group of R* are
selected from NH 2 ,
NH(C 1 .4 aliphatic), N(C 1 .4 aliphatic) 2 , halo, C 1 .4 aliphatic, OH, O(C 1 .4 aliphatic), NO 2 , CN,
CO 2H,
CO2 (C 1.4 aliphatic), O(halo C 1.4 aliphatic), or halo(C 1.4 aliphatic), wherein each of the
foregoing C 1 .4 aliphatic groups of R* is unsubstituted.
[0056] Optional substituents on the nitrogen of a non-aromatic heterocyclic ring are selected
from -R', -N(R*)        2 , -C(O)R*,     -CO    2 R+, -C(O)C(O)R*,        -C(O)CH     2C(O)R*,     -SO   2 R+,
-SO     2 N(R+)2 , -C(=S)N(R*)     2 , -C(=NH)-N(R*)           2 , or -NR+SO   2R+;  wherein R+ is
hydrogen, an optionally substituted C1 .6 aliphatic, optionally substituted phenyl, optionally
substituted
-O(Ph),      optionally substituted -CH       2(Ph),  optionally substituted -(CH      2) 1-2(Ph);  optionally
substituted -CH=CH(Ph);          or an unsubstituted 5-6 membered heteroaryl or heterocyclic ring
having one to four heteroatoms independently selected from oxygen, nitrogen, or sulfur, or,
notwithstanding the definition above, two independent occurrences of R+, on the same
substituent or different substituents, taken together with the atom(s) to which each R+ group
is bound, form a 3-8-membered cycloalkyl, heterocyclyl, aryl, or heteroaryl ring having 0-3
heteroatoms independently selected from nitrogen, oxygen, or sulfur. Optional substituents
on the aliphatic group or the phenyl ring of R+ are selected from NH 2 , NH(C 1.4 aliphatic),
                                                        15

N(C 1 .4aliphatic) 2 , halo, C 1 .4 aliphatic, OH, O(C 1 .4aliphatic), NO 2 , CN, CO 2 H,
CO2 (C 1.4 aliphatic), O(halo C 1.4 aliphatic), or halo(C 1.4 aliphatic), wherein each of the
foregoing C 1 .4 aliphatic groups of R' is unsubstituted.
[0057] The term "alkylidene chain" refers to a straight or branched carbon chain that may be
fully saturated or have one or more units of unsaturation and has two points of attachment to
the rest of the molecule. The term "spirocycloalkylidene" refers to a carbocyclic ring that
may be fully saturated or have one or more units of unsaturation and has two points of
attachment from the same ring carbon atom to the rest of the molecule.
[0058]     The term "slurry," as used herein, is defined as a mixture comprising a solid and a
liquid, wherein the solid is, at most, partially soluble in the liquid. The term "slurrying" or
"slurried," as used herein (example, "the solid product was slurriedfor 24 hours"), is defined
as the act of creating a slurry, and stirring said slurry for a length of time.
[0059]     The term "protecting group" (PG) as used herein, represents those groups intended
to protect a functional group, such as, for example, an alcohol, amine, carboxyl, carbonyl,
etc., against undesirable reactions during synthetic procedures. Commonly used protecting
groups are disclosed in Greene and Wuts, Protective Groups in OrganicSynthesis, 3rd
Edition (John Wiley & Sons, New York, 1999), which is incorporated herein by reference.
Examples of nitrogen protecting groups include acyl, aroyl, or carbamyl groups such as
formyl, acetyl, propionyl, pivaloyl, t-butylacetyl, 2-chloroacetyl, 2-bromoacetyl,
trifluoroacetyl, trichloroacetyl, phthalyl, o-nitrophenoxyacetyl, a-chlorobutyryl, benzoyl, 4
chlorobenzoyl, 4-bromobenzoyl, 4-nitrobenzoyl and chiral auxiliaries such as protected or
unprotected D, L or D, L-amino acids such as alanine, leucine, phenylalanine and the like;
sulfonyl groups such as benzenesulfonyl, p-toluenesulfonyl and the like; carbamate groups
such as benzyloxycarbonyl, p-chlorobenzyloxycarbonyl, p-methoxybenzyloxycarbonyl, p
nitrobenzyloxycarbonyl, 2-nitrobenzyloxycarbonyl, p-bromobenzyloxycarbonyl, 3,4
dimethoxybenzyloxycarbonyl, 3,5-dimethoxybenzyloxycarbonyl, 2,4
dimethoxybenzyloxycarbonyl, 4-methoxybenzyloxycarbonyl, 2-nitro-4,5
dimethoxybenzyloxycarbonyl, 3,4,5-trimethoxybenzyloxycarbonyl, 1-(p-biphenylyl)-1
methylethoxycarbonyl, a,a-dimethyl-3,5-dimethoxybenzyloxycarbonyl,
benzhydryloxycarbonyl, t-butyloxycarbonyl, diisopropylmethoxycarbonyl,
isopropyloxycarbonyl, ethoxycarbonyl, methoxycarbonyl, allyloxycarbonyl,
2,2,2,-trichloroethoxycarbonyl, phenoxycarbonyl, 4-nitrophenoxy carbonyl,
fluorenyl-9-methoxycarbonyl, cyclopentyloxycarbonyl, adamantyloxycarbonyl,
cyclohexyloxycarbonyl, phenylthiocarbonyl and the like, arylalkyl groups such as benzyl,
                                                     16

triphenylmethyl, benzyloxymethyl and the like and silyl groups such as trimethylsilyl and the
like. Another exemplary N-protecting group is tert-butyloxycarbonyl (Boc).
[0060]    Examples of useful protecting groups for acids are substituted alkyl esters such as
9-fluorenylmethyl, methoxymethyl, methylthiomethyl, tetrahydropyranyl, tetrahydrofuranyl,
methoxyethoxymethyl, 2-(trimethylsilyl)ethoxymethyl, benzyloxymethyl,
pivaloyloxymethyl, phenylacetoxymethyl, triisopropropylsysilylmethyl, cyanomethyl, acetol,
phenacyl, substituted phenacyl esters, 2,2,2- trichloroethyl, 2-haloethyl, o-chloroalkyl, 2
(trimethylsilyl)ethyl, 2-methylthioethyl, t-butyl, 3-methyl-3-pentyl, dicyclopropylmethyl,
cyclopentyl, cyclohexyl, allyl, methallyl, cynnamyl, phenyl, silyl esters, benzyl and
substituted benzyl esters, 2,6-dialkylphenyl esters such as pentafluorophenyl, 2,6
dialkylpyhenyl. Other protecting groups for acids are methyl or ethyl esters.
[0061]    Methods of adding (a process generally referred to as "protection") and removing
(process generally referred to as "deprotection") such amine and acid protecting groups are
well-known in the art and available, for example in P.J.Kocienski, Protecting Groups,
Thieme, 1994, which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety and in Greene and
Wuts, Protective Groups in OrganicSynthesis, 3rd Edition (John Wiley & Sons, New York,
1999).
[0062]    Examples of suitable solvents that may be used in this invention are, but not limited
to water, methanol, dichloromethane (DCM), acetonitrile, dimethylformamide (DMF),
methyl acetate (MeOAc), ethyl acetate (EtOAc), isopropyl acetate (IPAc), t-butyl acetate (t
BuOAc), isopropyl alcohol (IPA), tetrahydrofuran (THF), methyl ethyl ketone (MEK), t
butanol, diethyl ether (Et2 0), methyl-t-butyl ether (MTBE), 1,4-dioxane and N-methyl
pyrrolidone (NMP).
[0063]    Examples of suitable coupling agents that may be used in this invention are, but not
limited to 1-(3-(dimethylamino)propyl)-3-ethyl-carbodiimide hydrochloride (EDCI), 2-(1H
benzotriazole-1-yl)-1,1,3,3-tetramethyluronium hexafluorophosphate (HBTU), 1
hydroxybenzotriazole (HOBT), 2-(1H-7-Azabenzotriazol-1-yl)-1,1,3,3-tetramethyl uronium
hexafluorophosphate (HATU), 2-chloro-1,3-dimethyl-2-imidazolium tetrafluoroborate, 1-H
benzotriazolium-1-[bis(dimethylamino)methylene]-5-chlorohexafluorophosphate         (HCTU), 2
chloro-4,6-dimethoxy-1,3,5-triazine, and 2-propane phosphonic anhydride (T3P@).
[0064]    Examples of suitable bases that may be used in this invention are, but not limited to
potassium carbonate (K 2CO 3 ), N-methylmorpholine (NMM), triethylamine (Et 3N; TEA),
diisopropyl-ethyl amine (i-Pr 2EtN; DIEA), pyridine, potassium hydroxide (KOH), sodium
hydroxide (NaOH), and sodium methoxide (NaOMe; NaOCH 3).
                                                17

[0065] In some embodiments, two independent occurrences of R0 , as depicted in the structure
below, are taken together with the atom(s) to which they are attached to form a 3-8
membered cycloalkyl, heterocyclyl, aryl, or heteroaryl ring having 0-3 heteroatoms
independently selected from nitrogen, oxygen, or sulfur. Exemplary rings that are formed
when two independent occurrences of R0 are taken together with the atom(s) to which they
are attached include, but are not limited to the following: a) two independent occurrences of
R0 that are bound to the same atom and are taken together with that atom to form a ring, for
example, N(R) 2 , where both occurrences of R0 are taken together with the nitrogen atom to
form a piperidin-1-yl, piperazin-1-yl, or morpholin-4-yl group; and b) two independent
occurrences of R0 that are bound to different atoms and are taken together with both of those
atoms to form a ring, for example where a phenyl group is substituted with two occurrences
of ORO
                                                      RO
[0066] these two occurrences of R0 are taken together with the oxygen atoms to which they
are bound to form a fused 6-membered oxygen containing ring:
                                                      0
                                                1
[0067] It will be appreciated that a variety of other rings can be formed when two
independent occurrences of R0 are taken together with the atom(s) to which each variable is
bound and that the examples detailed above are not intended to be limiting.
[0068] Ring substituents on, for example, mono and poly aryl, aliphatic, heteroaliphatic ring
systems can be attached on any ring position for which it is chemically feasible to attach a
substituent.
[0069] Unless otherwise stated, structures depicted herein are also meant to include all
isomeric (e.g., enantiomeric, diastereomeric, and geometric (or conformational)) forms of the
structure; for example, the R and S configurations for each asymmetric center, (Z) and (E)
double bond isomers, and (Z) and (E) conformational isomers. Therefore, single
stereochemical isomers as well as enantiomeric, diastereomeric, and geometric (or
conformational) mixtures of the present compounds are within the scope of the invention.
Unless otherwise stated, all tautomeric forms of the compounds of the invention are within
the scope of the invention. That is when RX-X-          in a compound of Formula 1 is hydrogen,
said compound of Formula 1 may exist as a tautomer:
                                                18

                                  Rl5                                                R
                      0  0    _f(R5R4                                   OHO0          N5R4
                   'N       N
   IRX-X                    H                                             N
                        N                ~R-X                                   H
                                     Tautomers of Formula 1
[0070] Additionally, unless otherwise stated, structures depicted herein are also meant to
include compounds that differ only in the presence of one or more isotopically enriched
atoms. For example, compounds having the present structures except for the replacement of
                                                                        13
hydrogen by deuterium or tritium, or the replacement of a carbon by a     C or 1C  are within
the scope of this invention. Such compounds are useful, for example, as analytical tools,
probes in biological assays or as therapeutic agents.
[00711    II.   PROCESSES OF THE INVENTION
[0072]    In general, the invention provides processes for the synthesis of compounds useful
as modulators of CFTR.
[0073]    In some embodiments, the invention provides a process for the preparation of a
compound having the structure
                                                      OH
                                          0   0
                                                  N
                                                  H
                                          N
                                          H
[0074]    In some embodiments, the invention provides a process for the preparation of a
compound having the structure
                                                    OH
                                       0    0                OH
                                                N
                                                H
                                       N
                                       H
[0075]    In some embodiments, the invention provides a process for the preparation of a
compound having the structure
                                                    OH    O
                                       0    0                OH
                                                N
                                                H
                                       N
                                       H
                                                 19

[0076]       In one aspect, the invention provides a process for the preparation of a compound
of Formula 1,
                                                                    R5
                                 (RX-XR                       N
                                                     H
                                                   Formula I
comprising coupling a carboxylic acid of Formula 2
                                                           0   0
                                       ( RX-X                      OH
                                                           H
                                                   Formula 2
with an aniline of Formula 3
                                                        R5
                                              H2 N
                                                        R2
                                                  Formula 3
in the presence of a coupling agent selected from the group consisting of 2-chloro-1,3
dimethyl-2-imidazolium tetrafluoroborate, HBTU, HCTU, 2-chloro-4,6-dimethoxy-1,3,5
triazine, HATU, HOBT/EDC, and T3P@.
         Each R 2 and R 4 is independently selected from hydrogen, CN, CF 3, halo, C 1.6 straight
or branched alkyl, 3-12 membered cycloaliphatic, phenyl, C5 .10 heteroaryl or C3 .7
heterocyclic, wherein said heteroaryl or heterocyclic has up to 3 heteroatoms selected from
0, S, or N, and each C 1.6 straight or branched alkyl, 3-12 membered cycloaliphatic, phenyl,
C5 .10 heteroaryl or C3 .7 heterocyclic is independently and optionally substituted with up to
three substituents selected from -OR,         -CF    3, -OCF    3, SR', S(O)R', SO 2R', -SCF   3, halo,
CN,
-COOR',       -COR-, -O(CH         2) 2N(R')(R'),   -O(CH     2)N(R')(R'),  -CON(R')(R'),
-(CH    2) 2 0R', -(CH   2)OR', CH 2CN, optionally substituted phenyl or phenoxy, -N(R')(R'),
-NR'C(O)OR',         -NR'C(O)R',    -(CH     2) 2N(R')(R'),  or -(CH    2)N(R')(R').
         Each R5 is independently selected from hydrogen, -OH,              NH 2 , CN, CHF2 , NHR',
N(R')2,
                                                      20

-NHC(O)R',       NHC(O)OR', NHSO 2R', -OR',                OC(O)OR', OC(O)NHR', OC(O)NR' 2 ,
CH 2OH, CH 2 N(R') 2 , C(O)OR', SO 2NHR', SO 2N(R') 2 , or CH 2NHC(O)OR'.
         Or, R 4 and R5 are taken together form a 5-7 membered ring containing 0-3 three
heteroatoms selected from N, 0, or S, wherein said ring is optionally substituted with up to
three R 3 substituents.
         Each X is independently a bond or is an optionally substituted C 1.6 alkylidene chain
wherein up to two methylene units of X are optionally and independently replaced by
-CO-, -CS-, -COCO-,                    -CONR'-,          -CONR'NR'-,           -CO    2-,      -OCO-,
-NR'CO      2 -, -0-,      -NR'CONR'-,            -OCONR'-,           -NR'NR',      -NR'NR'CO-,
-NR'CO-, -S-,             -SO,    -SO   2 -,   -NR'-       , -SO     2NR'-, NR'S02-, or
NR'SO 2NR'-.
         Each Rx is independently R', halo, NO 2 , CN, CF 3 , or OCF 3 . y is an integer from 0-4.
Each R' is independently selected from hydrogen or an optionally substituted group selected
from a C1 .8 aliphatic group, a 3-8-membered saturated, partially unsaturated, or fully
unsaturated monocyclic ring having 0-3 heteroatoms independently selected from nitrogen,
oxygen, or sulfur, or an 8-12 membered saturated, partially unsaturated, or fully unsaturated
bicyclic ring system having 0-5 heteroatoms independently selected from nitrogen, oxygen,
or sulfur; or two occurrences of R' are taken together with the atom(s) to which they are
bound to form an optionally substituted 3-12 membered saturated, partially unsaturated, or
fully unsaturated monocyclic or bicyclic ring having 0-4 heteroatoms independently selected
from N, 0, or S.
         Each R 3 is independently -C        1 .3 alkyl, C 1 .3 perhaloalkyl, -O(C        1 .3  alkyl),
-CF   3, -OCF     3 , -SCF   3, -F,  -Cl,    -Br,     or -COOR',        -COR',     -O(CH         2) 2N(R')(R'),
-O(CH     2)N(R')(R'),   -CON(R')(R'),        -(CH     2)2 0R',    -(CH   2)OR',  optionally substituted
monocyclic or bicyclic aromatic ring, optionally substituted arylsulfone, optionally
substituted
5-membered heteroaryl ring, -N(R')(R'),             -(CH      2 )2N(R')(R'),  or -(CH      2)N(R')(R').
[0077]      In one embodiment, R5 is independently -OC(O)OR',                    -OC(O)NHR',             or
-OC(O)N(R')       2,  and R' is not hydrogen. In certain instances R5 is -OC(O)OR'                      and R' is not
hydrogen. In other instances, R5 is -OC(O)NHR'                    and R' is not hydrogen. In still other
instances, R5 is -OC(O)N(R')         2 and R' is not hydrogen.
[0078]      In one embodiment, the process further comprises cleaving the
-OC(O)OR',       -OC(O)NHR',         or -OC(O)N(R')           2 R5 group to form -OH.             The cleavage is
performed by treating a compound of Formula 1 containing the -OC(O)OR',
                                                        21

-OC(O)NHR',        or -OC(O)N(R')     2 R5 group with an alcoholic solvent in the presence of base
such as NaOH, KOH or sodium methoxide. The alcoholic solvent used in the cleavage
reaction is methanol, ethanol, isopropyl alcohol or t-butanol.
[0079]     In another embodiment, at least one of R 4 or R 2 is independently a C 1 -C6 straight or
branched alkyl which is substituted with -COOR'          or -CON(R')     2,  and R' is not hydrogen.
In certain instances, one of R 4 or R 2 is -COOR'     and R' is not hydrogen. In other instances,
one of R 4 or R 2 is -CON(R')   2 and R' is not hydrogen.
[0080]     In one embodiment, the process further comprises hydrolyzing the -COOR'               or
-CON(R')     2 on at least one of R 4 and R 2. The hydrolysis is performed by treating a
compound of Formula 1 containing the -COOR'             or -CON(R')    2 group on at least one of R 4
and R 2 with an alcoholic solvent in the presence of base such as NaOH, KOH or sodium
methoxide. The alcoholic solvent used in the hydrolysis is methanol, ethanol, isopropyl
alcohol or t-butanol.
[0081]     In another embodiment, at least one of R 4 or R 2 is independently a C 1.6 straight or
branched alkyl which is substituted with -COOR'          or -CON(R')     2  and R5 is independently
-OC(O)OR',      -OC(O)NHR',       or -OC(O)N(R')      2, and each R' is not hydrogen.
[0082]     In one embodiment, the process further comprises hydrolyzing the -COOR'               or
-CON(R')     2 on at least one of R 4 and R 2 and cleaving the -OC(O)OR',         -OC(O)NHR',       or
-OC(O)N(R')      2 R5 group. The hydrolysis/cleavage reaction is performed by treating a
compound of Formula 1 containing the -COOR'             or -CON(R')    2 group on at least one of R 4
and R 2 and -OC(O)OR',       -OC(O)NHR',       or -OC(O)N(R')     2 R5 group with an alcoholic
solvent in the presence of base such as NaOH, KOH or sodium methoxide. The alcoholic
solvent used in the hydrolysis/cleavage reaction is methanol, ethanol, isopropyl alcohol or t
butanol.
[0083]     In another embodiment, the coupling of the carboxylic acid of Formula 2 and the
aniline of Formula 3 is performed in the presence of a base such as K 2CO 3 , Et 3N,
N-methylmorpholine (NMM), pyridine or DIEA.
[0084]     In another embodiment, the coupling of the carboxylic acid of Formula 2 and the
aniline of Formula 3 is performed in the presence of pyridine or DIEA.
[0085]     In yet another embodiment, the coupling of the carboxylic acid of Formula 2 and
the aniline of Formula 3 is performed in the presence of a solvent such as EtOAc, IPAc, THF,
MEK, NMP, acetonitrile, DMF, or 2-methyltetrahydrofuran.
[0086]     In further embodiments, the coupling of the carboxylic acid of Formula 2 and the
aniline of Formula 3 is performed at a reaction temperature which is maintained between 10
                                                   22

'C and 78 'C such as between about 20 'C and 30 'C, between about 40 'C and 50 'C, and
between about 42 'C and 53 'C.
[0087]    In still further embodiments, the coupling reaction is stirred for at least 2 hours
such as for at least 8 hours, for at least 70 hours or for at least 3 days.
[0088]    In another embodiment, y is 0.
[0089]    In still other embodiments, R 2 is tert-butyl.
[0090]    In some embodiments, R5 is independently -OC(O)OR',             -OC(O)NHR',    or
-OC(O)N(R')      2, and R' is not hydrogen; and each of R 2 and R 4 is independently selected
from hydrogen, CF 3 , C 1-C6 straight or branched alkyl, 3-12 membered cycloaliphatic or
phenyl.
[0091]    In some embodiments, R5 is independently -OC(O)OR',             -OC(O)NHR',    or
-OC(O)N(R')      2, and R' is not hydrogen; and each of R 2 and R 4 is independently selected
from C 1-C 6 straight or branched alkyl.
[0092]    In some embodiments, R5 is independently -OC(O)OR',             -OC(O)NHR',    or
-OC(O)N(R')      2, and R' is not hydrogen; and each of R 2 and R 4 is independently selected
from methyl, ethyl, n-propyl, isopropyl, n-butyl, isobutyl, t-butyl, n-pentyl, or n-hexyl.
[0093]    In some embodiments, R 2 and R 4 are t-butyl.
[0094]    In one embodiment, the invention provides a process for the preparation of a
compound of Formula 5
                                                    O' PG
                                                       NR4
                                            H2 N
                                                    R2
                                               Formula 5
by reacting a compound of Formula 6
                                                 OH
                                                       R4
                                                 R2
                                               Formula 6
with a reagent capable of causing a protecting group to be attached to the phenolic oxygen of
a compound of Formula 6 in the presence of a solvent, thereby producing a compound of
Formula 7
                                                  23

                                              0
                                                'PG
                                                    R4
                                              R2
                                            Formula 7
which is nitrated to form a compound of Formula 8
                                                  O' PG
                                         0 2N
                                                  R2
                                             Formula 8
which is then reduced to give a compound of Formula 5, wherein PG is a protecting group
and R 4 and R 5 are defined as above.
[0095]     In one embodiment, the solvent used in the conversion of compound of Formula 6
to a compound of Formula 7 is diethyl ether, or methylene chloride.
[0096]     In another embodiment, the solvent used in the protection reaction is methylene
chloride.
[0097]     In a further embodiment, PG is propoxy formyl, methanesulfonyl, 4-nitro-benzoyl,
ethoxy formyl, butoxy formyl, t-butoxy formyl, i-propoxy formyl or methoxy formyl.
[0098]     In another embodiment, PG is methoxy formyl.
[0099]     In another embodiment, a compound of Formula 7 is nitrated using a mixture of
sulfuric acid, nitric acid and methylene chloride.
[00100]    In one embodiment, the nitro compound of Formula 8 is purified by crystallization.
[00101]    In a further embodiment, the nitro compound of Formula 8 is purified by
crystallization using hexane.
[00102]    In another embodiment, the process further comprises the step of contacting a
compound of Formula 4
                                                     0  0
                                    RX-X                  OEt
                                                     H
                                            Formula 4
        with an aqueous acid to produce a compound of Formula 2.
[00103]    In one embodiment, the compound of Formula 3 is a compound of Formula 40
                                                 24

                                             R2       O
                                    H2 N                YO
                                                      0
                                             R5
                                           Formula 40
[00104]    In another embodiment, the process further comprises the step of contacting a
compound of Formula 41
                                           R2           Br
                                         0 2N          R5
                                            Formula 41
        with methyl trimethylsilyl dimethylketene acetal (MTDA)
                                           O
                                                O-TMS
                                               MTDA
        to produce a compound of Formula 42
                                                      0
                                       R2                 O
                                     0 2N          R5
                                           Formula 42
[00105]    In a further embodiment, the process comprises the step of reducing a compound of
Formula 42 to produce a compound of Formula 40.
[00106]    In one embodiment, the compound of Formula 3 is a compound of Formula 43
                                                 R2
                                         H2 N
                                                      0
                                            Formula 43
                                                25

[00107]    In a further embodiment, the process comprises the step of contacting a compound
of Formula 44
                                                  R2
                                          0 2N
                                                        Br
                                                  OH
                                            Formula 44
        with methyl trimethylsilyl dimethylketene acetal (MTDA)
                                            O
                                                O-TMS
                                               MTDA
        to produce a compound of Formula 45
                                                 R2
                                         0 2N
                                                       0
                                            Formula 45
[00108]    In a further embodiment, the process comprises the step of reducing a compound of
Formula 45 to produce a compound of Formula 43.
[00109]    In another aspect, the invention provides a process for the preparation of a
compound of Formula 2
                                                     0   0
                                   (RXX                    OH
                                                     H
                                              Formula 2
        comprising contacting a compound of Formula 4
                                                     0   0
                                   (Rx-X                   OEt
                                               4)N)
                                                     H
                                            Formula 4
                                                26

        with an aqueous acid, wherein
        each X is independently a bond or is an optionally substituted C 1.6 alkylidene chain
wherein up to two methylene units of X are optionally and independently replaced by
-CO-, -CS-, -COCO-,                 -CONR'-,    -CONR'NR'-,       -CO     2-, -OCO-,
-NR'C02-,       -0-,     -NR'CONR'-,       -OCONR'-,       -NR'NR',     -NR'NR'CO-,
-NR'CO-, -S-,          -SO,    -S02-,    -NR'-    , -SO   2NR'-,  NR'S02-, or
-NR'SO     2NR'-;
        each RX is independently R', halo, NO 2 , CN, CF 3 , or OCF 3 ;
        y is an integer from 0-4; and
        each R' is independently selected from hydrogen or an optionally substituted group
selected from a C 1.8 aliphatic group, a 3-8-membered saturated, partially unsaturated, or fully
unsaturated monocyclic ring having 0-3 heteroatoms independently selected from nitrogen,
oxygen, or sulfur, or an 8-12 membered saturated, partially unsaturated, or fully unsaturated
bicyclic ring system having 0-5 heteroatoms independently selected from nitrogen, oxygen,
or sulfur; or two occurrences of R' are taken together with the atom(s) to which they are
bound to form an optionally substituted 3-12 membered saturated, partially unsaturated, or
fully unsaturated monocyclic or bicyclic ring having 0-4 heteroatoms independently selected
from N, 0, or S.
[00110]    In one embodiment of this aspect, the compouned of Formula 4
                                                     0   0
                                                            OEt
                                      RXX
                                                     H
                                            Formula 4
        was prepared by contacting a compound of Formula 50
                                                     NH2
                                                          H
                                          Rx-XH
                                            Formula 50
        with a compound of Formula 51
                                                     RB
                                                    o0
                                            RAOX     O
                                                     0
                                            Formula 51
                                                27

        wherein R A,RB and Rc can be C 1.6 alkyl.
[00111]    In one embodiment of this aspect, the compound of Formula 50 and the compound
of Formula 50 are reacted at a temperature from about 100 'C to about 300 'C. In another
embodiment, the compound of Formula 50 and the compound of Formula 50 are reacted at a
temperature of about 100 'C. In another embodiment, the compound of Formula 50 and the
compound of Formula 50 are reacted at a temperature of about 250 'C. In one further
embodiment, the compound of Formula 50 and the compound of Formula 50 are reacted at a
temperature of about 100 'C, and then at a temperature of about 250 0 C.
[00112]    In one further embodiment of this aspect, y is 0.
[00113]    In another aspect, the invention provides a process for the preparation of a
compound of Formula 40
                                                  R2
                                         H2N                O
                                                            YO
                                                  R5
                                                 Formula 40
        comprising the step of contacting a compound of Formula 41
                                            R2          Br
                                          0 2N         R5
                                             Formula 41
        with methyl trimethylsilyl dimethylketene acetal (MTDA)
                                            O
                                                  O-TMS
                                               MTDA
        to produce a compound of Formula 42
                                                   0
                                    R2               O
                                  0 2N          R5
                                       Formula 42        , wherein
    each R 2 is independently selected from hydrogen, CN, CF 3, halo, C 1.6 straight or branched
alkyl, 3-12 membered cycloaliphatic, phenyl, C5 .10 heteroaryl or C 3 .7 heterocyclic, wherein
said heteroaryl or heterocyclic has up to 3 heteroatoms selected from 0, S, or N, and each C1 .
                                                 28

6 straight or branched alkyl, 3-12 membered cycloaliphatic, phenyl, C5 .10 heteroaryl or C3 .7
heterocyclic is independently and optionally substituted with up to three substituents selected
from -OR',     -CF   3, -OCF    3,  SR', S(O)R', SO 2 R', -SCF    3, halo, CN, -COOR',
-COR-, -O(CH           2 )2N(R')(R'),  -O(CH      2)N(R')(R'), -CON(R')(R'),      -(CH 2) 2 0R',
-(CH    2)OR',  CH 2CN, optionally substituted phenyl or phenoxy, -N(R')(R'),
NR'C(O)OR', -NR'C(O)R',            -(CH   2 ) 2N(R')(R'), or -(CH   2)N(R')(R');
         each R5 is independently selected from hydrogen, -OH,             NH 2 , CN, CHF2, NHR',
N(R')2,
-NHC(O)R',       NHC(O)OR', NHSO 2R', -OR',             OC(O)OR', OC(O)NHR', OC(O)NR' 2 ,
CH 2OH, CH 2 N(R') 2 , C(O)OR', SO 2NHR', SO 2N(R') 2 , or CH 2NHC(O)OR'; and
         each R' is independently selected from hydrogen or an optionally substituted group
selected from a C 1.8 aliphatic group, a 3-8-membered saturated, partially unsaturated, or fully
unsaturated monocyclic ring having 0-3 heteroatoms independently selected from nitrogen,
oxygen, or sulfur, or an 8-12 membered saturated, partially unsaturated, or fully unsaturated
bicyclic ring system having 0-5 heteroatoms independently selected from nitrogen, oxygen,
or sulfur; or two occurrences of R' are taken together with the atom(s) to which they are
bound to form an optionally substituted 3-12 membered saturated, partially unsaturated, or
fully unsaturated monocyclic or bicyclic ring having 0-4 heteroatoms independently selected
from N, 0, or S.
[00114]    In one embodiment of this aspect, the process comprises the step of reducing a
compound of Formula 42 to produce a compound of Formula 40.
[00115]    In another aspect, the invention provides a process for the preparation of a
compound of Formula 43
                                                       R2
                                               H2 N
                                                          0
                                                  Formula 43
         comprising the step of contacting a compound having the Formula 44
                                                      29

                                                        R2
                                                0 2N
                                                              Br
                                                        OH
                                                  Formula 44
         with methyl trimethylsilyl dimethylketene acetal (MTDA)
                                                       O-TMS
                                                      MTDA
         to produce a compound of Formula 45
                                                    R2
                                        0 2N
                                                        0
                                           Formula 45       , wherein
     each R 2 is independently selected from hydrogen, CN, CF 3, halo, C 1.6 straight or branched
alkyl, 3-12 membered cycloaliphatic, phenyl, C5 .10 heteroaryl or C 3 .7 heterocyclic, wherein
said heteroaryl or heterocyclic has up to 3 heteroatoms selected from 0, S, or N, and each C1 .
6 straight or branched alkyl, 3-12 membered cycloaliphatic, phenyl, C5 .10 heteroaryl or C 3 .7
heterocyclic is independently and optionally substituted with up to three substituents selected
from -OR',      -CF  3, -OCF    3,  SR', S(O)R', SO 2 R', -SCF     3, halo, CN, -COOR',
-COR-, -O(CH           2 )2N(R')(R'),  -O(CH       2)N(R')(R'), -CON(R')(R'),     -(CH 2) 2 0R',
-(CH    2)OR',   CH 2CN, optionally substituted phenyl or phenoxy, -N(R')(R'),
NR'C(O)OR', -NR'C(O)R',            -(CH   2 ) 2N(R')(R'),  or -(CH   2)N(R')(R');  and
         each R' is independently selected from hydrogen or an optionally substituted group
selected from a C 1 .8 aliphatic group, a 3-8-membered saturated, partially unsaturated, or fully
unsaturated monocyclic ring having 0-3 heteroatoms independently selected from nitrogen,
oxygen, or sulfur, or an 8-12 membered saturated, partially unsaturated, or fully unsaturated
bicyclic ring system having 0-5 heteroatoms independently selected from nitrogen, oxygen,
or sulfur; or two occurrences of R' are taken together with the atom(s) to which they are
bound to form an optionally substituted 3-12 membered saturated, partially unsaturated, or
fully unsaturated monocyclic or bicyclic ring having 0-4 heteroatoms independently selected
from N, 0, or S.
                                                       30

[00116]    In one embodiment of this aspect, the process comprises the step of reducing a
compound of Formula 45 to produce a compound of Formula 43.
[00117]    In some specific embodiments, a process for the preparation of compound 27
                                                    OH
                                       0    0                OH
                                               N
                                       H       H
                                       N
                                       H
                                           Compound 27
     comprises:
        (a) reacting compound 26
                                               0   0
                                                      OH
                                               H
                                           Compound 26
        with compound 13
                                    H2N
                                         0
                                           Compound 13
in the presence of EDCI, HOBT and DIEA using DMF as the solvent, wherein the reaction
temperature is maintained between about 20 'C and 30 'C, and the reaction is allowed
proceed for at least 70 hours, to produce compound 14
                                             0   0      0
                                     0   0
                                             N
                                             H
                                     N
                                     H
                                       Compound 14            ; and
                                                31

        (b) treating compound 14 with KOH in methanol.
[00118]    In another specific embodiment, a process for the preparation of compound 28
                                                   OH      0
                                           0                  OH
                                       0
                                              N
                                       H      H
                                       N
                                       H
                                          Compound 28
     comprises:
        (a) reacting compound 26
                                              0   0
                                               O!   OH
                                                      OH
                                              H
                                          Compound 26
        with compound 20
                                         H2N
                                                    0
                                          Compound 20
in the presence of HATU and DIEA using acetonitrile as the solvent, wherein the reaction
temperature is maintained between about 40 'C and 50 'C, and wherein the reaction is
allowed proceed for at least 3 days, to produce compound 21
                                                        0
                                          00        N0
                                       O    O
                                              N
                                         IN   H
                                       N
                                       H
                                       Compound 21           ;and
        (b) treating compound 21 with NaOH in methanol.
[00119]    In yet another specific embodiment, a process for the preparation of compound 34
                                               32

                                                       OH
                                          0   0
                                                   N
                                                   H
                                          N
                                          H
                                          Compound 34
     comprises:
        (a) reacting compound 26
                                                0    0
                                                       OH
                                                H
                                          Compound 26
        with compound 32
                                         H2N
                                             0
                                          Compound 32
in the presence of T3P@ and pyridine using 2-methyl tetrahydrofuran as the solvent, wherein
the reaction temperature is maintained between about 42 'C and about 3 'C, and wherein the
reaction is allowed proceed for at least 2 hours, to produce compound 33
                                                  0- O
                                       00
                                                N
                                     aN         H
                                       H
                                       Compound 33           ; and
        (b) treating compound 33 with NaOMe/MeOH in 2-methyl tetrahydrofuran.
[00120]    In another embodiment, the method also includes the step of forming a slurry of
compound 34 in a mixture of acetonitrile and water, wherein the solid form of compound 34
is converted to Compound 34.
[00121]    In one embodiment, the ratio of acetonitrile to water is about 9:1 in the slurry.
                                                 33

[00122]     In another embodiment, the slurry is heated to a temperature between about 73 'C
and 83 'C.
[00123]     In another embodiment, compound 34 is in the slurry for at least about 3 hours.
[00124]     In a further embodiment, the process includes quenching the reaction mixture with
IN HCl; adding 0. IN HCl to the mixture, thereby creating a biphasic mixture; agitating the
biphasic mixture; separating the organic phase from said biphasic mixture; filtering and
removing solid matter from said organic phase; reducing the volume of the organic phase by
approximately 50% using distillation; performing thrice the steps of: adding acetonitrile to
the organic phase until the volume of said organic phase increases by 100% and reducing the
volume of the organic phase by approximately 50%; increasing the volume of the organic
phase by approximately 100% by adding acetonitrile and then adding water, to form a slurry
wherein the final solvent ratio is 9:1 acetonitrile/water; heating said slurry to a temperature
between about 73 'C and 83 'C; stirring said slurry for at least 5 hours; and cooling said
slurry to a temperature between about -5 'C and 5 'C.
[00125]     In an alternative embodiment, the process includes quenching the reaction mixture
with 1.2 N HCl; thereby creating a biphasic mixture; agitating said biphasic mixture;
separating the organic phase from said biphasic mixture; adding 0. IN HCl to the organic
layer thereby creating a biphasic mixture; agitating said biphasic mixture; separating the
organic phase; filtering and removing solid matter from said organic phase; reducing the
volume of the organic phase by approximately 50% using distillation; performing thrice the
steps of: adding acetonitrile to the organic phase until the volume of said organic phase
increases by 100% and reducing the volume of the organic phase by approximately 50%;
increasing the volume of the organic phase by approximately 100% by adding acetonitrile
and then adding water, to form a slurry wherein the final solvent ratio is 9:1
acetonitrile/water; heating said slurry to a temperature between about 73 'C and 83 'C;
stirring said slurry for at least 5 hours; and cooling said slurry to a temperature between about
20 'C and 25 'C; filtering and removing solid matter from said slurry; washing the solid
matter with acetonitrile having a temperature of between about 20 'C and 25 'C four times;
and drying the solid material under vacuum at a temperature of from 45 'C to about 55 'C.
[00126]     In one embodiment, the volume of IN HCl used to quench the reaction is equal to
25% of the total volume of the original reaction mixture; the volume of 0. IN HCl added to
the reaction mixture is equal to 25% of the total volume of the original reaction mixture; and
the distillation steps are performed at reduced pressure wherein the temperature outside the
reaction vessel is less than about 45 'C and the temperature of the reaction mixture is more
                                                 34

than about
0 C.
[00127]    In a further embodiment, the process includes forming a slurry of compound 34 in
isopropyl acetate.
[00128]    In one embodiment, the slurry is heated to reflux temperature.
[00129]    In another embodiment, compound 34 is in the slurry for at least about 3 hours.
[00130]    In certain embodiments, the process for the preparation of Compound 34 further
comprises dissolving compound 34 in 2-methyltetrahydrofuran; adding 0. IN HCl to the
solution, to creating a biphasic solution, which is stirred. In another embodiment, the process
further comprises separating the organic phase from the biphasic solution. In another
embodiment, the process further comprises filtering and removing solid matter from the
organic phase. In another embodiment, the process further comprises reducing the volume of
the organic phase by approximately 50% using distillation. In another embodiment, the
process further comprises performing thrice the procedure of: adding MeOAc, EtOAc, TPAc,
t-BuOAc, tetrahydrofuran (THF), Et 2 0 or methyl-t-butyl ether (MTBE) to the organic phase
until the volume of the organic phase increases by 100% and reducing the volume of the
organic phase by 50% using distillation. In another embodiment, the process further
comprises adding MeOAc, EtOAc, IPAc, t-BuOAc, tetrahydrofuran (THF), Et 20 or methyl-t
butyl ether (MTBE) to the organic phase until the volume of the organic phase increases by
100%. In another embodiment, the process further comprises heating the organic phase to
reflux temperature, and maintaining said reflux temperature for a time at least about 5 hours.
In another embodiment, the process further comprises cooling the organic phase to a
temperature between about -5 0C and about 5 0 C over a time period of 4.5 hours to 5.5 hours.
[00131]    In another embodiment, the process for the preparation of Compound 34 further
comprises crystallizing Compound 34, comprising seeding a saturated reaction mixture
comprising Compound 34 in solution with at least one crystal of substantially pure
Compound 34.
[00132]    In another embodiment, the invention provides a process for the preparation of a
compound of Formula 2
                                                    0    0
                                    RX-X                     OH
                                                    H
                                             Formula 2
comprising hydrolyzing a compound of Formula 4
                                               35

                                                    0   0
                                          (    RX-XQEt
                                                    H
                                             Formula 4
[00133]     In a further embodiment, the compound of Formula 4 is hydrolyzed using a
hydrolyzing agent in the presence of a solvent.
[00134]     In some further embodiments, the hydrolyzing agent is HCl, H 2SO 4 , H 3PO 4 ,
Na 2 CO 3 , LiOH, KOH, or NaOH.
[00135]     In some embodiments, the solvent used in the hydrolysis is H2 0, methanol, ethanol,
isopropanol or t-butanol.
[00136]     In still other embodiments, the invention provides a compound produced by any
process described herein.
[00137]     In a further embodiment, the invention provides a pharmaceutical composition
comprising a compound produced by any process described herein.
[00138]     In one aspect, the invention provides a process for the preparation of Compound 27
                                                              OH
                                            O HN          OH
                                        ZN
                                            H                27
              comprising contacting Compound 34
                                                HN         OH
                                                    0
                                             N
                                             H         34
              with a biological composition.
[00139]     In one embodiment of this aspect, the biological composition includes a biological
organism selected from the group consisting of fungi, bacteria and archaea.
[00140]     In one embodiment, the biological composition is fungi. In a further embodiment,
the fungi is a single cell fungi. In another embodiment, the fungi is a multicell fungi.
[00141]     In a further embodiment, the fungi is a multicell fungi selected from the group
consisting of Absidia, Aspergillus, Beauveria, Botrytis, Cunninghamella,Cyathus,
                                                 36

Gliocladium, Mortierella,Mucor, Phanerochaete,Stemphylium, Syncephalastrum and
Verticillium.
[00142]    In a further embodiment, the fungi is a multicell fungi selected from the group
consisting of Absidia pseudocylindrospora,Aspergillus alliaceus,Aspergillus ochraceus,
Beauveria bassiana, Cunninghamellablakesleeana, Cunninghamellaechinulata,Mortierella
isabellina,Mucorplumbeus, Phanerochaetechrysosporium,Syncephalastrum racemosum
and Verticillium theobromae.
[00143]    In another embodiment, the fungi is a single cell fungi selected from the group
consisting of Candida, Debaryomyces, Geotrichum, Pichia,Rhodotorula, Saccharomyces,
Sporobolomyces, Williopsis and Yarrowia.
[00144]    In further embodiment, the fungi is a single cell fungi selected from the group
consisting of Candidaparipsilosis,Debaryomyces hansenii, Geotrichum candidum , Pichia
methanolica, Pichia subpellicosa,Rhodotorula glutinis, Rhodotorula mucaliginosa,
Saccharomyces cerevisiae,Sporobolomyces salmonicolor, Williopsis saturnis and Yarrowia
lipolytica.
[00145]    In another embodiment, the biological organism is an archaea. In a further
embodiment, the archaea is Pyrococcus. In still a further embodiment, the archaea is
Pyrococcusfuriosus.
[00146]    In another embodiment, the biological organism is a bacteria.
[00147]    In a further embodiment, the bacteria is selected from the group consisting of
Lactobacillus,Pseudomonas, Rhodococcus and Streptomyces.
[00148]    In a further embodiment, the bacteria is selected from the group consisting of
Lactobacillus reuterii,Pseudomonas methanolica, Rhodococcus erythropolis, Streptomyces
griseus, Streptomyces griseolus, Streptomyces platensis and Streptomyces rimosus.
[00149]    In still a further embodiment, the biological composition includes Streptomyces
rimosus, or a fragment thereof.
[00150]    In one embodiment of this aspect, the biological composition includes a solvent. In
a further embodiment, the solvent includes water. In still a further embodiment, the solvent is
a buffer. In still a further embodiment, the solvent is a potassium phosphate buffer having a
pH of about 7.
[00151]    In one aspect, the invention provides a process for the preparation of Compound 28
                                                37

                                                           CO 2 H
                                         O   HN          OH
                                         H                28
                                         H
            comprising reacting Compound 34
                                              O HN         OH
                                                           OH
                                                 1 0
                                            N
                                            H          34
            with a biological composition.
[00152]    In one embodiment of this aspect, the biological composition includes a biological
organism selected from the group consisting of fungi, bacteria and archaea.
[00153]    In one embodiment, the biological composition is fungi. In a further embodiment,
the fungi is a single cell fungi. In another embodiment, the fungi is a multicell fungi.
[00154]    In a further embodiment, the fungi is a multicell fungi selected from the group
consisting of Absidia, Aspergillus, Beauveria, Botrytis, Cunninghamella,Cyathus,
Gliocladium, Mortierella,Mucor, Phanerochaete,Stemphylium, Syncephalastrum and
Verticillium.
[00155]    In a further embodiment, the fungi is a multicell fungi selected from the group
consisting of Absidia pseudocylindrospora,Aspergillus alliaceus,Aspergillus ochraceus,
Beauveria bassiana, Cunninghamellablakesleeana, Cunninghamella echinulata,Mortierella
isabellina,Mucorplumbeus, Phanerochaetechrysosporium, Syncephalastrumracemosum
and Verticillium theobromae.
[00156]    In another embodiment, the fungi is a single cell fungi selected from the group
consisting of Candida, Debaryomyces, Geotrichum,Pichia, Rhodotorula, Saccharomyces,
Sporobolomyces, Williopsis and Yarrowia.
[00157]    In further embodiment, the fungi is a single cell fungi selected from the group
consisting of Candidaparipsilosis,Debaryomyces hansenii, Geotrichum candidum , Pichia
methanolica, Pichia subpellicosa,Rhodotorula glutinis, Rhodotorula mucaliginosa,
Saccharomyces cerevisiae,Sporobolomyces salmonicolor, Williopsis saturnis and Yarrowia
lipolytica.
                                                 38

[00158]    In another embodiment, the biological organism is an archaea. In a further
embodiment, the archaea is Pyrococcus. In still a further embodiment, the archaea is
Pyrococcusfuriosus.
[00159]    In another embodiment, the biological organism is a bacteria.
[00160]    In a further embodiment, the bacteria is selected from the group consisting of
Lactobacillus,Pseudomonas, Rhodococcus and Streptomyces.
[00161]    In a further embodiment, the bacteria is selected from the group consisting of
Lactobacillus reuterii,Pseudomonas methanolica, Rhodococcus erythropolis, Streptomyces
griseus, Streptomyces griseolus, Streptomyces platensis and Streptomyces rimosus.
[00162]    In one embodiment of this aspect, the biological composition includes
Streptomyces rimosus, or a fragment thereof.
[00163]    In one embodiment of this aspect, the biological composition includes a solvent. In
a further embodiment, the solvent includes water. In still a further embodiment, the solvent is
a buffer. In still a further embodiment, the solvent is a potassium phosphate buffer having a
pH of about 7.
[00164]    III. GENERAL SYNTHESIS
[00165]    Compounds of Formula 1 can be synthesized according to Scheme 1.
Scheme 1
                                                                                               R5
                (0 0                  R5R4        1. Coupling                       0   0
                        OH  +                    2. Deprotection
    RX-                 OH  + H2 NX
                              H2N    R           (if necessary)  ~     RXN
                                                                       RX-X                H   R2
                H                    R2                                             N
                                                                                    H
          Formula 2            Formula 3                                           Formula 1
[00166]    In Scheme 1, anilines of Formula 3, wherein R 2, R 4 and R5 are optionally and
independently substituted with functional groups defined above, and wherein those functional
groups optionally and independently bear protecting groups thereon, are reacted with
carboxylic acid intermediates of Formula 2 under coupling conditions. Derivatives of
Formula 1 that bear one or more protecting groups can then be deprotected to provide
unprotected derivatives of Formula 1.
[00167]    The coupling reaction described in Scheme 1 can be achieved by dissolving the
reactants in a suitable solvent, treating the resulting solution with a suitable coupling reagent
optionally in the presence of a suitable base.
                                                 39

[00168]     Anilines of Formula 3, wherein R 4 is a protected 1-hydroxy-2-methylpropan-2-yl
can be synthesized according to Scheme 2.
Scheme 2
   R2                            R2                                  R2                           R2
               ~ MgI(HO)2                       NaBH 4                             SOCI 2
           (CHO),, MgCIC                         EtOH                        OH    CH 2CI 2               CI  KCN
                                       CHO
   R5                            R5                                  R5                           R5
  R2                            R2                           R2                            R2
                  NaH, Mel                    DIBAH                           NaBH4                         PG-LG
        CH2 CN                           C       o                     COH
  R5                            R5                           R5                            R5
        R2                                        R2                                            R2
                              HNO 3      0 2N                      P      H2 , Pd/C     H2 N              O
                      0,P       C          ' PG    -                                            -         O'PG
        R5                                        R5                                            R5
[00169]     Alternatively, anilines of Formula 3, wherein R 4 is a protected 1-hydroxy-2
methylpropan-2-yl can be synthesized according to Scheme 3.
Scheme 3
                                                                                             0
       R2           Br                            Pd(t-Bu3 )2, ZnF 2          R                       LiAIH 4
     0 2N           R5        /      O-TMS        DMF, 70 *C                                          THF
                                                                           0 2N           R5
                                                                     0-                                       0
                                            0O=                                                          O=
                          2OH    DCA 0                 R2                        Pd/C, H2          R2
      2N          Rs             TEA, DMAP                                        MO
            0NDCM,                      0 C                                                            IeO
                                                     0 2N            R5                           H2N         R5
        0 0
                 OH
                         L      00
                                              R5
                                                          0             NaOMe                00
                                                                                                         R5
                                                                                                                  OH
                                26       N              4N
               HI                  I     H R2                                        I0             H     2
   T3P, Pyridine          (:CN                                                       a       N
   2-MeTHF               L      H                                IH
                                                        40

[00170]   Anilines of Formula 3, wherein R 4 and R5 together with the phenyl ring to which
they are attached form a 3,3-dimethylbenzofuran-2(3H)-one, can be synthesized according to
Scheme 4.
Scheme 4
                                                                                R2
      R2                                 R2
                     H2, Pd(OH) 2/C                     CICOOMe, DMAP
              CN      MeOH, 20 PSI I             CN        DIEA, CH 2Cl2
      OBn                                OH
                                                                              0
                                      R2                                 R2
                               O2N                              H2N
               KNO 3 , H2SO 4                      H2, Pd/C
                   DCM                            THF, 20Psi
                                       0                                 0
                                           0                                0
[00171]   Alternatively, anilines of Formula 3, wherein R4 and R5 together with the phenyl
ring to which they are attached form a 3,3-dimethylbenzofuran-2(3H)-one, can be
synthesized according to Scheme 5.
                                              41

Scheme 5
                                        R2                                    R2
      R2          MeOCCI                            HNO 3, H2 SO 4    O2N                      NaOMe
                 NEt 3 , DCM                  Br    DCM, 0 *C                        Br         DCM
                                       O      O                               00     O
      OH     Br
                                           O                                     0
                             O-                            R2                                    R2
           R2              /      O-TMS         0 2N        N        Pd(C), H2         H2 N
                         Pd(PPh 3)2 , ZnF 2,                        MeOH, 100%
                 Br      DMF, 80 *C, 71%                                                         0
                                                                                                 O
           OH                                                                                 0     0
                OH
                OH
                                I          I     NH                                             INH
                                                 NH    R2            LiOH
                                           J,      I:                                        N1              R2
                                                                                                             R
          H                             H                        MeTHF, 45 *C                H
   T3 P, MeTHF                             0                                                  HO
    pyridine, 45 *C                                                                                        COOH
                                           0
[00172]     Anilines of Formula 3, wherein R5 is a protected hydroxyl, can be synthesized
according to Scheme 6.
Scheme 6
  R2                                   R                                   2R
                                                                 02N                                  H2 N
            Hydroxyl Protection                   H2SO 4 , HNO 3                  H2 , Pd/C, MeOH
  OH                               PG' 0                             PG' 0                                PG' 0
[00173]     Dihydroquinoline carboxylic acids of Formula 2 can be synthesized according to
Scheme 7, wherein the aniline derivative undergoes conjugate addition to
EtOCH=C(COOEt) 2, followed by thermal rearrangement and hydrolysis.
                                                       42

Scheme 7
                                                                    EtOOC  COOEt
          ONH                             2  H                            NH        phenyl ether
                             +               H 100 *C, 4h                  N
           x       O       ( RX-X                                           N   H   240 *C, 4 h
                      O                                            (RX-X
                                             1. 2N NaOH
                                            2. 2N HCI
                                  a
                                                                                         0   0
                    0   0
                                                                           Rx-X                  OH
 ( R-XEt
         R          N                    HCI  (aq) or H 2SO 4 (aq)
                    Hb                                                                   H
                                  b
[00174]     IV. USES AND METHODS OF USE
[00175]     Pharmaceutically acceptable compositions
[00176]     In one aspect of the present invention, pharmaceutically acceptable compositions
are provided, wherein these compositions comprise any of the compounds as described
herein, and optionally comprise a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier, adjuvant or vehicle. In
certain embodiments, these compositions optionally further comprise one or more additional
therapeutic agents.
[00177]     It will also be appreciated that certain of the compounds of present invention can
exist in free form for treatment, or where appropriate, as a pharmaceutically acceptable
derivative or a prodrug thereof. According to the present invention, a pharmaceutically
acceptable derivative or a prodrug includes, but is not limited to, pharmaceutically acceptable
salts, esters, salts of such esters, or any other adduct or derivative which upon administration
to a patient in need thereof is capable of providing, directly or indirectly, a compound as
otherwise described herein, or a metabolite or residue thereof.
[00178]     As used herein, the term "pharmaceutically acceptable salt" refers to those salts
which are, within the scope of sound medical judgment, suitable for use in contact with the
tissues of humans and lower animals without undue toxicity, irritation, allergic response and
the like, and are commensurate with a reasonable benefit/risk ratio. A "pharmaceutically
acceptable salt" means any non-toxic salt or salt of an ester of a compound of this invention
that, upon administration to a recipient, is capable of providing, either directly or indirectly, a
compound of this invention or an inhibitorily active metabolite or residue thereof.
                                                      43

[00179]    Pharmaceutically acceptable salts are well known in the art. For example, S. M.
Berge, et al. describe pharmaceutically acceptable salts in detail in J. Pharmaceutical
Sciences, 1977, 66, 1-19, incorporated herein by reference. Pharmaceutically acceptable salts
of the compounds of this invention include those derived from suitable inorganic and organic
acids and bases. Examples of pharmaceutically acceptable, nontoxic acid addition salts are
salts of an amino group formed with inorganic acids such as hydrochloric acid, hydrobromic
acid, phosphoric acid, sulfuric acid and perchloric acid or with organic acids such as acetic
acid, oxalic acid, maleic acid, tartaric acid, citric acid, succinic acid or malonic acid or by
using other methods used in the art such as ion exchange. Other pharmaceutically acceptable
salts include adipate, alginate, ascorbate, aspartate, benzenesulfonate, benzoate, bisulfate,
borate, butyrate, camphorate, camphorsulfonate, citrate, cyclopentanepropionate, digluconate,
dodecylsulfate, edisylate (ethanedisulfonate), ethanesulfonate, formate, fumarate,
glucoheptonate, glycerophosphate, gluconate, hemisulfate, heptanoate, hexanoate,
hydroiodide, 2-hydroxy-ethanesulfonate, lactobionate, lactate, laurate, lauryl sulfate, malate,
maleate, malonate, methanesulfonate, 2-naphthalenesulfonate, nicotinate, nitrate, oleate,
oxalate, palmitate, pamoate, pectinate, persulfate, 3-phenylpropionate, phosphate, picrate,
pivalate, propionate, stearate, succinate, sulfate, tartrate, thiocyanate, p-toluenesulfonate,
undecanoate, valerate salts, and the like. Salts derived from appropriate bases include alkali
metal, alkaline earth metal, ammonium and N*(CI 4 alkyl) 4 salts. This invention also
envisions the quaternization of any basic nitrogen-containing groups of the compounds
disclosed herein. Water or oil-soluble or dispersable products may be obtained by such
quaternization. Representative alkali or alkaline earth metal salts include sodium, lithium,
potassium, calcium, magnesium, and the like. Further pharmaceutically acceptable salts
include, when appropriate, nontoxic ammonium, quaternary ammonium, and amine cations
formed using counterions such as halide, hydroxide, carboxylate, sulfate, phosphate, nitrate,
loweralkyl sulfonate and aryl sulfonate.
[00180]    As described above, the pharmaceutically acceptable compositions of the present
invention additionally comprise a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier, adjuvant, or vehicle,
which, as used herein, includes any and all solvents, diluents, or other liquid vehicle,
dispersion or suspension aids, surface active agents, isotonic agents, thickening or
emulsifying agents, preservatives, solid binders, lubricants and the like, as suited to the
particular dosage form desired. Remington's Pharmaceutical Sciences, Sixteenth Edition, E.
W. Martin (Mack Publishing Co., Easton, Pa., 1980) discloses various carriers used in
formulating pharmaceutically acceptable compositions and known techniques for the
                                                  44

preparation thereof. Except insofar as any conventional carrier medium is incompatible with
the compounds of the invention, such as by producing any undesirable biological effect or
otherwise interacting in a deleterious manner with any other component(s) of the
pharmaceutically acceptable composition, its use is contemplated to be within the scope of
this invention. Some examples of materials which can serve as pharmaceutically acceptable
carriers include, but are not limited to, ion exchangers, alumina, aluminum stearate, lecithin,
serum proteins, such as human serum albumin, buffer substances such as phosphates, glycine,
sorbic acid, or potassium sorbate, partial glyceride mixtures of saturated vegetable fatty acids,
water, salts or electrolytes, such as protamine sulfate, disodium hydrogen phosphate,
potassium hydrogen phosphate, sodium chloride, zinc salts, colloidal silica, magnesium
trisilicate, polyvinyl pyrrolidone, polyacrylates, waxes, polyethylene-polyoxypropylene
block polymers, wool fat, sugars such as lactose, glucose and sucrose; starches such as corn
starch and potato starch; cellulose and its derivatives such as sodium carboxymethyl
cellulose, ethyl cellulose and cellulose acetate; powdered tragacanth; malt; gelatin; talc;
excipients such as cocoa butter and suppository waxes; oils such as peanut oil, cottonseed oil;
safflower oil; sesame oil; olive oil; corn oil and soybean oil; glycols; such a propylene glycol
or polyethylene glycol; esters such as ethyl oleate and ethyl laurate; agar; buffering agents
such as magnesium hydroxide and aluminum hydroxide; alginic acid; pyrogen-free water;
isotonic saline; Ringer's solution; ethyl alcohol, and phosphate buffer solutions, as well as
other non-toxic compatible lubricants such as sodium lauryl sulfate and magnesium stearate,
as well as coloring agents, releasing agents, coating agents, sweetening, flavoring and
perfuming agents, preservatives and antioxidants can also be present in the composition,
according to the judgment of the formulator.
[00181]     Uses of Compounds and Pharmaceutically Acceptable Compositions
[00182]     In yet another aspect, the present invention provides a method of treating, or
lessening the severity of a condition, disease, or disorder implicated by CFTR mutation. In
certain embodiments, the present invention provides a method of treating a condition,
disease, or disorder implicated by a deficiency of the CFTR activity, the method comprising
administering a composition comprising a compound of Formula 1 to a subject, preferably a
mammal, in need thereof.
[00183]     In another aspect, the invention also provides a method of treating or lessening the
severity of a disease in a patient comprising administering to said patient one of the
compositions as defined herein, and said disease is selected from cystic fibrosis, asthma,
smoke induced COPD, chronic bronchitis, rhinosinusitis, constipation, pancreatitis,
                                                 45

pancreatic insufficiency, male infertility caused by congenital bilateral absence of the vas
deferens (CBAVD), mild pulmonary disease, idiopathic pancreatitis, allergic
bronchopulmonary aspergillosis (ABPA), liver disease, hereditary emphysema, hereditary
hemochromatosis, coagulation-fibrinolysis deficiencies, such as protein C deficiency, Type 1
hereditary angioedema, lipid processing deficiencies, such as familial hypercholesterolemia,
Type 1 chylomicronemia, abetalipoproteinemia, lysosomal storage diseases, such as I-cell
disease/pseudo-Hurler, mucopolysaccharidoses, Sandhof/Tay-Sachs, Crigler-Najjar type II,
polyendocrinopathy/hyperinsulemia, Diabetes mellitus, Laron dwarfism, myleoperoxidase
deficiency, primary hypoparathyroidism, melanoma, glycanosis CDG type 1, congenital
hyperthyroidism, osteogenesis imperfecta, hereditary hypofibrinogenemia, ACT deficiency,
Diabetes insipidus (DI), neurophyseal DI, neprogenic DI, Charcot-Marie Tooth syndrome,
Perlizaeus-Merzbacher disease, neurodegenerative diseases such as Alzheimer's disease,
Parkinson's disease, amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, progressive supranuclear plasy, Pick's
disease, several polyglutamine neurological disorders such as Huntington's, spinocerebullar
ataxia type I, spinal and bulbar muscular atrophy, dentatorubal pallidoluysian, and myotonic
dystrophy, as well as spongiform encephalopathies, such as hereditary Creutzfeldt-Jakob
disease (due to prion protein processing defect), Fabry disease, Straussler-Scheinker
syndrome, COPD, dry-eye disease, or Sjogren's disease, Osteoporosis, Osteopenia, bone
healing and bone growth (including bone repair, bone regeneration, reducing bone resorption
and increasing bone deposition), Gorham's Syndrome, chloride channelopathies such as
myotonia congenita (Thomson and Becker forms), Bartter's syndrome type III, Dent's
disease, hyperekplexia, epilepsy, hyperekplexia, lysosomal storage disease, Angelman
syndrome, and Primary Ciliary Dyskinesia (PCD), a term for inherited disorders of the
structure and/or function of cilia, including PCD with situs inversus (also known as
Kartagener syndrome), PCD without situs inversus and ciliary aplasia.
[00184]    In some embodiments, the method includes treating or lessening the severity of
cystic fibrosis in a patient comprising administering to said patient one of the compositions as
defined herein. In certain embodiments, the patient possesses mutant forms of human CFTR.
In other embodiments, the patient possesses one or more of the following mutations AF508,
R117H, and G551D of human CFTR. In one embodiment, the method includes treating or
lessening the severity of cystic fibrosis in a patient possessing the AF508 mutation of human
CFTR comprising administering to said patient one of the compositions as defined herein. In
one embodiment, the method includes treating or lessening the severity of cystic fibrosis in a
patient possessing the G55 ID mutation of human CFTR comprising administering to said
                                                 46

patient one of the compositions as defined herein. In one embodiment, the method includes
treating or lessening the severity of cystic fibrosis in a patient possessing the AF508 mutation
of human CFTR on at least one allele comprising administering to said patient one of the
compositions as defined herein. In one embodiment, the method includes treating or
lessening the severity of cystic fibrosis in a patient possessing the AF508 mutation of human
CFTR on both alleles comprising administering to said patient one of the compositions as
defined herein. In one embodiment, the method includes treating or lessening the severity of
cystic fibrosis in a patient possessing the G551D mutation of human CFTR on at least one
allele comprising administering to said patient one of the compositions as defined herein. In
one embodiment, the method includes treating or lessening the severity of cystic fibrosis in a
patient possessing the G551D mutation of human CFTR on both alleles comprising
administering to said patient one of the compositions as defined herein.
[00185]    In some embodiments, the method includes lessening the severity of cystic fibrosis
in a patient comprising administering to said patient one of the compositions as defined
herein. In certain embodiments, the patient possesses mutant forms of human CFTR. In
other embodiments, the patient possesses one or more of the following mutations AF508,
R117H, and G551D of human CFTR. In one embodiment, the method includes lessening the
severity of cystic fibrosis in a patient possessing the AF508 mutation of human CFTR
comprising administering to said patient one of the compositions as defined herein. In one
embodiment, the method includes lessening the severity of cystic fibrosis in a patient
possessing the G55 ID mutation of human CFTR comprising administering to said patient one
of the compositions as defined herein. In one embodiment, the method includes lessening the
severity of cystic fibrosis in a patient possessing the AF508 mutation of human CFTR on at
least one allele comprising administering to said patient one of the compositions as defined
herein. In one embodiment, the method includes lessening the severity of cystic fibrosis in a
patient possessing the AF508 mutation of human CFTR on both alleles comprising
administering to said patient one of the compositions as defined herein. In one embodiment,
the method includes lessening the severity of cystic fibrosis in a patient possessing the
G55 ID mutation of human CFTR on at least one allele comprising administering to said
patient one of the compositions as defined herein. In one embodiment, the method includes
lessening the severity of cystic fibrosis in a patient possessing the G55 ID mutation of human
CFTR on both alleles comprising administering to said patient one of the compositions as
defined herein.
                                                 47

[00186]    In some aspects, the invention provides a method of treating or lessening the
severity of Osteoporosis in a patient comprising administering to said patient compound of
Formula 1 or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof.
[00187]    In some embodiments, the method of treating or lessening the severity of
Osteoporosis in a patient comprises administering to said patient substantially amorphous
compound of Formula 1 or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof.
[00188]    In still other embodiments, the method of treating or lessening the severity of
Osteoporosis in a patient comprises administering to said patient amorphous compound of
Formula 1 or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof.
[00189]    In certain embodiments, the method of treating or lessening the severity of
Osteoporosis in a patient comprises administering to said patient a pharmaceutical
composition as described herein.
[00190]    In some aspects, the invention provides a method of treating or lessening the
severity of Osteopenia in a patient comprising administering to said patient compound of
Formula 1 or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof.
[00191]    In some embodiments, the method of treating or lessening the severity of
Osteopenia in a patient comprises administering to said patient substantially amorphous
compound of Formula 1 or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof.
[00192]    In still other embodiments, the method of treating or lessening the severity of
Osteopenia in a patient comprises administering to said patient amorphous compound of
Formula 1.
[00193]    In certain embodiments, the method of treating or lessening the severity of
Osteopenia in a patient comprises administering to said patient a pharmaceutical composition
as described herein.
[00194]    In some aspects, the invention provides a method of bone healing and/or bone
repair in a patient comprising administering to said patient compound of Formula 1 or a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof.
[00195]    In some embodiments, the method of bone healing and/or bone repair in a patient
comprises administering to said patient substantially amorphous compound of Formula 1 or a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof.
[00196]    In still other embodiments, the method of bone healing and/or bone repair in a
patient comprises administering to said patient amorphous compound of Formula 1 or a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof.
                                               48

[00197]    In certain embodiments, the method of bone healing and/or bone repair in a patient
comprises administering to said patient a pharmaceutical composition as described herein.
[00198]    In some aspects, the invention provides a method of reducing bone resorption in a
patient comprising administering to said patient compound of Formula 1 or a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof.
[00199]    In some embodiments, the method of reducing bone resorption in a patient
comprises administering to said patient substantially amorphous compound of Formula 1 or a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof.
[00200]    In still other embodiments, the method of reducing bone resorption in a patient
comprises administering to said patient amorphous compound of Formula 1 or a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof.
[00201]    In some aspects, the invention provides a method of increasing bone deposition in a
patient comprising administering to said patient compound of Formula 1 or a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof.
[00202]    In some embodiments, the method of increasing bone deposition in a patient
comprises administering to said patient substantially amorphous compound of Formula 1 or a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof.
[00203]    In still other embodiments, the method of increasing bone deposition in a patient
comprises administering to said patient amorphous compound of Formula 1 or a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof.
[00204]    In certain embodiments, the method of increasing bone deposition in a patient
comprises administering to said patient a pharmaceutical composition as described herein.
[00205]    In some aspects, the invention provides a method of treating or lessening the
severity of COPD in a patient comprising administering to said patient compound of Formula
1 or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof.
[00206]    In some embodiments, the method of treating or lessening the severity of COPD in
a patient comprises administering to said patient substantially amorphous compound of
Formula 1 or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof.
[00207]    In still other embodiments, the method of treating or lessening the severity of
COPD in a patient comprises administering to said patient amorphous compound of Formula
1 or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof.
[00208]    In certain embodiments, the method of treating or lessening the severity of COPD
in a patient comprises administering to said patient a pharmaceutical composition as
described herein.
                                               49

[00209]    In some aspects, the invention provides a method of treating or lessening the
severity of smoke induced COPD in a patient comprising administering to said patient
compound of Formula 1 or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof.
[00210]    In some embodiments, the method of treating or lessening the severity of smoke
induced COPD in a patient comprises administering to said patient substantially amorphous
compound of Formula 1 or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof.
[00211]    In still other embodiments, the method of treating or lessening the severity of
smoke induced COPD in a patient comprises administering to said patient amorphous
compound of Formula 1 or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof.
[00212]    In certain embodiments, the method of treating or lessening the severity of smoke
induced COPD in a patient comprises administering to said patient a pharmaceutical
composition as described herein.
[00213]    In some aspects, the invention provides a method of treating or lessening the
severity of chronic bronchitis in a patient comprising administering to said patient compound
of Formula 1 or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof.
[00214]    In some embodiments, the method of treating or lessening the severity of chronic
bronchitis in a patient comprises administering to said patient substantially amorphous
compound of Formula 1 or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof.
[00215]    In still other embodiments, the method of treating or lessening the severity of
chronic bronchitis in a patient comprises administering to said patient amorphous compound
of Formula 1 or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof.
[00216]    In certain embodiments, the method of treating or lessening the severity of chronic
bronchitis in a patient comprises administering to said patient a pharmaceutical composition
as described herein.
[00217]    According to an alternative embodiment, the present invention provides a method
of treating cystic fibrosis comprising the step of administering to said mammal an effective
amount of a composition comprising a compound of the present invention.
[00218]    According to the invention an "effective amount" of the compound or
pharmaceutically acceptable composition is that amount effective for treating or lessening the
severity of one or more of the diseases, disorders or conditions as recited above.
[00219]    Another aspect of the present invention provides a method of administering a
pharmaceutical composition by orally administering to a patient at least once per day the
composition comprising a compound of Formula 1. In one embodiment, the method
comprises administering a pharmaceutical composition comprising a compound of Formula 1
                                                50

every 24 hours. In another embodiment, the method comprises administering a
pharmaceutical composition comprising a compound of Formula 1 every 12 hours. In a
further embodiment, the method comprises administering a pharmaceutical composition
comprising a compound of Formula 1 three times per day. In still a further embodiment, the
method comprises administering a pharmaceutical composition comprising a compound of
Formula 1 every 4 hours.
[00220]    The compounds and compositions, according to the method of the present
invention, may be administered using any amount and any route of administration effective
for treating or lessening the severity of one or more of the diseases, disorders or conditions as
recited above.
[00221]    In certain embodiments, the compounds and compositions of the present invention
are useful for treating or lessening the severity of cystic fibrosis in patients who exhibit
residual CFTR activity in the apical membrane of respiratory and non-respiratory epithelia.
The presence of residual CFTR activity at the epithelial surface can be readily detected using
methods known in the art, e.g., standard electrophysiological, biochemical, or histochemical
techniques. Such methods identify CFTR activity using in vivo or ex vivo
electrophysiological techniques, measurement of sweat or salivary Cl- concentrations, or ex
vivo biochemical or histochemical techniques to monitor cell surface density. Using such
methods, residual CFTR activity can be readily detected in patients heterozygous or
homozygous for a variety of different mutations, including patients homozygous or
heterozygous for the most common mutation, AF508.
[00222]    In another embodiment, the compounds and compositions of the present invention
are useful for treating or lessening the severity of cystic fibrosis in patients who have residual
CFTR activity induced or augmented using pharmacological methods or gene therapy. Such
methods increase the amount of CFTR present at the cell surface, thereby inducing a hitherto
absent CFTR activity in a patient or augmenting the existing level of residual CFTR activity
in a patient.
[00223]    In one embodiment, the compounds and compositions of the present invention are
useful for treating or lessening the severity of cystic fibrosis in patients within certain
genotypes exhibiting residual CFTR activity, e.g., class III mutations (impaired regulation or
gating), class IV mutations (altered conductance), or class V mutations (reduced synthesis)
(Lee R. Choo-Kang, Pamela L., Zeitlin, Type I, II, III, IV, and V cystic fibrosis
Transmembrane Conductance RegulatorDefects and Opportunitiesof Therapy; Current
Opinion in Pulmonary Medicine 6:521 - 529, 2000). Other patient genotypes that exhibit
                                                 51

residual CFTR activity include patients homozygous for one of these classes or heterozygous
with any other class of mutations, including class I mutations, class II mutations, or a
mutation that lacks classification.
[00224]    In one embodiment, the compounds and compositions of the present invention are
useful for treating or lessening the severity of cystic fibrosis in patients within certain clinical
phenotypes, e.g., a moderate to mild clinical phenotype that typically correlates with the
amount of residual CFTR activity in the apical membrane of epithelia. Such phenotypes
include patients exhibiting pancreatic insufficiency or patients diagnosed with idiopathic
pancreatitis and congenital bilateral absence of the vas deferens, or mild lung disease.
[00225]    The exact amount required will vary from subject to subject, depending on the
species, age, and general condition of the subject, the severity of the infection, the particular
agent, its mode of administration, and the like. The compounds of the invention are
preferably formulated in dosage unit form for ease of administration and uniformity of
dosage. The expression "dosage unit form" as used herein refers to a physically discrete unit
of agent appropriate for the patient to be treated. It will be understood, however, that the total
daily usage of the compounds and compositions of the present invention will be decided by
the attending physician within the scope of sound medical judgment. The specific effective
dose level for any particular patient or organism will depend upon a variety of factors
including the disorder being treated and the severity of the disorder; the activity of the
specific compound employed; the specific composition employed; the age, body weight,
general health, sex and diet of the patient; the time of administration, route of administration,
and rate of excretion of the specific compound employed; the duration of the treatment; drugs
used in combination or coincidental with the specific compound employed, and like factors
well known in the medical arts. The term "patient", as used herein, means an animal,
preferably a mammal, and most preferably a human.
[00226]    The pharmaceutically acceptable compositions of this invention can be
administered to humans and other animals orally, rectally, parenterally, intracisternally,
intravaginally, intraperitoneally, topically (as by powders, ointments, drops or patch),
bucally, as an oral or nasal spray, or the like, depending on the severity of the infection being
treated. In certain embodiments, the compounds of the invention may be administered orally
or parenterally at dosage levels of about 0.01 mg/kg to about 50 mg/kg and preferably from
about 0.5 mg/kg to about 25 mg/kg, of subject body weight per day, one or more times a day,
to obtain the desired therapeutic effect.
                                                  52

[00227]    Liquid dosage forms for oral administration include, but are not limited to,
pharmaceutically acceptable emulsions, microemulsions, solutions, suspensions, syrups and
elixirs. In addition to the active compounds, the liquid dosage forms may contain inert
diluents commonly used in the art such as, for example, water or other solvents, solubilizing
agents and emulsifiers such as ethyl alcohol, isopropyl alcohol, ethyl carbonate, ethyl acetate,
benzyl alcohol, benzyl benzoate, propylene glycol, 1,3-butylene glycol, dimethylformamide,
oils (in particular, cottonseed, groundnut, corn, germ, olive, castor, and sesame oils),
glycerol, tetrahydrofurfuryl alcohol, polyethylene glycols and fatty acid esters of sorbitan,
and mixtures thereof. Besides inert diluents, the oral compositions can also include adjuvants
such as wetting agents, emulsifying and suspending agents, sweetening, flavoring, and
perfuming agents.
[00228]    Injectable preparations, for example, sterile injectable aqueous or oleaginous
suspensions may be formulated according to the known art using suitable dispersing or
wetting agents and suspending agents. The sterile injectable preparation may also be a sterile
injectable solution, suspension or emulsion in a nontoxic parenterally acceptable diluent or
solvent, for example, as a solution in 1,3-butanediol. Among the acceptable vehicles and
solvents that may be employed are water, Ringer's solution, U.S.P. and isotonic sodium
chloride solution. In addition, sterile, fixed oils are conventionally employed as a solvent or
suspending medium. For this purpose any bland fixed oil can be employed including
synthetic mono- or diglycerides. In addition, fatty acids such as oleic acid are used in the
preparation of injectables.
[00229]    The injectable formulations can be sterilized, for example, by filtration through a
bacterial-retaining filter, or by incorporating sterilizing agents in the form of sterile solid
compositions which can be dissolved or dispersed in sterile water or other sterile injectable
medium prior to use.
[00230]    In order to prolong the effect of a compound of the present invention, it is often
desirable to slow the absorption of the compound from subcutaneous or intramuscular
injection. This may be accomplished by the use of a liquid suspension of crystalline or
amorphous material with poor water solubility. The rate of absorption of the compound then
depends upon its rate of dissolution that, in turn, may depend upon crystal size and crystalline
form. Alternatively, delayed absorption of a parenterally administered compound form is
accomplished by dissolving or suspending the compound in an oil vehicle. Injectable depot
forms are made by forming microencapsule matrices of the compound in biodegradable
polymers such as polylactide-polyglycolide. Depending upon the ratio of compound to
                                                 53

polymer and the nature of the particular polymer employed, the rate of compound release can
be controlled. Examples of other biodegradable polymers include poly(orthoesters) and
poly(anhydrides). Depot injectable formulations are also prepared by entrapping the
compound in liposomes or microemulsions that are compatible with body tissues.
[00231]     Compositions for rectal or vaginal administration are preferably suppositories
which can be prepared by mixing the compounds of this invention with suitable non-irritating
excipients or carriers such as cocoa butter, polyethylene glycol or a suppository wax which
are solid at ambient temperature but liquid at body temperature and therefore melt in the
rectum or vaginal cavity and release the active compound.
[00232]     Solid dosage forms for oral administration include capsules, tablets, pills, powders,
and granules. In such solid dosage forms, the active compound is mixed with at least one
inert, pharmaceutically acceptable excipient or carrier such as sodium citrate or dicalcium
phosphate and/or a) fillers or extenders such as starches, lactose, sucrose, glucose, mannitol,
and silicic acid, b) binders such as, for example, carboxymethylcellulose, alginates, gelatin,
polyvinylpyrrolidinone, sucrose, and acacia, c) humectants such as glycerol, d) disintegrating
agents such as agar--agar, calcium carbonate, potato or tapioca starch, alginic acid, certain
silicates, and sodium carbonate, e) solution retarding agents such as paraffin, f) absorption
accelerators such as quaternary ammonium compounds, g) wetting agents such as, for
example, cetyl alcohol and glycerol monostearate, h) absorbents such as kaolin and bentonite
clay, and i) lubricants such as talc, calcium stearate, magnesium stearate, solid polyethylene
glycols, sodium lauryl sulfate, and mixtures thereof. In the case of capsules, tablets and pills,
the dosage form may also comprise buffering agents.
[00233]     Solid compositions of a similar type may also be employed as fillers in soft and
hard-filled gelatin capsules using such excipients as lactose or milk sugar as well as high
molecular weight polyethylene glycols and the like. The solid dosage forms of tablets,
dragees, capsules, pills, and granules can be prepared with coatings and shells such as enteric
coatings and other coatings well known in the pharmaceutical formulating art. They may
optionally contain opacifying agents and can also be of a composition that they release the
active ingredient(s) only, or preferentially, in a certain part of the intestinal tract, optionally,
in a delayed manner. Examples of embedding compositions that can be used include
polymeric substances and waxes. Solid compositions of a similar type may also be employed
as fillers in soft and hard-filled gelatin capsules using such excipients as lactose or milk sugar
as well as high molecular weight polethylene glycols and the like.
                                                  54

[00234]    The active compounds can also be in microencapsulated form with one or more
excipients as noted above. The solid dosage forms of tablets, dragees, capsules, pills, and
granules can be prepared with coatings and shells such as enteric coatings, release controlling
coatings and other coatings well known in the pharmaceutical formulating art. In such solid
dosage forms the active compound may be admixed with at least one inert diluent such as
sucrose, lactose or starch. Such dosage forms may also comprise, as is normal practice,
additional substances other than inert diluents, e.g., tableting lubricants and other tableting
aids such a magnesium stearate and microcrystalline cellulose. In the case of capsules,
tablets and pills, the dosage forms may also comprise buffering agents. They may optionally
contain opacifying agents and can also be of a composition that they release the active
ingredient(s) only, or preferentially, in a certain part of the intestinal tract, optionally, in a
delayed manner. Examples of embedding compositions that can be used include polymeric
substances and waxes.
[00235]    Dosage forms for topical or transdermal administration of a compound of this
invention include ointments, pastes, creams, lotions, gels, powders, solutions, sprays,
inhalants or patches. The active component is admixed under sterile conditions with a
pharmaceutically acceptable carrier and any needed preservatives or buffers as may be
required. Ophthalmic formulation, eardrops, and eye drops are also contemplated as being
within the scope of this invention. Additionally, the present invention contemplates the use
of transdermal patches, which have the added advantage of providing controlled delivery of a
compound to the body. Such dosage forms are prepared by dissolving or dispensing the
compound in the proper medium. Absorption enhancers can also be used to increase the flux
of the compound across the skin. The rate can be controlled by either providing a rate
controlling membrane or by dispersing the compound in a polymer matrix or gel.
[00236]    The activity of a compound utilized in this invention as a modulator of CFTR may
be assayed according to methods described generally in the art and in the Examples herein.
[00237]    It will also be appreciated that the compounds and pharmaceutically acceptable
compositions of the present invention can be employed in combination therapies, that is, the
compounds and pharmaceutically acceptable compositions can be administered concurrently
with, prior to, or subsequent to, one or more other desired therapeutics or medical procedures.
The particular combination of therapies (therapeutics or procedures) to employ in a
combination regimen will take into account compatibility of the desired therapeutics and/or
procedures and the desired therapeutic effect to be achieved. It will also be appreciated that
the therapies employed may achieve a desired effect for the same disorder (for example, an
                                                  55

inventive compound may be administered concurrently with another agent used to treat the
same disorder), or they may achieve different effects (e.g., control of any adverse effects).
As used herein, additional therapeutic agents that are normally administered to treat or
prevent a particular disease, or condition, are known as "appropriate for the disease, or
condition, being treated."
[00238]    In one embodiment, the additional agent is selected from a mucolytic agent,
bronchodialator, an anti-biotic, an anti-infective agent, an anti-inflammatory agent, a CFTR
modulator other than a compound of the present invention, or a nutritional agent.
[00239]    In one embodiment, the additional agent is an antibiotic. Exemplary antibiotics
useful herein include tobramycin, including tobramycin inhaled powder (TIP), azithromycin,
aztreonam, including the aerosolized form of aztreonam, amikacin, including liposomal
formulations thereof, ciprofloxacin, including formulations thereof suitable for administration
by inhalation, levoflaxacin, including aerosolized formulations thereof, and combinations of
two antibiotics, e.g., fosfomycin and tobramycin.
[00240]    In another embodiment, the additional agent is a mucolyte. Exemplary mucolytes
useful herein includes Pulmozyme@.
[00241]    In another embodiment, the additional agent is a bronchodialator. Exemplary
bronchodialtors include albuterol, metaprotenerol sulfate, pirbuterol acetate, salmeterol, or
tetrabuline sulfate.
[00242]    In another embodiment, the additional agent is effective in restoring lung airway
surface liquid. Such agents improve the movement of salt in and out of cells, allowing mucus
in the lung airway to be more hydrated and, therefore, cleared more easily. Exemplary such
agents include hypertonic saline, denufosol tetrasodium ([[(3S,
5R)-5 -(4-amino-2-oxopyrimidin- 1-yl)-3-hydroxyoxolan-2-yl] methoxy
hydroxyphosphoryl] [[[(2R,3S,4R,5R)-5-(2,4-dioxopyrimidin-1-yl)-3,
4-dihydroxyoxolan-2-yl]methoxy-hydroxyphosphoryl]oxy-hydroxyphosphoryl]
hydrogen phosphate), or bronchitol (inhaled formulation of mannitol).
[00243]    In another embodiment, the additional agent is an anti-inflammatory agent, i.e., an
agent that can reduce the inflammation in the lungs. Exemplary such agents useful herein
include ibuprofen, docosahexanoic acid (DHA), sildenafil, inhaled glutathione, pioglitazone,
hydroxychloroquine, or simavastatin.
[00244]    In another embodiment, the additional agent is a CFTR modulator other than
compound 1, i.e., an agent that has the effect of modulating CFTR activity. Exemplary such
agents include ataluren ("PTC124@"; 3-[5-(2-fluorophenyl)-1,2,4-oxadiazol-3-yl]benzoic
                                                 56

acid), sinapultide, lancovutide, depelestat (a human recombinant neutrophil elastase
inhibitor), cobiprostone (7- {(2R, 4aR, 5R, 7aR)-2- [(3S)- 1,1 -difluoro-3-methylpentyl] -2
hydroxy-6-oxooctahydrocyclopenta[b]pyran-5-yl        heptanoic acid), or (3-(6-(1-(2,2
difluorobenzo[d][1,3]dioxol-5-yl) cyclopropanecarboxamido)-3-methylpyridin-2-yl)benzoic
acid. In another embodiment, the additional agent is (3-(6-(1-(2,2
difluorobenzo[d][1,3]dioxol-5-yl) cyclopropanecarboxamido)-3-methylpyridin-2-yl)benzoic
acid.
[00245]    In another embodiment, the additional agent is a nutritional agent. Exemplary such
agents include pancrelipase (pancreating enzyme replacement), including Pancrease@,
Pancreacarb@, Ultrase@, or Creon@, Liprotomase@ (formerly Trizytek@), Aquadeks@, or
glutathione inhalation. In one embodiment, the additional nutritional agent is pancrelipase.
[00246]    The amount of additional therapeutic agent present in the compositions of this
invention will be no more than the amount that would normally be administered in a
composition comprising that therapeutic agent as the only active agent. Preferably the
amount of additional therapeutic agent in the presently disclosed compositions will range
from about 50% to 100% of the amount normally present in a composition comprising that
agent as the only therapeutically active agent.
[00247]    The compounds of this invention or pharmaceutically acceptable compositions
thereof may also be incorporated into compositions for coating an implantable medical
device, such as prostheses, artificial valves, vascular grafts, stents and catheters.
Accordingly, the present invention, in another aspect, includes a composition for coating an
implantable device comprising a compound of the present invention as described generally
above, and in classes and subclasses herein, and a carrier suitable for coating said implantable
device. In still another aspect, the present invention includes an implantable device coated
with a composition comprising a compound of the present invention as described generally
above, and in classes and subclasses herein, and a carrier suitable for coating said implantable
device. Suitable coatings and the general preparation of coated implantable devices are
described in US Patents 6,099,562; 5,886,026; and 5,304,121. The coatings are typically
biocompatible polymeric materials such as a hydrogel polymer, polymethyldisiloxane,
polycaprolactone, polyethylene glycol, polylactic acid, ethylene vinyl acetate, and mixtures
thereof. The coatings may optionally be further covered by a suitable topcoat of
fluorosilicone, polysaccarides, polyethylene glycol, phospholipids or combinations thereof to
impart controlled release characteristics in the composition.
                                                57

[00248]    Another aspect of the invention relates to modulating CFTR activity in a biological
sample or a patient (e.g., in vitro or in vivo), which method comprises administering to the
patient, or contacting said biological sample with a compound of Formula 1 or a composition
comprising said compound. The term "biological sample", as used herein, includes, without
limitation, cell cultures or extracts thereof; biopsied material obtained from a mammal or
extracts thereof; and blood, saliva, urine, feces, semen, tears, or other body fluids or extracts
thereof.
[00249]    Modulation of CFTR in a biological sample is useful for a variety of purposes that
are known to one of skill in the art. Examples of such purposes include, but are not limited
to, the study of CFTR in biological and pathological phenomena; and the comparative
evaluation of new modulators of CFTR.
[00250]    In yet another embodiment, a method of modulating activity of an anion channel in
vitro or in vivo, is provided comprising the step of contacting said channel with a compound
of Formula 1. In embodiments, the anion channel is a chloride channel or a bicarbonate
channel. In other embodiments, the anion channel is a chloride channel.
[00251]    According to an alternative embodiment, the present invention provides a method
of increasing the number of functional CFTR in a membrane of a cell, comprising the step of
contacting said cell with a compound of Formula 1.
[00252]    According to another embodiment, the activity of the CFTR is measured by
measuring the transmembrane voltage potential. Means for measuring the voltage potential
across a membrane in the biological sample may employ any of the known methods in the
art, such as optical membrane potential assay or other electrophysiological methods.
[00253]    The optical membrane potential assay utilizes voltage-sensitive FRET sensors
described by Gonzalez and Tsien (See, Gonzalez, J. E. and R. Y. Tsien (1995) "Voltage
sensing by fluorescence resonance energy transfer in single cells." Biophys J 69(4): 1272-80,
and Gonzalez, J. E. and R. Y. Tsien (1997); "Improved indicators of cell membrane potential
that use fluorescence resonance energy transfer" Chem Biol 4(4): 269-77) in combination
with instrumentation for measuring fluorescence changes such as the Voltage/Ion Probe
Reader (VIPR) (See, Gonzalez, J. E., K. Oades, et al. (1999) "Cell-based assays and
instrumentation for screening ion-channel targets" Drug Discov Today 4(9): 431-439).
[00254]    These voltage sensitive assays are based on the change in fluorescence resonant
energy transfer (FRET) between the membrane-soluble, voltage-sensitive dye, DiSBAC 2(3),
and a fluorescent phospholipid, CC2-DMPE, which is attached to the outer leaflet of the
plasma membrane and acts as a FRET donor. Changes in membrane potential (Vm) cause the
                                                  58

negatively charged DiSBAC 2(3) to redistribute across the plasma membrane and the amount
of energy transfer from CC2-DMPE changes accordingly. The changes in fluorescence
emission can be monitored using VIPR        II, which is an integrated liquid handler and
fluorescent detector designed to conduct cell-based screens in 96- or 384-well microtiter
plates.
[00255]    In one embodiment, the present invention provides a method of modulating CFTR
activity in a biological sample comprising the step of contacting said biological sample with a
compound of Formula 1, or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, wherein R 1, R 2 , R 3 , R4
and Y are defined as above.
[00256]    In one embodiment, the present invention provides a method of modulating CFTR
activity in a biological sample comprising the step of contacting said biological sample with a
compound, produced via the processes described herein, of the structure:
                                                       OH
                                        0     0
                                                   N
                                                   H
                                         N
                                         H
or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof.
[00257]    In one embodiment, the present invention provides a method of modulating CFTR
activity in a biological sample comprising the step of contacting said biological sample with a
compound, produced via the processes described herein, of the structure:
                                     H
                                     N
                                                HN
                                     0    0                     OH
                                                     OH
or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof.
[00258]    In one embodiment, the present invention provides a method of modulating CFTR
activity in a biological sample comprising the step of contacting said biological sample with a
compound, produced via the processes described herein, of the structure:
                                     H
                                     N
                                                H
                                                N             O
                                     0    0                     OH
                                                     OH
or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof.
                                                 59

[00259]    In one embodiment, the present invention provides a method of treating or
lessening the severity of a disease in a patient comprising administering to said patient an
effective amount of a compound of Formula 1, or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof,
wherein R 1, R 2, R 3, R4 and Y are defined as above, and said disease is selected from cystic
fibrosis, asthma, smoke induced COPD, chronic bronchitis, rhinosinusitis, constipation,
pancreatitis, pancreatic insufficiency, male infertility caused by congenital bilateral absence
of the vas deferens (CBAVD), mild pulmonary disease, idiopathic pancreatitis, allergic
bronchopulmonary aspergillosis (ABPA), liver disease, hereditary emphysema, hereditary
hemochromatosis, coagulation-fibrinolysis deficiencies, such as protein C deficiency, Type 1
hereditary angioedema, lipid processing deficiencies, such as familial hypercholesterolemia,
Type 1 chylomicronemia, abetalipoproteinemia, lysosomal storage diseases, such as I-cell
disease/pseudo-Hurler, mucopolysaccharidoses, Sandhof/Tay-Sachs, Crigler-Najjar type II,
polyendocrinopathy/hyperinsulemia, Diabetes mellitus, Laron dwarfism, myleoperoxidase
deficiency, primary hypoparathyroidism, melanoma, glycanosis CDG type 1, congenital
hyperthyroidism, osteogenesis imperfecta, hereditary hypofibrinogenemia, ACT deficiency,
Diabetes insipidus (DI), neurophyseal DI, neprogenic DI, Charcot-Marie Tooth syndrome,
Perlizaeus-Merzbacher disease, neurodegenerative diseases such as Alzheimer's disease,
Parkinson's disease, amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, progressive supranuclear plasy, Pick's
disease, several polyglutamine neurological disorders such as Huntington, spinocerebullar
ataxia type I, spinal and bulbar muscular atrophy, dentatorubal pallidoluysian, and myotonic
dystrophy, as well as spongiform encephalopathies, such as hereditary Creutzfeldt-Jakob
disease (due to prion protein processing defect), Fabry disease, Straussler-Scheinker
syndrome, COPD, dry-eye disease, or Sjogren's disease.
[00260]    In one embodiment, the method includes treating or lessening the severity of a
disease in a patient by administering to said patient an effective amount of a compound,
produced via the processes described herein, having the structure:
                                                        OH
                                          0    0
                                                   N
                                             C     H
                                           N
                                           H
or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof.
[00261]    In one embodiment, the method includes treating or lessening the severity of a
disease in a patient by administering to said patient an effective amount of a compound,
produced via the processes described herein, having the structure:
                                                 60

                                        H
                                        N
                                                 H
                                                 N
                                       0     0                  OH
                                                      OH
or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof.
[00262]    In another embodiment, the method includes treating or lessening the severity of a
disease in a patient by administering to said patient an effective amount of a compound,
produced via the processes described herein, having the structure:
                                        H
                                        N
                                                 H
                                                 N           O
                                       0     0                  OH
                                                      OH
or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof.
[00263]    In another aspect the present invention provides a kit for use in measuring the
activity of CFTR or a fragment thereof in a biological sample in vitro or in vivo comprising
(i) a composition comprising a compound of Formula 1 or any of the above embodiments;
and (ii) instructions for a) contacting the composition with the biological sample and b)
measuring activity of said CFTR or a fragment thereof.
[00264]    In one embodiment, the kit further comprises instructions for a) contacting an
additional composition with the biological sample; b) measuring the activity of said CFTR or
a fragment thereof in the presence of said additional compound, and c) comparing the activity
of the CFTR in the presence of the additional compound with the density of the CFTR in the
presence of a composition of Formula 1.
[00265]    In embodiments, the kit is used to measure the density of CFTR.
[00266]    In one embodiment, the kit includes a composition comprising a compound,
produced via the processes described herein, having the structure:
                                                       OH
                                           0   0
                                                    N
                                                    H
                                           N
                                           H
or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof.
[00267]    In one embodiment, the kit includes a composition comprising a compound,
produced via the processes described herein, having the structure:
                                                  61

                                         H
                                         N
                                                 H
                                                 N
                                         0  0                   OH
                                                       OH
or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof.
[00268]     In some embodiments, the kit includes a composition comprising a compound,
produced via the processes described herein, having the structure:
                                         H
                                         N
                                                 H
                                                 N           0
                                         0  0
                                                                OH
                                                       OH
or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof.
[00269]     In order that the invention described herein may be more fully understood, the
following examples are set forth. It should be understood that these examples are for
illustrative purposes only and are not to be construed as limiting this invention in any manner.
[002701     V.    EXAMPLES
[00271]     Preparation 1: Total Synthesis of 4-oxo-1,4-dihydroquinoline-3-carboxylic acid
(26)
                                                              0    0
              0     O               NH 2     100-11 OC             NH          phenyl ether
           O,         O                                                         228-232 0 C
                    0
                 22                 23                              24
                                              Method 1
                              0   0                                 0    0
                                            HCI/H 2 0
                              O      OO                                     OH
                                       O t   HMethod 2
                              N                              aN
                              H             1.2NNaOH                H
                              25            2. 2N HCI               26
[00272]     Procedure for the preparation of ethyl 4-oxo-1,4-dihydroquinoline-3-carboxylate
(25)
                                                  62

                                                       0 0
                                                                                        0     0
                           NH 2    100-110*C              NH        phenyl ether                OEt
               0                                                     228-232 0 C     /   N
                                                                                         H
             0H
          22               23                            24                             25
[00273]    Compound 23 (4.77 g, 47.7 mmol) was added dropwise to compound 22 (10 g,
46.3 mmol) with subsurface N2 flow to drive out ethanol below 30 'C for 0.5 hours. The
solution was then heated to 100-110 'C and stirred for 2.5 hours. After cooling the mixture
to below 60 'C, diphenyl ether was added. The resulting solution was added dropwise to
diphenyl ether that had been heated to 228-232 'C for 1.5 hours with subsurface N 2 flow to
drive out ethanol. The mixture was stirred at 228-232 'C for another 2 hours, cooled to
below 100 'C and then heptane was added to precipitate the product. The resulting slurry
was stirred at 30 'C for 0.5 hours. The solids were then filtrated, and the cake was washed
with heptane and dried in vacuo to give compound 25 as brown solid. 1H NMR (DMSO-d6 ;
400 MHz) 6 12.25 (s), 6 8.49 (d), 6 8.10 (m), 6 7.64 (m), 6 7.55 (m), 6 7.34 (m), 6 4.16 (q), 6
1.23 (t).
[00274]    Procedure for the preparation of 4-oxo-1,4-dihydroquinoline-3-carboxylic acid
(26)
                           O     O           Method 1              O     O
                                    Ot     HCI/H 20                         OH
                                NMethod              2             N
                           H               1. 2N NaOH              H
                           25              2. 2N HCI              26
Method 1
[00275]    Compound 25 (1.0 eq) was suspended in a solution of HCl (10.0 eq) and H 2 0 (11.6
vol). The slurry was heated to 85 - 90 'C, although alternative temperatures are also suitable
for this hydrolysis step. For example, the hydrolysis can alternatively be performed at a
temperature of from about 75 to about 100 'C. In some instances, the hydrolysis is
performed at a temperature of from about 80 to about 95 'C. In others, the hydrolysis step is
performed at a temperature of from about 82 to about 93 'C (e.g., from about 82.5 to about
92.5 'C or from about 86 to about 89 C). After stirring at 85 - 90 'C for approximately 6.5
hours, the reaction was sampled for reaction completion. Stirring may be performed under
any of the temperatures suited for the hydrolysis. The solution was then cooled to 20 - 25 'C
                                                  63

and filtered. The reactor/cake was rinsed with H2 0 (2 vol x 2). The cake was then washed
with 2 vol H2 0 until the pH > 3.0. The cake was then dried under vacuum at 60 'C to give
compound 26.
Method 2
[00276]    Compound 25 (11.3 g, 52 mmol) was added to a mixture of 10% NaOH (aq) (10
mL) and ethanol (100 mL). The solution was heated to reflux for 16 hours, cooled to 20-25
'C and then the pH was adjusted to 2-3 with 8% HCl. The mixture was then stirred for 0.5
hours and filtered. The cake was washed with water (50 mL) and then dried in vacuo to give
compound 26 as a brown solid. 1H NMR (DMSO-d6 ; 400 MHz) 6 15.33 (s), 6 13.39 (s), 6
8.87 (s), 6 8.26 (m), 6 7.87 (m), 6 7.80 (m), 6 7.56 (m).
[00277]    Example 1: Total synthesis of N-(2-tert-butyl-5-hydroxy-4-(1-hydroxy-2
methylpropan-2-yl)phenyl)-4-oxo-1,4-dihydroquinoline-3-carboxamide        (27)
[00278]    The overall scheme of the synthesis of compound 27 is shown below, followed by
the procedure for the synthesis of each synthetic intermediate.
                                                64

            (CHO), MgCl 2              BnCI, K2CO 3                NaBH                  SOC2          '          KCN
               CH 3 CN             CHO      DMF               CHO EtOH          /     OH CH 2 CI 2             CI DMF
   OH                        OH                          OBn                   OBn                    OBn
    1                        2                            3                    4                       5
                  NaH, Mel                DIBAH                       NaBH 4                  Pd(OH) 2       y
               C2NDMF
          CH 2CN                       CN Tol                   CHO MeOH                   OHEtOH
                                                                                           OH                        0
   OBn                        OBn                        OBn                      OBn                       OH       H
    6                          7                         8                        9                         10
 CICOOMe                                   HNO 3     O2N                           Pd/C    H2N
  CH 2 CI 2                      O    o   CH 2 CI 2                    O     O     MeOH                        O   O
                    0   11                                0    12                                0       13
        00                               0
                           OH0                                   0        0
                OH                     O     O                                             NH
        H      26             0     0                              KOH         /    N    /
      HOBtEDCI                         N                           MeOH             H              O
                                          I    HHO                                             OH
                           aN+
                              H
                                     14                                                   27
[00279]       Procedure for the preparation of 2-hydroxy-5-tert-butylbenzaldehyde                     (2)
                                                   (CHO) MgCl2      1
                                                                             CHO
                                         OH                           OH
                                         1                             2
[00280]       To a stirred solution of compound 1 (700 g, 4.66 mol) in CH 3CN (7.0 L) was added
MgCl 2 (887 g, 9.32 mol), Para-Formaldehyde (1190 g) and TEA (2.5L, 17.9 mol) under N 2 .
The mixture was heated to reflux for 5 hours. After cooling to room temperature, 2 L ice
water was added to the mixture, followed by 6 L of 3 M HCl (aq). The suspension was left
stirring until the solution became clear. The organic layer was separated and the aqueous
layer was extracted with MTBE (3 Lx3). The organic layers were combined and
concentrated to dryness. The residue was dissolved in MTBE (4000 mL), washed with water
(1000 mLx2) and brine (10OOmL), dried over anhydrous Na 2 SO 4 , filtered, then concentrated
                                                            65

to give compound 2 as a light-yellow solid which was used in the next reaction without
further drying or purification. 1H NMR (CDCl 3 ; 400 MHz) 6 10.86 (s), 6 9.89 (s), 6 7.59 (in),
6 7.51 (d), 6 6.94 (d), 6 10.61 (s).
[00281]    Procedure for the preparation of 2-(benzyloxy)-5-tert-butylbenzaldehyde            (3)
                                              BnCI, K2CO3
                                         CHO     DMF                CHO
                                   OH                         OBn
                                    2                          3
[00282]    To a stirred solution of compound 2 (614.5 g, 3.33 mol) in DMF (3.5 L) was added
K 2 C0 3 (953 g, 6.90 mol) and benzyl chloride (480 g, 3.80 mol). The mixture was heated to
90 'C and left stirring for 3 hours. The suspension was cooled to room temperature, then
MTBE (2 L) was added, followed by water (12 L). The mixture was then stirred for 10
minutes and the aqueous layer was separated and extracted with MTBE (2 Lx3). The organic
layers were combined and washed with water (2 Lx2) and brine (1.5 LxI) and concentrated
to give compound 3 as a light-yellow solid. 'H NMR (DMSO-d6 ; 400 MHz) 6 10.42 (s), 6
7.71 (in), 6 7.51 (in), 6 7.43 (in), 6 7.35 (in), 6 7.24 (in), 6 5.27 (s), 6 1.26 (s).
[00283]    Procedure for the preparation of 2-(benzyloxy)-5-tert-butylbenzyl           alcohol (4)
                                                NaBH 4
                                                                     OH
                                          CHO EtOH
                                    OBn                     OBn
                                      3                      4
[00284]    To a stirred suspension of compound 3 (974 g, 3.63 mol) in MeOH (4000 mL) was
slowly added NaBH 4 (121 g, 3.20 mol) at 0-20 'C. The solution was left stirring at 15 'C for
3 hours, and then cooled to 0 'C. 2N HCl (aq) (1300mL) was added dropwise at below 20
'C. The solution was then filtered and evaporated to dryness, and the residue was dissolved
in MTBE (5L). The solution was then washed with water (2 Lx2) and brine (1.5 Lxi).
Evaporation of the solvent gave compound 4 as a light-yellow solid which was used in the
next reaction without further purification. 1H NMR (DMSO-d 6 ; 400 MHz) 6 7.40 (in), 6 7.32
(in), 6 7.17 (in), 6 6.91 (in), 6 5.09 (s), 6 5.00 (t), 6 4.56 (d), 6 1.26 (s).
[00285]    Procedure for the preparation of 2-(benzyloxy)-5-tert-butylbenzyl           chloride (5)
                                                    66

                                               SOC12
                                           OH  CH 2 CI 2           CI
                                  OBn                      OBn
                                   4                        5
[00286]    To a stirred solution of compound 4 (963 g, 3.56 mol) in anhydrous DCM (2000
mL) was added slowly SOCl 2 (535 g, 4.5 mol) at 0 'C. The mixture was stirred at 20 'C for
2 hours, then concentrated in vacuo to give compound 5 as an oil, which was used in the next
reaction without further drying or purification.
[00287]    Procedure for the preparation of 2-(benzyloxy)-5-tert-butylbenzyl  nitrile (6)
                                               KCN
                                          CI                  CH 2 CN
                                  OBn                    OBn
                                   5                     6
[00288]    To a stirred solution of compound 5 (1045 g, 3.54 mol) in anhydrous DMF (1000
mL) was added KCN (733 g, 11.3 mol). The mixture was stirred at 35 'C for 24 hours, then
poured into water (10 L). Ethyl acetate (4 L) was added and the mixture was stirred for 30
minutes. The organic layer was then separated and the aqueous layer was extracted with
ethyl acetate (3000 mL x 2). The organic layers were combined and washed with water (4
Lx2) and brine (3 Lx1), then concentrated in vacuo to give compound 6 as a yellow solid. 1H
NMR (DMSO-d 6 ; 400 MHz) 6 7.51 (m), 6 7.37 (m), 7.02 (d), 6 5.17 (s), 6 3.88 (s), 1.26 (s).
[00289]    Procedure for the preparation of 2-(2-(benzyloxy)-5-tert-butylphenyl)-2
methylpropanenitrile (7)
                                              NaH, Mel
                                      CH 2 CN
                                                                    CN
                                OBn                        OBn
                                6                           7
[00290]    To a stirred suspension of NaH (86 g, 2.15 mol, 60% in mineral oil) in DMF (1000
mL) was added dropwise a solution of compound 6 (100.0 g, 0.358 mol) in DMF (500 mL) at
20 'C. After stirring for 30 minutes, Mel (205 g, 1.44 mol) in DMF (500 mL) was added
dropwise at below 30 'C during a period of 2 hours. The suspension was stirred for 1.5 hours
                                                 67

at 25-30 'C, then ice (100 g) was added slowly until no gas was generated. The pH was
adjusted to approximately 7 by the slow addition of 2N HCl. The mixture was diluted with
water (4 L) and MTBE (2 L). The organic layer was separated and the aqueous layer was
extracted with MTBE (500 mLx2). The combined organic layers were washed with water
and brine, dried over Na 2 SO 4 , filtered, and then concentrated in vacuo to give compound 7 as
a white solid. 1H NMR (DMSO-d 6 ; 400 MHz) 6 7.56 (m), 6 7.40 (m), 6 7.34 (m), 6 7.10 (d),
6 5.21 (s), 6 1.73 (s), 6 1.27 (s).
[00291]    Procedure for the preparation of 2-(2-(benzyloxy)-5-tert-butylphenyl)-2
methylpropanal (8)
                                               DIBAH
                                                Tol
                                            CN                   CHO
                                   OBn                    OBn
                                    7                     8
[00292]    To a stirred solution of compound 7 (20 g, 0.065 mol) in toluene (300 mL), was
added drop wise DIBAH (80 mL, 1 M in toluene) at about -60 to -50 'C. After stirring for 2
hours, 6 N HCl (300 mL) was added to the reaction mixture and stirring was continued for 30
minutes. The organic layer was then separated, washed with 2 N HCl followed by a NaHCO 3
solution, then a brine solution, dried over Na 2 SO 4 and concentrated in vacuo to afford the
compound 8 as an oil. The product was used in the next reaction without further purification.
1H NMR (CDCl 3 ; 400 MHz) 6 9.61 (s), 6 7.36 (m), 6 7.25 (m), 6 6.87 (m), 6 5.06 (m), 6 1.43
(s), 6 1.33 (s).
[00293]    Procedure for the preparation of 2-(2-(benzyloxy)-5-tert-butylphenyl)-2
methylpropan-1-ol (9)
                                               NaBH,4
                                                                     OH
                                          CHO
                                OBn                       OBn
                                 8                          9
[00294]    To a stirred solution of compound 8 (9.21 g, 0.030 mol) in MeOH (150 mL) was
added slowly NaBH 4 (2.3 g, 0.061 mol ) at 0 'C. After the mixture was stirred at 20 'C for 3
hours, 12 mL of 6 N HCl was added, and the mixture was stirred for an additional 30
minutes. The solution was then concentrated to about one-quarter of the original volume and
extracted with EtOAc. The organic layer was separated and washed with water and brine,
                                                    68

dried with Na 2 SO 4 , filtered, and then concentrated in vacuo to afford compound 9 as a white
solid. 'H NMR (DMSO-d 6 ; 400 MHz) 6 7.47 (in), 6 7.42 (in), 6 7.34 (in), 6 7.28 (in), 6 7.16
(in), 6 6.94 (in), 6 5.08 (s), 6 4.45 (t), 6 3.64 (d), 6 1.28 (s), 6 1.25 (s).
[00295]    Procedure for the preparation of 2-(2-hydroxy-5-tert-butylphenyl)-2
methylpropan-1-ol (10)
                                              H2 , Pd(OH) 2
                                        OH        EtOH                       OH
                             OBn                                 OH
                                   9                              10
[00296]    Pd(OH) 2 (1 g) and compound 9 (9.26 g, 0.030 mol) in MeOH (200 mL) were
stirred under hydrogen at 20-30 psi pressure for 16-18 hours. The mixture was then filtered
through Celite@, and the filtrate was concentrated to give compound 10 as a white solid. 1H
NMR (DMSO-d 6 ; 400 MHz) 6 9.16 (s), 6 7.16 (d), 6 7.00 (in), 6 6.65 (in), 6 4.71 (t), 6 3.62
(d), 6 1.27 (s), 6 1.22 (s).
[00297]    Procedure for the preparation of 1-((methylcaroboxy)oxy)-2-(1
((methylcaroboxy)oxy)-2-methylpropan-2-yl)-4-tert-butyl            benzene (11)
                                          CICOOMe
                                        OH                 0
                             OH                           Y0
                                  10                       0
[00298]    To a stirred solution of compound 10 (23.2 g, 0.10 mol), DMAP (1.44 g) and DIEA
(72.8 g, 0.56 mol) in anhydrous DCM (720 mL) was added dropwise methyl chloroformate
(43.5 g, 0.46 mol) in DCM (160 mL) at 0 'C. After the mixture was stirred at 20 'C for 16
hours, it was washed with water, 1 N HCl and brine, dried with MgSO 4 and concentrated in
vacuo. The residue was purified using column chromatography on silica gel (1:20
EtOAc:Petroleum ether) to give compound 11 as a white solid. 'H NMR (DMSO-d,; 400
MHz) 6 7.32 (in), 6 7.10 (d), 6 4.26 (s), 6 3.84 (s), 6 3.64 (s), 6 1.31 (s), 6 1.28 (s).
[00299]    Procedure for preparation of 1-((methylcaroboxy)oxy)-2-(1
((methylcaroboxy)oxy)-2-methylpropan-2-yl)-4-tert-butyl-5-nitro            benzene (12)
                                                     69

                                                HNO 3   02 N
                                     O        0 DCM                     0OqOs
                   o0O                 0                   00
                       0                                      0
                               11                                 12
[00300]    To a stirred solution of compound 11 (32 g, 0.095 mol) in DCM (550 mL) was
added dropwise 98% H2 SO 4 (43 g, 0.43 mol) at 0 'C. After stirring for 20 minutes at 0 'C,
65% HNO 3 (16.2 g, 0.17 mol) was added to the mixture dropwise at 0 'C. The mixture was
then stirred at 1-10 'C for 4 hours and then ice-water (200 mL) was added. The aqueous
layer was separated and extracted with DCM (200 mL x 3) and the combined organic layers
were washed with water (aq), NaHCO 3 and brine, then dried with MgSO 4 and concentrated in
vacuo. The residue was purified via column chromatography on silica gel (1:20
EtOAc:Petroleum ether) to afford crude compound 12 as an oil.
[00301]    Procedure for the preparation of 2-tert-butyl-5-((methylcaroboxy)oxy)-4-(1
((methylcaroboxy)oxy)-2-methylpropan-2-yl)           aniline (13)
                0 2N                              P         H2N
                                                  Pd/C
                      0                                         0
                              12                                     13
[00302]    Pd/C (2.6 g) and compound 12 (14 g, crude) were stirred in MeOH (420 mL) at
room temperature under hydrogen at 20-30 psi pressure for 16-18 hours. Then the mixture
was filtered with kieselguhr@, and the filtrate was concentrated in vacuo. The residue was
purified via column chromatography on silica gel (1:10 EtOAc:Petroleum ether) to give
compound 13 as a gray solid. 1H NMR (CDCl 3; 400 MHz) 6 7.26 (s), 6 7.19 (s), 6 4.26 (s), 6
3.89 (s), 6 3.74 (s), 6 1.40 (s), 6 1.35 (s).
[00303]    Procedure for the preparation of N-(2-tert-butyl-5-((methylcaroboxy)oxy)-4-(1
((methylcaroboxy)oxy)-2-methylpropan-2-yl)phenyl)-4-oxo-1,4-dihydroquinoline-3
carboxamide (14)
                                                    70

                                          0    0                            0
                                             I    OH                              0
     H2N                                          OH             ONO             0   0
                                           H     26              0    0
                          00 O         HOBt,EDCI                         N
               O OO
                                                            CN)
          0      13                                              H
                                                                        14
[00304]     To a stirred solution of compound 26 (5.0 g, 0.026 mol) in anhydrous DMF (120
mL) was added EDCI (5.6 g, 0.029 mol), HOBT (3.8 g, 0.028 mol) and DIEA (6.6 g, 0.051
mol) at 0 'C. After stirring for 1 hour, the mixture was added dropwise a solution of
compound 13 (3.0 g, 0.008 mol) in DCM (30 ml) at 0 'C. The mixture was stirred at 25 0 C
for 72 hours, and then was concentrated in vacuo. The residue was dissolved in EtOAc (225
mL) and washed with water (120 mLxl), IN HCl (120 mL) and brine, dried with Na 2SO 4 and
concentrated in vacuo. The residue was purified via column chromatography on silica gel
(1:1 EtOAc:Petroleum ether) to give compound 14 as a white solid. 1H NMR (400 MHz,
CDCl 3) 6 12.34 (s, 1H), 11.58 (s, 1H), 9.07 (s, 1H), 8.42 (d, 1H), 7.66 (s, 1H), 7.51 (s, 1H),
7.47 (s, 1H), 7.39 (s, 1H), 6.72 (s, 1H), 4.34 (s, 2H), 3.82 (s, 3H), 3.74 (s, 3H), 1.41 (s, 9H),
1.40 (s, 6H).
[00305]     Procedure for the preparation of N-(2-tert-butyl-5-hydroxy-4-(1-hydroxy-2
methylpropan-2-yl)phenyl)-4-oxo-1,4-dihydroquinoline-3-carboxamide              (27)
                               0                                          00
                        0     0                  0                                N
                     H
                           14                                                    27
[00306]     To a stirred solution of KOH (1.2 g, 0.02 mol) in MeOH (80 mL) was added
compound 14 (1.9 g, 0.0036 mol) at 0 0C. After stirring for 2-3 hours at 5-15 0C, the mixture
was concentrated to dryness. The residue was then triturated in water (10 mL), filtered,
washed with DCM and dried in vacuo for 24 hours to give compound 27 as a white solid. 1H
NMR (DMSO-d 6 ; 400 MHz) 6 12.77 (s), 6 8.86 (s), 6 8.20 (d), 6 7.55 (d), 6 7.42 (t), 6 7.16
(q), 6 7.02 (s), 6 6.85 (m), 6 3.55 (s), 6 1.55 (s), 6 1.35 (s), 6 1.27 (s). MS Found (M + H)
409.2
                                                   71

[00307       Example 2: Alternative Total Synthesis of N-(2-tert-butyl-5-hydroxy-4-(1
hydroxy-2-methylpropan-2-yl)phenyl)-4-oxo-1,4-dihydroquinoline-3-carboxamide                        (27)
                                                                                       0
                   Br    +                    Pd(t-Bu 3 )2 , ZnF 2                        O       LiAIH 4
                             0ODMF,                 70 *C                                         THF
    0 N a         OH       /      O-TMS                                0NO
                                                                          2N         OH
                                                                               38
                                                                   O-                                       0
                                   0                             0                                        0
             NOH               CI      O                            O        Pd/C, H2    ,
   0 2N          OH           TEA, DMAP                                      MeOH
                              DCM, 0 C
            39                                  0 2N               0                          H2N           0
                                                            12                                         13
                                     0      0                                                          OH
                  'OH                    0    0                                           0  0
                    OONaOMe
                                                                                                              OH
            H     26              O    O                                                         N
                                                              -~                                 H
      T3P, Pyridine                      N                         O                       N     H
      2-MeTHF                     N      H               -O                                H
                                  N
                                  H                                                            27
                                           14
[00308       Procedure for the preparation of methyl 2-(5-tert-butyl-2-hydroxy-4-nitrophenyl)
2-methylpropanoate (38):
                                                                                                  0
                      Br                              Pd(t-Bu3 )2 , ZnF 2                         O
                      OH               O-TMS
       0 2N                                                                                    OH
                                                                                  02N
                                                                                          38
[00309]      A mixture of 2-bromo-4-tert-butyl-5-nitrophenol (15.00 g, 54.72 mmol), bis(tri
tert-butylphospine)palladium(0) (1.422 g, 2.783 mmol), zinc fluoride (2.82 g, 27.27 mmol),
methyl trimethylsilyl dimethylketene acetal (MTDA) (19.35 g, 111.0 mmol), and
dimethylformamide (150 mL) was heated at 70 'C for 18 h. The mixture was cooled to room
temperature and diluted with water. After stirring for one hour, the aqueous phase was
extracted with MTBE. The organic layer was dried in vacuo to afford the crude product as a
brown solid. Purification of the product was accomplished by trituration in n-heptane. IH
                                                     72

NMR (400MHZ, DMSO-d6) 6 10.38 (s, 1H); 7.37 (s, 1H); 6.79 (s, 1H); 3.54 (s, 3H); 1.45 (s,
6H); 1.32 (s, 9H)
[00310]    Procedure for the preparation of 4-tert-butyl-2-(1-hydroxy-2-methylpropan-2-yl)
5-nitrophenol (39):
                                   0
                                        O/     L iAIH4                      OH
                                               THE
                    2N          OHOH
                           38                                     39
[00311]    A IM solution of lithium aluminum hydride in THF (11.80 mL, 11.80 mmol) was
added to a solution of methyl 2-(5-tert-butyl-2-hydroxy-4-nitrophenyl)-2-methylpropanoate
(5.36 g, 18.15 mmol) in THF (50 mL). The mixture was stirred at ambient temperature for 3
h, and then diluted with methanol. The mixture was acidified with IN HCl (pH 1-2) and the
aqueous phase was extracted with MTBE. The organic phase was dried in vacuo to afford 4
tert-butyl-2-(1-hydroxy-2-methylpropan-2-yl)-5-nitrophenol which was used without further
purification in the next step. IH-NMR (400MHZ, DMSO-d6) 6 10.12 (s, 1H); 7.37 (s, 1H);
6.80 (s, 1H); 4.77 (s, 1H); 3.69-3.65 (m, 2H); 1.30 (s, 9H); 1.29 (s, 6H)
[00312]    Procedure for the preparation of 4-tert-butyl-2-(2-methoxycarbonyloxy-1,1
dimethyl-ethyl)-5-nitro-phenyl] methyl carbonate (12)
                                  OH         C               2N
               O2 N          OH             TEA, DMAP
                                            DCM, 0 *C         0     0
                       39O
                                                                        12
[00313]    To a solution of 4-tert-butyl-2-(1-hydroxy-2-methylpropan-2-yl)-5-nitrophenol
(1.92 g, 7.18 mmol), triethylamine (1.745 g, 17.24 mmol), and dimethylaminopyridine (87.74
mg, 0.718 mmol) in dichloromethane (30 mL) at 0 'C was slowly charged
methylchloroformate (2.376 g, 25.14 mmol), keeping the temperature below 5 'C. After the
addition, the mixture was allowed to warm to ambient temperature and was stirred until
HPLC showed complete conversion of the starting material (2-8 h). The reaction mixture was
diluted with water and acidified with IN HCl (pH 1-2). The aqueous phase was extracted
with DCM and the combined organics dried in vacuo. The crude amber semi-solid was re
crystallized from methanol and dichloromethane to give the title compound as a yellow
                                                  73

crystalline solid. 'H-NMR (400MHZ, DMSO-d6) 6 7.67 (s, 1H); 7.52 (s, 1H); 4.30 (s, 2H);
3.86 (s, 3H); 3.64 (s, 3H); 1.35 (s, 9H); 1.35 (s, 6H)
[00314]    Procedure for the preparation of 5-amino-4-tert-butyl-2-(2-methoxycarbonyloxy
1,1-dimethyl-ethyl)phenyl] methyl carbonate (13):
                               0-                                            0
                               0                                             0
                                              Pd/C, H2
                                              MeOH
                   0 2N        0                               H2 N          0
                             O    O                                        O     O
                          12                                            13
[00315]    A mixture of [4-tert-butyl-2-(2-methoxycarbonyloxy- 1,1 -dimethyl-ethyl)-5 -nitro
phenyl] methyl carbonate (1.27 g, 3.313 mmol) and Pd/C (75 mg, 0.035 mmol) in methanol
(50 mL) was purged with nitrogen. After purging the flask with hydrogen, the mixture was
hydrogenated for 18 hours at ambient temperature and pressure. The solution was filtered
through Celite@ and dried in vacuo to obtain the product as a solid. 1H-NMR (400MHZ,
DMSO-d6) 6 6.99 (s, 1H); 6.39 (s, 1H); 4.92(s, 2H); 4.13 (s, 2H); 3.82 (s, 3H); 3.65 (s, 3H);
1.32 (s, 9H); 1.23 (s, 6H)
[00316]    Procedure for the preparation of N-(2-tert-butyl-5-hydroxy-4-(1-hydroxy-2
methylpropan-2-yl)phenyl)-4-oxo-1,4-dihydroquinoline-3-carboxamide             (27):
                       0
                                                  OH               0                 NH
                                           N 26             0        \/NH
                                                                                 0
           H2N         0            T3P, Pyridine         O   O
                                    2-MeTHF               I
                                                                          14
                 13
                                                              OH
                             NaOMe                    0 0                OH
                                                          N
                                                          H
                                                  aN
                                                      H
                                                         27
[00317]    To a mixture of [5-amino-4-tert-butyl-2-(2-methoxycarbonyloxy- 1,1 -dimethyl
ethyl)phenyl] methyl carbonate (103 mg, 0.29 mmol), 4-oxo-1,4-dihydroquinoline-3
carboxylic acid (50 mg, 0.26 mmol), and pyridine (42 mg, 0.53 mmol) in 2-MeTHF (3.0 mL)
was charged T3P as a 50 wt% solution in 2-MeTHF (286 mg, 0.45 mmol). The mixture was
                                                   74

heated to 50 'C for 18 h. After cooling to ambient temperature, the mixture was diluted with
water. The organic phase was separated and again washed with water. Sodium methoxide (39
mg, 0.72 mmol) was charged to the organic phase and the solution stirred for 2 hours. The
reaction was quenched with IN HCl, and after separating the phases, the organic phase was
washed with 0. IN HCl. The organic phase was than dried in vacuo to yield Compound 27 as
a solid. The 1H-NMR spectrum was consistent with that reported above.
[00318     Example 3: Total Synthesis of 2-(5-tert-butyl-2-hydroxy-4-(4-oxo-1,4
dihydroquinoline-3-carboxamido)phenyl)-2-methylpropanoic                            acid (28):
              (CHO)n, MgCl2 , TEA                     BnCI, K2 CO 3                NaBH 4                     SOC12
                    CH3CN                                 DMF                       EtOH                 OH CH2Cl2
       OH                                   OH                            OBn                    OBn
       1                                     2                            3                      4
                   KCN                           NaH, Mel                  H2, Pd(OH) 2/C              CICOOMe, DMAP
               CI DMF               /        CN    DMF                      MeOH,10Psi                   DIEA, CH 2 Cl 2
                                                                         CN                 ..     CN
       OBn                         OBn                            OBn                      OH
       5                           6                               7                       15
                                  02N      ~    o0                    2N                       02N
                 KNO 3 , H2SO4                   O   N        NaOH                        EDCI                   H2 , Pd/C
                         _________        INH               2     .~
                                                              MeOH                  COOH THF                    THF, 30Psi
            4CN      CH 2 CI2
   0  0                                       O                              OH                        0
     O 16                                0 17                                18                        19
                               0 0                                          0                        0    0
                           KrYOH                                       0NH
 H2N                           H      26                                            NaOH                     NH
                   HATU,DIEA, CH3CN                                N                MeOH             HHO
                 0                                                 H                                  HO
            0                                           NCOOH
       20
                                                               21                                        28
[00319     Procedurefor the preparationof 2-(5-tert-butyl-2-hydroxyphenyl)-2
methylpropanenitrile(15)
                                                              75

                                         H 2 , Pd(OH) 2 /C
                                          MeOH,1OPsi
                                OBn    ON                        OH     CN
                                7                                15
[00320]    Pd (OH) 2/C (2.0 g) and compound 7 (20.0 g, 0.104 mol) were stirred in MeOH
(150 mL) at room temperature under hydrogen at 10 psi pressure for 16-18 hours. The
mixture was then filtered through a pad of Celite@, and the filtrate was concentrated to give
compound 15, which was used in the next reaction without further purification. IH NMR
(DMSO-d 6 ; 400 MHz) 6 9.83 (s), 6 7.24 (s), 6 7.18 (m), 6 6.80 (m), 6 1.71 (s), 6 1.24 (s).
[00321]    Procedure for the preparation of 4-tert-butyl-2-(2-cyanopropan-2-yl)phenyl
methyl carbonate (16)
                                       CICOOMe, DMAP
                                         DIEA, CH 2CI2
                                                                            CN
                           OH      CN
                                   OH                              O
                                                                   0
                           15                                        16
[00322]    To a stirred mixture of compound 15 (126.6 g, 0.564 mol), DMAP (6.0 g) and
DIEA (188 g, 1.46 mol) in anhydrous DCM (1500 mL) was added dropwise methyl
chloroformate (110 g, 1.17 mol) in anhydrous DCM (300 mL) at 0 'C within 2 hours. After
stirring for 12 hours at 0 'C, ice-water (1.5 L) was added and the mixture was stirred at 0 'C
for 30 minutes. The organic layer was separated and washed with 1 N HCl, water, and brine.
The DCM solution was dried over MgSO 4 and concentrated in vacuo to give compound 16 as
a yellow solid. 1H NMR (DMSO-d 6 ; 400 MHz) 6 7.47 (m), 6 7.39 (d), 6 7.24 (d), 6 3.84 (s),
6 1.71 (s), 6 1.30 (s).
[00323]    Procedure for the preparation of 2-(1-amino-2-methyl-1-oxopropan-2-yl)-4-tert
butyl-5-nitrophenyl methyl carbonate (17)
                                                                           NH 2
                                     C KNOCH   3 , H2 SO 4 02
                                   I'CN            2 CI 2
                        0Y0                                   0 Y0
                          0                                      0
                                16                                 17
                                                     76

[00324]    To a stirred mxture of compound 16 (10.0 g, 36.3 mmol) and KNO 3 (5.51 g, 54.5
mmol) in DCM (1000 mL) was added dropwise 98% H2 SO 4 (145.4 g, 1.45 mol) at 0 'C. The
mixture was stirred at 30 'C for 4 days. The H2 SO 4 layer was then separated and poured into
ice-water (50 g) and then extracted with DCM (100 mLx3). The combined organic layers
were washed with water, aqueous NaHCO 3 solution and brine, then dried over MgSO 4 and
concentrated in vacuo. The residue was purified via column chromatography on silica gel
(Petroleum ether/EtOAc 20:1--10:1--5:1--3:1) to give compound 17 as a yellow solid. 1H
NMR (CDCl 3; 400 MHz) 6 8.05 (s), 6 7.74 (s), 6 7.61 (s), 6 7.32 (s), 6 5.32 (s), 6 3.91 (s), 6
3.92 (s), 6 1.62 (s), 6 1.59 (s), 6 1.42 (s), 6 1.38 (s).
[00325]    Procedure for the preparation of 2-(5-tert-butyl-2-hydroxy-4-nitrophenyl)-2
methylpropanoic acid (18)
                       0 2N           0                    0 2N
                                           NH2     Na H
                                                   MeOH             .. COOH
                                                                       COOH
                          00                                       OH
                             0
                                17                                 18
[00326]    To a mixture of compound 17 (7.3 g, 21.6 mmol) in methanol (180 mL) was added
water (18 mL) and NaOH (8.64 g, 216 mmol). The solution was heated and maintained at
reflux for 3 days. The solvent was evaporated in vacuo and the residue was dissolved in 140
mL of water. Then the solution was acidified to pH 2 by the addition of 2N HCl. The
aqueous phase was extracted with ethyl acetate (100 mLx3), and the combined organic
phases were washed with water and brine, dried over anhydrous Na 2 SO 4 and then
concentrated to give compound 18 as a yellow solid, which was used in the next reaction
without further purification.
[00327]    Procedure for the preparation of 5-tert-butyl-3,3-dimethyl-6-nitrobenzofuran
2(3H)-one (19)
                             0 2N                         0 2N
                                                   EDCI
                                            COOH THF
                                    OH                          0
                                                                     0
                                     18                         19
[00328]    To a solution of compound 18 (7.10 g, 25.2 mmol) in 710 mL of anhydrous THF
was added EDCI (14.5 g, 75.6 mmol). The resulting suspension was left stirring at 30 'C
overnight. The precipitate was filtered and thoroughly washed with DCM. The filtrate was
                                                   77

concentrated to dryness and the residue was dissolved in DCM (100 mL). The solution was
washed with water (50 mLx2) and brine (50 mLx 1). The DCM layer was then dried over
anhydrous Na 2SO 4 and concentrated to give the crude product, which was purified via
column chromatography on silica gel (Petroleum ether/EtOAc 200:1--100:1--50: 1) to give
compound 19 as a white solid. 1H NMR (CDCl 3 ; 400 MHz) 6 7.36 (s), 6 7.10 (s), 6 1.53 (s),
6 1.41 (s).
[00329]     Procedure for the preparation of 6-amino-5-tert-butyl-3,3-dimethylbenzofuran
2(3H)-one (20)
                          0 2N                          H2N
                                              Pd/C H2
                                                THF
                                  0                             0
                                       0                            0
                                  19                            20
[00330]     Pd/C (1.50 g) and compound 19 (3.00 g, 1.14 mmol) were suspended in THF (1500
mL) at 25 'C under hydrogen at 30 psi for 4 hours. The mixture was then filtered through a
pad of Celite@, and the filtrate was concentrated in vacuo to give compound 20 as a white
solid. 1H NMR (DMSO-d 6 ; 400 MHz) 6 7.05 (s), 6 6.49 (s), 6 5.01 (s), 6 1.35 (s), 6 1.33 (s).
[00331]     Procedure for the preparation of N-(5-tert-butyl-3,3-dimethyl-2-oxo-2,3
dihydrobenzofuran-6-yl)-4-oxo-1,4-dihydroquinoline-3-carboxamide         (21)
                                         0  0                                    0
                                                                            0
               2N
                                     HNOHH   26
                                         H                     O    O
                                 HATU,DIEA, CH 3CN                     N
                                                               N
                                                               H
                     20o
                                                                    21
[00332]     A suspension of HATU (17.6 g, 46.3 mol) and compound 26 (8.36 g, 44.2 mmol)
in anhydrous acetonitrile (1 L) was stirred at room temperature for 1 hour. Compound 20
(3.40 g, 14.6 mmol) was added to the suspension, and then DIEA (11.5 g, 89.0 mmol) was
added dropwise. The mixture was stirred at 45 'C for 4 days. The resulting precipitate was
filtered and thoroughly washed with DCM. The filtrate was concentrated to dryness and the
residue was dissolved in DCM (200 mL) and washed with IN HCl (200 mLx2) followed by
5% aqueous NaHCO 3 (200 mLx3) and then brine (200 mLx1). The mixture was then dried
over Na 2 SO 4 and concentrated in vacuo. The residue was purified via column
chromatography on silica gel (CH 2Cl 2/MeOH 100: 1--50: 1) to give compound 21 as a light
                                                78

yellow solid. 1H-NMR (400MHZ, DMSO-d6) 6 12.96 (d J 6.4 Hz, 1H); 12.1 (s, 1H); 8.9 (d,
J 6.4Hz, 1H); 8.33 (d, J 8Hz, 1H); 7.84-7.75 (m, 2H); 7.55-7.48 (m, 3H); 1.47 (s, 6H); 1.45
(s, 9H).
[00333]    Procedure for the preparation of 2-(5-tert-butyl-2-hydroxy-4-(4-oxo-1,4
dihydroquinoline-3-carboxamido)phenyl)-2-methylpropanoic acid (28)
                                          0                           0    0
                        00                          NaOH            NNH
                                SN                  MeOH               H
                    IH                                                  HO
                       N                                                          COOH
                       H
                             21                                           28
[00334]    To a stirred solution of compound 21 (0.9 g, 2.45 mmol) in MeOH (50 mL) was
added NaOH (1.5 g, 37.5 mmol) at 0 'C. After stirring for 16 hours at 40 'C, the solvent was
evaporated in vacuo, then the residue was dissolved in H 20 (50 ml). The precipitate was
filtered and the filtrate was washed with DCM (100 mLxl) and ethyl acetate (100 mLxl).
The aqueous layer was acidified with 2N HCl to pH 1-2. The precipitate was filtered and
washed with H 20 (80 mL) and heptane (50 mL). It was dried in vacuo to give compound 28
as a white solid. 1H NMR (DMSO-d 6 ; 400 MHz) 6 12.85 (s), 6 11.84 (s), 6 11.77 (s), 6 9.39
(s), 6 8.86 (s), 6 8.33 (s), 6 7.79 (m), 6 7.52 (m), 6 7.18 (s), 6 7.09 (s), 6 1.44 (s), 6 1.40 (s).
MS found (M + H) 423.08
[00335]    Example 4: Second alternative Synthesis of N-(2-tert-butyl-5-hydroxy-4-(1
hydroxy-2-methylpropan-2-yl)phenyl)-4-oxo-1,4-dihydroquinoline-3-carboxamide                  (27)
                       00                                            0
                                NH                              0         NH
                       H                    LiAIH 4 , THF            NH
                          0                                  -           HO
                                                                                     OH
                   21                                               27
[00336]    A 3-neck 50mL round bottom flask was equipped with magnetic stirrer, nitrogen
bubbler and thermocouple. Compound 21 (514mg, 1.27mmol) and 2-MeTHF (4mL) are
charged to the flask. The reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature. Lithium
aluminum hydride (204 mg, 6.6 mmol) was added as solid until 100% conversion is
achieved, which was monitored using HPLC. Potassium sodium 2,3-dihydroxybutanedioate
tetrahydrate salt (50 mL of a 400 g/L solution) and MTBE (50mL) were added to the reaction
                                                    79

mixture. The resulting solution was stirred for 15 minutes and then let sit for 15min. The
organic layer was separated and the pH of the aqueous layer was adjusted to a pH of about 6
7 by adding Tartaric acid. The aqueous layer was extracted with MTBE. The organic layer
was concentrated and dried under high vacuum to provide the title compound as an off-white
powder. The 1H-NMR spectrum was consistent with that reported above.
[00337     Example 5: Alternative Total synthesis of 2-(5-tert-butyl-2-hydroxy-4-(4-oxo-1,4
dihydroquinoline-3-carboxamido)phenyl)-2-methylpropanoic              acid (28):
                  MeOCCI                         HNO 3 , H2SO 4    02N                NaOMe
                  NEt 3, DCM              Br     DCM, o *C                      Br     DCM
                                    O                                     O     O0
       OH    Br
                                       O                                     0
                                       35                                   36
                         O
                             O-TMS
0 2N                                       0 2N     ,           Pd(C), H2       H2N
           I          Pd(PPhs)2, ZnF2,
                                                                MeOH, 100%
               Br     DMF, 80 *C, 71**%                                                0
         OHO
                                                          O                                 0
         37                                        19                                    20
                                    0    0                                          0  0
          0 0
                OH                           NH                  LiOHNH
                   I I                 I                         LiOH
                                                                                    N
          H                         H           IMeTHF, 45               C          H
    T3 P, MeTHF                                                                               COOH
    pyridine, 45 *C
                                           -             -                             28
                                         21
[00338     Procedurefor the preparationof Carbonic acid 2-bromide, 4-tertbutylphenyl
ester methyl ester (35)
                                                  80

                                            DMAP,
                                            MeOCCI
                                           NEt3 , DCM             Br
                                                             O    Os
                                 OH    Br
                                         OHO
                                                                0
                                                               35
[00339]    A 3-neck 2L round bottom flask was equipped with mechanical stirrer, nitrogen
bubbler and thermocouple. 2-Bromo-4-tertbutyl phenol (50g, 211.7mmol) was added
followed by DCM (1.75L), DMAP (1.29g, 10.58mmol) and Et 3 N (44.3mL, 317.6mmol). The
reaction mixture was cooled down to 0 'C. Methyl chloroformate (19.62mL, 254mmol) was
added drop-wise to the reaction mixture. The mixture was allowed to warm to room
temperature while stirring overnight. When the reaction was complete, the mixture was
filtered via sintered funnel. The filtrate was transferred into IL separatory funnel. To quench,
IN HCl (300mL) was added to filtrate and the organic layer was separated. The organic layer
was then washed with a mixture of 291 mL saturated NaHCO 3 and 100 mL water. The layers
were separated, and the aqueous layer was determined to have a pH of about 8. The organic
layer was concentrated and dried under high vacuum for about 16 hours to give the title
compound as a clear yellow oil, which was used in the next step without further purification.
IH-NMR (400MHz. DMSO-d6) 7.66 (d, J2.0 Hz, 1H), 7.46 (dd, J 8.4, 2.0 Hz, 1H), 7.32 (d,
J8.4 Hz, 1H), 3.86 (s, 3H), 1.28 (s, 9H)
[00340] Procedure for the preparation of (2-bromo-4-tert-butyl-5-nitro-phenyl) methyl
carbonate (36)
                                         HNO 3, H2 SO 4   02 N
                                 Br      DCM,0*C                       Br
                               0                                     0
                              35                                   36
[00341]    A 3-neck 2L round bottom flask was equipped with mechanical stirrer, nitrogen
bubbler and thermocouple. Compound 35 (176g, 612.9mmol) and concentrated sulfuric acid
(264mL) were charged to the flask. The reaction mixture was cooled to -5 'C - 0 'C. Nitric
acid (28.6mL, 612.9mmol) was added drop-wise and the reaction mixture was stirred at 0 'C
for 2 hours. When complete, water (264mL) was added followed by MTBE (264mL). The
                                                  81

solution was stirred for 15 minutes, then let stand for 15 minutes. The organic layer was
separated, concentrated and dried under high vacuum to give the title compound as a dark
brown oil, which was used in the next step without further purification. IH-NMR (400MHz.
DMSO-d6) 7.96 (s, 1H), 7.92 (s, 1H), 3.89 (s, 3H), 1.34 (s, 9H)
[00342     Procedure for the preparation of 2-bromo-4-tert-butyl-5-nitro-phenol (37)
                         0 2N
                                             NaOMe       0 2N
                                      Br      DCM
                                    OOH
                                    0
                                                                 37
                                   36
[00343]    (2-Bromo-4-tert-butyl-5-nitro-phenyl)methyl carbonate (72.9 g, 219.5 mmol) was
charged to a reactor and DCM (291.6 mL) was added. The yellow reaction solution was
cooled using an ice bath. Sodium methoxide (67.04 g, 69.11 mL of 5.4 M, 373.2 mmol) was
added portion-wise at 2.2 - 6.9 'C. After complete addition, the reaction was slowly warmed
to ambient temperature. When complete, the reaction was cooled to 0 'C and quenched with
IM HCl (373.2 mL, 373.2 mmol). The biphasic mixture was stirred for 20 min and
transferred to a seperatory funnel. The organic layer was separated and washed with water
(300 mL) followed by brine (300ml). The organic layer was concentrated and the crude
product dried under high vacuum. The product was further purified using Supercritical Fluid
Chromatography (SFC) separation on a Berger MultiGram III (Mettler Toledo AutoChem,
Newark DE). The method conditions were 20% methanol at 250mL/min on a PPU column
(30*150) from Princeton Chromatography, 100 bar, 35C, 220nm. An injection of 3.5mL of a
55-70mg/mL solution was injected. The data was collected using SFC ProNTo software.
The purified product received from SFC purification was a methanol solvate. To remove the
methanol, an azeotropic distillation was performed. The dark yellow solid, 2-bromo, 4
tertbuyl, 5-nitro phenol methanol solvate, (111.3g, .59.9mmol) was charged to a IL round
bottom flask, followed by heptane (500mL). The slurry is heated to 64 'C to obtain a clear
solution. The solvent was distilled under reduced pressure (649 mbar) for 30 minutes and
then stripped to dryness. This procedure was repeated three times until no MeOH was
detected by 1H-NMR. The product was dried under high vacuum for 16 hours to give the
product as a dark yellow semi solid. 1H-NMR (400MHZ, DMSO-d6) 6 11.2 (bs, OH), 7.69
(s, 1H); 7.03 (s, 1H); 1.30 (s, 9H)
                                                82

[00344     Procedure for the preparation of 5-tert-butyl-3,3-dimethyl-6-nitrobenzofuran
2(3H)-one (19)
                                                                           0 2N
           0 2N               +                    Pd(PPh 3)2 , ZnF 2 ,
                         Br       /     O-TMS      DMF, 80 *C, 71%
                    OH                                                             0
                    37                                                          19
[00345]    Difluorozine (6.093 g, 58.92 mmol) was added to a round bottomed flask, which
was flushed with nitrogen. Pd(tBu 3P) 2 (2 g, 3.835 mmol) was then added under nitrogen
stream. 2-Bromo-4-tert-butyl-5-nitro-phenol (16.15 g, 58.92 mmol) dissolved in DMF (80.75
mL) was then added to the flask. The reaction mixture was an orange suspension. (1
Methoxy-2-methyl-prop-1-enoxy)trimethylsilane (21.61 g, 25.13 mL, 117.8 mmol) was
added to the mixture and the resulting mixture was heated to 80 'C and stirred for 16 h. When
complete, the reaction mixture was cooled to ambient temperature and filtered through
Celite@. The filter cake was washed with MTBE (536.0 mL) and water (893.3 mL) was
added to the filtrate. The mixture was stirred for 15 min and settled for another 15 min. The
layers were separated and 0.5M HCl (500 mL, 250.0 mmol) was added to the organic phase.
The layers were separated and the organic layer was washed with water (500 mL). The layers
were separated and the organic layer was washed with NaCl (500 mL; 8 wt%). The organic
layer was separated and the solvent removed in vacuo. The crude product was obtained as a
brown crystalline solid and was then purified through a silica plug, using hexane:MTBE 20:1
-10:1 as an eluent. The fractions containing product were combined and the solvent removed
in vacuo to give the pure product as a white crystalline solid. 'H-NMR (400MHZ, DMSO-d6)
6 7.80 (s, 1H); 7.62 (s, 1H); 1.49 (s, 6H); 1.34 (s, 9H)
[00346     Procedure for the preparation of 6-amino-5-tert-butyl-3,3-dimethylbenzofuran
2(3H)-one (20)
                        0 2N      N        Pd(C), H2       H2N
                                           MeOH, 100%
                                0                                      0
                                     0                                      0
                                19                                       20
                                                83

[00347]   Palladium on carbon (wet; 5 wt%) was placed into a round bottomed flask under
nitrogen flow. 5-tert-butyl-3,3-dimethyl-6-nitro-benzofuran-2-one (4.7 g, 17.85 mmol) was
then added to the vessel. Methanol (120 mL) was then carefully charged to the vessel under
nitrogen atmosphere. The vessel was then purged with N 2 , evacuated, then charged with
hydrogen gas. The vessel was evacuated and re-charged with hydrogen gas, and then a
continuous hydrogen gas stream was introduced. After completion, the reaction was filtered
through Celite@ and the cake was washed with MeOH (300ml). The solvent was removed in
vacuo and the product dried under high vacuum to give a white crystalline solid. 'H-NMR
(400MHZ, DMSO-d6) 6 7.05 (s, 1H); 6.48 (s, 1H); 5.02 (s, 2H, NH 2 ); 1.34 (s, 6H); 1.30 (s,
9H)
[00348] Procedure for the preparation of N-(5-tert-butyl-3,3-dimethyl-2-oxo-2,3
dihydrobenzofuran-6-yl)-4-oxo-1,4-dihydroquinoline-3-carboxamide          (21)
                                                                   0   0
                                          0 0
              H2N                               OH                          NH
                                          N    26                  N      /
                                          H                        H
                      O             T3 P, MeTHF                       0
                                    pyridine, 45 *C
                        20
                                                                       21
[00349]   A reaction vessel was charged with compound 26 (2.926 g, 15.43 mmol),
Compound 20 (4.32 g, 18.52 mmol), 2-MeTHF (35.99 mL), and subsequently 50% T3 P in 2
MeTHF (13.36 g, 21.00 mmol). Pyridine (2.441 g, 2.496 mL, 30.86 mmol) was added and
the suspension heated at 47.5 'C 5 'C forl8 h. After completion, the reaction was cooled to
ambient temperature and 2-MeTHF (36) and water (30 ml) were added. The layers were split
and the organic layer was washed with 10 wt% citric acid solution (30ml), water (30 ml) and
twice with NaHCO 3 (20 ml). The organic layer was washed with brine (50 ml), separated and
the solvent removed in vacuo. The crude product was dissolved in MTBE (100ml) and
hexane (200ml) was added as an anti-solvent. A solid precipitated and the resulting slurry
was stirred for two hours. The solid was collected by suction filtration and the cake was
washed with hexane. The resulting product was dried in a vacuum oven at 55 'C with
nitrogen bleed to give the title compound as a beige solid. 'H-NMR (400MHZ, DMSO-d6) 6
12.96 (d J 6.4 Hz, 1H); 12.1 (s, 1H); 8.9 (d, J 6.4Hz, 1H); 8.33 (d, J 8Hz, 1H); 7.84-7.75 (m,
2H); 7.55-7.48 (m, 3H); 1.47 (s, 6H); 1.45 (s, 9H).
                                                84

[00350     Procedure for the preparation of 2-(5-tert-butyl-2-hydroxy-4-(4-oxo-1,4
dihydroquinoline-3-carboxamido)phenyl)-2-methylpropanoic acid (28)
                                                                 0   0
                                         0 0
                                               OH                        NH
            H2 N
                                            N 26                 N
                                         H                       H
                    O              T3P, MeTHF                       0
                                   pyridine, 45 *C
                        20
                                  20                      00
                                                                     21
                                                         0    0
                                                                NH
                                                                NH
                                LiOH
                            MeTHF,45*C                   H
                                                           HO
                                                                    COOH
                                                             28
[00351]    Compound 26 (81.30 mg, 0.4288 mmol) and Compound 20 (110 mg, 0.4715
mmol) were charged to a round bottomed flask. 2-MeTHF (1 mL) followed by 50% T3P in 2
MeTHF (371.4 mg, 0.5836 mmol) and pyridine (67.84 mg, 69.37 p L, 0.8576 mmol) in 2
MeTHF were then added. The suspension was heated at 47.5 'C 5'C overnight. After
completion, the reaction was cooled to ambient temperature. 2-MeTHF (1.014 mL) and water
(811.2 pL) were added. The layers were separated and the organic layer was washed with
water (811.2 pL) and twice with NaHCO 3 (2 ml). The organic layer was transferred into a
round bottomed flask. LiOH (38. 6 mg, 0.9 mmol) dissolved in water (2 mL) was added and
the reaction was heated to 45 'C. After completion, the layers were separated and the organic
layer was discarded. The aqueous layer was cooled with an ice bath and hydrochloric acid
(10.72 mL of 1.0 M, 10.72 mmol) was added to the solution until the pH reached a pH of
about 3-4. The aqueous layer was extracted twice with 2-MeTHF (5ml), and the organic
layers were combined and washed with brine (5ml). The organic layer was separated and the
solvent removed in vacuo. The resulting solid was dried in a vacuum oven with nitrogen
bleed at 50 C to give the title compound. 'H-NMR (400MHZ, DMSO-d6) 6 12.89 (d, J 6.8
Hz, 1H); 11.84 (s, 1H); 11.74 (s, 1H); 9.36 (s, 1H); 8.87-8.61 (d, J 6.4 Hz ,1H); 8.34-8.32 (d,
J 9.1 Hz 1H); 7.83-7.745 (m, 2H); 7.17-7.09 (m, 1H); 7.17 (s, 1H); 7.09 (s, 1H); 1.43 (s, 6H);
                                                85

1.40 (s, 9H)
[00352      Example 6: Total synthesis of N-(2,4-di-tert-butyl-5-hydroxyphenyl)-4-oxo-1,4
dihydroquinoline-3-carboxamide (34)
                                                                   0 2N                                      H2N
                ICOOCH 3, EtsN                 H2SO 4 , HNO 3 3                           H2, Pd/C, MeOH
                                                                                                                  0
                                  OU                                  OO
   OH
                                    0                                    0                                        0
  29                                  30                                     31                                     32
                                              011~
                        0 0                                                                                       OH
              O     O                       O    O                                                               OH
                       OH             O   O                   1) NaOMe/MeOHI2-MeTHF                 0    0
                                                              2) 10% H2 0 / CH 3CN                          N
              N                                                                                             H
              H     26                      N                 3) (optional) recrystallize
                                                                                                    HN
          T3P, Pyridine                NN
                                          33                                                             34
[00353      Procedure for the preparation of 2,4-di-tert-butylphenyl methyl carbonate (30)
                                           CICOOCH 3 , Et3 N
                                                  Et20
                               OH                                       O
                                                                            0
                               29                                               30
Method 1
[00354]     To a solution of 2,4-di-tert-butyl phenol, 29, (10 g, 48.5mmol) in diethyl ether (100
mL) and triethylamine (10.1 mL, 72.8 mmol), was added methyl chloroformate (7.46 mL, 97
mmol) dropwise at 0 'C. The mixture was then allowed to warm to room temperature and
stir for an additional 2 hours. An additional 5 mL triethylamine and 3.7 mL methyl
chloroformate was then added and the reaction stirred overnight. The reaction was then
filtered, the filtrate was cooled to 0 'C, and an additional 5 mL triethylamine and 3.7 mL
methyl chloroformate was then added and the reaction was allowed to warm to room
temperature and then stir for an addition 1 hours. At this stage, the reaction was almost
complete and was worked up by filtering, then washing with water (2x), followed by brine.
The solution was then concentrated to produce a yellow oil and purified using column
chromatography to give compound 30.           1H  NMR (400 MHz, DMSO-d 6 ) 6 7.35 (d, J= 2.4 Hz,
                                                     86

1H), 7.29 (dd, J= 8.4, 2.4 Hz, 1H), 7.06 (d, J= 8.4 Hz, 1H), 3.85 (s, 3H), 1.30 (s, 9H), 1.29
(s, 9H).
Method 2
[00355]   To a reactor vessel charged with 4-dimethylaminopyridine (DMAP, 3.16 g, 25.7
mmol) and 2,4-ditert-butyl phenol (compound 29, 103.5 g, 501.6 mmol) was added
methylene chloride (415 g, 313 mL) and the solution was agitated until all solids dissolved.
Triethylamine (76 g, 751 mmol) was then added and the solution was cooled to 0 - 5 'C.
Methyl chloroformate (52 g, 550.3 mmol) was then added dropwise over 2.5 - 4 hours, while
keeping the solution temperature between 0 - 5 'C. The reaction mixture was then slowly
heated to 23 - 28 'C and stirred for 20 hours. The reaction was then cooled to 10 - 15 'C and
charged with 150 mL water. The mixture was stirred at 15 - 20 'C for 35 - 45 minutes and
the aqueous layer was then separated and extracted with 150 mL methylene chloride. The
organic layers were combined and neutralized with 2.5% HCl (aq) at a temperature of 5 - 20
'C to give a final pH of 5 - 6. The organic layer was then washed with water and
concentrated in vacuo at a temperature below 20 'C to 150 mL to give compound 30 in
methylene chloride.
[00356]   Procedure for the preparation of 5-nitro-2,4-di-tert-butylphenyl methyl carbonate
(31)
                                                          0 2N
                                         H2SO 4 , HNO 3
                       01Y0                                  0 Y0
                         0                                      0
                             30                                    31
Method 1
[00357]   To a stirred solution of compound 30 (6.77g, 25.6 mmol) was added 6 mL of a 1:1
mixture of sulfuric acid and nitric acid at 0 'C dropwise. The mixture was allowed to warm
to room temperature and stirred for 1 hour. The product was purified using liquid
chromatography (ISCO, 120 g, 0-7% EtOAc/Hexanes, 38 min) producing about an 8:1
10:1 mixture of regioisomers of compound 31 as a white solid. 'H NMR (400 MHz, DMSO
d) 6 7.63 (s, 1H), 7.56 (s, 1H), 3.87 (s, 3H), 1.36 (s, 9H), 1.32 (s, 9H). HPLC ret. time 3.92
min 10-99% CH 3 CN, 5 min run; ESI-MS 310 m/z (MH)*.
Method 2
                                                 87

[00358]     To compound 30 (100g, 378 mmol) was added DCM (540 g, 408 mL). The
mixture was stirred until all solids dissolved, and then cooled to -5 - 0 'C. Concentrated
sulfuric acid (163 g) was then added dropwise, while maintaining the initial temperature of
the reaction, and the mixture was stirred for 4.5 hours. Nitric acid (62 g) was then added
dropwise over 2-4 hours while maintaining the initial temperature of the reaction, and was
then stirred at this temperature for an additional 4.5 hours. The reaction mixture was then
slowly added to cold water, maintaining a temperature below 5 'C. The quenched reaction
was then heated to 25 'C and the aqueous layer was removed and extracted with methylene
chloride. The combined organic layers were washed with water, dried using Na 2SO 4 , and
concentrated to 124 - 155 mL. Hexane (48 g) was added and the resulting mixture was
again concentrated to 124 - 155 mL. More hexane (160 g) was subsequently added to the
mixture. The mixture was then stirred at 23 - 27 'C for 15.5 hours, and was then filtered. To
the filter cake was added hexane (115 g), the resulting mixture was heated to reflux and
stirred for 2 - 2.5 hours. The mixture was then cooled to 3 - 7 'C, stirred for an additional 1
- 1.5 hours, and filtered to give compound 31 as a pale yellow solid.
[00359]     Procedure for the preparation of 5-amino-2,4-di-tert-butylphenyl methyl
carbonate (32)
                       0 2N                                  H2N
                                          H2, Pd/C, MeOH
                          0 Y0      O                          0 Y0
                                                                 ON
                            0                                    0
                               31                                   32
[00360]     2,4-Di-tert-butyl-5-nitrophenyl methyl carbonate (1.00 eq) was charged to a
suitable hydrogenation reactor, followed by 5% Pd/C (2.50 wt% dry basis, Johnson-Matthey
Type 37). MeOH (15.0 vol) was charged to the reactor, and the system was closed. The
system was purged with N2 (g), and was then pressurized to 2.0 Bar with H2 (g). The reaction
was performed at a reaction temperature of 25 'C +/- 5 'C. When complete, the reaction was
filtered, and the reactor/cake was washed with MeOH (4.00 vol). The resulting filtrate was
distilled under vacuum at no more than 50 'C to 8.00 vol. Water (2.00 vol) was added at 45
'C +/- 5 'C. The resultant slurry was cooled to 0 'C +/- 5. The slurry was held at 0 C +/- 5
'C for no less than 1 hour, and filtered. The cake was washed once with 0 'C +/- 5 'C
MeOH/H 2 0 (8:2) (2.00 vol). The cake was dried under vacuum (-0.90 bar and -0.86 bar) at
                                                 88

35 C - 40'C to give compound 32. 1H NMR (400 MHz, DMSO-d 6 ) 6 7.05 (s, 1H), 6.39 (s,
1H), 4.80 (s, 2H), 3.82 (s, 3H), 1.33 (s, 9H), 1.23 (s, 9H).
[00361]     Once the reaction was complete, the resulting mixture was diluted with from about
5 to 10 volumes of MeOH (e.g., from about 6 to about 9 volumes of MeOH, from about 7 to
about 8.5 volumes of MeOH, from about 7.5 to about 8 volumes of MeOH, or about 7.7
volumes of MeOH), heated to a temperature of about 35  5 C, filtered, washed, and dried,
as described above.
[00362]     Preparation of N-(2,4-di-tert-butyl-5-hydroxyphenyl)-4-oxo-1,4
dihydroquinoline-3-carboxamide (34).
                                                 000
                                                       OH        0         O
           H2N                                 60IH  y
                                       N                                 N
                    00H                      26                          N
                ST3P,       0           Pyridine                 N
                                                                 H
                    32                                                33
                                                                  OH
                 1) NaOMe/MeOH/2-MeTHF
                 2) 10% H2 0 / CH 3 CN                        N
                                                      N
                                                      H
                                                           34
[00363]     4-Oxo-1,4-dihydroquinoline-3-carboxylic acid, 26, (1.0 eq) and 5-amino-2,4-di
tert-butylphenyl methyl carbonate, 32, (1.1 eq) were charged to a reactor. 2-MeTHF (4.0 vol,
relative to the acid) was added followed by T3P* 50% solution in 2-MeTHF (1.7 eq). The
T3P charged vessel was washed with 2-MeTHF (0.6 vol). Pyridine (2.0 eq) was then added,
and the resulting suspension was heated to 47.5 +/- 5.0 'C and held at this temperature for 8
hours. A sample was taken and checked for completion by HPLC. Once complete, the
resulting mixture was cooled to 25.0 'C +/- 2.5 'C. 2-MeTHF was added (12.5 vol) to dilute
the mixture. The reaction mixture was washed with water (10.0 vol) 2 times. 2-MeTHF was
added to bring the total volume of reaction to 40.0 vol (-16.5 vol charged). To this solution
was added NaOMe/MeOH (1.7 equiv) to perform the methanolysis. The reaction was stirred
for no less than 1.0 hour, and checked for completion by HPLC. Once complete, the reaction
was quenched with 1 N HCl (10.0 vol), and washed with 0.1 N HCl (10.0 vol). The organic
                                                 89

solution was polish filtered to remove any particulates and placed in a second reactor. The
filtered solution was concentrated at no more than 35 'C (jacket temperature) and no less than
8.0 'C (internal reaction temperature) under reduced pressure to 20 vol. CH 3CN was added to
40 vol and the solution concentrated at no more than 35 'C (jacket temperature) and no less
than 8.0 C (internal reaction temperature) to 20 vol. The addition of CH 3CN and
concentration cycle was repeated 2 more times for a total of 3 additions of CH 3CN and 4
concentrations to 20 vol. After the final concentration to 20 vol, 16.0 vol of CH 3CN was
added followed by 4.0 vol of H2 0 to make a final concentration of 40 vol of 10%
H 20/CH 3CN relative to the starting acid. This slurry was heated to 78.0 C +/- 5.0 C
(reflux). The slurry was then stirred for no less than 5 hours. The slurry was cooled to 0.0 'C
+/- 5 'C over 5 hours, and filtered. The cake was washed with 0.0 'C +/- 5.0 'C CH 3CN (5
vol) 4 times. The resulting solid (compound 34) was dried in a vacuum oven at 50.0 'C +/
5.0 0C. 'H NMR (400 MHz, DMSO-d 6 ) 6 12.8 (s, 1H), 11.8 (s, 1H), 9.2 (s, 1H), 8.9 (s, 1H),
8.3 (s, 1H), 7.2 (s, 1H), 7.9 (t, 1H), 7.8 (d, 1H), 7.5 (t, 1H), 7.1 (s, 1H), 1.4 (s, 9H), 1.4 (s,
9H).
[00364     Alternative Preparation of N-(2,4-di-tert-butyl-5-hydroxyphenyl)-4-oxo-1,4
dihydroquinoline-3-carboxamide (34).
                                                                                    0-CH3
        H2N                                      OH                        O     O
                                                 N~                     0    0
          CH 3                            H     26
          o      O                2-MeTHF, T3P, Pyridine                         H
             O                                                           N
                32                                                       H    33
                                                                         OH
               1) NaOMe/MeOH/ 2-MeTHF
               2) 10% H2 0/CH3 CN                                  N
                                                                   H
                                                           N
                                                           H
                                                                 34
[00365]    4-Oxo-1,4-dihydroquinoline-3-carboxylic acid, 26, (1.0 eq) and 5-amino-2,4-di
tert-butylphenyl methyl carbonate, 32, (1.1 eq) were charged to a reactor. 2-MeTHF (4.0 vol,
relative to the acid) was added followed by T3P* 50% solution in 2-MeTHF (1.7 eq). The
T3P charged vessel was washed with 2-MeTHF (0.6 vol). Pyridine (2.0 eq) was then added,
                                                 90

and the resulting suspension was heated to 47.5 +/- 5.0 'C and held at this temperature for 8
hours. A sample was taken and checked for completion by HPLC. Once complete, the
resulting mixture was cooled to 20 'C +/- 5 'C. 2-MeTHF was added (12.5 vol) to dilute the
mixture. The reaction mixture was washed with water (10.0 vol) 2 times and 2-MeTHF (16.5
vol) was charged to the reactor. This solution was charged with 30% w/w NaOMe/MeOH
(1.7 equiv) to perform the methanolysis. The reaction was stirred at 25.0 'C +/- 5.0 'C for no
less than 1.0 hour, and checked for completion by HPLC. Once complete, the reaction was
quenched with 1.2 N HCl/H 20 (10.0 vol), and washed with 0.1 N HCl/H2 0 (10.0 vol). The
organic solution was polish filtered to remove any particulates and placed in a second reactor.
[00366]    The filtered solution was concentrated at no more than 35 'C (jacket temperature)
and no less than 8.0 'C (internal reaction temperature) under reduced pressure to 20 vol.
CH 3CN was added to 40 vol and the solution concentrated at no more than 35 'C (jacket
temperature) and no less than 8.0 'C (internal reaction temperature) to 20 vol. The addition
of CH 3CN and concentration cycle was repeated 2 more times for a total of 3 additions of
CH 3CN and 4 concentrations to 20 vol. After the final concentration to 20 vol, 16.0 vol of
CH 3CN was charged followed by 4.0 vol of H 20 to make a final concentration of 40 vol of
10% H 20/CH3 CN relative to the starting acid. This slurry was heated to 78.0 C +/- 5.0 C
(reflux). The slurry was then stirred for no less than 5 hours. The slurry was cooled to 20 to
25 'C over 5 hours, and filtered. The cake was washed with CH 3CN (5 vol) heated to 20 to
25 'C 4 times. The resulting solid (compound 34) was dried in a vacuum oven at 50.0 'C +/
5.0 0C. 'H NMR (400 MHz, DMSO-d 6 ) 6 12.8 (s, 1H), 11.8 (s, 1H), 9.2 (s, 1H), 8.9 (s, 1H),
8.3 (s, 1H), 7.2 (s, 1H), 7.9 (t, 1H), 7.8 (d, 1H), 7.5 (t, 1H), 7.1 (s, 1H), 1.4 (s, 9H), 1.4 (s,
9H).
[00367     Example 7: Procedure for the biosynthesis of N-(2-tert-butyl-5-hydroxy-4-(1
hydroxy-2-methylpropan-2-yl)phenyl)-4-oxo-1,4-dihydroquinoline-3-carboxamide                 (27) and
2-(5-tert-butyl-2-hydroxy-4-(4-oxo-1,4-dihydroquinoline-3-carboxamido)phenyl)-2
methylpropanoic acid (28)
                                                 91

                                                                                        OH
                                                                     O    HN         OH
                                                                     H                 27
           0   HN         OH                Enzyme+
                   0                                                                    CO 2 H
           N
           H           34
                                                                     O    HN         OH
                                                                              O        28
                                                                     H
[00368]    Streptomyces rimosus (DSM 40260) was purchased from DSMZ as frozen culture.
This culture was used to inoculate agar slants, which were maintained and stored at 4 'C.
Yeast extract-malt extract-peptone (YMP) media containing yeast extract (4 g/L), malt
extract (10 g/L) and soya flour (5 g/L) was prepared and sterilized at 130 'C for 60 minutes.
Five flasks containing 1 L of YMP media were directly inoculated with S. rimosus from the
agar slants. The culture was allowed to grow for 2 - 3 days at 30 'C with gentle agitation of
approximately 100 rpm. Under these conditions, two growth types have been observed,
either a cloudy solution or spherical particulates which aggregate at the bottom of the flask.
The latter growth type has been shown to result in higher conversions to Compound 27. The
cells were then spun down, harvested and resuspended in two flasks containing 1 L of 0.1 M
potassium phosphate buffer, pH 7.0. 5.0 g of Compound 34 in 50 mL N,N
dimethylformamide (DMF) were added to the flasks. The reactions proceeded for 24 hours at
30 'C with gentle agitation of about 100 rpm at which point conversions of 7.59% Compound
27 and 1.17% Compound 28 were indicated by HPLC.
[00369]    Both flasks were combined, centrifuged at 3500 rpm for 10 minutes, and re
suspended in 500 mL of methanol. This suspension was stirred vigorously for 30 minutes
and then spun down again at 6000 rpm for 10 minutes. The organic layer was collected and
the process was repeated two times. The methanol extracts were concentrated in vacuo to
yield 2.50 g, 1.57 g and 1.11 g of solid material, respectively. The solids from these extracts
were shown to contain 74.78 - 91.96% Compound 34, 7.66 - 19.73% Compound 27 and 0.39
- 5.49% Compound 28. In an effort to cull off a portion of Compound 34 from the bio
oxidation products, the solids from the first two extractions were combined, suspended in 250
                                                92

mL methanol, agitated vigorously for 1 hour and vacuum filtered. While Compounds 27 and
28 were enriched in the filtrate (22.09 and 6.14%, respectively), the solids still also contained
Compound 27 (8.96%) and Compound 28 (0.50%).
[00370]    The methanol filtrate containing approximately 2.2 g of dissolved solids was
adsorbent onto 4.5 g of silica and purified by flash chromatography using a gradient of 100%
dichloromethane to 88:12 dichloromethane/methanol. Fractions containing Compound 27
were concentrated in vacuo and further dried via freeze-drying to obtain 130 mg of
Compound 27 (98.5% purity by HPLC). A fraction containing impure Compound 28 was
also concentrated in vacuo to yield less than 10 mg of solid.
[00371]    The cell pellet was re-suspended in 500 mL methanol and homogenized in a
BeadBeater to break apart the cells and recover any remaining product. The organic layer
was obtained by centrifuging the homogenized suspension at 6000 rpm for 10 minutes. This
was added to the solid obtained from the third extraction and the filtered solids from the
slurry enrichment of the first two extractions and slurried at reflux overnight. The slurry was
then cooled and suction filtered to obtain 1.99 g of solid. The solid was re-dissolved in 300
mL methanol which was then adsorbed onto approximately 5 g of silica and purified by flash
chromatography using a gradient of 100% dichloromethane to 94:6
dichloromethane/methanol to provide 820 mg of solid containing Compound 34 and
Compound 27 as well as other impurities. This was re-columned using a more gradual
solvent gradient (100% DCM up to a mixture of 6% MeOH/94% DCM) to obtain an
additional 89 mg of Compound 27. The IH-NMR spectrum was consistent with that reported
above.
[00372]    Example 8: Procedure for the recrystallization of N-(2,4-di-tert-butyl-5
hydroxyphenyl)-4-oxo-1,4-dihydroquinoline-3-carboxamide          (34)
                          OH                                                          OH
                                           1) 0.1 N HCI
                      N                       2-MeTHF                           N
               |      H                    2) IPAc                              H
             N                                                          N
             H                                                          H
                   34                                                        34
[00373]    Compound 34 (1.0 eq) was charged to a reactor. 2-MeTHF (20.0 vol) was added
followed by 0. IN HCl (5.0 vol). The biphasic solution was stirred and separated and the top
organic phase was washed twice more with 0.1N HCl (5.0 vol). The organic solution was
polish filtered to remove any particulates and placed in a second reactor. The filtered
                                                 93

solution was concentrated at no more than 35 'C (jacket temperature) and no more than 8.0
'C (internal reaction temperature) under reduced pressure to 10 vol. Isopropyl acetate (IPAc)
(10 vol) was added and the solution concentrated at no more than 35 'C (jacket temperature)
and no more than 8.0 C (internal reaction temperature) to 10 vol. The addition of IPAc and
concentration was repeated 2 more times for a total of 3 additions of IPAc and 4
concentrations to 10 vol. After the final concentration, 10 vol of IPAc was charged and the
slurry was heated to reflux and maintained at this temperature for 5 hours. The slurry was
cooled to 0.0 'C +/- 5 'C over 5 hours and filtered. The cake was washed with IPAc (5 vol)
once. The resulting solid was dried in a vacuum oven at 50.0 'C +/- 5.0 'C.
[00374]    Example 9: General Procedure to Test Solubility atpH 7.4
[00375]    A high throughput shake flask assay was used to determine solubility of
compounds in pH 7.4 buffer. To calculate the concentration of compounds in solution, two
conditions per compound were run: 300 uM in 100% DMSO and 200 uM in pH 7.4
phosphate buffer with 2% DMSO present. Each sample was left to shake overnight then
injected onto HPLC-UV to determine peak area using the following conditions: Phenomenex
OOA-4251-BO - 30x2.00 mm Luna 3u C18(2) 1OA column; 0.8 mL/min flow rate; 20 uL
injection volume; HPLC grade water with 0.1% formic acid and HPLC grade acetonitrile
with 0.1% formic acid mobile phases; peak area determined at 254 nm. Solubility in uM was
calculated using the following equation: conc. = (peak area pH 7.4) / (peak area 300uM
DMSO standard condition) x 300 uM concentration of standard condition. Peaks of interest
were identified in buffer conditions based on retention time (RT) of the largest area peak in
the 300 uM DMSO standard condition.
[00376]    VI. ACTIVITY ASSAYS
[00377]    Example 10: General Procedure for Activity Assays
[00378]    Assays for Detecting and Measuring AF508-CFTR Potentiation Properties of
Compounds
[00379]    Membrane potential optical methods for assaying AF508-CFTR modulation
properties of compounds
[00380]    The assay utilizes fluorescent voltage sensing dyes to measure changes in
membrane potential using a fluorescent plate reader (e.g., FLIPR III, Molecular Devices,
Inc.) as a readout for increase in functional AF508-CFTR in NIH 3T3 cells. The driving
force for the response is the creation of a chloride ion gradient in conjunction with channel
                                                94

activation by a single liquid addition step after the cells have previously been treated with
compounds and subsequently loaded with a voltage sensing dye.
[00381]    Identification of Potentiator Compounds
[00382]    To identify potentiators of AF508-CFTR, a double-addition HTS assay format was
developed. This HTS assay utilizes fluorescent voltage sensing dyes to measure changes in
membrane potential on the FLIPR III as a measurement for increase in gating (conductance)
of AF508 CFTR in temperature-corrected AF508 CFTR NIH 3T3 cells. The driving force for
the response is a Cl- ion gradient in conjunction with channel activation with forskolin in a
single liquid addition step using a fluorescent plate reader such as FLTPR III after the cells
have previously been treated with potentiator compounds (or DMSO vehicle control) and
subsequently loaded with a redistribution dye.
[00383]    Solutions
Bath Solution #1: (in mM) NaCl 160, KCl 4.5, CaCl 2 2, MgCl 2 1, HEPES 10, pH 7.4 with
NaOH.
Chloride-free bath solution:    Chloride salts in Bath Solution #1 are substituted with
gluconate salts.
[00384]    Cell Culture NIH3T3 mouse fibroblasts stably expressing AF508-CFTR are used
for optical measurements of membrane potential. The cells are maintained at 37 'C in 5%
CO 2 and 90% humidity in Dulbecco's modified Eagle's medium supplemented with 2 mM
glutamine, 10% fetal bovine serum, 1 X NEAA, p-ME, 1 X pen/strep, and 25 mM HEPES in
175 cm2 culture flasks. For all optical assays, the cells were seeded at -20,000/well in 384
well matrigel-coated plates and cultured for 2 hours at 37 'C before culturing at 27 'C for 24
hours for the potentiator assay. For the correction assays, the cells are cultured at 27 'C or 37
'C with and without compounds for 16 - 24 hours. Electrophysiological Assays for assaying
AF508-CFTR modulation properties of compounds.
[003871    1.            Ussing Chamber Assay
[00388]    Ussing chamber experiments were performed on polarized airway epithelial cells
expressing AF508-CFTR to further characterize the AF508-CFTR modulators identified in
the optical assays. Non-CF and CF airway epithelia were isolated from bronchial tissue,
cultured as previously described (Galietta, L.J.V., Lantero, S., Gazzolo, A., Sacco, 0.,
Romano, L., Rossi, G.A., & Zegarra-Moran, 0. (1998) In Vitro Cell. Dev. Biol. 34, 478-481),
and plated onto Costar@ SnapwellTM filters that were pre-coated with NIH3T3-conditioned
media. After four days the apical media was removed and the cells were grown at an air
liquid interface for >14 days prior to use. This resulted in a monolayer of fully differentiated
                                                 95

columnar cells that were ciliated, features that are characteristic of airway epithelia. Non-CF
HBE were isolated from non-smokers that did not have any known lung disease. CF-HBE
were isolated from patients homozygous for AF508-CFTR.
[00389]    HBE grown on Costar SnapwellTM cell culture inserts were mounted in an Ussing
chamber (Physiologic Instruments, Inc., San Diego, CA), and the transepithelial resistance
and short-circuit current in the presence of a basolateral to apical Cl- gradient (Isc) were
measured using a voltage-clamp system (Department of Bioengineering, University of Iowa,
IA). Briefly, HBE were examined under voltage-clamp recording conditions          (Vhold = 0 mV)
at 37 0C. The basolateral solution contained (in mM) 145 NaCl, 0.83 K2HPO 4 , 3.3 KH 2 PO 4 ,
1.2 MgCl 2 , 1.2 CaCl 2, 10 Glucose, 10 HEPES (pH adjusted to 7.35 with NaOH) and the
apical solution contained (in mM) 145 NaGluconate, 1.2 MgCl 2, 1.2 CaCl 2, 10 glucose, 10
HEPES (pH adjusted to 7.35 with NaOH).
[00390]    Identification of Potentiator Compounds
[00391]    Typical protocol utilized a basolateral to apical membrane Cl- concentration
gradient. To set up this gradient, normal ringers was used on the basolateral membrane,
whereas apical NaCl was replaced by equimolar sodium gluconate (titrated to pH 7.4 with
NaOH) to give a large Cl- concentration gradient across the epithelium. Forskolin (10 [M)
and all test compounds were added to the apical side of the cell culture inserts. The efficacy
of the putative AF508-CFTR potentiators was compared to that of the known potentiator,
genistein.
[00392]    2.            Patch-clamp Recordings
[00393]    Total Cl- current in AF508-NIH3T3 cells was monitored using the perforated-patch
recording configuration as previously described (Rae, J., Cooper, K., Gates, P., & Watsky, M.
(1991) J. Neurosci. Methods 37, 15-26). Voltage-clamp recordings were performed at 22 C
using an Axopatch 200B patch-clamp amplifier (Axon Instruments Inc., Foster City, CA).
The pipette solution contained (in mM) 150 N-methyl-D-glucamine (NMDG)-Cl, 2 MgCl 2 , 2
CaCl 2 , 10 EGTA, 10 HEPES, and 240 pg/ml amphotericin-B (pH adjusted to 7.35 with HCl).
The extracellular medium contained (in mM) 150 NMDG-Cl, 2 MgCl 2 , 2 CaCl 2, 10 HEPES
(pH adjusted to 7.35 with HCl). Pulse generation, data acquisition, and analysis were
performed using a PC equipped with a Digidata 1320 A/D interface in conjunction with
Clampex 8 (Axon Instruments Inc.). To activate AF508-CFTR, 10 [M forskolin and 20 [M
genistein were added to the bath and the current-voltage relation was monitored every 30 sec.
[00394]    Identification of Potentiator Compounds
                                                96

[00395]    The ability of AF508-CFTR potentiators to increase the macroscopic AF508-CFTR
Cl- current  (IAF508) in NIH3T3 cells stably expressing AF508-CFTR was also investigated
using perforated-patch-recording techniques. The potentiators identified from the optical
assays evoked a dose-dependent increase in     IAF508 with similar potency and efficacy observed
in the optical assays. In all cells examined, the reversal potential before and during
potentiator application was around -30 mV, which is the calculated Eci (-28 mV).
[00396]    Cell Culture
[00397]    NIH3T3 mouse fibroblasts stably expressing AF508-CFTR are used for whole-cell
recordings. The cells are maintained at 37 'C in 5% CO 2 and 90% humidity in Dulbecco's
modified Eagle's medium supplemented with 2 mM glutamine, 10% fetal bovine serum, 1 X
                                                                2
NEAA, p-ME, 1 X pen/strep, and 25 mM HEPES in 175 cm culture flasks. For whole-cell
recordings, 2,500 - 5,000 cells were seeded on poly-L-lysine-coated glass coverslips and
cultured for 24 - 48 hrs at 27 'C before use to test the activity of potentiators; and incubated
with or without the correction compound at 37 'C for measuring the activity of correctors.
[00398]    3.             Single-channel recordings
[00399]    Gating activity of wt-CFTR and temperature-corrected AF508-CFTR expressed in
NIH3T3 cells was observed using excised inside-out membrane patch recordings as
previously described (Dalemans, W., Barbry, P., Champigny, G., Jallat, S., Dott, K., Dreyer,
D., Crystal, R.G., Pavirani, A., Lecocq, J-P., Lazdunski, M. (1991) Nature 354, 526 - 528)
using an Axopatch 200B patch-clamp amplifier (Axon Instruments Inc.). The pipette
contained (in mM): 150 NMDG, 150 aspartic acid, 5 CaCl 2 , 2 MgCl 2 , and 10 HEPES (pH
adjusted to 7.35 with Tris base). The bath contained (in mM): 150 NMDG-Cl, 2 MgCl 2 , 5
EGTA, 10 TES, and 14 Tris base (pH adjusted to 7.35 with HCl). After excision, both wt
and AF508-CFTR were activated by adding 1 mM Mg-ATP, 75 nM of the catalytic subunit of
cAMP-dependent protein kinase (PKA; Promega Corp. Madison, WI), and 10 mM NaF to
inhibit protein phosphatases, which prevented current rundown. The pipette potential was
maintained at 80 mV. Channel activity was analyzed from membrane patches containing < 2
active channels. The maximum number of simultaneous openings determined the number of
active channels during the course of an experiment. To determine the single-channel current
amplitude, the data recorded from 120 sec of AF508-CFTR activity was filtered "off-line" at
100 Hz and then used to construct all-point amplitude histograms that were fitted with
multigaussian functions using Bio-Patch Analysis software (Bio-Logic Comp. France). The
total microscopic current and open probability (P0 ) were determined from 120 sec of channel
activity. The P0 was determined using the Bio-Patch software or from the relationship P0,
                                                 97

I/i(N), where I = mean current, i = single-channel current amplitude, and N = number of active
channels in patch.
[00400]         Cell Culture
[00401]         NIH3T3 mouse fibroblasts stably expressing AF508-CFTR are used for excised
membrane patch-clamp recordings. The cells are maintained at 37 'C in 5% C02 and 90%
humidity in Dulbecco's modified Eagle's medium supplemented with 2 mM glutamine, 10%
fetal bovine serum, 1 X NEAA, p-ME, 1 X pen/strep, and 25 mM HEPES in 175 cm2 culture
flasks. For single channel recordings, 2,500 - 5,000 cells were seeded on poly-L-lysine-coated
glass coverslips and cultured for 24 - 48 hrs at 27 'C before use.
[00402]         Compounds of Formula 1 are useful as modulators of ATP binding cassette
transporters.
                                   OTHER EMBODIMENTS
[00403]         All publications and patents referred to in this disclosure are incorporated herein
by reference to the same extent as if each individual publication or patent application were
specifically and individually indicated to be incorporated by reference. Should the meaning of
the terms in any of the patents or publications incorporated by reference conflict with the
meaning of the terms used in this disclosure, the meaning of the terms in this disclosure are
intended to be controlling. Furthermore, the foregoing discussion discloses and describes
merely exemplary embodiments of the present invention. One skilled in the art will readily
recognize from such discussion and from the accompanying drawings and claims, that various
changes, modifications and variations can be made therein without departing from the spirit and
scope of the invention as defined in the following claims.
[00404]    The term "comprise" and variants of the term such as "comprises" or "comprising"
are used herein to denote the inclusion of a stated integer or stated integers but not to exclude
any other integer or any other integers, unless in the context or usage an exclusive interpretation
of the term is required.
[00405]    Any reference to publications cited in this specification is not an admission that the
disclosures constitute common general knowledge in Australia.
                                                 98

Other embodiments of the invention as described herein are defined in the following
paragraphs:
1.       A process for the preparation of a compound of Formula 1,
                                                                    R5
                                                        O    O           R4
                                                               N       I
                                      RX-X
                                                                    R
                                                        H
                                                      Formula 1
comprising coupling a carboxylic acid of Formula 2
                                                             0  0
                                          (Rx-X                    OH
                                                             H
                                                     Formula 2
with an aniline of Formula 3
                                                          R5
                                                 H2 N
                                                          R2
                                                    Formula 3
in the presence of a coupling agent selected from the group consisting of 2-chloro-1,3-dimethyl
2-imidazolium tetrafluoroborate, HBTU, HCTU, 2-chloro-4,6-dimethoxy-1,3,5-triazine,
HATU, HOBT/EDC, and T3P@; wherein
     each R 2 and R 4 is independently selected from hydrogen, CN, CF 3, halo,        C 1 .6 straight or
branched alkyl, 3-12 membered cycloaliphatic, phenyl, C 5 -.o heteroaryl or C3.7 heterocyclic,
wherein said heteroaryl or heterocyclic has up to 3 heteroatoms selected from 0, S, or N, and
each  C 1 .6 straight or branched alkyl, 3-12 membered cycloaliphatic, phenyl, C 5 -io heteroaryl or
C3.7 heterocyclic is independently and optionally substituted with up to three substituents
selected from -OR',        -CF   3 , -OCF   3, SR', S(O)R', SO 2R', -SCF   3, halo, CN, -COOR',
-COR-, -O(CH            2) 2N(R')(R'),  -O(CH     2)N(R')(R'), -CON(R')(R'),     -(CH   2 )2 0R',
-(CH    2)OR',    CH 2 CN, optionally substituted phenyl or phenoxy, -N(R')(R'),        -NR'C(O)OR',
-NR'C(O)R',        -(CH    2) 2N(R')(R'),  or -(CH   2 )N(R')(R');
                                                        99

        each R5 is independently selected from hydrogen, -OH,                     NH 2 , CN, CHF 2, NHR',
N(R')2,
-NHC(O)R',        NHC(O)OR', NHSO 2R', -OR',                 OC(O)OR', OC(O)NHR', OC(O)NR' 2, CH 2OH,
CH 2 N(R') 2 , C(O)OR', SO 2NHR', SO 2 N(R') 2 , or CH 2NHC(O)OR', or
        R 4 and R5 are taken together form a 5-7 membered ring containing 0-3 three
heteroatoms selected from N, 0, or S, wherein said ring is optionally substituted with up to
three R 3 substituents;
        each X is independently a bond or is an optionally substituted                  C1.6  alkylidene chain
wherein up to two methylene units of X are optionally and independently replaced by
-CO-, -CS-, -COCO-, -CONR'-,                              -CONR'NR'-,           -CO2-,        -OCO-,
-NR'CO       2 -, -0-,        -NR'CONR'-, -OCONR'-,                     -NR'NR',     -NR'NR'CO-,
-NR'CO-, -S-,                -SO,    -S02-,      -NR'-       , -SO     2NR'-, NR'SO 2-,        or
-NR'SO      2NR'-;
        each RX is independently R', halo, NO 2 , CN, CF 3 , or OCF 3 ;
        y is an integer from 0-4;
        each R' is independently selected from hydrogen or an optionally substituted group
selected from a Cis aliphatic group, a 3-8-membered saturated, partially unsaturated, or fully
unsaturated monocyclic ring having 0-3 heteroatoms independently selected from nitrogen,
oxygen, or sulfur, or an 8-12 membered saturated, partially unsaturated, or fully unsaturated
bicyclic ring system having 0-5 heteroatoms independently selected from nitrogen, oxygen, or
sulfur; or two occurrences of R' are taken together with the atom(s) to which they are bound to
form an optionally substituted 3-12 membered saturated, partially unsaturated, or fully
unsaturated monocyclic or bicyclic ring having 0-4 heteroatoms independently selected from N,
0, or S; and
        each R 3 is independently -C          1 .3 alkyl, C 1 .3 perhaloalkyl,   -O(C    1 .3 alkyl), -CF  3,
-OCF    3 , -SCF      3, -F,   -Cl,    -Br,  or -COOR',          -COR',    -O(CH     2) 2N(R')(R'),
-O(CH     2)N(R')(R'),       -CON(R')(R'),     -(CH     2 )2 0R',   -(CH   2)OR',  optionally substituted
monocyclic or bicyclic aromatic ring, optionally substituted arylsulfone, optionally substituted
5-membered heteroaryl ring, -N(R')(R'),               -(CH      2) 2N(R')(R'), or -(CH     2 )N(R')(R').
2.      The process of paragraph 1, wherein R5 is independently -OC(O)OR',                          -OC(O)NHR',
or
-OC(O)N(R')        2 , wherein    R' is not hydrogen.
                                                           100

3.      The process of paragraph 2, further comprising cleaving the -OC(O)OR',
OC(O)NHR', or -OC(O)N(R')           2 to form -OH.
4.      The process of paragraph 3, wherein the cleavage is performed by treating a compound
of Formula 1 with an alcoholic solvent in the presence of NaOH, KOH or sodium methoxide.
5.      The process of paragraph 4, wherein the alcoholic solvent is methanol.
6.      The process of paragraph 1, wherein at least one of R 4 or R 2 is independently a C1.6
straight or branched alkyl which is substituted with -COOR'     or -CON(R')     2 , wherein R' is not
hydrogen.
7.      The process of paragraph 6, further comprising hydrolyzing each -COOR',          or
-CON(R')     2 to form -COOH.
8.      The process of paragraph 7, wherein the hydrolysis is performed by treating a
compound of Formula 1 with an alcoholic solvent in the presence of NaOH, KOH or sodium
methoxide.
9.      The process of paragraph 8, wherein the alcoholic solvent is methanol.
10.     The process of paragraph 6, wherein R5 is independently -OC(O)OR',          -OC(O)NHR',
or
-OC(O)N(R')      2 , wherein R' is not hydrogen.
11.     The process of paragraph 10, further comprising cleaving the -OC(O)OR',
-OC(O)NHR',         or -OC(O)N(R')     2 to form -OH.
12.     The process of paragraph 11, wherein the cleavage is performed by treating a compound
of Formula 1 with an alcoholic solvent in the presence of NaOH, KOH or sodium methoxide.
13.     The process of paragraph 12, wherein the alcoholic solvent is methanol.
                                                   101

14.      The process of any of paragraphs 1-13, wherein the coupling is performed in the
presence of a base.
15.      The process of paragraph 14, wherein the base is K2CO 3, Et3N, NMM, pyridine or
DIEA.
16.      The process of any of paragraphs 1-15, wherein the coupling is performed in the
presence of a solvent.
17.      The process of paragraph 16, wherein the solvent is acetonitrile.
18.      The process of paragraph 16, wherein the solvent is DMF.
19.      The process of paragraph 16, wherein the solvent is 2-methyltetrahydrofuran.
20.      The process of any of paragraphs 1-19, wherein the coupling is performed at a reaction
temperature which is maintained between about 10 'C and 78 'C.
21.      The process of paragraph 20, wherein the coupling is performed at a reaction
temperature which is maintained between about 20 'C and 30 'C.
22.      The process of paragraph 20, wherein the coupling is performed at a reaction
temperature which is maintained between about 40 'C and 50 'C.
23.      The process of paragraph 20, wherein the coupling is performed at a reaction
temperature which is maintained between about 42 'C and 53 'C.
24.      The process of any of paragraphs paragraph 1-23, wherein the coupling reaction is
stirred for at least 2 hours.
25.      The process of paragraph 24, wherein the coupling reaction is stirred for at least 70
hours.
26.      The process of paragraph 24, wherein the coupling reaction is stirred for at least 3 days.
                                               102

27.     The process of any of paragraphs 1-26, wherein y is 0.
28.     The process of any of paragraphs 1-27, wherein R 2 is tert-butyl.
29.     The process according to any of paragraphs 1-28 further comprising the step of
contacting a compound of Formula 4
                                                     0   0
                                    Rx-X                   OEt
                                                     H
                                             Formula 4
        with an aqueous acid to produce a compound of Formula 2.
30.     The process of any of paragraphs 1-29, wherein the compound of Formula 3 is a
compound of Formula 40
                                              R2
                                     H2 N              O
                                                       YO
                                                       O
                                              R5
                                            Formula 40
31.     The process of paragraph 30 further comprising the step of contacting a compound of
Formula 41
                                            R2          Br
                                          0 2N         R5
                                             Formula 41
        with methyl trimethylsilyl dimethylketene acetal (MTDA)
                                             O
                                           /      O-TMS
                                                MTDA
        to produce a compound of Formula 42
                                                 103

                                                     0
                                      R2               O
                                    0 2N          R5
                                          Formula 42
32.   The process of paragraph 31 further comprising the step of reducing a compound of
Formula 42 to produce a compound of Formula 40.
33.   The process of any of paragraphs 1-29, wherein the compound of Formula 3 is a
compound of Formula 43
                                               R2
                                        H2N
                                                0
                                                IC 0
                                          Formula 43
34.   The process of paragraph 33, comprising the step of contacting a compound of Formula
44
                                                R2
                                        0 2N
                                                      Br
                                                OH
                                          Formula 44
      with methyl trimethylsilyl dimethylketene acetal (MTDA)
                                               O-TMS
                                             MTDA
      to produce a compound of Formula 45
                                              104

                                                   R2
                                           0 2N
                                                    0
                                              Formula 45
35.     The process of paragraph 34 further comprising the step of reducing a compound of
Formula 45 to produce a compound of Formula 43.
36.     A process for the preparation of a compound of Formula 2
                                                       0  0
                                     (RX-X                    OH
                                                       H
                                                Formula 2
        comprising contacting a compound of Formula 4
                                                       0  0
                                     (Rx-X                    OEt
                                                       H
                                              Formula 4
        with an aqueous acid, wherein
        each X is independently a bond or is an optionally substituted    C 1 .6 alkylidene chain
wherein up to two methylene units of X are optionally and independently replaced by
-CO-, -CS-, -COCO-, -CONR'-,                     -CONR'NR'-,      -CO2-,         -OCO-,
-NR'C02-,       -0-,     -NR'CONR'-, -OCONR'-,              -NR'NR',    -NR'NR'CO-,
-NR'CO-, -S-,          -SO,   -S02-,     -NR'-     , -SO  2NR'-,  NR'S02-, or
-NR'SO    2NR'-;
        each RX is independently R', halo, NO 2 , CN, CF 3 , or OCF 3 ;
        y is an integer from 0-4; and
        each R' is independently selected from hydrogen or an optionally substituted group
selected from a Cis aliphatic group, a 3-8-membered saturated, partially unsaturated, or fully
unsaturated monocyclic ring having 0-3 heteroatoms independently selected from nitrogen,
oxygen, or sulfur, or an 8-12 membered saturated, partially unsaturated, or fully unsaturated
                                                  105

bicyclic ring system having 0-5 heteroatoms independently selected from nitrogen, oxygen, or
sulfur; or two occurrences of R' are taken together with the atom(s) to which they are bound to
form an optionally substituted 3-12 membered saturated, partially unsaturated, or fully
unsaturated monocyclic or bicyclic ring having 0-4 heteroatoms independently selected from N,
O, or S.
37.      A process for the preparation of a compound of Formula 40
                                             H2N     R2
                                                                O
                                                     R5
                                                    Formula 40
         comprising the step of contacting a compound of Formula 41
                                               R2      ll   Br
                                             0 2N           R5
                                                Formula 41
         with methyl trimethylsilyl dimethylketene acetal (MTDA)
                                                O
                                              /      O-TMS
                                                  MTDA
         to produce a compound of Formula 42
                                                      0
                                        R2                0
                                      0 2N         R5
                                           Formula 42        , wherein
    each R 2 is independently selected from hydrogen, CN, CF 3 , halo,       C 1 .6 straight or branched
alkyl, 3-12 membered cycloaliphatic, phenyl, C 5 -io heteroaryl or C3. 7 heterocyclic, wherein said
heteroaryl or heterocyclic has up to 3 heteroatoms selected from 0, S, or N, and each C 1-6
straight or branched alkyl, 3-12 membered cycloaliphatic, phenyl, C 5 -io heteroaryl or C3. 7
heterocyclic is independently and optionally substituted with up to three substituents selected
from -OR',     -CF  3 , -OCF    3, SR', S(O)R', SO 2R', -SCF    3 , halo, CN, -COOR',
-COR-, -O(CH           2) 2N(R')(R'), -O(CH    2)N(R')(R'),  -CON(R')(R'),     -(CH      2 )2 0R',
                                                    106

-(CH    2)OR',  CH 2 CN, optionally substituted phenyl or phenoxy, -N(R')(R'),  -NR'C(O)OR',
-NR'C(O)R',      -(CH   2) 2N(R')(R'), or -(CH   2 )N(R')(R');
         each R5 is independently selected from hydrogen, -OH,     NH 2 , CN, CHF 2, NHR',
N(R')2,
-NHC(O)R',       NHC(O)OR', NHSO 2R', -OR',          OC(O)OR', OC(O)NHR', OC(O)NR' 2, CH 2OH,
CH 2 N(R') 2 , C(O)OR', SO 2NHR', SO 2 N(R') 2 , or CH 2NHC(O)OR'; and
         each R' is independently selected from hydrogen or an optionally substituted group
selected from a Cis aliphatic group, a 3-8-membered saturated, partially unsaturated, or fully
unsaturated monocyclic ring having 0-3 heteroatoms independently selected from nitrogen,
oxygen, or sulfur, or an 8-12 membered saturated, partially unsaturated, or fully unsaturated
bicyclic ring system having 0-5 heteroatoms independently selected from nitrogen, oxygen, or
sulfur; or two occurrences of R' are taken together with the atom(s) to which they are bound to
form an optionally substituted 3-12 membered saturated, partially unsaturated, or fully
unsaturated monocyclic or bicyclic ring having 0-4 heteroatoms independently selected from N,
O, or S.
38.      The process of paragraph 37 further comprising the step of reducing a compound of
Formula 42 to produce a compound of Formula 40.
39.      A process for the preparation of a compound of Formula 43
                                                     R2
                                             H2N
                                                      0
                                                      IC 0
                                               Formula 43
         comprising the step of contacting a compound having the Formula 44
                                                      R2
                                             0 2N
                                                           Br
                                                      OH
                                               Formula 44
         with methyl trimethylsilyl dimethylketene acetal (MTDA)
                                                    107

                                                        O-TMS
                                                     MTDA
         to produce a compound of Formula 45
                                                   R2
                                          02N
                                                       0 0
                                             Formula 45     , wherein
    each R 2 is independently selected from hydrogen, CN, CF 3 , halo,         C1.6 straight or branched
alkyl, 3-12 membered cycloaliphatic, phenyl, C 5 .io heteroaryl or C3.7 heterocyclic, wherein said
heteroaryl or heterocyclic has up to 3 heteroatoms selected from 0, S, or N, and each C 1-6
straight or branched alkyl, 3-12 membered cycloaliphatic, phenyl, C 5 -io heteroaryl or C3.7
heterocyclic is independently and optionally substituted with up to three substituents selected
from -OR',     -CF   3 , -OCF     3, SR', S(O)R', SO 2R', -SCF    3 , halo, CN, -COOR',
-COR-, -O(CH            2) 2N(R')(R'),  -O(CH    2)N(R')(R'),  -CON(R')(R'),     -(CH    2 )2 0R',
-(CH    2)OR',  CH 2 CN, optionally substituted phenyl or phenoxy, -N(R')(R'),           -NR'C(O)OR',
-NR'C(O)R',      -(CH      2) 2N(R')(R'), or -(CH   2 )N(R')(R'); and
         each R' is independently selected from hydrogen or an optionally substituted group
selected from a Cis aliphatic group, a 3-8-membered saturated, partially unsaturated, or fully
unsaturated monocyclic ring having 0-3 heteroatoms independently selected from nitrogen,
oxygen, or sulfur, or an 8-12 membered saturated, partially unsaturated, or fully unsaturated
bicyclic ring system having 0-5 heteroatoms independently selected from nitrogen, oxygen, or
sulfur; or two occurrences of R' are taken together with the atom(s) to which they are bound to
form an optionally substituted 3-12 membered saturated, partially unsaturated, or fully
unsaturated monocyclic or bicyclic ring having 0-4 heteroatoms independently selected from N,
O, or S.
40.      The process of paragraph 39 further comprising the step of reducing a compound of
Formula 45 to produce a compound of Formula 43.
41.      A process for the preparation of a compound 34
                                                       108

                                                        OH
                                           0    0
                                                    N
                                                    H
                                           N
                                           H
                                           Compound 34
comprising:
        (a) reacting compound 26
                                                  0   0
                                                        OH
                                                  N
                                                  H
                                           Compound 26
        with compound 32
                                          H2N
                                             0 y0
                                                0
                                           Compound 32
in the presence of T3P@ and pyridine using 2-methyl tetrahydrofuran as the solvent, wherein
the reaction temperature is maintained between about 42 'C and 53 'C, and wherein the
reaction is allowed proceed for at least 2 hours, to produce compound 33
                                        00
                                                  N
                                                  H
                                        N
                                        H
                                        Compound 33           ; and
        (b) treating compound 33 with NaOMe/MeOH in 2-methyl tetrahydrofuran.
42.     The process of paragraph 41, wherein the reaction is allowed to proceed for at least 6
hours.
                                                  109

43.      The process of paragraph 41, further comprising forming a slurry of compound 34 in a
mixture of acetonitrile and water.
44.      The process of paragraph 43, wherein the ratio of acetonitrile to water is about 9:1.
45.      The process of paragraph 43, wherein the slurry is heated to a temperature between
about 73 'C and 83 'C.
46.      The process of paragraph 43, wherein compound 34 is in the slurry for at least about 3
hours.
47.      The process of paragraph 43, further comprising forming a slurry of compound 34 in
Isopropyl acetate.
48.      The process of either of paragraphs 46 or 47, wherein the slurry is heated to reflux
temperature.
49.      The process of paragraph 41, further comprising dissolving compound 34 in a biphasic
solution of 2-methyltetrahydrofuran and 0. IN HCl; stirring said biphasic solution; separating
the organic phase from said biphasic solution; filtering and removing solid matter from said
organic phase; reducing the volume of said organic phase by approximately 50% using
distillation; performing thrice the procedure of: adding MeOAc, EtOAc, IPAc, t-BuOAc,
tetrahydrofuran (THF), Et 20 or methyl-t-butyl ether (MTBE) to the organic phase until the
volume of said organic phase increases by 100% and reducing the volume of the organic phase
by 50% using distillation; adding MeOAc, EtOAc, IPAc, t-BuOAc, tetrahydrofuran (THF),
Et2 0 or methyl-t-butyl ether (MTBE) to the organic phase until the volume of said organic
phase increases by 100%; heating the organic phase to reflux temperature, and maintaining said
reflux temperature for a time at least about 5 hours; and cooling the organic phase to a
temperature between about
-5 'C and 5 'C over a time period of about 4.5 hours to 5.5 hours.
50.      The process of paragraph 41, further comprising quenching the reaction mixture with
1.2 N HCl; thereby creating a biphasic mixture; agitating said biphasic mixture; separating the
organic phase from said biphasic mixture; adding 0. IN HCl to the organic layer thereby
creating a biphasic mixture; agitating said biphasic mixture; separating the organic phase;
                                                110

filtering and removing solid matter from said organic phase; reducing the volume of the organic
phase by approximately 50% using distillation; performing thrice the steps of: adding
acetonitrile to the organic phase until the volume of said organic phase increases by 100% and
reducing the volume of the organic phase by approximately 50%; increasing the volume of the
organic phase by approximately 100% by adding acetonitrile and then adding water, to form a
slurry wherein the final solvent ratio is 9:1 acetonitrile/water; heating said slurry to a
temperature between about 73 'C and 83 'C; stirring said slurry for at least 5 hours; and cooling
said slurry to a temperature between about 20 'C and 25 'C; filtering and removing solid matter
from said slurry; washing the solid matter with acetonitrile having a temperature of between
about 20 'C and 25 'C four times; and drying the solid material under vacuum at a temperature
of from about 45 'C to about 55 'C.
51.      A compound produced by the process of any of paragraphs 1-50.
52.      A pharmaceutical composition comprising a compound produced by the process of any
of paragraphs 1-50.
53.      A method of modulating CFTR activity in a biological sample comprising the step of
contacting said biological sample with a compound produced by the process of any of
paragraphs 1-50.
54.      A method of treating or lessening the severity of a disease in a patient comprising
administering to said patient an effective amount of a compound compound produced by the
process of any of paragraphs 1-50, wherein said disease is selected from cystic fibrosis, asthma,
smoke induced COPD, chronic bronchitis, rhinosinusitis, constipation, pancreatitis, pancreatic
insufficiency, male infertility caused by congenital bilateral absence of the vas deferens
(CBAVD), mild pulmonary disease, idiopathic pancreatitis, allergic bronchopulmonary
aspergillosis (ABPA), liver disease, hereditary emphysema, hereditary hemochromatosis,
coagulation-fibrinolysis deficiencies, such as protein C deficiency, Type 1 hereditary
angioedema, lipid processing deficiencies, such as familial hypercholesterolemia, Type 1
chylomicronemia, abetalipoproteinemia, lysosomal storage diseases, such as I-cell
disease/pseudo-Hurler, mucopolysaccharidoses, Sandhof/Tay-Sachs, Crigler-Najjar type II,
polyendocrinopathy/hyperinsulemia, Diabetes mellitus, Laron dwarfism, myleoperoxidase
deficiency, primary hypoparathyroidism, melanoma, glycanosis CDG type 1, congenital
                                                 111

hyperthyroidism, osteogenesis imperfecta, hereditary hypofibrinogenemia, ACT deficiency,
Diabetes insipidus (DI), neurophyseal DI, neprogenic DI, Charcot-Marie Tooth syndrome,
Perlizaeus-Merzbacher disease, neurodegenerative diseases such as Alzheimer's disease,
Parkinson's disease, amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, progressive supranuclear plasy, Pick's
disease, several polyglutamine neurological disorders such as Huntington, spinocerebullar
ataxia type I, spinal and bulbar muscular atrophy, dentatorubal pallidoluysian, and myotonic
dystrophy, as well as spongiform encephalopathies, such as hereditary Creutzfeldt-Jakob
disease (due to prion protein processing defect), Fabry disease, Straussler-Scheinker syndrome,
COPD, dry-eye disease, or Sjogren's disease.
55.      The method of paragraph 54, wherein said disease is cystic fibrosis.
56.      A kit for use in measuring the activity of CFTR or a fragment thereof in a biological
sample in vitro or in vivo, comprising:
            i.   a composition comprising a compound produced by the process of any of
                 paragraphs 1-50; and
           ii.   instructions for:
                     a. contacting the composition with the biological sample; and
                     b. measuring the activity of said CFTR or a fragment thereof.
57.      The kit of paragraph 56, further comprising instructions for:
            i.   contacting an additional compound with the biological sample;
           ii.   measuring the activity of said CFTR or a fragment thereof in the presence of said
                 additional compound; and
          iii.   comparing the activity of the CFTR or a fragment thereof in the presence of the
                 additional compound with the activity of the CFTR or a fragment thereof in the
                 presence of a composition comprising a compound of Formula 1.
58.      The kit according to paragraph 57, wherein the step of comparing the activity of said
CFTR or a fragment thereof provides a measure of the density of said CFTR or a fragment
thereof.
Still further embodiments are within the scope of the following claims.
                                                 112

CLAIMS:
1.      A process for the preparation of a compound of Formula 8,
                                                  OPG
                                                       R4
                                          0 2N
                                                  R2
                                            Formula 8
or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, comprising nitrating a compound of Formula 7,
                                               OPG
                                               R2
                                            Formula 7
or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, using a mixture of sulfuric acid and nitric acid in
the presence of dichloromethane, wherein PG is a protecting group and R 2 and R 4 are each tert
butyl, and wherein the nitro compound of Formula 8 is purified by crystallization, wherein PG
is propoxy formyl, methanesulfonyl, 4-nitro-benzoyl, ethoxy formyl, butoxy formyl, t-butoxy
formyl, i-propoxy formyl or methoxy formyl.
2.      The process of claim 1, wherein PG is methoxy formyl.
3.      The process of claim 1, further comprising producing a compound of Formula 7, or a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, by reacting a compound of Formula 6,
                                               OH
                                                  NR4
                                               R2
                                            Formula 6
                                                113

or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, with a reagent capable of causing a protecting
group to be attached to the phenolic oxygen of a compound of Formula 6 in the presence of a
solvent.
4.      The process of claim 3, wherein the solvent is diethyl ether, or methylene chloride.
5.      The process of claim 4, wherein the solvent is methylene chloride.
6.      The process of claim 1, further comprising producing a compound of Formula 5,
                                                   OPG
                                                        R4
                                          H2 N
                                                   R2
                                            Formula 5
or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, by reducing a compound of Formula 8, or a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof.
7.      A process for the preparation of Compound 31, or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt
thereof, comprising contacting Compound 30, or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof,
with a mixture of nitric acid and sulphuric acid in the presence of dichloromethane
                                          H2SO 4 , HNO 3    0 2N
                       10 0                                  1.10ON 0
                           0                                      0
                              30                                    31
8.      The process of claim 7, wherein the reaction is quenched by adding the reaction mixture
to cold water.
9.      The process of claim 8, wherein the aqueous layer is extracted with dichloromethane.
                                                114

10.     The process of claim 9, wherein the dichloromethane is further washed with water.
11.     The process of claim 7, wherein the product is isolated by crystallization with hexane.
12.     The process of claim 7, further comprising contacting Compound 31, or a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, in the presence of hydrogen gas, palladium on carbon,
and methanol to provide Compound 32
                     0 2N               H2 , Pd/C, MeOH     H2 N
                       10 0                                 1.0
                           0                                     0
                             31                                    32
or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof.
13.     The process of any one of claims 1 to 12, wherein the process further comprises the
preparation of a compound having the structure:
                                                       OH
                                         0     0
                                                   N
                                                   H
                                         N
                                         H
or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof.
                                                 115

14.    A compound selected from:
                                        H2 N
                                            0 Y0
                                               0
                                        Compound 32;
                                                     0
                                                   0   0
                                          0     0
                                                   N
                                                   H
                                          N
                                          H
                                        Compound 33;
and pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof.
15.    The compound according to claim 14, wherein the compound is Compound 32, or a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof.
16.    The compound according to claim 14, wherein the compound is Compound 33, or a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof.
Date: 27 June 2018
                                                 116

