                                                    6
ABSTRACT
The maintenance shaft sewer pit is a one piece rotationally moulded part made from polyethylene. It
is designed for different configurations to meet Australian sewer regulations. The two innovative steps
incorporated into the design and manufacture of the pits is as follows; the design of the mould shape
to introduce extra material and the machining process to remove the extra material and achieve
fitment with sewer piping and seals.

                            4
                        A     A
                      927.50,
   Figure 1 - TOP VIEW                      0566
Figure 2 - FRONT VIEW           Figure 3 - RIGHT SIDE VIEW

                           1
                     AUSTRALIA
                  Patents Act 1990
          COMPLETE SPECIFICATION
              INNOVATION PATENT
ONE PIECE ROTATIONALLY MOULDED SEWER
                          PIT
                       Applicant:
              James Sharpe, Director
         Access Technical Centre pty ltd
The following statement is a full description of this
invention, including the best method of performing
                   it known to me:

                                                     2
DESCRIPTION
The maintenance shaft sewer pit is a one piece rotationally moulded part made from polyethylene.
The pits are manufactured in different configurations (Figure 5) to cater for Australian sewer
regulations. The sewer pit shown in Figures 1, 2 and 3 are of the "150mm 2 WAY" configuration. All
parts have common flange designs (Figure 4, Section A-A) that use the unique method of
manufacture, mentioned below, to attach to sewer piping.
After rotational moulding, the specific area that has been designed to form extra material, [1]- Figure
4, Section A-A, is machined away to create a specific cavity shape, [2]- Figure 4, Section A-A. This
cavity shape is the housing for the seal and sewer pipe. The machining process is critical in achieving
the dimensional tolerances required for surrounding parts to fit.
The process of manufacture is;
    * The part is rotationally moulded.
    * The part is removed from the moulding machine.
    * The part is fixed to a cutting tool to prepare for machining.
    .    The inner surfaces are machined to create a shape to house a sewer pipe and seal.

                                                3
CLAIMS
  1. The design of the mould. The mould shape introduces extra material in the area where
     machining will remove material in order to achieve a specific cavity shape. [1]- Figure 4,
     Section A-A.
  2. The process of machining away material to achieve fitment with sewer piping and seals. [2]
     Figure 4, Section A-A.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
