                                   ABSTRACT
The present invention relates to an absorbent structure, preferably for use in
absorbent products, such as used in the food, consumer, household, building
and construction, beauty and medical industry, and as used in the personal
hygiene industry. The substantially cellulose free absorbent structures
continuously immobilise absorbent polymer material via initial smaller pockets
and subsequently larger compartments allowing excellent fluid management
of the absorbent polymer material in dry, partially and fully liquid loaded state.
Preferably such absorbent structure volume increases are result of temporary
secondary attachment patterns made in combination with substantially
permanent primary attachment grids allowing the release of bigger volumes
from the initial smaller volumes by detachment of the secondary attachments.
Furthermore the absorbent structure according to an embodiment of the
invention non-homogeneously swells to form a liquid-managing surface
structure as a result of exposing the absorbent structure to liquid. The present
invention foresees in the need for improved flexible, thin, lightweight
absorbent structures which overcome the absorbency problems of the prior
art during absorption, distribution and retention of liquids with optimal fit.

   WO 2012/048879                                                        PCT/EP2011/005139
                                                  1
                                     ABSORBENT STRUCTURE
     FIELD OF THE INVENTION
 5   The present invention relates to an absorbent structure having a high concentration
     of absorbent polymer material within an integrated fluid management system,
     preferably for use in an absorbent product, such as for example used in the food
     industry (e.g. coffee pads), the consumer industry (e.g. disposable body warmers),
     the household industry (e.g. sheet formed detergent articles), building and
10   construction (e.g. filter materials and insulation), beauty and medical industry (e.g.
     make-up pads, anti-septic wads) and absorbent articles as used in the personal
     hygiene industry (e.g. feminine hygiene garments, baby diapers and pants, adult
     incontinence garments). The present invention also relates to an absorbent article
     comprising such absorbent structure and to a method and apparatus for
15   manufacturing such absorbent structure.
     BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
     Disposable absorbent articles have an absorbent structure for absorbing bodily
20   exudates, a soft liquid-permeable top sheet on the wearer side and a liquid
     impermeable back sheet on the garment side. The absorbent structure in between is
     normally made from a mixture of cellulose fibers or other fibrous substance and an
     absorbent polymer material. These fibrous substances make these absorbent
     articles typically quite fluffy and bulky.
25
     In recent years there has been increasing demand for flexible, thinner, lightweight
     absorbent structures to resolve various problems of manufacturing, marketing,
     design, fit, wearing comfort, distribution, garbage disposal, material and energy
     consumption, transportation and storage costs and the like.
30
     The most common method currently used to meet these demands in disposable
     absorbent articles is to reduce the amount of cellulose fibre or other support material
     within and surrounding the absorbent structure and/or use larger amounts of
     absorbent polymer materials. Consequently such absorbent articles have a smaller
35   proportion of hydrophilic cellulose fibres and/or a higher proportion of absorbent

   WO 2012/048879                                                             PCT/EP2011/005139
                                                   2
     polymers materials. Some of these absorbent articles may be better at storing liquid,
     however they are not necessarily good at absorbing and distributing liquid when the
    absorbent article is actually being used. It will thus be apparent from the above that
    the absolute and relative proportions of the fibrous material and absorbent polymer
 5   material are closely linked in light of article performance. Hence there are limits on
     reducing the amount of hydrophilic cellulose fibre and reducing the thickness of
    absorbent cores.
     Many attempts have been undertaken to manufacture flexible, thin, lightweight
10  absorbent structures, consisting of a high amount of absorbent polymer material. In
    order to obtain good absorbency, distribution and retention within such absorbent
    structures it has found to be important to at least partially immobilize the absorbent
     material. Failing to provide sufficient structural integrity results in loss of functional
     performance characteristics such as coherence, absorption, distribution and/or
15   retention and results in failures related but not limited to for instance leakages, high
     rewet values, etc. On the other hand however the presence of this physical and/or
    chemical interaction in between the absorbent material and the restraining material
    often also leads to a reduced absorption, distribution and/or retention performance.
    This is especially the case when such flexible, thin, lightweight absorbent structures,
20   consisting of an absorbent polymer material are placed in between multiple
    enveloping layers.
    The larger proportion of absorbent polymer materials and related immobilisation
     requirements in substantially cellulose free absorbent articles may thus greatly
25   inhibit the absorption, distribution and/or retention of liquids if inadequately
     managed. It will be clear that the absolute and relative proportions of the hydrophilic
     cellulose fibres and absorbent polymer materials need to be tightly controlled in
     order to maintain the absorbent properties of the absorbent structures. Certainly
     decreased absorption speed and fluid distribution are common causes of failure.
30   Since such hygienic absorbent articles are generally also disposable and need in
     some instances to be worn over many hours they require performance in a dry state
     as well as in a partially and fully bodily exudates loaded state.
     The ability and capacity of an absorbent polymer material to absorb, distribute and
35   retain liquid is dependent upon the form, position and/or manner in which the

   WO 2012/048879                                                         PCT/EP2011/005139
                                                  3
     absorbent polymer material is incorporated into the absorbent structure. Since many
     absorbent structures have a relatively homogeneous and continuous distribution of
    absorbent polymer material, and thus exhibit a substantial homogeneous swelling,
    for second, third and next liquid insults such absorbent layers may actually act as a
 5   liquid barrier. This gel-blocking occurs when the absorbent polymer material located
     in regions of first contact starts to increase in volume as a consequence of imbibing
    the fluid, thereby forming a hydro-gel. Gel blocking in and adjacent a zone of the
    absorbent layer of initial liquid contact prevents liquid from rapidly dispersing or
    wicking past the "blocking" material into the rest of the absorbent layer and further
10   liquid uptake by the absorbent layer must then take place via for instance a diffusion
     process that is much slower than the rate at which liquid is applied to the absorbent
     layer. Especially when absorbent polymer material concentrations are absolutely or
     relatively high and wetted, the hydro-gel can block the initial and/or additional fluid
    from reaching other still more absorbent regions of the absorbent core, thus leading
15  to unappreciated, underused or unused absorbent capacity. The diminished
    capacity results in leakages, well before the absorbent core is fully saturated.
    Gel-blocking is even increased in thin substantially cellulose free structures where
    the liquid find little or limited macroscopic voids and/or spaces which can be used for
20  temporary, intermediate or final liquid storage. Also the structural volume restrictions
    of these absorbent structures lead to a further reduced absorbent performance due
    to limited swelling capacity of the absorbent polymer material increasing the
    tendency to functional failures and leakages. To remedy, absorbent article designers
    have and typically use additional side cuffs and acquisition layers which are
25  expensive, inefficient and can only partly remedy these limitations. By not
    completely abandoning the use of hydrophilic fibrous materials next to the use of
    absorbent polymer materials this problem can be partially resolved, however, it will
    be clear that in such case the absolute and relative proportions of absorbent
    materials will unwillingly be restricted and thus any thickness reduction of the
30  absorbent structure not fully optimised.
     Multiple attempts have been made to provide the above flexible, thinner, light-weight
    absorbent articles comprising from low cellulose to substantially cellulose to
    completely cellulose free absorbent structures combining absolute and/or relative
35  high proportions absorbent polymer material versus remaining absorbent materials:

   WO 2012/048879                                                         PCT/EP2011/005139
                                                4
     W095/17868, hereby incorporated by reference, discloses an absorbent structure
     comprising two fibre layers and an intermediate layer comprising an absorbent
     polymer material in an amount exceeding 120 g/m2 and particles of a thermoplastic
 5   material. While this construction may provide good immobilisation of the absorbent
     polymer material in the dry state, it seems that only a lesser immobilisation can be
     achieved in the liquid loaded state. The thermoplastic material appears to stretch to
    a much lesser extent than the potential swelling of the absorbent polymer materials.
    Therefore, in particular when the absorbent structure is to be used in an absorbent
10  article to absorb and retain high amounts of bodily exudates, for example a diaper or
     pants, the absorbent structure disclosed herein may not be fully satisfactory.
     Furthermore the fibrous bulk material increases thickness and weight, reduces
    flexibility and raises the cost and environmental footprint of the absorbent structure
    which is highly unfavourable and undesirable.
15
    W095/26209, hereby incorporated by reference, describes an absorbent structure
     having a region containing absorbent polymer material in high homogenous and
    continuous quantities in the absence of any significant fibrous support material
    which however typically leads poor fluid management. By poor fluid management it
20   is meant that the regions of absorbent polymer material have insufficient integrity in
    dry, partially wet and/or wetted state. This results in the physical continuity (and thus
    the capability of acquiring and transporting fluids through interstitial voids and
    capillaries) of the hydrogel formed upon swelling in the presence of fluids being
    substantially disrupted and altered, leading to the hydrogel layers being
25   unintentionally separated, having gaps being introduced, having areas that are
    significantly thinned and/or broken up into a plurality of underperforming segments.
     Obviously this minimizing or completely negating coherence, permeability and flow
    conductivity properties of the absorbent structure results in highly undesirable
     performance and unacceptable product failure.
30   EP1 447066, hereby incorporated by reference, describes an absorbent structure for
    the use in an absorbent article which aims to provide an improved immobilization of
    absorbent polymer material. An absorbent structure is disclosed comprising a non
    woven substrate layer, a layer of thermoplastic material in the form of a hot melt
    adhesive which bonds to the substrate layer to define a thermoplastic immobilizing
35  web which captures the absorbent polymer material. However, in order to

   WO 2012/048879                                                          PCT/EP2011/005139
                                                  5
    adequately secure the absorbent material, one needs to use a significant amount of
    thermoplastic material, which obviously leads to much higher costs and
     unappreciated stiffness and rigidity, thereby reducing good product fit, comfort and
    discreetness. Also, due to its internal cohesion, the layer of thermoplastic material
 5  exerts pressure and offers resistance against the free and complete swelling and
    take-up capacity and thus overall absorption performance of the absorbent material.
     Furthermore the very high quantities of thermoplastic material lead to physical and
    chemical shielding of the absorbent polymer materials from the fluids, leading to
     unavoidable reduced absorption, distribution and retention performance and
10   importantly due to their single use put forward a significant burden on society,
     industry and families from economic, environmental and sustainability view.
    Therefore, such absorbent structures are considered to be unfavourable.
    Whilst the above attempts describe various approaches to various problems, it is
     believed that none of these absorbent structures leads to very favourable and
15   performing absorbent structures or articles. The inefficient use of the absorbent
     material capacity and complex manufacturing processes makes neither of the above
    absorbent articles economically, technically and/or environmentally advantageous.
     Hence, there is still an need in the art for an improved thin, flexible, lightweight
    absorbent structure with high concentrations of absorbent polymer material which
20  overcomes the problems of the prior art which is discreet, sustainable and/or
     relatively inexpensive taking in mind manufacturing, marketing, design, fit, comfort,
    distribution, packaging, disposal, material, energy and transportation costs while
     preserving the required fluid absorption, distribution, transport, coherence and
     retention properties. There is furthermore also a need for a method and apparatus to
25   produce such absorbent structures at high production speed and low energy and
     raw material consumption.
     SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
    As a result of exhaustive research to address the above-identified, derived and
30   related problems, the inventor has found that substantially cellulose free absorbent
     structures continuously immobilising absorbent polymer material via initial smaller
     pockets (preferably more in amount compared to later compartments) and
     subsequently larger compartments (preferably less in amount compared to initial

   WO 2012/048879                                                          PCT/EP2011/005139
                                                    6
     pockets) allows excellent fluid management in relation to the available absorbent
     polymer material in dry, partially and fully liquid loaded state. In a preferred
     embodiment according to the invention, the absorbent structures according to the
     present invention allow excellent fluid management of absorbent polymer material
 5   by providing a plurality of initial smaller-sized pockets adequately immobilizing dry
     absorbent polymer clusters thus avoiding unwanted migration and movement
     thereof in dry state, while during liquid uptake and expansion of the absorbent
     polymer materials, the absorbent structure swells non-homogenously by gradually
     unleashing and combining the pockets into fewer and bigger-sized compartments
10   immobilizing the wet absorbent polymer materials thereby avoiding excess
     restraining or restriction in wet state; thereby advantageously creating an internal
     fluid management as well as an external liquid management surface structure.
     Such absorbent structure volume increases are preferably result of temporary
     secondary attachment patterns made up for instance from ultrasonic bonds,
15   preferably in combination with the substantially permanent primary attachment grids
     for instance also made up by ultrasonic bonds, allowing the release of bigger
     volumes from the initial smaller volumes by detachment of the secondary
     attachments. In an alternative embodiment however these absorbent structure
     volume increases are the result of using flexible, extensible, elastic, stretchable
20   and/or elastomeric materials such as for instance elastic non-woven and/or
     breakable materials such as for instance semi-rigid, rigid and/or stiff paper or tissue
     respectively allowing additional expansion of and/or breaking up to larger volumes.
     In a preferred embodiment the absorbent structure immobilizes, retains and/or
     restrains the particulate material and the attachments seal, bond and/or join at least
25   part of the outer layers together via ultrasonic bonding, thermo-bonding, pressure
     bonding and/or glue-bonding means. These attachments preferably form and/or
     define pockets which can contain particulate material, whereby the attachment
     regions comprise essentially and preferably no particulate material. Preferably the
     absence of an excess or the complete elimination of synthetic immobilisation
30   admixtures (e.g. adhesive and binders, such as thermoplastic glues and webs) used
     for covering, restraining or bonding absorbent polymers makes the structure
     technically, environmentally and economically very favourable. In an alternative
     embodiment however, the composite structure is covered with such thermoplastic
     materials, glues, binders and/or adhesives to fixate, pocket, encapsulate, bind

   WO 2012/048879                                                          PCT/EP2011/005139
                                                   7
     and/or join these particulate material clusters to and/or in between one or more
     layers. Additional materials and/or layers to provide extra functional and/or structural
     advantages such as strength, acquisition, absorption, distribution, transport,
     retention, etc. may also be incorporated.
 5
     In a preferred embodiment a substantially cellulose free absorbent structure is
     provided comprising a carrier layer, an auxiliary layer and an absorbent polymer
     material there between, the carrier layer and auxiliary layer being at least partially
    joined together by attachments made up of substantially permanent primary
10   attachment grids and/or substantially temporary secondary attachment patterns, so
     as to form a sandwich-like composite structure containing patterned absorbent
     particulate polymer materials provided in at least some of the unattached regions
     between the carrier layer and auxiliary layer forming an absorbent polymer material
     area, the plurality of smaller-sized pockets made up by at least substantially
15   temporary secondary attachments define spaces which immobilize the available dry
     volume absorbent polymer material, the substantially temporary secondary
     attachment being gradually releasable as a result of exposing the surrounding
     absorbent polymer material to liquid so as phase in an intermediate volume increase
     to fewer and medium-sized compartments immobilising the partially wetted
20   absorbent polymer material, and resulting in still fewer maximum-sized
     compartments immobilising the wetted absorbent polymer material to obtain
     continuous fluid management.
     In a preferred embodiment a method for the manufacturing of an absorbent structure
25   is provided which comprises: providing a carrier layer, covering the carrier layer with
     an absorbent material, covering the absorbent material with an auxiliary layer which
     is joinable to the carrier layer; and in at least one position substantially temporary
     and/or substantially permanently attaching the auxiliary layer to the carrier layer, and
     by means of at least substantially temporary secondary attachments defining small
30   sized pocket wherein dry absorbent material is immobilized, such that by means of
     gradual release of substantially temporary secondary attachment patterns bigger
     sized intermediate and final compartments are provided, thereby continuously
     immobilising the absorbent material from dry to wetted state.
     In a further aspect, the invention provides an absorbent article comprising an
35   absorbent structure as provided by the invention. In another aspect the present

   WO 2012/048879                                                        PCT/EP2011/005139
                                                 8
     invention provides a method and apparatus for the manufacturing of such an
     absorbent structure.
     As also described in EP priority application 10447020.8 and hereby incorporated by
     reference, an absorbent sandwich-like structure is provided which comprises a
 5   distribution layer with an absorbent capacity and an immobilisation layer which joins
     to the distribution layer to define compartments there between containing
     intermediate absorbent material. In particular an absorbent structure for use in an
     absorbent article comprises a distribution layer having an absorbent capacity of at
     least about 5 g/m2 , an immobilisation layer which is joined to the distribution layer to
10   define compartments there between, and an absorbent material held in at least one
     of the compartments, wherein said absorbent material comprises an absorbent
     polymer material and from zero to an amount less than about 40 weight percent
     absorbent fibrous material, based on the weight of absorbent polymer material. The
     absorbent structure provides in particular an increased fluid communication
15   structure including better adsorption and dispersion in and between the absorbent
     polymer material pockets, due to the additional wicking and mass flow of liquids
     caused by the distribution layer, limiting gel blocking, reducing rewet and minimizing
     leakages. It further provides for a method and apparatus to produce such absorbent
     structures at high production speed with low energy and raw material consumption.
20   As also described in EP priority application 10447021.6 and hereby incorporated by
     reference, an absorbent sandwich-like structure is provided which comprises a
     substantially liquid-impermeable wicking layer and an immobilisation layer which
     joins to the wicking layer to define compartments there between containing
     intermediate absorbent material. In particular an absorbent structure for use in an
25   absorbent article comprises a substantially liquid-impermeable wicking layer, and an
     immobilisation layer which is joined to the substantially liquid-impermeable wicking
     layer to define compartments there between, and an absorbent material held in at
     least one of the compartments, wherein said absorbent material comprises an
     absorbent polymer material, and from zero to an amount less than about 40 weight
30   percent absorbent fibrous material, based on the weight of absorbent polymer
     material. The substantially liquid-impermeable wicking layer allows unbound liquids
     such as water, urine and/or other bodily exudates to more easily spread out, which
     allows better distribution and transport so as to wet the side and lower sides of the
     absorbent polymer materials within the pockets. It ensure lower rewet values, less

   WO 2012/048879                                                         PCT/EP2011/005139
                                                  9
     leakage risk and less surface wetness and thus increased reliability of the overall
     structure. It further provides for a method and apparatus to produce such absorbent
     structures at high production speed with low energy and raw material consumption.
    As also described in EP priority application 10447022.4 and hereby incorporated by
 5   reference, an absorbent sandwich-like structure is provided which comprises a
     carrier layer, an auxiliary layer and an intermediate absorbent particulate material
    there between wherein substantially primary attachments and substantially
     secondary attachments join the carrier layer and auxiliary layer together, whereby
    the secondary attachments are loosened as a result of exposing the absorbent
10   structure to liquid whereas the primary attachments remain substantially intact. It
    further provides for a method and apparatus to produce such absorbent structures
     at high production speed with low energy and raw material consumption.
    As also described in EP priority application 10447023.2 and hereby incorporated by
     reference, an absorbent sandwich-like structure is provided which comprises a
15   carrier layer, an auxiliary layer and an intermediate absorbent material there
     between wherein substantially permanent primary attachments and substantially
     temporary secondary attachments join the carrier layer and auxiliary layer together,
    whereby the absorbent structure is made to in-homogeneously swell as a result of
     exposing the absorbent structure to liquid to form a liquid-managing surface
20   structure. It further provides for a method and apparatus to produce such absorbent
     structures at high production speed with low energy and raw material consumption.
     As also described in EP priority application 10447024.0 and hereby incorporated by
     reference, a method and apparatus is provided for forming a sandwich-like structure,
     by depositing particulate material in a desired pattern onto a moving carrier layer. In
25   particular a method for depositing particulate material in a desired pattern onto a
     moving carrier layer is provided, which provides a clustering means with perforations
     corresponding to a desired pattern, driving the clustering means in the same
     direction as and in close proximity to the moving carrier layer, feeding a particle
     material stream from a particulate material supply means and directing the particle
30   material stream through the clustering means onto the carrier layer. Preferably the
     particulate materials are clustered via the inlet regions of the perforations and
     released via the outlet regions of the clustering means. The method allows accurate
     forming of a pre-determined pattern of particulate material clusters at high

   WO 2012/048879                                                         PCT/EP2011/005139
                                                10
    production speed, with reduced raw material usage and relative low cost. It
    furthermore provides the improved thin, flexible, lightweight particulate material
    absorbent structures with discretely deposited particulate material clusters thereon,
    complemented with an auxiliary layer, such as for instance non-woven, tissue,
 5  paper, thermoplastic material and the like and/or affixed by attachment means, such
    as for instance glue, bonds, joints and the like, with particulate material clusters
    relatively immobilized there between so as to obtain a sandwich structure usable in
    the form of an absorbent structure.
10  As also described in EP priority application 10447027 and hereby incorporated by
    reference, a method and apparatus is provided for forming a sandwich-like structure,
    by positioning particulate material in a desired pattern onto a moving carrier layer. In
    particular a method for positioning particulate material in a desired pattern onto a
    moving carrier layer is provided, providing a first material, an intermediate material
15  and a second material, whereby prior to joining the first material to the second
    material, the distribution of the intermediate particulate material is altered through an
    airflow. In a preferred embodiment the intermediate particulate material is provided
    substantially homogeneously on the first material prior to applying the positioning
    airflow. When the intermediate material is undesirable in the attachment area, the
20  method describes the use of airflows, resulting from blowing and/or suction holes to
    evacuate the intermediate material from the attachment area prior to or during
    bonding, leading to improved and controllable attachment properties, thus
    increasing attachment quality and utilisation of energy or materials. It furthermore
    provides improved thin, flexible, lightweight absorbent particulate structures.
25
    The product, method and apparatus according to preferred embodiments of the
    invention lead to highly appreciated thin, flexible and/or light-weight absorbent
    structures which are economically, environmentally, technically and/or commercially
    advantageous, not in the least since they are obtained without the need for
30  substantial and bulky amounts of fibrous absorbent materials such as fluff and wood
    pulp (allowing "fluffless" advertisement claims) and are not using substantial and
    expensive amounts of glue, binder, adhesive and/or other thermoplastic materials
    (allowing "glueless" advertisement claims). This is unprecedented within the art.
35

   WO 2012/048879                                                         PCT/EP2011/005139
                                              11
     BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
     Figure 1 A-D provides cross-sectional schematic illustrations of absorbent
    structures according to embodiments of the invention.
 5
     Figure 2 provides a top view schematic illustration of an absorbent structure
    according to an embodiment of the invention.
     Figure 3 provides a top view schematic illustration of an absorbent structure in a
10   partially wetted state according to an embodiment of the invention, indicating
     substantial permanent primary attachments; and the gradual release by the still
    joined and already loosened temporary secondary attachments.
     Figure 4 provides a top view schematic illustration of differently located and sized
15   clusters of absorbent material according to an embodiment of the invention.
     Figure 5 provides top view schematic illustrations of an absorbent structure
     according to an embodiment of the invention indicating different cluster patterns.
20   Figure 6 A-B provides top view schematic illustrations of absorbent structures
     according to an embodiment of the invention in intact (A) en loosened (B) state.
     Figure 7 provides a top view schematic illustration of an absorbent structure
     according to an embodiment of the present invention, illustrating a built-in phased
25   expansion by primary attachment grids and secondary attachment patterns.
     Figure 8 provides a cross-sectional schematic illustration of a dry absorbent
     structure having phased expansion according to an embodiment of the invention.
30   Figure 9 provides a cross-sectional schematic illustration of a wetted absorbent
     structure having phased expansion according to an embodiment of the invention.

   WO 2012/048879                                                          PCT/EP2011/005139
                                                    12
     Figure 10 A-B provides a top view schematic illustration of absorbent structures
     according to the invention, in dry state with a plurality of smaller-sized pockets (A)
     and in wet state with fewer and larger-sized compartments (B).
 5   Figure 11 provides a schematic process for manufacturing absorbent structures
     according to the invention.
     Figure 12 is a top plan view of a diaper as a preferred embodiment of an absorbent
     structure according to the invention, with the upper layers partially cut away.
10
     DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION
     The present invention relates to an absorbent structure for use in absorbent
     products, such as coffee pads, disposable body warmers, sheet formed detergent
15   articles, filter material, insulation material, make-up pads, anti-septic wads, and
     preferably absorbent articles from the personal hygiene industry such as but not
     limited to feminine hygiene garments, baby diapers and pants, adult incontinence
     garments, various absorbent holders, liners, towels, inserts and the like; and to a
     method and manufacturing of the same.
20
     Unless otherwise defined, all terms used in disclosing the invention, including
     technical and scientific terms, have the meaning as commonly understood by one of
     ordinary skill in the art to which this invention belongs. By means of further
     guidance, term definitions are included to better appreciate the teaching of the
25   present invention.
     As used herein, the following terms have the following meanings:
     "A", "an", and "the" as used herein refers to both singular and plural referents unless
30   the context clearly dictates otherwise. By way of example, "a compartment" refers to
     one or more than one compartment.
     "About" as used herein referring to a measurable value such as a parameter, an
     amount, a temporal duration, and the like, is meant to encompass variations of +/
35   20% or less, preferably +/-10% or less, more preferably +/-5% or less, even more

   WO 2012/048879                                                           PCT/EP2011/005139
                                                  13
    preferably +/-1% or less, and still more preferably +/-0.1% or less of and from the
    specified value, insofar such variations are appropriate to perform in the disclosed
    invention. However, it is to be understood that the value to which the modifier
    "about" refers is itself also specifically disclosed.
 5
    "Absorbent article", "absorbent garment", "absorbing article", "absorbing garment",
    and the like as used herein are used interchangeably and refer to devices that
    absorb and contain bodily exudates, and more specifically, refers to devices that are
    placed against or in proximity to the body of the wearer to absorb and contain the
10  various liquids discharged from the body. Absorbent articles include but are not
    limited to feminine hygiene garments, baby diapers and pants, adult incontinence
    garments, various diaper and pants holders, liners, towels, absorbent inserts and
    the like.
15  "Absorbent core" as used herein refers to a three-dimensional part of the absorbent
    structure, comprising liquid-absorbing material, useful to absorb and/or retain bodily
    exudates.
    "Absorbent component" as used herein refers to a structural constituent of an
20  absorbent structure, e.g., a piece of an absorbent core, such as one of multiple
    pieces in a multi-piece absorbent core.
    "Absorbent element" as used herein refers to a part of a functional constituent of an
    absorbent structure, e.g., a liquid acquisition layer, a liquid distribution layer, or a
25  liquid storage layer formed of a material or materials having particular liquid handling
    characteristics suitable for the specific function.
    "Absorbent insert" as used herein refers to a device adapted for insertion into an
    absorbent article and to serve as an absorbent structure when so inserted.
30
    "Absorbent layer" as used herein refers to a term referring to a discrete, identifiable
    sheet-like or web-like element of an absorbent structure which may remain detached
    and relatively movable with respect to another such element or may be attached or
    joined so as to remain permanently associated with another such element. Each

   WO 2012/048879                                                          PCT/EP2011/005139
                                                 14
     absorbent layer may itself include a laminate or combination of several layers,
     sheets and/or webs of similar or diverse compositions.
     "Absorbent polymer material", "absorbent gelling material", "AGM", "super
 5   absorbent", "superabsorbent material", "superabsorbent polymer", "SAP" and the
     like as used herein are used interchangeably and refer to any suitable particulate
     (e.g., flaked, particulate, granular, or powdered) or fibrous cross linked polymeric
     materials that can absorb at least 5 times and preferably at least about 10 times or
     more its weight of an aqueous 0.9% saline solution as measured using the
10   Centrifuge Retention Capacity test (EDANA 441.2-01).
     "Absorbent polymer material area" as used herein refers to the area of the
    absorbent structure wherein adjacent layers are separated by a multiplicity of
    absorbent polymer material. Incidental contact areas between these adjacent layers
15  within the absorbent particulate polymer material area may be intentional (e.g bond
    area's) or unintentional (e.g. manufacturing artefacts).
     "Absorbent particulate polymer material" as used herein refers to an absorbent
     polymer material which is in particulate form such as powders, granules, flakes and
20  the like so as to be flowable in the dry state.
    "Absorbent structure" as used herein refers to those elements of an absorbent
    article comprising material or a combination of materials suitable to absorb,
    distribute and retain bodily exudates.
25
    "Absorption" as used herein refers to the process by which a liquid is taken up within
     a material.
     "Acquisition layer", "acquisition region", "acquisition surface" or "acquisition material"
30   and the like as used herein refer to a layer having a faster liquid uptake capability.
     "Absorbency" is the ability of a material to take up fluids by various means including
     capillary, osmotic, solvent, chemical or other action.

   WO 2012/048879                                                           PCT/EP2011/005139
                                                  15
    "Adult incontinence garment" as used herein refers to absorbent articles intended to
     be worn by incontinent adults, for absorbing and containing bodily exudates.
    "Adhesion" as used herein refers to the force that holds different materials together
 5  at their interface.
    "Adhesive" as used herein refers to a material, which may or may not be flowable in
    solution or when heated, that is used to bond materials together.
10  "Adsorption" as used herein refers to the process by which a liquid is taken up by
    the surface of a material.
    "Airlaying" as used herein refers to forming a web by dispersing fibres or particles in
    an air stream and condensing them from the air stream onto a moving screen by
15   means of a pressure or vacuum; a web of fibres produced by airlaying is herein
     referred to an "airlaid"; an airlaid web bonded by one or more techniques to provide
    fabric integrity is herein referred to an "airlaid nonwoven".
    "Apparent density" as used herein refers to the basis weight of the sample divided
20   by the calliper with appropriate unit conversions incorporated therein. Apparent
    density used herein has the unit g/cm 3.
     "Attach", "attached" and "attachment" as used herein are synonymous with their
     counterparts of the terms "fasten", "affix", "secure", "bind", "join" and "link".
25
     "Baby diaper" as used herein refers to absorbent articles intended to be worn by
     children, for absorbing and containing bodily exudates which the user draws up
     between the legs and fastens about the waist of the wearer.
30   "Baby pants" as used herein refers to absorbent articles marketed for use in
     transitioning children from diapers to underwear intended to cover the lower torso of
     children, so as to absorb and contain body exudates which article is generally
     configured like a panty garment and manufactured with a completed waist encircling
     portion, thereby eliminating the need for the user to fasten the article about the waist
35   of the wearer.

   WO 2012/048879                                                            PCT/EP2011/005139
                                                    16
     "Back region" as used herein refers to the portion of an absorbent article or part
     thereof that is intended to be positioned proximate the back of a wearer.
 5   "Backing" as used herein refers to a web or other material that supports and
     reinforces the back of a product.
     "Basis weight" is the weight per unit area of a sample reported in grams per square
     meter, g/m2 or gsm.
10
     "Bodily exudates", "body exudates", "bodily fluids", "body fluids", "bodily discharges",
     "body discharges", "liquids" and the like as used herein are used interchangeably
     and refer to, but are not limited to urine, blood, vaginal discharges, breast milk,
     sweats and faecal matter.
15
     "Binder", "adhesive", "glue", "resins", "plastics" and the like as used herein are used
     interchangeably and refer to substances, generally in a solid form (e.g. powder, film,
     fibre) or as a foam, or in a liquid form (e.g. emulsion, dispersion, solution) used for
     example by way of impregnation, spraying, printing, foam application and the like
20   used for attaching or bonding functional and/or structural components, elements and
     materials, for example including heat and/or pressure sensitive adhesives, hot
     melts, heat activated adhesives, thermoplastic materials, chemical activated
     adhesives/solvents, curable materials and the like.
25   "Bond strength" as used herein refers to the amount of adhesion between bonded
     surfaces. It is a measure of the stress required to separate a layer of material from
     the base to which it is bonded.
     "Capillary action", "capillarity", or "capillary motion" and the like as used herein are
30   used to refer to the phenomena of the flow of liquid through porous media.
     "Chassis" as used herein refers to a foundational constituent of an absorbent article
     upon which the remainder of the structure of the article is built up or overlaid, e.g., in
     a diaper, the structural elements that give the diaper the form of briefs or pants
35   when configured for wearing, such as a backsheet, a topsheet, or a combination.

   WO 2012/048879                                                          PCT/EP2011/005139
                                                   17
    "Cellulose fibres" as used herein refers to naturally occurring fibres based on
    cellulose, such as, for example cotton, linen, etc.; wood pulp fibres are one example
    of cellulose fibres; man-made fibres derived from cellulose, such as regenerated
 5  cellulose (rayon), or partially or fully acetylated cellulose derivatives (e.g. cellulose
    acetate or triacetate) are also considered as cellulose fibres.
    "Cluster" or the like as used herein refers to an agglomeration of particles and/or
    fibres.
10
    "Chemically stiffened fibres", chemically modified fibres", "chemically cross-linked
    fibres", "curly fibres" and the like as used herein are used interchangeably and refer
    to any fibres which have been stiffened by chemical means to increase stiffness of
    the fibres under both dry and aqueous conditions, for example by way of addition of
15  chemical stiffening agents (e.g. by coating, impregnating, etc.), altering the chemical
    structure of the fibres themselves (e.g. by cross-linking chains, etc.) and the like.
    "Cohesion" as used herein refers to the resistance of similar materials to be
    separated from each other.
20
    "Comprise," "comprising," and "comprises" and "comprised of" as used herein are
    synonymous with "include", "including", "includes" or "contain", "containing",
    "contains" and are inclusive or open-ended terms that specify the presence of what
    follows e.g. a component and do not exclude or preclude the presence of additional,
25   non-recited components, features, elements, members, steps, known in the art or
    disclosed therein.
    "Coverstock" as used herein refers to a lightweight non-woven material used to
     contain and conceal an underlying absorbent core material; examples are the facing
30   layer or materials that cover the absorbent cores of feminine hygiene garments,
     baby diapers and pants and adult incontinence garments.
     "Crotch region" of an absorbent article as used herein refers to about 50% of the
     absorbent article's total length (i.e., in the y-dimension), where the crotch point is
35   located in the longitudinal centre of the crotch region. That is, the crotch region is

   WO 2012/048879                                                            PCT/EP2011/005139
                                                   18
     determined by first locating the crotch point of the absorbent article, and then
     measuring forward and backward distance of 25% of absorbent article's total length.
     "Cross direction (CD)", "lateral" or "transverse" and the like as used herein are used
 5   interchangeably and refer to a direction which is orthogonal to the longitudinal
     direction and includes directions within   ±450   of the transversal direction.
     "Curing" as used herein refers to a process by which resins, binders or plastics are
     set into or onto fabrics, usually by heating, to cause them to stay in place; the setting
10   may occur by removing solvent or by cross-linking so as to make them insoluble.
     "Diaper", "conventional diaper", "diaper-like", "diaper-like garment" and the like as
     used herein are used interchangeably and refer to disposable absorbent articles,
     which typically include a front waist portion and a back waist portion which may be
15   releasably connected about the hips of the wearer during use by conventional
     fasteners such as adhesive tape fasteners or hook and loop type fasteners. In use,
     the article is positioned between the legs of the wearer and the fasteners are
     releasably attached to secure the back waist portion to the front waist portion of the
     diaper, thereby securing the diaper about the waist of the wearer. The front waist
20   portion and a back waist portion are connected by relatively non-stretchable or
     stretchable members (the term "stretchable" as used herein refers to materials that
     are extensible when forces are applied to the material, and offer some resistance to
     extension). Hence, such articles are generally not configured to be pulled up or
     down over the hips of the wearer when the fasteners are attached.
25
     "Disposable" is used herein to describe articles that are generally not intended to be
     laundered or otherwise restored or reused (i.e., they are intended to be discarded
     after a single use and, preferably, to be recycled, composted or otherwise disposed
     of in an environmentally compatible manner).
30
     "Distribution layer", "distribution region", "distribution surface" or "distribution
     material" and the like as used herein are used interchangeably and refer to a layer
     having a larger capacity in wicking, dispersing and distributing liquids.

    WO 2012/048879                                                          PCT/EP2011/005139
                                                   19
      "Drylaying" as used herein refers to a process for making a nonwoven web from dry
      fibre; these terms apply to the formation of carded webs, as well as to the air laying
      formation of random webs; a web of fibres produced by drylaying is herein referred
      to as a "drylaid"; a drylaid web bonded by one or more techniques to provide fabric
  5   integrity is herein referred to a "drylaid nonwoven".
      "Dry strength" as used herein refers to the strength of an adhesive attachment
      determined in dry state conditions, immediately after drying under specified
      conditions or after a period of conditioning in the standard laboratory atmosphere.
10
      "Fabric" as used herein refers to a sheet structure made from fibres, filaments
      and/or yarns.
      "Feminine hygiene garments" as used herein refer to absorbent hygiene articles
15    intended to be worn by woman, for absorbing and containing body exudates.
      "Fibre" as used herein refers to the basic threadlike structure from which
      nonwovens, yarns and textiles are made. It differs from a particle by having a length
      at least 4 times its width; "Natural fibres" are either of animal (wool, silk), vegetable
20    (cotton, flax, jute) or mineral (asbestos) origin, while "Man-made fibres" may be
      either polymers synthesised from chemical compounds (polyester, polypropylene,
      nylon, acrylic etc.) or modified natural polymers (rayon, acetate) or mineral (glass).
      "Fibre" and "filament" are used interchangeably.
25    "Film", "foil" and the like as used herein are used interchangeably and refer to a thin
      sheet of essentially non-absorbent material such as plastic or closed foams. In this
      invention it particularly refers to materials that do not correspond to non-wovens.
      "Fluff pulp" as used herein refers to wood pulp specially prepared to be drylaid.
30
      "Front region" as used herein refers to the portion of an absorbent article or part
      thereof that is intended to be positioned proximate the front of a wearer.

   WO 2012/048879                                                         PCT/EP2011/005139
                                                20
    "Garment facing layer" as used herein refers to elements of the chassis that form the
    outer surface of the absorbent article, such as the back sheet, the side panels, the
    waist fasteners, and the like, when such elements are present.
 5  "Heat activated adhesive" as used herein refers to a dry adhesive that is rendered
    tacky or fluid by application of heat or heat and pressure to the assembly.
    "Heat sealing adhesive" as used herein refers to a thermoplastic adhesive which is
     melted between the adherent surfaces by heat application to one or both of the
10  adjacent adherent surfaces.
    "Highloft" as used herein refers to general term of low density, thick or bulky fabrics.
    "Hot-melt adhesive" as used herein refers to a solid material that melts quickly upon
15   heating, then sets to a firm bond upon cooling; used for almost instantaneous
     bonding.
    "Hydrophilic" as used herein refers to having an affinity for being wetted by water or
    for absorbing water.
20
    "Hydrophobic" as used herein refers to lacking the affinity for being wetted by water
    or for absorbing water.
     "Immobilisation layer" as used herein refers to a layer able to be applied to the
25  absorbent polymer material or absorbent polymer material area with the intent to
     compartmentalize, bond and/or immobilize absorbent material and/or layer.
     "Join", "joined" and "joining" as used herein refers to encompassing configurations
    wherein an element is directly secured to another element by affixing the element
30   directly to the other element, as well as configurations wherein the element is
     indirectly secured to the other element by affixing the element to an intermediate
     member or members which in turn is or are affixed to the other element.
     "Knitting" as used herein refers to the technique for interlocking loops of fibres with
35   needles or similar devices.

   WO 2012/048879                                                         PCT/EP2011/005139
                                                21
     "Layer" refers to identifiable components of the absorbent article, and any part
     referred to as a "layer" may actually comprise a laminate or combination of several
     sheets or webs of the requisite type of materials. As used herein, the term "layer"
     includes the terms "layers" and "layered." "Upper" refers to the layer of the
 5   absorbent article which is nearest to and faces the wearer facing layer; conversely,
    the term "lower" refers to the layer of the absorbent article which is nearest to and
    faces the garment facing layer. "Layer" is three dimensional structure with a x
    dimension width, y dimension length, and z-dimensions thickness or calliper, said x
    y dimensions being substantially in the plane of the article, however it should be
10   noted that the various members, layers, and structures of absorbent articles
    according to the present invention may or may not be generally planar in nature, and
     may be shaped or profiled in any desired configuration.
    "Machine direction (MD)", "longitudinal" and the like as used herein are used
15   interchangeably and refer to a direction running parallel to the maximum linear
    dimension of the structure and includes directions within   ±450  of the longitudinal
    direction.
    "Major surface" as used herein refers to a term used to describe the surfaces of
20  greatest extent of a generally planar or sheet-like structural element and to
    distinguish these surfaces from the minor surfaces of the end edges and the side
    edges, i.e., in an element having a length, a width, and a thickness, the thickness
     being the smallest of the three dimensions, the major surfaces are those defined by
    the length and the width and thus having the greatest extent.
25
    "Mass flow" as used herein refers to the flow of a liquid from one absorbent element
    or component to another absorbent element or component by channel flow action.
    "Mechanical bonding" as used herein refers to a method of bonding fibres by
30  entangling them. This can be achieved by needling, stitching with fibres or by the
     use of high-pressure air or water jets and the like.
     "Non-woven" as used herein refers to manufactured sheet, web or batt of
     directionally or randomly orientated fibres, bonded by friction, and/or cohesion
35   and/or adhesion, excluding paper and products which are woven, knitted, tufted,

   WO 2012/048879                                                         PCT/EP2011/005139
                                                  22
     stitch-bonded incorporating binding yarns or filaments, or felted by wet-milling,
     whether or not additionally needled. The fibres may be of natural or man-made
     origin and may be staple or continuous filaments or be formed in situ. Commercially
     available fibres have diameters ranging from less than about 0.001 mm to more than
 5   about 0.2 mm and they come in several different forms: short fibres (known as
     staple, or chopped), continuous single fibres (filaments or monofilaments), untwisted
     bundles of continuous filaments (tow), and twisted bundles of continuous filaments
     (yarn). Nonwoven fabrics can be formed by many processes such as melt blowing,
     spun bonding, solvent spinning, electro-spinning, and carding. The basis weight of
10   nonwoven fabrics is usually expressed in grams per square meter (gsm).
     "Pant", "training pant", "closed diapers", "pre-fastened diapers", "pull-on diapers"
     and "diaper-pants" and the like as used herein are used interchangeably and refer to
     absorbent articles which are typically applied to the wearer by first leading the feet
15   into the respective leg openings and subsequently pulling the pants from the feet to
     waist area over the hips and buttocks of the wearer and which are capable of being
     pulled up or down over the hips of the wearer. Typically, such articles may include a
     front waist portion and a back waist portion which may be connected about the hips
     of the wearer by integral or releasable members. A pant may be preformed by any
20   suitable technique including, but not limited to, joining together portions of the article
     using refastenable and/or non-refastenable bonds (e.g., seam, weld, adhesive,
     cohesive bond, fastener, etc.). A pant may be preformed anywhere along the
     circumference of the article (e.g., side fastened, front waist fastened).
25   "Polymer" as used herein refers to but is not limited to, homopolymers, copolymers,
     such as for example, block, graft, random and alternating copolymers, terpolymers,
     etc. and blends and modifications thereof. Unless otherwise specifically limited, the
     term "polymer" includes all possible spatial configurations of the molecule and
     include, but are not limited to isotactic, syndiotactic and random symmetries.
30
     "Rear" as used herein refers to the portion of an absorbent article or part thereof that
     is intended to be positioned proximate the back of the wearer.
     "Resin" as used herein refers to a solid or semisolid polymeric material.
35

   WO 2012/048879                                                           PCT/EP2011/005139
                                                  23
    "Substantially cellulose free" as used herein refers to an absorbent article, structure
    or core, that contains less than 40% by weight cellulosic fibres, less than 20%
     cellulosic fibres, less than 5% cellulosic fibres, no cellulosic fibres, or no more than
    an immaterial amount of cellulosic fibres which do not materially affect the thinness,
 5  flexibility or absorbency thereof. This also encompasses completely cellulose free.
    "Thermobonding" as used herein refers to a method of bonding fibres by the use of
     heat and/or high-pressure.
10  "Thermoplastic" as used herein refers to polymeric materials that have a melting
    temperature and can flow or be formed into desired shapes on the application of
     heat at or below the melting point.
    "Ultrasonic" as used herein refers to the use of high frequency sound to generate
15   localised heat through vibration thereby causing fibres to bond to one another.
    "Water-absorbing", "liquid-absorbing", "absorbent", "absorbing" and the like as used
     herein are used interchangeably and refer to compounds, materials, products that
     absorb at least water, but typically also other aqueous fluids and typically other parts
20   of bodily exudates such as at least urine or blood.
     "Wearer facing layer" as used herein refers to elements of the chassis that form the
     inner surface of the absorbent article, such as the topsheet, the leg cuffs, and the
     side panels, etc., when such elements are present.
25
     "Weaving" as used herein refers to the process of interlacing two or more sets of
     yarns at right angles to form a fabric; a web of fibres produced by weaving is herein
     referred to as a "Woven".
30   "Web material" as used herein refers to an essentially endless material in one
     direction, i.e. the longitudinal extension or the length, or the x- direction in Cartesian
     coordinates relative to the web material. Included in this term is an essentially
     unlimited sequence of pieces cut or otherwise separated from an essentially endless
     material. Often, though not necessarily, the web materials will have a thickness
35   dimension (i.e. the z-direction) which is significantly smaller than the longitudinal

   WO 2012/048879                                                          PCT/EP2011/005139
                                                   24
     extension (i.e. in x-direction). Typically, the width of web materials (the y-direction)
    will be significantly larger than the thickness, but less than the length. Often, though
     not necessarily, the thickness and the width of such materials is essentially constant
     along the length of the web. Without intending any limitation, such web materials
 5   may be cellulosic fibre materials, tissues, woven or non-woven materials and the
     like. Typically, though not necessarily, web materials are supplied in roll form, or on
     spools, or in a folded state in boxes. The individual deliveries may then be spliced
     together to form the essentially endless structure. A web material may be composed
     of several web materials, such as multilayer non-woven, coated tissues,
10   nonwoven/film laminates. Web materials may comprise other materials, such as
     added binding material, particles, hydrophilizing agents and the like.
     "Wet burst strength" is a measure of a layer's ability to absorb energy, when wet and
     subjected to deformation normal to the plane of the web.
15
     "Wet strength" as used herein refers to the strength of an adhesive attachment
     determined immediately after removal from a liquid in which it has been immersed
     under specified conditions of time, temperature and pressure. The term is commonly
     used in the art to designate strength after immersion in water.
20
     "Wetlaying" as used herein refers to the forming a web from an aqueous dispersion
     of fibres by applying modified paper making techniques; a web of fibres produced by
     wetlaying is herein referred to as a "wetlaid".
25   "Wood pulp" as used herein refers to cellulosic fibres used to make viscose rayon,
     paper and the absorbent cores of products such as feminine hygiene garments,
     baby diapers and pants and adult incontinence garments.
     "X-y dimension" as used herein refers to the plane orthogonal to the thickness of the
30   article, structure or element. The x- and y-dimensions correspond generally to the
     width and length, respectively, of the article, structure or element.
     "Z-dimension" as used herein refers to the dimension orthogonal to the length and
     width of the article, structure or element. The z-dimension corresponds generally to
35   the thickness of the article, structure or element.

   WO 2012/048879                                                        PCT/EP2011/005139
                                                25
    The recitation of numerical ranges by endpoints includes all numbers and fractions
    subsumed within that range, as well as the recited endpoints.
    The absorbent structure according to the invention, preferably a substantially
 5  cellulose free structure, comprises a carrier layer, an auxiliary layer and an
    absorbent material provided between said carrier layer and said auxiliary layer to
    form a sandwich wherein initial smaller pockets (preferably more in relative amount
    as compared to later compartments) and subsequently larger compartments
    (preferably less in relative amount as compared to initial pockets) allows excellent
10  fluid management of the absorbent polymer material in dry, partially and fully liquid
    loaded state. The absorbent structures according to the present invention allow
    sufficient internal immobilization of the absorbent polymer material in dry state by
    providing well-designable customized smaller pockets containing the unexpanded
    dry materials and subsequently by providing well-designable customised bigger
15  compartments containing the wetted materials, while avoiding restraining or
    restriction of the swelling and volume-expanding absorbent material in wetted state,
    thereby preventing underutilisation, loss or negative impact on their absolute and
    relative performance, giving rise to superficial liquid management surfaces.
     In a preferred embodiment according to the invention the fluid and liquid
20  management absorbent structure contains a pre-defined pattern of secondary
    attachments at least partially joining said enveloping layers together characterized in
    that the secondary attachments are loosened, dissolved, weakened and/or broken
    up as a result of exposing said absorbent structure to liquid, vapour and/or moisture.
     It should be noted that the secondary attachment can but do not have to be water
25  sensitive, in other words they can thus also be water-insensitive or wet-resistant, as
    the secondary attachments should preferably be allowed to detach by bringing the
    absorbent structure in contact with liquid, thus not necessarily the secondary
    attachments themselves have to be wetted before the absorbent structures displays
     its fluid and liquid management. Next to more accurate prediction and development
30  of customised release times of the secondary attachments, this is also
    advantageous since developing and controlling water-sensitive secondary
    attachments bring much more complexity to the manufacturing process of the
    absorbent structures leading to slower production speeds, additional energy and
     material consumption, gives rise to higher prevalence of dysfunctional and non-

   WO 2012/048879                                                          PCT/EP2011/005139
                                                 26
     performing secondary attachment thus to be disposed failing absorbent structures.
     The mere forces exerted by the swelling absorbent material should thus preferably
     be sufficient to detach the secondary attachments, independent of them being dry,
     partially wetted or fully wetted. Preferably the smaller-sized pockets in dry state
 5   release under the influence of bringing the absorbent structure into contact with
     water, thereby forming intermediate-sized compartment made up by the release
     expanded smaller-sized pockets and/or by the combination of multiple smaller-sized
     pockets. Preferably these intermediate-sized pockets are formed when the
     absorbent structure is partially loaded. Even more preferably the medium-sized
10   compartments from partially wetted state enlarge even further under the influence of
     bringing the absorbent structure into contact with water or upon additional swelling
     of the absorbent polymer material, thereby forming maximum-sized compartments
     made up by the release expanded smaller-sized pockets and by the combination of
     multiple smaller-sized pockets and medium sized compartments. Preferably these
15   maximum-sized pockets are formed when the absorbent structure is almost fully
     wetted. This controlled and continuous expansion during the wetting process results
     in unseen fluid management qualities and moreover allows for liquid management
     superficial structures. This is unseen in the prior art and is highly desirable.
     Preferably also a pre-defined grid of primary attachments is present throughout the
20   majority of the surface area of the absorbent structure which remain substantially
     intact under normal usage conditions. The primary attachment can serve the overall
     structural and functional integrity of the absorbent structure, increase the fluid
     management systems and/or help with the creation of in-homogenous liquid
     management surface structure of the absorbent structure. Absorbent structures
25   according to a preferred embodiment of the invention contain absorbent polymer
     material, more preferably absorbent particulate polymer material such as highly
     permeable SAP.
     In a preferred embodiment according to the invention a single absorbent layer
     substantially cellulose free absorbent structure for use in an absorbent article is
30   measuring about 10 cm in width by about 40 cm in length, having an average dry
     thickness from about 0.1 to about 10 mm, more preferably from about 0.5 to about 5
     mm, most preferably from about 1-3 mm would contain about 5-25 grams absorbent
     polymer material, more preferably about 10-20 grams, more preferably 11-15 gram,
     most preferably about 12-14 grams which would initially be pocketed in about 50
35   800 small pockets, more preferably about 100-700 pockets, more preferably about

   WO 2012/048879                                                          PCT/EP2011/005139
                                                27
     200-600 pockets, more preferably about 300-500 pockets, more preferably about
     350-450 pockets and most preferably around 1 pocket per cm2 absorbent structure
     surface, which would subsequently be gradually released to ultimately form about 1
     50 compartments, more preferably about 3-30 compartments, more preferably about
 5   5-25 compartments, more preferably about 10-20 compartment and most preferably
     about 1 compartment per 15 cm 2 absorbent structure surface. Pockets are
     preferably identical and square-, round- or honeycomb shaped and uniformly and
     homogenously distributed across the absorbent structure, the compartments are
     preferably longitudinally distributed and rectangle- or ellipsoid-like shaped having
10   adequate perimeter sealing at the absorbent article edges to avoid liquid
     management structures guiding and channelling the liquid to edges of the absorbent
     structure, where certainly the edges of the crotch regions have to be avoided. In
     essence the shape of the smaller pockets try to accommodate the maximum amount
     of absorbent polymer on the available surface area, while the bigger compartments
15   try to accommodate the maximum expansion volume of the wetted absorbent
     polymer materials while ensuring internal fluid management and external liquid
     management via surface structures. The absorbent polymer material will
     furthermore preferably be profiled throughout the surface in these dry pockets,
     hence the need for primary attachment grid and secondary attachment patterns
20   having well-defined and accurate bonding strength to accommodate fluid
     management and liquid management surface structures according to the invention.
     The absorbent structure will preferably be complemented by about 30-70 gsm, more
     preferably about 40-60 gsm and most preferably about 50 gsm highloft acquisition
     layer and/or similar amounts of curly fibers as distribution layer to allow fast uptake
25   and distribution within the absorbent article, subsequently being enveloped in a
     liquid permeable topsheet and liquid impermeable breathable backsheet to allow
     implementation within an absorbent article such as baby diaper or pants.
     While preferably such absorbent structure volume increases are result of temporary
     secondary attachment patterns made up for instance from ultrasonic bonds,
30   preferably the absorbent structures are designed in combination with substantially
     permanent primary attachment grids for instance also made up by ultrasonic bonds,
     allowing the release of bigger volumes from the initial smaller volumes by
     detachment of the secondary attachments, while keeping absorbent polymer
     integrity and coherence in light of excellent fluid management via the primary
35   attachment pattern safeguarding structural and functional integrity. In an alternative

   WO 2012/048879                                                           PCT/EP2011/005139
                                                  28
     embodiment however these absorbent structure volume increases are the result of
     using flexible, extensible, elastic, stretchable and/or elastomeric materials such as
    for instance elastic non-woven and/or breakable material such as for instance semi
     rigid, rigid and/or stiff paper or tissue respectively allowing additional expansion from
 5   and/or breaking up from smaller to larger volumes.
     In certain embodiments according to the present invention all or some of the
     secondary attachments may for instance be maintained during partial loading of the
     absorbent structure, while they will only become detached in fully bodily exudates
     loaded state. In this way initial contact is maintained until swelling forces of the
10   absorbent structure take the upper hand. This de-bonding does preferably not
     influence the primary attachments, thereby still ensuring functional and/or structural
     integrity of the absorbent structure and absorbent polymer material area, while
     however not restraining the swelling of the absorbent polymer material so as to
     decrease liquid absorption and retention capacity. By preferably not relying on wet
15   soluble, wet-sensitive or not-wet-resistant secondary attachments the detachment
     process of the secondary attachment patterns according to the invention can be
     better controlled and predicted, since such absorbent structures and secondary
     attachment patterns in use, such as for instance used in absorbent articles such as
     a baby diaper or pants, will not be prematurely released due to the mere wetting of
20   the (wet-sensitive) attachment means but will only be released when the to be
     expected and required forces deriving from movement, article strain and absorbent
     polymer material swelling have been reached. This is especially advantageous in
     substantially cellulose free absorbent articles as they specifically have to avoid free
     migration and movement of dry or partially dry absorbent polymer materials in light
25   of lumping, gel blocking and overall absorbent material performance.
     In a preferred embodiment the absorbent structure immobilizes, retains and/or
     restrains the particulate material and the attachments seal, bond and/or join at least
     part of the pockets and/or outer layers together via ultrasonic bonding, thermo
30   bonding, pressure-bonding and/or glue-bonding means. These attachments
     preferably form and/or define pockets which can contain particulate material,
     whereby the attachment regions comprise essentially and preferably no particulate
     material. Preferably these attachments are made up from discrete shape rather than
     substantially continuous lines so as to better control the bonding and debonding
35   process in line with specified bonding strengths for those primary attachments grids

   WO 2012/048879                                                          PCT/EP2011/005139
                                                 29
    and secondary attachment patterns within that absorbent structure according to that
    embodiment of the present invention. The use well-design dots for instance can be
     located, shaped and sized in such a manner so as to gradually release the
     secondary attachment pattern while steadily preserving the primary attachment
 5   patterns during any given absorbent structure embodiment. Preferably this is done
     by the very accurate ultrasonic bonding as opposed to the thermo-mechanical
     calendaring for instance which are very difficult to control in light of their generated
    attachment tenacity. Also such calendar systems are caused to be performing very
     poorly in case any absorbent material is trapped in between the attachments. The
10  absorbent structure according to the present invention overcome these problems.
     Preferably the absence of an excess or the complete elimination of synthetic
     immobilisation admixtures (e.g. adhesive and binders, such as thermoplastic glues
    and webs) used for covering, restraining or bonding absorbent polymer materials
     makes the structure technically, environmentally and economically very favourable.
15   In an alternative embodiment, the composite structure is covered with such
    thermoplastic materials, glues, binders and/or adhesives to fixate, pocket,
    encapsulate, bind and/or join these particulate material clusters to and/or in between
    one or more layers. Additional materials and/or layers to provide extra functional
    and/or structural advantages such as strength, acquisition, absorption, distribution,
20  transport, retention, etc. may also be incorporated.
    The absorbent structure, preferably substantially cellulose free, according to the
     invention has several embodiments and preferred embodiments for use in absorbent
     products such as for instance:
25  An absorbent structure comprising:
             a) a carrier layer; and
             b) an auxiliary layer; and
             c) an absorbent material provided between said carrier layer and said
             auxiliary layer wherein pockets release extra volume as a result of exposing
30           said absorbent structure to liquid.
     An absorbent structure comprising:
             a) a carrier layer; and
             b) an auxiliary layer; and

   WO 2012/048879                                                        PCT/EP2011/005139
                                                30
            c) an absorbent material provided between said carrier layer and said
            auxiliary layer wherein relative smaller sized pockets release extra volume so
            as to form relative bigger sized compartments as a result of exposing said
            absorbent structure to liquid.
 5
    An absorbent structure comprising:
            a) a carrier layer; and
            b) an auxiliary layer; and
            c) an absorbent material provided between said carrier layer and said
10          auxiliary layer wherein a plurality of smaller sized pockets release extra
            volume so as to form relative fewer bigger sized compartments as a result of
            exposing said absorbent structure to liquid.
    An absorbent structure for use in an absorbent article comprising:
15          a) a carrier layer; and
            b) an auxiliary layer; and
            c) an absorbent material provided between said carrier layer and said
            auxiliary layer wherein a plurality of smaller sized pockets release extra
            volume so as to form relative fewer bigger sized compartments as a result of
20          exposing said absorbent structure to liquid wherein at least some secondary
            attachments form pockets characterized in that when the secondary
            attachments are loosened as a result of exposing said absorbent structure to
            liquid they form compartments.
25  An absorbent structure for use in an absorbent article comprising:
            a) a carrier layer; and
            b) an auxiliary layer; and
            c) an absorbent material provided between said carrier layer and said
            auxiliary layer wherein a plurality of smaller sized pockets release extra
30          volume so as to form relative fewer bigger sized compartments as a result of
            exposing said absorbent structure to liquid wherein at least some secondary
            attachments join said carrier layer and said auxiliary layer together to form
            pockets characterized in that when the secondary attachments are loosened
            as a result of exposing said absorbent structure to liquid they form
35          compartments.

   WO 2012/048879                                                         PCT/EP2011/005139
                                                 31
     An absorbent structure for use in an absorbent article comprising:
             a) a carrier layer; and
             b) an auxiliary layer; and
 5           c) an absorbent material provided between said carrier layer and said
             auxiliary layer wherein a plurality of smaller sized pockets release extra
             volume so as to form relative fewer bigger sized compartments as a result of
             exposing said absorbent structure to liquid wherein at least some primary
             and secondary attachments join said carrier layer and said auxiliary layer
10           together to form pockets characterized in that when the secondary
             attachments are loosened as a result of exposing said absorbent structure to
             liquid they form compartments, whereas the primary attachments remain
             substantially intact.
15  An absorbent structure for use in an absorbent article comprising:
             a) a carrier layer; and
             b) an auxiliary layer; and
             c) an absorbent material provided between said carrier layer and said
             auxiliary layer wherein a plurality of smaller sized pockets release extra
20           volume so as to form relative fewer bigger sized compartments as a result of
             exposing said absorbent structure to liquid wherein at least some primary
             and/or secondary attachments join said carrier layer and said auxiliary layer
             together to form pockets characterized in that when the secondary
             attachments are loosened as a result of exposing said absorbent structure to
25           liquid the absorbent structure swells in-homogenously so as to form liquid
             management surface structure.
     In a preferred embodiment the following is provided: A substantially cellulose free
    absorbent structure comprising a carrier layer, an auxiliary layer and an absorbent
30   particulate polymer material there between, the carrier layer and auxiliary layer
     being at least partially joined together by attachment regions made up of
    substantially permanent primary attachment grids having relative higher bonding
    strength and/or substantially temporary secondary attachment patterns having
     relative lower bonding strength, so as to form a sandwich-like composite structure
35  containing clustered absorbent particulate polymer materials provided in at least

   WO 2012/048879                                                        PCT/EP2011/005139
                                                32
     some of the unattached regions between the carrier layer and auxiliary layer thereby
    forming an absorbent polymer material area, the plurality of smaller-sized pockets of
     substantially equal thickness made up by at least substantially temporary secondary
     attachments define spaces which immobilize the available dry volume absorbent
 5   polymer material, the substantially temporary secondary attachment being gradually
     releasable as a result of exposing the peripheral absorbent polymer material to
     liquid so as phase in an intermediate volume increase to fewer medium-sized
     compartments immobilising the partially wetted absorbent polymer material,
     subsequently resulting in still fewer maximum-sized compartments immobilising the
10  wetted absorbent polymer material. Preferably it shows non-homogenous swelling
     due to non-homogeneous swelling of the absorbent polymer materials and/or
     releasing of the secondary attachments so as to from liquid management structures.
     Prior art absorbent structures swell substantially homogeneous and continuous until
15   the available liquid uptake capacity of the absorbent material is reached and/or the
     available free volume and space within the various absorbent structure boundaries
     is taken up by the swollen and volume-expanded absorbent materials. The placing
     of too much absorbent polymer material in smaller and confined pockets which do
     not have the volume expanding capacities according to the present invention thus
20   lead to underused absorbent material capacities, while the overfilled pockets often
     result in undesirable lumpy pocket feelings for the handler and user and in extreme
     cases may cause the pockets to unintentionally rupture thereby expelling the
     swollen absorbent materials into contact with the user which is to be avoided.
25   Other absorbent structures foresee in dry state the necessary swelling volume for
     their subsequent wetted and swollen absorbent polymer material by providing larger
     and spacious pockets prior to use. However, especially in substantially cellulose free
     absorbent structure, the required volume leads to the absorbent material not being
     sufficiently immobilized resulting in free migration, moving and clustering together
30   leading to extremely poor fluid and liquid management. Furthermore the clustering
     together of absorbent material in too large pockets in dry state causes severe gel
     blocking when wetted and more over decreases the overall fit, comfort and
     discreetness due to the fact these large pockets cause the absorbent polymer
     material to form significant volumes in parts of the large pockets during usage which

   WO 2012/048879                                                           PCT/EP2011/005139
                                                 33
     are felt by the user in use, which is highly undesirable. The apparent gel-blocking
     leads to very poor usage of the expensive absorbent polymer materials.
     Nevertheless it has been found when absorbent polymer material absorbs liquid and
    swells it actually performs much more rapidly, effectively and efficiently when it has
 5   been disposed in pockets or arrangements. These predefined locations together
    with the meticulous dosing of absorbent polymer material can thus help to obtain
    optimal absorbency, fit and/or comfort. It is desirable for absorbent polymer material
    to remain in its intended location, while unwanted migration and uncontrolled
    movement thereof within the absorbent structure should be avoided. However the
10  absorbent material is very desirably also immobilized and/or restrained via an
    absorbent structure in such a way that the absorbent particulate polymer material
     performs both in partially liquid loaded as well as in fully liquid loaded condition
    taking in mind required volume expansion for material and structural performance.
    The absorbent structure according to present invention is therefore distinguished by
15  its capability to firmly pocket, immobilize and/or restrain absorbent material within
    the dry state while allowing additional, predetermined, phased and controlled
    expansion from a multitude of smaller-sized pockets to fewer but bigger-sized
    unleashed compartments during the wetting of the absorbent structure, thus creating
    additional (yet unavailable) space, volume and surface area in light of optimal
20  expansion, swelling and/or loading of the absorbent material. While the substantially
    permanent primary attachment grids will essentially help to safeguard the structural
    integrity of the absorbent structure since they are substantially resistant to the forces
    exerted upon them during the wetting and using of the absorbent article, the
    substantially temporary secondary attachment patterns will allow the rise of
25   unprecedented functionalities, while nevertheless securely encapsulating the
    absorbent material during gradual phased expansion and swelling.
    The absorbent structure attachment grid and pattern is preferably in line with the to
    be exerted forces generated by the user and by the available and usable absorbent
30   material when being loaded from substantially dry to a partially loaded up to fully
     liquid loaded state. The primary attachments in essence retain more integrity during
    and after absorbent structure absorption than the secondary attachments. The
    difference in bonding strength between the primary attachments and the secondary
    attachments allows the carrier layer and auxiliary layer to separate between the

   WO 2012/048879                                                          PCT/EP2011/005139
                                                  34
     multiple primary attachment regions, respectively at the secondary attachment
     regions, thus releasing additional space and volume to allow further and free
    expansion of the absorbent material in the partially or fully liquid loaded state as
    opposed to the dry state. This release is brought in line with the volume swelling.
 5
    The unlocking of the extra volumes and space during usage only, leads to several
     manufacturing, storage and transport advantages, since the absorbent materials can
     now be positioned, clustered and immobilized more accurately and effectively, as
    the removal of initial restraining means during use allows for deferred fluid and liquid
10   management systems leading to excellent performance and significant raw material
    savings. Better and controlled liquid wicking and dispersion thus leads to improved
    fluid communication from less absorbent (e.g. saturated) to the more absorbent
    area's (e.g. unsaturated).
15   For reasons of further improved absorbency, fluid distribution, transport, retention
    and lower amount of leakages and rewet-values, it is preferably desirable for these
    absorbent structures to have outspoken macroscopic liquid management surface
    structures such as heights and elevations and/or depressions and valleys which can
    act as channels, canals and/or embankments to guide the liquid in a desired
20   manner. The absorbent structure comprises a carrier layer, an auxiliary layer and an
    absorbent material sandwiched there between wherein primary attachments and
     secondary attachments bond said carrier layer and said auxiliary layer together
     characterized in that the absorbent structure non-homogeneously swells to form a
     superficial liquid-managing surface structure as a result of exposing the absorbent
25   structure to liquid.
     For reasons of optimal flexibility, fit, comfort, discreetness, transportation and
     storage efficiency, it is desirable for such three-dimensional macroscopic surface
     structures to appear and function only when needed, i.e. when the product is
30   partially and/or fully wetted by liquid, and are thus preferably not yet present prior to
     the usage of the absorbent structure. The invention allows for indirect functionalities,
     whereby 'hidden' features in dry state are essentially 'unleashed' by wetting, thereby
     'revealing' essentially the three-dimensional structures with high(er) elevated and/or
     low(er) depressed functional and structural parts of the absorbent structure. The
35   three-dimensional swelling of the absorbent structure can be caused by differential

   WO 2012/048879                                                        PCT/EP2011/005139
                                                35
    swelling of the absorbent polymer material or by the differential grid and pattern of
    bonding and debonding attachments, or by a combination thereof. In a preferred
    embodiment, the absorbent structure comprises absorbent materials different in
    volume absorption capacity, by at least 25%, preferably at least 50%, most
 5  preferably at least 100 %. By way of example an originally flat cuff being for instance
    attached between two areas of high absorption would be freed and erect itself when
    these areas take up liquid and swell.
    The inventor has found that the ability to create macroscopic surface structures with
10  internal, incorporated and superficial liquid management systems allow unseen fluid
    management by enabling liquid guidance towards desired locations with additional
    uptake, distribution, transport and containment opportunities as effect and thus
    ensuring a significant increase in efficiency and effectiveness of raw material usage
    while limiting gel blocking, reducing rewet, minimizes leakage and failure. Preferably
15  the liquid is guided towards the entire surface of the absorbent structure with the
    exception of the side edges to minimize leakages and product failures.
    Ideally the liquid taken up by the absorbent structure and the swelling and volume
    increase resulting therefrom is in line with the respective spaces and volumes
20  created by the incremental debonding and loosing process of the attachment
    patterns. While the dry immobilisation of the lower volume absorbent material is
    secured in the small(ler) pockets formed by the combination of the primary and
    secondary attachments, the wet immobilisation of the wetted higher volume
    absorbent material is continuously ensured by the expanding big(ger) compartments
25  defined by intact primary attachments after partial or full release of the secondary
    attachment patterns under the influence of liquid, vapour and/or moisture. As the
    absorbent material gains significant volume it is thus important to restrain the
    absorbent material continuously. Well-designed phased absorbent structures allow
    gradual expansion of the absorbent material without too little or too excessive
30  restraining and too late or too early detachment of the secondary attachments
    during the gradual wetting and swelling process. The bonding strength should
    suffice the parameters of the absorbent structure and will depend on the article, its
    product size and shape and the required duration of the usage and performance.

   WO 2012/048879                                                           PCT/EP2011/005139
                                                   36
     It is noted that when stated primary attachments remain substantially intact under
     influence of liquid, reference is preferably being made to characteristics under
     relatively normal wearing/usage conditions, typical usage timing, average liquid
     amounts and intervals at room or body temperatures without taking into account
 5   exaggerated, severe and/or extreme conditions such as for example abnormal large
     amounts of litres of liquid during multiple days of intense contact. In such case,
     although not preferred, the initially wet-resistant primary attachments might become
     loosened, detached or broken up after all. It would be clear from the above that such
     primary attachments eventually turning into secondary attachments after being
10  exposed to prolonged and/or more intense usage conditions than normal are also
    envisaged under this invention.
     Unlike previously existing absorbent articles and methods from the prior art limited
     by permanent or fully releasable immobilization and/or restraining means leading to
15   unsatisfactory absorbency, distribution and retention parameters combined with
     limited flexibility, fit and wearing comfort, the present invention overcomes various
     problems relating thereto and deriving therefrom by having absorbent material
     containing pockets and compartments with pre-defined and well-managed
     permanent grids and temporary patterns leading to gradual volume expansion. The
20   present invention furthermore overcomes various problems by having wetted
    absorbent material forming obstacles and liquid guides thereby providing physical
    and chemical barriers and blockages preventing leakage and/or providing extra fluid
    distribution and transport. More specifically the invention allows increased absorbent
     material expansion and swelling within the unleashed compartments, while
25  additional distribution and transport arises within and in between the absorbent
     polymer material clusters which have until now been underused and unappreciated.
    The present invention thereby does not only provide for an efficacious
     compartmentalization and restraining of absorbent materials in dry, partially and fully
30   liquid loaded stated, it also allows a significant increase in efficiency and
     effectiveness of raw materials available in the absorbent structure within partially
     and fully liquid load state, increases overall absorbency and retention capacities and
     limits gel blocking, reduces rewet and minimizes leakage.

   WO 2012/048879                                                          PCT/EP2011/005139
                                                   37
     In a second aspect, the present invention provides an absorbent article comprising,
     at least in the front half of the absorbent article, an absorbent structure according to
     an embodiment of the invention. In a preferred embodiment, the absorbent article
     comprises an absorbent structure comprising a carrier layer and auxiliary layer,
 5   whereby the upper surface of the carrier layer is facing the wearer's skin and a lower
     surface of the auxiliary layer is facing the garment of the wearer. The absorbent
     material is preferably in direct contact with the lower surface of the auxiliary layer
     and the upper surface of the carrier layer, however additional fabric, non-woven,
     woven, tissue and/or paper layer can be provided to accommodate further fluid
10   management and integrity.
     It is known that for most absorbent articles, for instance for articles such as feminine
     hygiene garments, baby diapers, baby pants and adult incontinence products, that
     liquid discharge occurs predominantly in the front half. It is therefore advantageous
15   to provide an improved absorbent article with an absorbent structure according to an
     embodiment of the invention in that area where fluid loading and uptake requirement
     is highest. Obviously, an absorbent article comprising an absorbent structure
     according to an embodiment of the invention which is entirely or partially located in
     either the front, crotch and/or back region of the absorbent article, such as for
20   instance a baby diaper, is also covered under this invention. Any combinations
     thereof are hereby also encompassed.
     In the hygiene industry, absorbent articles are specifically designed to absorb,
     distribute and retain bodily exudates. Apart from taking up liquid and retaining it
    within the absorbent structure of the absorbent article, the absorbent articles are
25   also intended to satisfactory prevent bodily exudates from soiling, wetting, or
     otherwise contaminating clothing or other articles, such as bedding, that may
     possibly or come in contact with the wearer. A disposable absorbent article, such as
     a disposable diaper, may be worn for several hours in a dry state and/or in liquid
     loaded state. Accordingly multiple attempts have been made toward improving the fit
30   and wearing comfort of the absorbent article, both when the article is dry and when
     the absorbent article is fully or partially loaded with bodily exudates, while enhancing
     the absorption, distribution and retention functions of the absorbent article. Flexible,
     thin, light-weight and discreet absorbent articles are also here greatly preferred.

   WO 2012/048879                                                            PCT/EP2011/005139
                                                   38
    A typical absorbent article has a crotch width of about 100 mm and an average core
     length of about 500 mm. An absorbent article with a crotch width of this dimension
     provides improved consumer comfort. An absorbent structure according to the
     present invention achieves a crotch width of preferably less than 85mm, 80mm,
 5   75mm, 70 mm, 65 mm, 60 mm, 55 mm or 50 mm and a core length of preferably
     less than 500mm, 450mm, 400mm, 350 mm or 300 mm. Hence, preferably an
    absorbent structure according to the present invention has a crotch width and a core
     length in line with the above dimensions.
10   In a third aspect, a method and apparatus to produce an absorbent structure
    according to an embodiment of the invention used as absorbent core in a feminine
     hygiene garment, baby diaper, baby pants or adult incontinence garment product.
    While particular embodiments of the present invention are illustrated and described,
     it would be obvious those skilled in the art that various other changes and
15   modifications can be made without departing from the spirit and scope of the
     invention.
     Method and apparatus for the manufacturing of an absorbent structure for use in an
    absorbent article comprising the steps of:
20            -providing a carrier layer;
              -covering the carrier layer with an absorbent material wherein said absorbent
              material comprises
              i)      an absorbent polymer material, and
              ii)      from zero to an amount less than about 40 weight percent absorbent
25                     fibrous material, based on the weight of absorbent polymer material;
              -covering the absorbent material with an auxiliary layer which is joinable
              to the carrier layer; and
              -joining the auxiliary layer to the carrier layer thereby forming primary
              attachments and secondary attachments that define pockets there between
30            wherein the absorbent material is held in at least one of the pockets,
              characterized in that, the secondary attachments are loosened, preferably to
              form larger compartments, as a result of exposing the absorbent structure to
              a liquid whereas the primary attachments remain substantially intact.
35   Examples are used below for further non-limitative illustration of the invention.

   WO 2012/048879                                                        PCT/EP2011/005139
                                                39
     With reference to Figure 1 A-D, 2 and 3, the absorbent structure 14 includes at least
     one carrier layer 101 and at least one auxiliary layer 102, and absorbent material
     110. The carrier layer 101 and auxiliary layer 102 are joined via secondary
 5   attachments 115, optionally via a secondary attachment media such a for instance
     glue or hot-melt, and preferably also joined together via primary attachments 111,
    optionally via primary attachment media such as for instance an adhesive or binder.
     It should be noted although absorbent structures using secondary attachments 115
10  as well as primary attachments 111 are very much preferred, absorbent structures
     14 only using secondary attachments 115 without the use of primary attachments
     111 are also covered by this invention. One might for instance think about a
     combination of several pieces of absorbent segments combined to form an
    absorbent structure 14 which is only using secondary attachments 115 within the
15  absorbent segments so upon wetting to come from a multitude of dry segments with
     smaller pockets 130 to a multitude of wetted segments with larger compartments.
    Various combinations, shapes and sizes are of course possible and are hereby
    encompassed by the present invention.
20   Referring to Figure 1B, a carrier layer 101 and an auxiliary layer 102 is provided.
    The carrier layer 101 is covered on one side by discrete amounts of absorbent
     material 110. The absorbent material 110 is covered by an auxiliary layer 102. The
     auxiliary layer 102 lies on top of the absorbent material 110 and is joined at regular
     intervals a distribution layer 100a or wicking layer 100b thereby providing pockets
25   130 holding the absorbent material 110. The absorbent material 110 preferably
     comprises absorbent particulate polymer particles, but in addition absorbent fibrous
     materials can be used. Preferably the amount of absorbent fibrous material used is
     less than 10 weight percent based on the total weight of absorbent polymer material.
30   Referring to Figure 1C, it has been found that absorbent structures 14 can be
    formed by combining two layers of absorbent material 110. The absorbent structure
     14 as shown comprises one carrier layer 101, two layers of absorbent material 110
     and two auxiliary layers 102. When two discontinuous layers of an absorbent
     material 110 are used, being one on the wearer facing surface and one on the
35   garment facing surface, they would be typically arranged in such a way that the

   WO 2012/048879                                                           PCT/EP2011/005139
                                                 40
    compartments 130 containing the absorbent material 110 from one storage layer are
    aligned with the compartments 130 containing the absorbent material 110 from the
    other storage layer in order to have the attachments from both layers adjacent to
    one another. In another alternative embodiment, however, the compartments 130
 5  and the respective attachments are offset one another.
     Referring to Figure 1D, it has also been found that absorbent structures 14 can be
    formed by combining two or more layers of absorbent material 110. The absorbent
    structure 14 as shown comprises two layer of absorbent material 110, two carrier
10   layers 101, and two auxiliary layers 102. When two discontinuous layers of an
    absorbent material 110 are used, they would typically be arranged in such a way
    that the pockets 130 containing the absorbent material 110 of one storage layer
    faces the pockets 130 containing the absorbent material 110 of the other storage
     layer. In an alternative preferred embodiment, however, the attachments are offset
15  and do not face each other. Hence preferably, when two storage layers are joined,
    this is done such that the first carrier layer 101 of the first storage layer faces the
    auxiliary layer 102 of the second storage layer, while the auxiliary layer 102 from
     upper storage layer is situated on the wearer facing surface and the carrier layer
     102 from lower storage layer is situated on the garment facing surface of the
20  sandwiched structures.
    Typical examples of methods used to join material and layers to each other are by
    way of example, but are not limited to, the use of an adhesive such as for instance
     pressure sensitive adhesive, curing, chemical links such as for instance hydrogen
25  and covalent bonds or via the use of ultrasonic and/or other thermal, mechanical or
    thermo-mechanical attachment techniques such as for instance heat sealing,
     needling, air, entanglement, resistance and water jet pressure, and the like.
     However, if the carrier layer 101 and the auxiliary layer 102 are solely attached to
30   one another for example via an area of mechanical resistance or entanglement, or
     via an area on which the layers are fused together; without the need of any
     additional bonding or joining agent, no attachment media is provided. In a preferred
     embodiment, the primary attachments 111 and secondary attachments 115 are
     solely made up by ultrasonic thermo-sealing, which are preferably water-insensitive.
35   Typically thermo-sealing areas of the primary attachments 111 are relatively large(r)

   WO 2012/048879                                                         PCT/EP2011/005139
                                                  41
     in surface, tenacity and/or integrity (than the thermo-sealing area's of the secondary
    attachments 115), resulting in an absolute or relative high(er) separation force. In
    general, the attachments can come in various sizes and shapes, such as round,
    elliptic, rectangular or square shapes but it is preferred to provide them with rounded
 5  edges to inhibit the carrier layer 101 and auxiliary layer 102 from tearing apart
    during use. Preferably primary attachments 111 are arranged in a pattern consisting
    of rounded elements of which around 50 % are oriented along an X-axis, and the
     remainder along a Y-axis. Combinations of elliptical-like shapes, such as uni
    dimensional and bi-dimensional shapes serve as excellent primary attachments 111.
10
     It is also preferred to design the attachments so that they have an average surface
    size of at least about 0.5 mm 2 , preferably at least about 1.0 mm 2, 2 mm 2 or 3 mm 2 ,
     more preferably at least about 16 mm 2 . Also the density of the attachments can
    vary, depending on the surface size of the individual attachments and desired
15  separation forces. For attachments with a surface area smaller than 1 cm 2 for
     instance, it is recommended to use a density of at least about 100 per M 2 . In another
    embodiment of this invention, the primary attachments 111 are arranged in a
     primary attachment grid composed of continuous lines so as to allow for additional
     liquid distribution and transport, for a high separation force and high resistance
20  against the propagation of an eventual cracks or fissures in the pockets 130. The
     primary attachment pattern is carefully designed so that in a wetted state, the
     swollen material remains stabilized around the locations where it was restrained
    and/or immobilized in dry state. Failure to do so would result in breaking-up and/or
     displacement of the wet absorbent material, resulting in defective fluid management
25   and to loss of performance, reduced fit and comfort, even full failure. The primary
     attachment pattern also accommodates the liquid management surface structures.
    Apart from the primary attachments 111 and secondary attachments 115, there are
     also unattached regions 119, where there is substantially no attachment, bond
30   and/or joint between the carrier layer 101 and auxiliary layer 102, thereby providing
     pockets 130 in which the absorbent material 110 can be located to form well
     designed clusters. The primary attachments 111 correspond with a primary
     attachment grid, whereas the secondary attachments 115 correspond with a
     secondary attachment pattern. As the secondary attachment pattern will release
35   under the swelling force of the absorbent materials and/or under the influence of

   WO 2012/048879                                                           PCT/EP2011/005139
                                                 42
    water, the secondary attachment 115 should have a relative low separation force is
    use. Preferably the separation force necessary to break the attachment will be lower
    than about 5.0 N/cm, more preferably lower than about 2.5, 2.0 or 1.0 N/cm, even
    more preferably lower than about 0.75, 0.5 or 0.25 N/cm and most preferably lower
 5  than about 0.20 or 0.10 N/cm in use.
    The bonding strength, such as for example the dry strength, wet burst strength
    and/or wet strength, should suffice all required parameters of the absorbent
    structure and will amongst others depend on the absorbent article, its product size
10  and shape and the required duration of the usage and performance. The specific
    structural and functional strength of the attachments in between the auxiliary layer
    and the carrier layer and/or the different wet strengths in between the attachments
    of the primary attachment regions and the secondary attachment regions allows for
    more efficient design and usage of the absorbent structures leading to more, faster
15  and enhanced absorption, distribution and retention of liquids, such as bodily
    exudates. Moreover it also allows for better and controlled liquid wicking and
    dispersion within said absorbent storage layer, leading to more efficient and
    effective fluid communication or transport from the less absorbent area's (e.g.
    saturated) to the more absorbent area's (e.g. unsaturated).
20
     In one embodiment of this invention, a specific hydro-soluble or water-sensitive
    secondary attachment is used, for instance in the form of an adhesive as secondary
    attachment medium. In a more preferred embodiment however, both layers are
    thermo-sealed together, most preferably by wet-insensitive ultrasonic bonding,
25  without any synthetic attachment admixtures. The thermo-sealing areas of the
     secondary attachments 115 being relatively small(er) in surface, tenacity or integrity
     (than the primary attachments 115) resulting in an absolute or relative low(er)
     separation force. The thermo-sealing areas can come in various sizes and shapes,
     but it is preferred to provide at least one sharp edge to facilitate the carrier layer 101
30   and auxiliary layer 102 to tear apart. Combinations of circle-like shapes, such as
     round and dot shapes are also preferred as secondary attachments 115. Elimination
     of attachment media leads to lower raw material and production costs and
     environmental/sustainable absorbent structures. It is furthermore advantageous to
     use thermo-sealing as attachment means, rather than using adhesive, as the

   WO 2012/048879                                                            PCT/EP2011/005139
                                                43
     production cost is then usually substantially lower and one can claim to be
    'adhesive-free', a claim which is important to environment-conscious consumers.
    As carrier layer 101 and/or auxiliary layer 102, having a typical basis weight in the
 5   range of 3-400 gsm, more preferably 5-75 gsm, one can choose from a variety of
     materials such as but not limited to high-lofts, airlaids, rigid, stretchable or elastic
     non-wovens or a woven fabric, wetlaid material such as cellulose tissue, paper, film,
    tissue, perforated films, foam material, thermoplastic material, layers of adhesive or
    whatever material suitable within the absorbent structure 14. The sandwich layers
10  can be made out of the same or different materials having different compositions,
    weights and/or structures. In a preferred embodiment, at least one of the layers is
    liquid permeable over at least part of its surface so that liquids can be taken up in
    the Z-direction. In another embodiment both the carrier layer 101 and the auxiliary
    layer 102 are liquid permeable. In yet another preferred embodiment, one of the
15  layers is a liquid permeable non-woven material and the other layer is a substantially
    liquid-impervious and possibly breathable polyethylene (PE) film, whereby the non
    woven is positioned at the expected liquid flow such as the wearer-facing side of the
    absorbent structure 14 in case of an absorbent article such as a diaper, and the PE
    film is positioned away from the expected liquid flow such as the garment-facing
20  side of the absorbent structure in case of an absorbent article such as a baby
    diaper. In this case, one could for instance select 22 gsm polypropylene non-woven
    material from Albis and 20 pm breathable polyethylene film from Nuova Pansa. The
    use of the terminology 'carrier layer' by no means implies that the fabric should be
    strong enough to support the structure or should be situated at the lower region of
25  the absorbent structure 14. Nor does 'auxiliary layer' imply that this layer should
     have a lesser function or should by analogy be situated at the upper region of the
    absorbent structure 14.
     In an alternative embodiment the carrier layer 101 and/or auxiliary layer 102 can be
30  an adhesive in combination with other immobilisation diluents such as tackifying
     resins, plasticizers and additives such as antioxidants, but could well be any other
    composition able to substantially immobilise absorbent polymer material 110 within
    the absorbent structure 14 according to the invention. Some immobilisation
     materials are thermoplastic others are not, while some initially thermoplastic
35   materials may lose their thermoplastic behaviour due to a curing step, e.g. initiated

   WO 2012/048879                                                           PCT/EP2011/005139
                                                 44
     via heat, UV radiation, electron beam exposure or moisture or other means of
     curing, leading to the irreversible formation of a cross-linked network of covalent
     bonds. The adhesive and binders are preferably applied by a nozzle system.
     Preferably, a nozzle system is utilised which can provide a relatively thin but wide
 5   curtain of binder. This glue curtain can be continuous or discontinuous, so as to be
     applied in a homogeneous or heterogeneous surface or can be applied in various
     combinations of lines, grids, spirals, figures, spots, dots, etc. either in a determined
     or undetermined location of the target surface and/or any combination thereof.
     Those materials having lost their initial thermoplastic behaviour are herein also
10   understood as immobilisation materials. It has been found that compositions most
     useful for immobilizing absorbent polymer materials are those which combine
     controlled cohesion and adhesion behaviour. Adhesion is preferred to ensure that
     the layer maintains sufficient contact with the absorbent polymer material 110.
     Cohesion ensures that the attachment does not unintentionally detach or keeps
15   attached, in particular in response to external forces, and namely in response to
     strain. The attachments are subject to external forces during usage and when the
     absorbent structure swells due to the acquired liquid.
     In an alternative embodiment of the present invention the absorbent structure 14
20   comprises an additional distribution layer 100a which helps to additionally absorb,
     distribute and transport liquids and having a capability to disperse the liquid
     permeating within said distribution layer 100a from the less absorbent area's (e.g.
    saturated) to the more absorbent area's (e.g. unsaturated).
25   In an alternative embodiment of the present invention the absorbent structure 14
     comprises an additional liquid-impermeable, either hydrophilic or hydrophobic,
    wicking layer 100b which helps to wick and transport liquids and having a capability
    to disperse the liquid over the surface of said wicking layer 100b from the less
    absorbent area's (e.g. saturated) to the more absorbent area's (e.g. unsaturated).
30
     In an alternative embodiment of the present invention the absorbent structure
     comprises an additional thermoplastic immobilisation layer such as thermoplastic
     adhesive or binder (e.g. hot-melt) which helps to immobilize the absorbent materials
     110 within the absorbent structure 14.
35

   WO 2012/048879                                                         PCT/EP2011/005139
                                                45
     However it should be understood that in the alternative embodiments hereof, the
     carrier layer 101 and/or auxiliary 102 can have the same or similar properties as the
    distribution layer 100a and/or wicking layer 100b and thus be uniform therewith to
    form the actual absorbent structure 14. For reasons of clarity the embodiments
 5  down below will be explained so as the distribution layer 100a and wicking layer
     100b are complementary to the carrier layer 101 and the auxiliary layer 102 within
    the absorbent structure 14. Although such distribution layer 100a or wicking layer
     100b is preferably located at the garment facing side of the absorbent polymer
    material area, it is understood that the orientation of the absorbent structure 14,
10  although not preferred, can also be re-orientated so as to locate the distribution
    layer 100 or (for instance perforated) wicking layer 100b at the wearer facing side of
    the absorbent polymer material area, while various combinations and variations are
    of course also possible. The distribution layer 100a and/or wicking layer 100b can
    for instance also have access means, such as perforations, holes, channels,
15  openings, fixed or releasable pockets and the like.
    Due to the specific absorbent capacity of the distribution layer 100a, the liquid
    around the attachments in between the pockets 130 will be drawn up into the
    distribution layer 100a and will spread out throughout the rest of the distribution
    layer 100a. In a preferred embodiment of the invention, the liquid wetting of the
20  distribution layer 100a will therefore also contact the lower side of the absorbent
     polymer material area possibly fully or partially closed off by the upper gel-formation
    and/or -blocking. The absorbent material held in the compartments 130 will thus
    advantageously also be contacted from the lower side by redirecting the liquid from
    the upper side through the distribution layer 100b into the absorbent material 110,
25  such as absorbent particulate polymer material.
     Due to the specific distribution capacity of the wicking layer 100b, the liquid which
    comes in contact with the substantially liquid-impermeable wicking layer 100b will
    readily spread out over said surface to also contact the absorbent materials 110
30  located at the adjacent and/or lower surface of the absorbent polymer material area,
     being the side opposite the major surface side where the liquid was first deposited.
    The distribution, transport and absorption of the liquid is thus greatly improved and
    this speedy distribution will help to avoid large amounts of unbound quantities of
     liquid within helping to prevent absorbent article failure and high rewet values.
35   Providing an additional and more direct co-extensive wicking, dispersion and

   WO 2012/048879                                                           PCT/EP2011/005139
                                                 46
    transportation of liquid to the still more absorbent underused pockets and
    compartments of the absorbent structure increases effectiveness and efficiency of
    the available absorbent materials 110. The presence of unbound liquid droplets
    leading to leakages, high rewet values and discomfort are thereby minimized.
 5
    This distribution layer 100a has preferably an absorbing capacity of at least about 1,
    2, 3, 4 or 5 g/m 2 , preferably about 10 g/m2, more preferably about 20 g/m2 , more
    preferably at least about 35 g/m2 , most preferably at least about 50 g/m 2, or 100
    g/m2. Preferably the distribution layer 100b is presented in the form of a substantially
10  continuous sheet of cellulosic fibers, such as a nonwoven or a sheet of paper or
    tissue. In a preferred embodiment, it has a basis weight range where the low limit of
    the range is about 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10 g/m2 per ply, about 13 g/m2 per ply, or
    about 15 g/m2 per ply. The high limit of the basis weight range is about 150 g/m2 per
    ply, 100 g/m2 per ply, about 40 g/m2 per ply, or about 25 g/m2 per ply. Suitable
15  wicking layer 100b are for instance coated polyethylene or polypropylene films, with
    a total thickness of such film is usually in the range from 5 to 1500 pm, preferably
    from 10 to 500 pm, for instance a being corona-treated, hydrophilic, micro
    embossed PE film in the 15-22 pm thickness range.
20  The substantially liquid-impermeable wicking layer 100b is for instance provided by
    a substantially continuous layer of foil, film, closed foam, plastic or similar
    substantially liquid-impermeable materials, media and/or layers. The effect of
    providing the substantially liquid-impermeable wicking layer 100b in the form of a
    substantially continuous layer of film or foil is that a substantially impervious barrier
25  is provided. The provision of a film or foil is advantageous compared to the use of a
    pervious layer, such as for instance a non-woven material, as in contrast to such
    non-woven material the film or foil is not comprised of fibers. Hence, it is not
    possible that fibers are torn upon exertion of a force onto the film or foil, for instance
    during movement and/or liquid uptake process (e.g. swelling and expansion of the
30  absorbent material such as super absorbent polymers). Opposed to non-woven
    materials, such wicking layer 100b does not contain unintentional open spaces and
    cavities in which unbound quantities of liquid may be stored, thus not leading to an
    increased risks of leakages and augmented rewet with reduced comfort and fit.

   WO 2012/048879                                                         PCT/EP2011/005139
                                                 47
     In a preferred embodiment the carrier layer 101, auxiliary layer 102, distribution
     layer 100a and/or wicking layer 100b can be fully or partially hydrophilic or
     hydrophobic. In a more preferred embodiment, they are provided with a hydrophilic
     or hydrophobic coating. Combinations thereof are hereby also encompassed. The
 5   effect of providing such layers with coatings is that the properties of the layer can be
     modified according to the intended use. For instance, synthetic materials that are
     inherently hydrophobic such as polyethylene (PE) or polypropylene (PP) can for
     instance be provided with a coating layer such that the resulting material has a
     contact angle of less than 50*, preferably less than 350, more preferably less than
10   250, still more preferably less than 200, most preferably less than 150, for a water
     droplet lying thereon. For instance, materials that are inherently hydrophilic can be
     provided with a hydrophobic coating layer such that the resulting material shows
     hydrophobic properties. This may be advantage in the fact that a cheap base layer,
     itself not displaying the desired property can be adjusted on at least one of its sides
15   to display the desired property, thereby providing cost savings. The coating can be
     applied by a commonly used suitable process, for example with a slot coater, or by a
     spray process. It is particularly preferable to apply the coating by the reverse
     gravure-roll process, which can apply an extremely homogeneous coating with
     application weights of from 0.5 to 5.0 g/m2. The thickness of the coating on the
20   finished film is preferably from 3 to 1000 nm, in particular from 30 to 200 nm.
     Obviously such coating can also be applied continuously, substantially continuously,
     partially or at discreet locations possibly showing multiple flow enhancing patterns
     and/or shapes depending on the desired end product and features.
25   The distribution layer 100a and/or wicking layer 100b used may differ in basis
     weight, thickness, composition or other properties. If provided as multiple plies, they
     can be passively bound or joined, or a certain amount of adhesive or other
     attachment means could be added to provide additional adhesion to portions of the
     component plies. For example, needling, embossing, or other thermal or mechanical
30   bonding means could also be used to actively bond the substantially continuous
     layer near some or all of the edges of the sheet, thereby providing increased
     resistance to undesired delaminating of the component plies. Joining may also be
     done by ultrasonic bonding or autogenous bonding, or other bonding methods
     known in the art. For example, if the edges of the ply or layers are coextensive with
35   the edges of the outer plies, adhesive bonding and heat sealing adhesive may not

   WO 2012/048879                                                           PCT/EP2011/005139
                                                 48
     provide active bonding, depending on the adhesive used and the surface energy
     characteristics of the ply. In this case, mechanical bonding may be more desirable,
     for example by mechanical bonding at a mechanical bonding station after formation
     of the multiple plies. Depending on the structural and functional requirements the
 5   bonding parameters may be adjusted so as to obtain the most suitable dry and wet
     strength values. If desired, multiple plies of the substantially continuous layer may
     be joined and embossed. If desired, the plies may be joined together using knob-to
     knob or know-to-flat surface embossing as is known in the art. Alternatively, the
     multiple plies may be embossed using nested embossing. The substantially
10   continuous layer may manifest various physical characteristics.
     The distribution layer 100a preferably has an absorbency ranging from about 0.1 g
     to 3 g water per g of distribution layer, preferably from about 3 to 7 g, more
     preferably from about 7 to 10 g and preferably the absorbency is higher than about
15   10 g water per g of distribution layer 100a. The distribution layer 100a typically has
     an absorbent capacity of at least about 5-10 g/m2 , preferably at least about 30 g/m2,
     more preferably at least about 50 g/m 2, more preferably at least about 75 g/cm 2,
     preferably at least about 100 g/cm 2 or 150 g/cm 2 . Preferably distribution layer 100a
     is presented in the form of a substantially continuous sheet of cellulosic fiber, such
20   as a sheet of paper, tissue or a drylaid, airlaid or wetlaid material.
     Despite the high absorbency and distribution capacities of the substantially
     continuous layer, the bulkiness of said layer is absolutely and relatively limited, for
     instance in comparison with absorbent articles and absorbent structures from the art
25   allowing the envisaged thinner, more flexible and comfortable structures.
     For the present invention, the substantially continuous layers can have a basis
     weight ranging from about 5 g/m 2 to about 150 g/m2 . Preferably, the substantially
     continuous layer can have a basis weight ranging from about 13 g/m2 to about 23
30   g/m2. More preferably, the substantially continuous layer can have a basis weight of
     about 16-18 g/m2 . The substantially continuous layers preferably have sufficient
     strength to perform their intended tasks. Preferably, the substantially continuous
     layer maintains its integrity when partially or fully wetted, so that the distribution of
     liquids to and the immobilization of the absorbent materials may be accomplished.
35   The distribution layer preferably has a wet burst strength ranging from a lower limit

   WO 2012/048879                                                          PCT/EP2011/005139
                                                49
     of about 50-75 g and preferably about 200 g, to an upper limit of about 800 g, more
     preferably about 600 g, and most preferably about 400 g. This is advantageous as it
     provides the layer with a good combination of absorbency and wet strength. The
     substantially continuous layer can be creped, uncreped, or wet micro-contracted
 5   tissue webs. The substantially continuous layer may be nonwoven, paper or tissue
     consisting essentially of cellulosic papermaking fibers. Optionally, the substantially
     continuous layer may be foreshortened, and/or contain synthetic fibers. In a
     preferred embodiment of the absorbent article according to the invention, the bonds,
    joints and connections from the distribution layer 100a are not permanent so that the
10   bonds may partially break, detach and/or disintegrate during wetting.
     In a preferred embodiment of the invention, portions of the carrier layer 101 and/or
     auxiliary layer 102 bond or join to portions of the distribution layer 100a; the
     distribution layer 100a together with one or more layers from the absorbent structure
15   14 cavities for the immobilization of the absorbent material, preferably absorbent
     particulate polymer material. The bonding strength should suffice the required
     parameters of the absorbent structure and will amongst others depend on the
     product size, shape, category and required duration of the usage and performance.
20   The pockets 130 can have a regular shape, irregular shape or combination thereof.
     Preferred shapes of the pockets 130 are circular, elliptic or square with a diameter,
     radius or side larger than about 0.1 mm, 0.2 mm, 0.3 mm, 0.4 mm, 0.5 mm, more
     preferably larger than about 0.75 mm and smaller than about 60 mm, more
     preferably larger than about 1.0 mm and smaller than about 40 mm, more preferably
25   lager than about 2.0 mm and smaller than about 20 mm and most preferably larger
     than about 3.0 mm and smaller than about 15 mm. The absorbent material 110 does
     not necessarily fill the pockets 130 entirely as it might be advantageous to leave
     some void space adjacent the absorbent material 110 in the pockets 130 or leave
     some pockets 130 partially or completely empty. The inventor has found that in
30   particular rectangular shaped pockets 130 with a side of about 10 mm are
     particularly advantageous to be used as building blocks for the final compartment
     sizes within the wetted and released absorbent structure 14, as they are easier to
     manufacture at high production speed while still allowing meticulous controlling of
     the prescribed bonding strength of the primary and secondary attachments.
35

   WO 2012/048879                                                         PCT/EP2011/005139
                                                50
    Preferably the distribution of absorbent polymer material is profiled and most
    preferably profiled in the longitudinal direction. Hence, along the longitudinal axis of
    the absorbent structure, which is normally coincident with the longitudinal axis of the
    absorbent article, for example of the baby diaper, the basis weight of the absorbent
 5  polymer material will change. Preferably the basis weight of absorbent polymer
    material in at least one freely selected first square measuring 1 cm x 1 cm is at least
    about 10 %, or 20%, or 30%, 40%, 50% up to more than 100% higher than the basis
    weight of absorbent polymer material in at least one freely selected second square
    measuring 1 cm x 1 cm. Preferably the criterion is met if the first and the second
10  square are centred about the longitudinal axis.
    The primary attachments 111 have to substantially resist the frictions and strain
    during normal use of the absorbent structure 14 and the forces resulting from the
    expanding and swelling absorbent material 110 caused by the liquid uptake. Since
15  the bonding strength of water-sensitive attachment means would be very hard to
    control during usage conditions, they are preferably not used within an absorbent
    structure 14 according to the present invention. Preferably the dry and/or wet
    separation force necessary to release the primary attachment grids in between the
    carrier layer 101 and auxiliary layer 102 will be higher than about 0.05 N/cm or
20  about 0.75 N/cm, more preferably higher than about 0.1, N/cm, 0.2 N/cm or 0.3
    N/cm, even more preferably higher than about 1.0 N/cm, 1.5 N/cm, 2.5 N/cm and
    most preferably higher than about 3-5 N/cm. The attachment grids and patterns can
    consist of various sub-regions, corresponding to different separation forces.
25  As can be seen from Figure 4 and 5, the absorbent material pattern formed in
    between attachments can be random or regular, substantially continuously
    connected or isolated, fully-covering or partially covering and/or any other suitable
    combination. Preferably the absorbent material regions consists of several clusters
    of absorbent material 110, surrounded by areas where substantially no absorbent
30   material 110 is present, which can act as additional distribution and transport
    channels facilitating the flow of liquid away from the point of insult and towards
    available clusters of absorbent material 110. Weight distribution of absorbent
     material 110 over the absorbent structure 14 can be regular across the major
    surface or can profiled, i.e. the basis weight of the absorbent material 110 may
35  change depending on its position in the absorbent structure 14, for instance very

   WO 2012/048879                                                         PCT/EP2011/005139
                                                  51
    desirable for use in diaper and pants cores where one would like to concentrate
    absolute and/or relative more absorbent material 110 near the point of liquid insult.
    Suitable materials such as for instance highly permeable SAP are offered by Evonik,
    BASF and Nippon Shokubai. Although preferably the absorbent polymer material
 5  form up to 100% of the absorbent material 110 it can also be used in combination
    with other materials such as for instance cellulose fibres or fluff pulp, however
    preferably the amount of fibrous materials would not make up more than about zero
    to 40 weight percent. Fully cellulose free structures benefit maximal of this invention.
10  The total absorbency and swelling capacity of an absorbent polymer materials are
    controlled by the type and degree of cross-linkers used to make the hydrogel. Low
    density cross-linked SAP generally has a higher absorbent capacity and thus
    typically is able to swell to a relatively larger degree. These types of SAP also have
    a softer and more sticky gel formation. High density cross-linked SAP generally
15  exhibits lower absorbent capacity and swell to a relative lower degree, but the gel's
    strength is firmer and can maintain particle shape even under modest pressure.
    Absorbent polymer material are commonly made from the polymerization of acrylic
    acid blended with sodium hydroxide in the presence of an initiator to form a poly
    acrylic acid sodium salt (sometimes referred to as sodium polyacrylate). This
20  polymer is the most common type of SAP made in the world today. Other materials
    are also used to make a SAP, such as polyacrylamide copolymer, ethylene maleic
    anhydride copolymer, cross-linked carboxymethylcellulose, polyvinyl alcohol
    copolymers, cross-linked polyethylene oxide, and starch grafted copolymer of
    polyacrylonitrile to name a few. The latter is one of the older SAP forms created.
25  All these SAP technologies have been common in the absorbent structure industries
    for many years and are well-known by the persons skilled in the art. Generally, SAP
    manufacturers can vary several process parameters and finishing specifications
    such as cross-linking level and particle size and offer the absorbent article designers
    a wide choice of absorbent polymer material products ranging from SAP with low
30  swelling capacity to high swelling capacity, and from slow swelling behavior to fast
    swelling behavior. By making the appropriate choice, one can design absorbent
    structures with a combination of such different SAP concepts, where preferably the
    fast swelling SAP and/or SAP with high swelling capacity would be used in the areas
    which would have to act as heights or embankments, while preferably the slow

   WO 2012/048879                                                       PCT/EP2011/005139
                                               52
     swelling SAP and/or SAP with low swelling capacity would be used in the areas
     which would have to act as depressions or canals.
     In an alternative embodiment of this invention, one can use higher amounts of SAP
     in certain areas, while other areas would be free from SAP or have relative limited
 5   amounts of SAP so that, when wetted, the areas with relative higher amounts of
     SAP would swell to form heights while those without or with relatively limited
     amounts of SAP would form the depressions.
     The breaking of the secondary attachments 115 allows the carrier layer 101 and/or
10   auxiliary layer 102 to deform, stretch and change shape. As a result, the minimal
     volume pockets 130 are able to expand to an intermediate volumes and finally to
     maximum volume compartments so as to accommodate the extra volume resulting
     from the highly expandable absorbent material 110. Thus, as seen in Figure 6, an
     absorbent structure 14 with expandable pockets 130 with additional activated free
15   swell volume is created, allowing the absorbent material 110 to be more effectively
     and efficiently used and reducing the risk of bursting of one or more sandwiching
     layers. The extra volume created by the expanding pockets can for instance be
     about 1% to 5% of the original volume. Preferably it is higher than about 5% to 25%,
     more preferably higher than about 25% to 50%, most preferably higher than about
20   50% or 100% of the original volume. In an alternative embodiment, the absorbent
     structure 14 consists of multilayered sandwich structures where on the first
     sandwich structure of carrier layer 101 - absorbent material 110 - auxiliary layer
     102, additional layers of absorbent material and/or complementary layers can be
     added. Such structures can provide good liquid absorption whilst retaining product
25   integrity, in dry and wet state.
     Figures 7, 8 and 9 show embodiments according to the invention where secondary
     attachment 115 consist of weaker secondary attachments 115' and stronger
     secondary attachments 115" where weaker secondary attachments 115' loosen
30   faster than the stronger secondary attachments 115". The different functionalities in
     between the primary attachments 111 and secondary attachments 115 in
     combination with the bonding strength differentiation in between weaker secondary
     attachments 115' and stronger secondary attachments 115" allows the design of an
     absorbent structure 14 with a predetermined, controlled and/or phased volume
35   expansion of the absorbent structure for ultimate fluid management.

   WO 2012/048879                                                          PCT/EP2011/005139
                                                 53
     In a more preferred embodiment, the absorbent structure 14 consists of weaker
    secondary attachments 115' at the periphery of the absorbent structure 14 allowing
    for primary and easy expansion of the absorbent material 110 adjacent the
 5   longitudinal and/or end edges of the absorbent structure 14, thereby creating
    containment or anti-leakage barriers within the absorbent structure 14. Such a
     particular internal incorporated barrier construction has great pre-usage, usage and
     post-usage advantages for the construction of disposable absorbent hygiene articles
    such as garments, diapers or pants. As shown in Figures 7, 8 and 9, the weaker
10  secondary attachment 115' loosen to form first barriers or embankments 150,
    whereas the stronger secondary attachments 115" form the only later arising
    secondary barriers or embankments 151. The substantially wet-resistant permanent
     primary grids form canals 152 in between the first embankments 150 and/or the
    secondary embankments 151. Due to the time difference between the formation of
15  the first embankments 150 and the respective secondary embankments 151, the
    first embankments 150 will contain the liquid inside the product, where it can be
    distributed via the canals 152 and it will further be stored in and contained by
    secondary embankments 151. Obviously combinations and variants are possible.
     In a preferred embodiment, one can for instance create embankments in such a way
20  to obtain a pocket being an elongated or rounded depression, substantially
    surrounded by embankments. Such embankments can be lowered or interrupted to
    create one or more in- or outlets. The void space inside the pocket can especially
     be used to store liquids, solids and/or liquids of high viscosity. In baby diaper or
    adult incontinence products, such additional embankments can act as a cushion,
25   providing comfort, keeping skin away from stool and preventing stool to be pushed
    out of the absorbent article when the wearer exerts pressure, e.g. by sitting, on the
     product. Various shapes, sizes, locations and combinations can be envisaged. In a
     more preferred embodiment of this invention, one can create a stool containing
     pocket since it is known that infant stool can be very 'liquid-like'.
30   Human feces (or human faeces), also known as stools, is the waste product of the
     human digestive system and varies significantly in appearance, depending on the
    state of the whole digestive system, influenced and found by diet and health.
     Normally stools are semisolid, with a mucus coating. The Bristol Stool Chart or
     Bristol Stool Scale is a medical aid designed to classify the form of human feces into

   WO 2012/048879                                                           PCT/EP2011/005139
                                                  54
    seven categories. Sometimes referred to in the UK as the "Meyers Scale," it was
    developed by K.W.Heaton at the University of Bristol and was first published in the
    Scandinavian Journal of Gastroenterology in 1997. The form of the stool depends
    on the time it spends in the colon.
 5  The seven types of stool are:
       1. Separate hard lumps, like nuts (hard to pass).
       2.  Sausage-shaped but lumpy.
       3.  Like a sausage but with cracks on its surface.
       4. Like a sausage or snake, smooth and soft.
10     5. Soft blobs with clear cut edges (passed easily).
       6. Fluffy pieces with ragged edges, a mushy stool.
       7. Watery stool, entirely liquid.
    Types 1 and 2 indicate constipation, with 3 and 4 being the "ideal stools" especially
    the latter, as they are the easiest to pass, and 5-7 being further tending towards
15  diarrhea or urgency. Stool from small children, and especially younger babies, can
    often be classified in type 5, 6 or 7 and may be referred to as 'liquid stool'.
     Due to its high viscosity, the liquid stool does not significantly get absorbed through
    the topsheet of the absorbent article, and often gives rise to a leakage. Leakage of
    stool from an absorption article is even less appreciated than urine leakage, as the
20  former provides even more inconvenience to the wearer and caretaker, and
     provides more problems for health and hygiene. By creating the superficial liquid
     management system such as for instance a stool pocket, one can create a void
     space which can be filled with stool. Contained by the embankments, the stool will
     substantially remain in place. In order for a stool pocket to perform optimally, the
25   depressions should be at least 5%, preferably 10%, more preferably 15 % or most
     preferably at least 20% lower than the heights in the rear section of the product.
     In alternative embodiment, at least one of the carrier layers 101 or auxiliary layer
     102 is made out of an elastic or stretchable material, allowing for at least a first
     volume expansion before the gradually increasing expansion force of the wetting
30   and swelling absorbent materials 110 accommodates the eventual breaking of the
     wet secondary attachments 118.

   WO 2012/048879                                                         PCT/EP2011/005139
                                                55
    With reference to Figure 10 A-B the primary attachments 111 from the absorbent
    structure 14 correspond with a predefined primary bonding grids 113, whereas the
    secondary attachments 115 from the absorbent structure 14 correspond with a
    secondary bonding pattern 117. These grid and pattern shapes are developed in
 5  light of the desired structural and functional features. Obviously these grids and
    patterns merely act as illustrations and examples as various combinations, shapes
    and sizes are of course possible in relation to desirable absorbent structures.
    Referring to Figure 10A, the lines of these patterns may be disposed regular or
    irregular, continuous or discontinuous, coextensive with the entire surface of the
10  absorbent structure or only part thereof and any combination and/or derivations
    thereof. These lines may be aligned with the longitudinal, transversal or diagonal
    axis of the absorbent structure 14 or alternatively any angle in respect of such axis.
     It has been found that, that a continuous disposition of these lines throughout the
    absorbent structure 14 creates additional channels and ducts which help the fluid
15  transport from the point of liquid contact to the rest of the absorbent structure via
    mass flow allowing better and more spread out immediate liquid management via
    capillary flow locally. Care however should be taken not to allow channelling of liquid
    to the very side of the absorbent structures to avoid leakages upon time of insult,
    preferably they will thus guide the liquid to the entire surface of the absorbent
20  structure with the exception of the outer edges thereof. Another preferred pattern for
    grids and patterns comprises polygons, for example pentagons and sexangles or a
    combination thereof. Also irregular patterns are possible. In essence those grids and
    patterns are preferred which allow optimal packaging of absorbent particulate
    material in dry smaller pockets 130 while allowing ideal and maximum volume
25  expansion to bigger compartment in wet state taking in mind the thin and flexible
    absorbent structures are envisaged. Too much loss of pocket and/or compartment
    volume in light of primary and secondary attachment grids and patterns in respective
    dry and wet stat is preferably avoided.
30   Referring to Figure 10B, exemplary absorbent structures are shown with intact
     primary bonding grids 113 and released secondary pattern 117 leading to the bigger
    and fewer compartments as opposed to the plurality of smaller pockets130 formed
     by the intact primary attachments 111 and secondary attachments 115 (Figure 10A).

   WO 2012/048879                                                          PCT/EP2011/005139
                                                56
     The invention provides use of an absorbent structure according to an embodiment of
     the invention in an absorbent product, selected from the list of coffee pads,
     disposable body warmers, sheet formed detergent article, filter material, insulation
     material, make-up pads, anti-septic wads, feminine hygiene garments, baby diapers,
 5   baby pants, adult incontinence garments, preferably said absorbent article is a
     feminine hygiene garment, baby diaper, baby pants or adult incontinence garment.
     The construction of such commercially available products is well-know from the art.
     The absorbent structure claimed according to the present invention is thin and
10   flexible, and thus has a low flexure-resistance. The flexure-resistance of the
     absorbent structures is measured by the Peak Bending Stiffness as determined by
     the test which is modelled after the ASTM D 4032-82 Circular Bend Procedure, the
     procedure being considerably modified and performed as described in
     EP0336578B1. In a preferred embodiment of the absorbent article of the invention,
15   the absorbent structure has a flexure-resistance of less than 500.0 grams, more
     preferably less than about 250.0-350.0 grams, and still more preferably less than
     about 175.0 grams and most preferably less than about 130.0 or 100.0 grams. Thus,
     the absorbent structure of the present invention is highly flexible and conforms very
     well to the various shapes of the urogenital region. Use of an absorbent structure
20   with this low a flexure-resistance has for effect that an easily flexible absorbent
     articles can be provided. This feature is advantageous as such a structure will easily
     ply and allow the structure to follow a body shape, and thus wearer fit and comfort.
     The absorbent structure claimed according to the present invention has superior
25   immobilisation characteristic in dry and wet state and the minimum wet
     immobilisation values as measured by the shaker test weight retention as
     determined by the Wet Immobilisation test as described in US Patent Application
     20070167928 are very favourable. In a preferred embodiment of the absorbent
     structure of the invention, the absorbent structure has a wet immobilization of more
30   than 60 wt%, preferably more than 70 wt%, more preferably more than 80 wt%, and
     most preferably more than 90 wt%. Such absorbent structure has an increased
     loading capacity and an improved absorption capacity.
     With reference to Figure 11, a method and apparatus is illustrated for forming a
35   composite structure 700 according to the present invention, having a plurality of

   WO 2012/048879                                                        PCT/EP2011/005139
                                                57
    discrete particulate material clusters 703 which are preferably discretely distributed
    and deposited on a carrier layer 101 and contain selected quantities of particulate
     material 703. The representatively shown apparatus includes a particulate material
     supplying means 200 for providing absorbent materials 110 towards carrier layer
 5   101. A web supplying means 400 and web transport means 402 provides a carrier
     layer 101 and a support means 600 via guiding means 601 and 602 moves the
     carrier layer 101 adjacent a depositing means, preferably provided in the form of a
     substantially endless rotating drum 100. A material supply means 200 direct
     absorbent material 110 by way of a dosing system 204 and a feeding tube 205
10  towards the a proximal opening 206. Optional brushing means 208 help to 'right-fill'
    the clustering means 250. The depositing means 206 preferably having clustering
     means 250 with a pattern of perforations arranged to form and provide a desired
     depositing pattern of particulate material clusters 703 onto the carrier layer 101. The
     support means 600 is preferably in substantial contact with the support surface 412
15   of the carrier layer 101. The support means 600 preferably ensures a close enough
     connection in between the deposit surface 411 of the carrier layer 101 and
     clustering means 250 to prevent unwanted migration of the particulate materials 110
    from the carrier deposit zones to the carrier inter-deposit zones. Preferably also a
     position means is provide which can be unitary with the support means 600, and
20  which stabilizes, positions and/or repositions any blurring in the printing pattern of
     particulate material clusters 703 towards an exact pocketing pattern prior to
     immobilisation. A covering means 500 and web transporting 502 provides an
     auxiliary layer 102, such as for instance a liquid-permeable fibrous web such as a
     non-woven, paper, tissue, woven, fabric, web, perforated film or foil. Alternatively
25   the auxiliary layer 101 can also represent a homogenous and/or heterogeneous
     layer of glue, adhesive, binders, resins, thermoplastic material and the like, capable
     of sandwiching the particulate materials clusters 703 between the carrier layer and
     auxiliary layer to form a composite structure 700, such as for instance an absorbent
     structure 14. This relative expensive, technically challenging and environmentally
30   burdensome alternative embodiment according to the invention is however not
     preferred above the non-woven, paper or tissue like layer for instance. A much
     preferred attachment process according to a preferred embodiment of the present
     invention comprises an airflow generated by blowing zones having an overpressure
     in comparison to standard process pressure and/or by suction zones having an
35   under-pressure in comparison to standard process pressure. Alternatively, a

   WO 2012/048879                                                         PCT/EP2011/005139
                                                 58
     combination of blowing and/or suction holes is used for airflow. Ultrasonic means
     800 and adhesive applicator means 900 and/or 901 may also be provided.
     An exemplary absorbent article is disposable baby diaper.
 5
     Figure 12 is a top plan view of a diaper 10 as a preferred embodiment of an
     absorbent article including an absorbent structure according to the present
     invention. It should be understood, however, that the present invention is also
     applicable to other absorbent articles such as feminine hygiene garments, baby
10   pants, adult incontinent garments and the like.
    The absorbent article is shown in its flat out, un-contracted state with the wearer
     side facing the viewer. Portions of the absorbent article are cut away to more clearly
     show the underlying structure of the diaper 10 including the absorbent elements and
15   absorbent components. The chassis 12 of the diaper 10 in Figure 12 comprises the
     main body of the diaper 10. The chassis 12 comprises an outer covering including a
     liquid pervious top sheet 18 and/or a liquid impervious back sheet 20. The chassis
     12 may include a portion of an absorbent structure 14 encased between the top
     sheet 18 and the back sheet 20. The chassis 12 may also include most or all of the
20   absorbent structure 14 encased between the top sheet 18 and the back sheet 20.
    The chassis 12 preferably further includes side panels or ears 22, elasticized leg
     cuffs 24 and elastic waist features 26, the leg cuffs 24 and the elastic waist feature
     26 each typically comprise elastic members 28. One end portion of the diaper 10 is
     configured as a front waist region 30 of the diaper 10. The opposite end portion is
25   configured as a back waist region 32 of the diaper 10. An intermediate portion of the
     diaper 10 is configured as a crotch region 34, which extends longitudinally between
     the first and second waist regions 30 and 32. The waist regions 30 and 32 may
     include elastic elements such that they gather about the waist of the wearer to
     provide improved fit and containment (e.g. elastic waist feature 26). The crotch
30   region 34 is that portion of the diaper 10 which, when the diaper 10 is worn, is
     generally positioned between the wearer's legs. The diaper 10 is depicted with its
     longitudinal axis 36 and its transverse axis 38. The periphery of the diaper 10 is
     defined by the outer edges of the diaper 10 in which the longitudinal edges 42 run
     generally parallel to the longitudinal axis 36 of the diaper 10 and the end edges 44
35   run between the longitudinal edges 42 generally parallel to the transverse axis 38 of

   WO 2012/048879                                                        PCT/EP2011/005139
                                                59
    the diaper. The chassis 12 also comprises a fastening system, which may include at
     least one fastening or securing member 46 and at least one landing zone 48. The
    various components within the diaper 10 may be bound, joined or secured by any
     method know in the art, for example by adhesives in uniform continuous layers,
 5   patterned layers or arrays of separate lines, spirals or spots. The top sheet 18, the
     back sheet 20, the absorbent structure 14 and other components may be assembled
     in a variety of well-known configurations and are well known in the art.
    The back sheet 20 covers the absorbent structure 14 and preferably extends
10   beyond the absorbent structure 14 toward the longitudinal edges 42 and end edges
    44 of the diaper 10 and may be joined with the top sheet 18. The back sheet 20
     prevents the bodily exudates absorbed by the absorbent structure 14 and contained
    within the diaper 10 from soiling other external articles that may contact the wearer,
    such as bed sheets and undergarments. In preferred embodiments, the back sheet
15  20 is substantially impervious to bodily exudates and comprises a laminate of a
    nonwoven and a thin plastic film such as a thermoplastic film. The back sheet 20
    may comprise breathable materials that permit vapour to escape from the diaper 10
    while still preventing bodily exudates from passing through the back sheet 20. It may
    be semi-rigid, non-elastic and can be made fully or partially elasticized and include
20  backing. The back sheets 20 may be assembled in a variety of well-known
    configurations and are well known in the art.
    The diaper 10 comprises a top sheet 18 that is preferably soft, compliant, exhibits
    good strikethroughs and has a reduced tendency to rewet from the liquid absorbent
25  material. The top sheet 18 is placed in close proximity to the skin of the wearer
    when the diaper 10 is worn. In this way, such top sheet 18 permits bodily exudates
    to rapidly penetrate it so as to flow toward the absorbent structure 14 more quickly,
     but preferably not allowing such bodily exudates to flow back through the top sheet
     18. The top sheet 18 may be constructed from any one of a wide range of liquid and
30  vapour permeable, preferably hydrophilic, materials. The upper and lower surface of
    the top sheet 18 may be treated differently and may for instance include a surfactant
    on the upper surface so as to facilitate liquid transfer there through, especially at a
    central zone or area of the top sheet 18 located over the absorbent structure 10, and
    for instance include a hydrophobic agent on the lower surface to minimize the liquid
35  contained within the absorbent core from contact wetting the top sheet 18 thereby

   WO 2012/048879                                                          PCT/EP2011/005139
                                                  60
    reducing rewet values. The top sheet 18 may also be coated with a substance
    having rash preventing or rash reducing properties (e.g. aloe vera). The top sheet
     18 covers substantially the entire wearer facing area of the diaper 10, including
    substantially all of the front waist region 30, back waist region 32, and crotch region
 5  34. Further, the side panels 22 and/or waist feature layers of the inner region may
    be formed from the same single top sheet material and, thus, may be referred to as
    being unitary with the top sheet 18 in forming longitudinal and lateral extensions of
    the top sheet 18 material. Alternatively, the top sheet 18 may be formed from
    multiple different materials which vary across the width of the top sheet 18. Such a
10  multiple piece design allows for creation of preferred properties and different zones
    of the top sheet 18. The top sheet 18 be semi-rigid, non-elastic and can be made
    fully or partially elasticized. The top sheet 18 may be assembled in a variety of well
    known configurations and are well known in the art.
15  The absorbent structure 14 in Figure 12 generally is disposed between the top sheet
     18 and the back sheet 20. The absorbent structure 14 may comprise any absorbent
     material 110 that is generally compressible, conformable, non-irritating to the
    wearer's skin, and capable of absorbing and retaining bodily exudates. The
    absorbent structure 14 may comprise a wide variety of liquid absorbent materials
20   110 commonly used in absorbent articles such as fluff pulp, which is generally
     referred to as airlaid. Examples of other suitable absorbent materials include creped
    cellulose wadding; melt blown polymers; chemically stiffened, modified or cross
     linked cellulosic fibres; tissue, including tissue wraps and tissue laminates;
    absorbent foams; absorbent sponges; absorbent polymer materials; absorbent
25  gelling materials; or any other known absorbent materials or combinations of
     materials. The absorbent structure 14 may further comprise minor amounts (typically
     less than 10 %) of non-liquid absorbent materials, such as adhesives, binders,
     plastics, waxes, oils and the like. The absorbent structure 14 according to various
     embodiments of the invention may be configured to extend substantially the full
30   length and/or width of the diaper 10. However, alternatively the absorbent structure
     14 according to the invention is not coextensive with the entire diaper 10 and is
     limited to certain regions of the diaper 10 such as for instance the crotch region 34.
     In various embodiments, the absorbent structure 14 extends to the edges of the
     diaper 10 and the absorbent material 110 is concentrated in the crotch region 34 or
35   another target zone of the diaper 10. In still another embodiment, the particles can

   WO 2012/048879                                                         PCT/EP2011/005139
                                                61
    be a combination of absorbent material 110, preferably comprising absorbent
     polymer material, and skin care particles such as ion exchange resins, deodorant,
    anti-microbial agents, binder particles, or other beneficial particles.
 5  The diaper 10 may also utilize a pair of containment walls or cuffs 24. Each cuff 24
    is a longitudinally extending wall structure preferably positioned on each side of the
    absorbent structure 14 and spaced laterally from the longitudinal axis 36. The
    longitudinal ends of the cuffs 24 may be attached or joined, for example, to the top
    sheet 18 in the front and rear waist regions 30 and 32. Preferably, the ends of the
10  cuffs 24 are tacked down inwardly and attached, for example, by adhesive or sonic
    bonding to the lower structure. Such a construction effectively biases the cuffs 24
    inwardly and is generally considered to cause the cuffs 24 to exhibit improved
    leakage prevention properties. Preferably, the cuffs 24 are equipped with elastic
    members 28, which extend along a substantial length of the cuffs 24. In a common
15  application, the elastic members 28 are placed within the cuffs 24, preferably at the
    top of the cuff 24 while in a stretched condition and then glued or sonic bonded to
    the cuff 24 at least at their ends. When released or otherwise allowed relaxing, the
    elastic members 28 retract inwardly. When the diaper 10 is worn, the elastic
    members 28 function to contract the cuffs 24 about the buttocks and the thighs of
20  the wearer in a manner, which forms a seals between the diaper 10, the buttocks
    and the thighs. The cuffs 24 may be assembled in a variety of well-known
    configurations and are well known in the art.
    The diaper 10 may also employ additional layers known in the art including an
25  acquisition layer or surge layer, preferably situated between the top sheet and the
    absorbent core and highloft and/or coverstock layers. This serves to slow down the
    flow so that the liquid has adequate time to be absorbed by the absorbent core.
    In order to keep the diaper 10 in place about the wearer, preferably at least a portion
30  of the back waist region 32 is attached by fastening or securing members 46 to at
    least a portion of the front waist region 30, preferably to form leg openings and an
    absorbent article waist. Fastening or securing members 46 carry the tensile load
    around the absorbent article waist and compliment the elastic members 28 by
    providing a quasi-seal between the wearer, the elastic waist feature 26 and cuffs 24,
35  so that bodily exudates are contained within the diaper 10 which are then absorbed.

   WO 2012/048879                                                          PCT/EP2011/005139
                                                  62
     In other words, so that it does not leak through gaps between the wearer and the
     edge of the diaper 10. The fastening or securing members 46 may for instance be
     adhesive, mechanical fasteners, hook and loop features, conceivable strings and/or
     combinations thereof, i.e., anything that will secure one end of the diaper 10 to the
 5   longitudinally opposite end of the diaper 10. The fastening or securing members 46
     may also be co-adhesive such that they adhere to each other but not other
     materials. The fastening or securing members 46 and any component thereof may
     include any material suitable for such a use, including but not limited to plastics,
     films, foams, non-woven webs, woven webs, paper, laminates, fibre reinforced
10   plastics and the like, or combinations thereof. It may be preferable that the materials
     making up the fastening or securing members 46 are flexible, extensible and/or
     elastic, allowing them to better conform to the shape and movements of the body
     and thus, reduces the likelihood that the fastening system will irritate or injure the
     wearer's skin. Preferably, the diaper 10 is affixed to the wearer by tape fasteners
15   which are permanently affixed to the back sheet 20. Tape fasteners are contacted
     with the transversely opposite side panel or ears 22 attached or joined and
     extending from the back sheet 20, where they remain affixed due to the binding
     compound applied to the fasteners. Alternatively, the absorbent article may be pants
     and the like. In this configuration, the absorbent article may or may not have tape
20   fasteners. Specific disposability tapes may however also be provided on such
     absorbent articles. All fastening and securing elements 46 may be assembled in a
     variety of well-known configurations and are well known in the art.
     The waist regions 30 and 32 each comprise a central region and a pair of side
25   panels or ears 22 which typically comprise the outer lateral portions of the waist
     regions. These side panels 22 may be unitary with the chassis 12 and/or back sheet
     20 or may be attached or joined thereto by any means know in the art. In a preferred
     embodiment of the present invention, the side panels 22 positioned in the back waist
     region 32 are flexible, extensible and/or elastic in at least the lateral direction (i.e.,
30   elasticized side panels), in another embodiment the side panels 22 are non-elastic,
     semi-rigid, rigid and/or stiff. These variety of side panels 22 are known in the art.
     Furthermore waistbands 26 employing elastic members can be positioned along the
     transverse portion of the diaper 10 so that when worn, the waistbands 26 are
35   positioned along the waist of the wearer. Generally, the waistband 26 preferably

   WO 2012/048879                                                         PCT/EP2011/005139
                                                 63
     creates a seal against the waist so that bodily exudates do not leak from the regions
     between the elastic waistband 26 and the waist of the wearer. Although the bodily
     exudates are primarily absorbed by the absorbent materials within the diaper 10, the
     seal is important considering the assault of liquid by the wearer may overwhelm the
 5   absorption rate capacity of the absorbent structure 14. Hence, the waistbands 26
     contain the liquid while it is being absorbed, they are well known in the art.
     The absorbent article such as a diaper 10 may also include such other features,
     components and elements as are known in the art including front and rear ear
10   panels, waist cap features, elastics and the like to provide better fit, containment and
     aesthetic characteristics. These features may be assembled in a variety of well
     known configurations and are well known in the art.
     The process for producing preferred absorbent structures in accordance with the
15   present invention comprises the following steps: A carrier layer 101 is provided onto
     which absorbent material 110 is disposed by methods known in the art. To deposit
     the absorbent material 110, vacuum, gravity or other forces can be used. Then an
     auxiliary layer 102 is provided, covering the absorbent material 110, and primary
     bonding regions 111 and secondary bonding regions 115 are being provided. In
20   case one would like to use adhesives or chemical binders, then it might be useful to
     attach these to the carrier layer 101 and/or auxiliary layer 102 layer prior to bringing
     the sandwich structure together. In case one opts for thermo-sealed bonding areas,
     then the thermo-sealing can be applied after the sandwich structure components
     have been brought together. It is of course also possible to combine both techniques
25   in the same absorbent structure.
     The process for producing preferred absorbent structures 14 in accordance with the
     present invention comprises the following steps: A carrier layer 101 is provided onto
    which absorbent material 110 is disposed by methods known in the art. To deposit
30   the absorbent material 110, vacuum, gravity or other forces can be used. Then an
     auxiliary layer 102 is provided, covering the absorbent material 110, and primary
     attachments 111 and secondary attachments 115 are being provided, preferably via
     sonic bonding. In case one would like to use adhesives or chemical binders, then it
     might be useful to attach these to the carrier layer 101 and/or auxiliary layer 102
35   layer prior to bringing the sandwich structure together. In case one opts for thermo-

  WO 2012/048879                                                   PCT/EP2011/005139
                                             64
    sealed or sonic bonding areas, then the thermo-sealing can be applied after the
    sandwich structure components have been brought together. It is of course also
    possible to combine both techniques in the same absorbent structure.
5

   WO 2012/048879                                                           PCT/EP2011/005139
                                                65
                                             CLAIMS
    What is claimed is:
 5      1. A substantially cellulose free absorbent structure comprising a carrier layer,
            an auxiliary layer and an absorbent polymer material there between, the
            carrier layer and auxiliary layer being at least partially joined together by
            attachments made up of substantially permanent primary attachment grids
            and/or substantially temporary secondary attachment patterns, so as to form
10          a sandwich-like composite structure containing patterned absorbent
            particulate polymer materials provided in at least some of the unattached
            regions between the carrier layer and auxiliary layer forming an absorbent
            polymer material area, the plurality of smaller-sized pockets made up by at
            least substantially temporary secondary attachments define spaces which
15          immobilize the available dry volume absorbent polymer material, the
            substantially temporary secondary attachment being gradually releasable as
            a result of exposing the surrounding absorbent polymer material to liquid so
            as phase in an intermediate volume increase to fewer and medium-sized
            compartments immobilising the partially wetted absorbent polymer material,
20          and resulting in still fewer maximum-sized compartments immobilising the
            wetted absorbent polymer material to obtain continuous fluid management.
        2. An absorbent structure according to claim 1 characterized in that its
            substantially permanent primary attachments are provided, in combination
25          with the substantially temporary secondary attachment to make up the initial
            small-sized pockets, which remain substantially intact.
        3. An absorbent structure according to any of the above claims, characterized
            in that the substantially permanent primary attachment grid and/or
30          substantially temporary secondary attachment pattern is distributed over
            substantially the majority of the surface area of the absorbent polymer
             material area.
        4. An absorbent structure according to any of the above claims, characterized
35          in that the absorbent structure non-homogeneously swells to form a liquid

   WO 2012/048879                                                         PCT/EP2011/005139
                                                66
            management surface structure due to release of the substantially temporary
            secondary attachments.
        5. An absorbent structure according any of the above claims, characterized in
 5          that the absorbent structure non-homogeneously swells to form a liquid
            management surface structure due to phased swelling of the absorbent
            polymer material area.
        6. An absorbent structure according to any of the above claims, wherein the
10          attachments are at least partially formed via a mechanical, thermal, physical,
            chemical, thermo-mechanical and/or most preferably an ultrasonic process.
        7. An absorbent structure according to any of the above claims, wherein at
            least some or all of the substantially permanent primary attachments and/or
15          substantially temporary secondary attachments are formed with at least an
            adhesive or binder as an attachment medium.
        8. An absorbent structure according to any of the above claims, wherein the
            substantially permanent primary attachments and/or substantially temporary
20          secondary attachments have different locations, sizes and/or shapes.
        9. An absorbent structure according to any of the above claims, wherein at
            least 80% of the absorbent material is absorbent polymer material.
25      10. An absorbent structure according to any of the above claims, wherein the
            absorbent structure has on average within the absorbent polymer material
            area at least one pocket per about 0.10 cm2 , preferably 1 per about 0.50
            cm 2 , preferably 1 per about 1 cm 2 ; preferably 1 per about 2,5 cm 2 , preferably
             1 per about 5 cm 2 and/or at least 1 compartment per about 5 cm 2 , preferably
30           1 per about 10 cm2 , preferably 1 per about 20 cm 2 , preferably 1 per about 30
            cm 2 , preferably 1 per about 45 cm 2
        11. An absorbent structure according to any of the above claims, wherein at
            least some or all of the substantially permanent primary attachments and/or
35          substantially temporary secondary attachments have an average surface
            size of at least 0.3 mm 2, preferably at least 0.5 mm 2, preferably at least 1.0
            mm2 and more preferably at least 3.0 mm 2 .

   WO 2012/048879                                                          PCT/EP2011/005139
                                                67
        12. Absorbent structure according to any of the above claims, wherein the
            absorbent structure has a flexure-resistance of less than 500.0 grams, more
             preferably less than 250.0 grams, and still more preferably less than about
             175.0 grams and most preferably less than 130.0 grams or 100.0 grams.
 5
        13. Absorbent structure according to any of the above claims, with a wet
             immobilization of more than 50 wt%, preferably more than 60 wt%,
             preferably more than 7 wt%, more preferably more than 80 wt%.
10      14. An absorbent article comprising an absorbent structure according to any of
            the above claims, wherein said absorbent article is a feminine hygiene
            garment, baby diaper, baby pants or adult incontinence garment.
        15. An absorbent article comprising a liquid pervious topsheet, a liquid
15           impervious backsheet and a liquid absorbing absorbent structure situated in
             between the liquid pervious topsheet and liquid impervious backsheet
            according to any of the above claims 1 to 13.
        16. A method for the manufacturing of an absorbent structure according to any of
20          the above claims 1 to 13 which comprises: providing a carrier layer, covering
            the carrier layer with an absorbent material, covering the absorbent material
            with an auxiliary layer which is joinable to the carrier layer; and in at least
            one position substantially temporary and/or substantially permanently
            attaching the auxiliary layer to the carrier layer, and by means of at least
25          substantially temporary secondary attachments defining small-sized pocket
            wherein dry absorbent material is immobilized, such that by means of
            gradual release of substantially temporary secondary attachment patterns
             bigger-sized intermediate and final compartments are provided, thereby
             continuously immobilising the absorbent material from dry to wetted state.
30

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
