Il:\szp\Iwntrwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\SZP\17122813_ .docx- Hl06/2018
                                                               ABSTRACT
The invention relates to the combination of a sulforaphane precursor, an enzyme
capable of converting the sulforaphane precursor to sulforaphane, an enzyme
potentiator, and a milk thistle extract or powder. The invention also relates to the
combination of sulforaphane or a derivative thereof and a milk thistle extract or
powder. The invention also relates to the combination of a broccoli extract or powder
and a milk thistle extract or powder. The invention provides compositions and
methods relating to these combinations.

IH:\szp\Intrwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\SZP\17122351_1.docx- H /06 2018
   COMPOSITIONS COMPRISING A SULFORAPHANE OR A SULFORAPHANE
                        PRECURSOR AND MILK THISTLE EXTRACT OR POWDER
[0001]                         This application is a divisional of Australian Patent Application No.
2013286721, the entire content of which is incorporated herein by reference.
FIELD OF THE INVENTION
[0002]                          The present invention relates to the combination of a sulforaphane
precursor, an enzyme capable of converting the sulforaphane precursor to
sulforaphane, an enzyme potentiator, and a milk thistle extract or powder. The
present invention also relates to the combination of a sulforaphane or a derivative
thereof and a milk thistle extract or powder. The present invention also relates to the
combination of a broccoli extract or powder and a milk thistle extract or powder. The
present invention provides compositions and methods relating to these combinations.
BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
[0003]                          The use of natural products is becoming increasingly popular with
humans and companion animals. Some of these natural products are being
incorporated into dietary supplements and medical foods. There is a need in the art
for supplements which are useful as chemoprotective and/or antioxidant agents. In
addition, there is a need in the art for pharmaceutical compositions and dietary
supplements which are useful for conditions and disorders associated with
glutathione. Chemoprotection through the use of natural products is evolving as a
safe, effective, inexpensive, easily accessible, and practical means to prevent or
reduce the occurrence of many conditions affecting humans and domesticated
                                                               1

animals. It is known that carcinogens which can damage cells at the molecular level
are often ingested and inhaled as non-toxic precursors. These non-toxic precursors
may then convert into carcinogenic substances in the body. Chemoprotective
agents, such as natural substances which can activate detoxifying enzymes or their
co-factors, can counteract and allow for the elimination of carcinogens. These same
natural substances can potentiate other naturally existing defenses such as the
immune system.
[0004]         Some natural products have antioxidant activity. Oxidative stress plays
a major role in aging, the progression of neurodegenerative diseases as well as
physiological trauma, such as ischemia. Antioxidant agents can reduce or inhibit the
oxidation of vital biomolecules and may play a role in treating, preventing, or
reducing the occurrence of conditions affected by oxidative stress.
[0005]         Some natural products are useful for enhancing liver health. Non
alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is the most common liver disease in the U.S.,
affecting about 30% of the population. NAFLD is also known as hepatic lipidosis. In
10% of those with NAFLD, the disease will progress to non-alcoholic steatohepatitis
(NASH), of which 25% will develop cirrhosis. Potentially 10-25% of those patients
with cirrhosis will develop hepatocellular carcinoma. At the current rate and without
effective treatment modalities, by 2030 hepatocellular carcinoma is projected to be
the number one diagnosed cancer in the United States. NAFLD occurs when fat is
deposited in the liver (steatosis), but not as a result of excessive alcohol use.
NAFLD is associated with chronic inflammation, insulin resistance, diabetes and
obesity. NAFLD presents few or no symptoms and is most commonly detected
following abnormal results obtained during routine blood tests (i.e., elevated serum
ALT and AST levels) and confirmed by an ultrasound or a biopsy. There are
currently no surgical or pharmacological treatments for NAFLD.       Recommendations
to control NAFLD include lifestyle modifications such as eating a healthy diet,
exercise, weight loss, lowering cholesterol and controlling diabetes.
[0006]         NAFLD is often associated with a decrease in glutathione levels.
Glutathione is a tripeptide with a gamma peptide linkage between the amine group of
cysteine and the carboxyl group of the glutamate side chain. Glutathione plays an
important role in the body, as it can serve as an antioxidant, detoxifier, and immunity
enhancer. Glutathione can conjugate to metabolites and toxins, such as
                                             2

procarcinogens, for excretion from the body. Glutathione levels can be reduced in
patients for a number of reasons, including poor diet, pollution, exposure to toxins
and/or certain medications, stress, trauma, aging, infections, and radiation. Low
levels of glutathione can cause a patient to be susceptible to oxidative stress, illness,
and cancer. For example, reduced levels of glutathione are associated with
conditions relating to the liver, prostate, brain, lung, kidneys, colon, breast,
esophagus, pancreas, ovaries, etc. Examples of disorders associated with reduced
levels of glutathione and glutathione deficiency include, but are not limited to:
NAFLD, cancer (lung, prostate, colon, breast, brain, liver, ovarian, esophageal,
pancreatic, nasopharyngeal, osteosarcoma), leukemia, cystic fibrosis, HIV,
glutathione synthetase deficiency, Alzheimer's disease , Parkinson's disease,
Huntington's disease, amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, Friedreich's ataxia, multiple
sclerosis, fibromyalgia, chronic fatigue,autism, and diabetes.
[0007]         An example of a natural product thought to have chemoprotective and
antioxidant properties is sulforaphane. Sulforaphane is an organosulfur compound
which is also known as 1-isothiocyanato-4-methylsulfinylbutane.         The sulforaphane
precursor, glucoraphanin, can be obtained from vegetables of the Brassicaceae
family, such as broccoli, brussels sprout, and cabbage. However, copious amounts
of vegetables must be consumed in order to obtain levels adequate for
chemoprevention. Glucoraphanin is converted into sulforaphane by a
thioglucosidase enzyme called myrosinase, which occurs in a variety of exogenous
sources such as Brassicaceae vegetables and endogenously in the gut microflora.
However, upon ingestion of glucoraphanin, not all animals are capable of achieving
its conversion to sulforaphane, most likely due to variations in microflora populations
and overall health. In addition, in acidic environments such as the stomach,
glucoraphanin can be converted to inert metabolites. The active metabolite,
sulforaphane is able to induce nuclear factor erythroid-2-related factor (Nrf2) which,
in turn, upregulates the production of Phase II detoxification enzymes and
cytoprotective enzymes such as glutathione S-transferases, NAD(P)H:quinine
oxidoreductase (NQO1), and heme-oxygenase-1 (HO-1). Sulforaphane has been
thought to induce the production of these enzymes without significantly changing the
synthesis of P-450 cytochrome enzymes. The upregulation of Phase II enzymes is
thought to play a role in a variety of biological activities, including the protection of
                                              3

the brain from cytotoxicity, the protection of the liver from the toxic effects of fat
accumulation, and the detoxification of a variety of other tissues.
[0008]           Sulforaphane and its precursor glucoraphanin have been studied
extensively. Shapiro et al. (Nutrition and Cancer, (2006), Vol. 55(1), pp. 53-62)
discusses a clinical Phase I study determining the safety, tolerability, and
metabolism of broccoli sprout glucosinolates and isothiocyanates. Shapiro et al.
discusses a placebo-controlled, double-blind, randomized clinical study of sprout
extracts containing either glucosinolates such as glucoraphanin or isothiocyanates
such as sulforaphane in healthy human subjects.              The study found that
administration of these substances did not result in systematic, clinically significant,
adverse effects.
[0009]           Milk thistle (Silybum marianum) is a plant of the Asteraceae family.
Milk thistle contains silymarin, which is composed of a number of constituents,
including, but not limited to flavonolignans such as silibinin (also known as silybin or
silibin), isosilibinin, silichristin, silydianin, kvercetin, dehydrosilybin, deoxysilycistin,
deoxysilydianin, silandrin, silybinome, silyhermin and neosilyhermin. Silymarin
constituents can have a number of biological effects, including inhibition of free
radical formation, binding of free radical species, prevention of membrane lipid
peroxidation, increase in levels of glutathione, and chelation of iron. Silibinin is the
major active constituent of silymarin, and it thought that have hepatoprotective
properties. Silymarin is discussed in U.S. Patent No. 7,563,779, which is
incorporated herein in its entirety.
[00010]          Zhang et al. (Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci., (1994), Vol. 91, pp. 3147-3150)
discusses a study in Sprague-Dawley rats to determine the anticarcinogenic
activities of sulforaphane and structurally related synthetic norbornyl
isiothiocyanates. The study determined that administration of sulforaphane was
effective in blocking the formation of mammary tumors.
[00011]          Cornblatt et al. (Carcinogenesis, (2007), Vol. 38(7): pp. 1485-1490)
discusses a study in Sprague-Dawley rats to determine the effect of sulforaphane in
chemoprevention in the breast. The study determined that oral administration of
either sulforaphane or glucoraphanin resulted in a 3-fold increase in
NAD(P)H:quinine oxidoreductase (NQO1) enzymatic activity and a 4-fold elevated
                                                   4

IH:\szp\Intrwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\SZP\17122351_1.docx- H /06 2018
immunostaining of the heme oxygenase-1 (HO-1 ) enzyme in the mammary
epithelium.
[00012]                         Munday et al. (Cancer Res, (2008), Vol. 68(5): pp. 1593-1600)
discusses a study regarding the effects of a freeze-dried aqueous extract of broccoli
sprouts on bladder cancer development in rats. The study found that administration of
the broccoli sprout extract resulted in a significant induction of glutathione S
transferase and NAD(P)H:quinine oxidoreductase 1 in the bladder, which are
enzymes exerting protective activity against oxidants and carcinogens.
[00013]                        Aghazadeh S et al. (Exp Toxicol Pathol. (2011) Sep;63(6):569-74)
discuss the anti-apoptotic and anti-inflammatory effects of Silybum marianum in
treatment of experimental steatohepatitis. The study found that administration of an
extract of Silybum maranium to rats fed a methionine and choline deficient (MCD) diet
to induce non-alcoholic steatohepatitis had improved AST and ALT activity along with
an increase in the glutathione content compared to control rats being fed the MCD
diet alone.
[00014]                         European Patent Application No. 2 213 280 discloses formulations
comprising glucosinolates such as glucoraphanin, and myrosinase, wherein the
formulation is encapsulated or coated.
[00015]                        All references cited herein are incorporated by reference in their
entirety.
[00015a]                        The reference in this specification to any prior publication (or information
derived from it), or to any matter which is known, is not, and should not be taken as
an acknowledgment or admission or any form of suggestion that that prior publication
(or information derived from it) or known matter forms part of the common general
knowledge in the field of endeavour to which this specification relates.
[00015b]                        Throughout this specification and the claims which follow, unless the
context requires otherwise, the word "comprise", and variations such as "comprises"
and "comprising", will be understood to imply the inclusion of a stated integer or step
or group of integers or steps but not the exclusion of any other integer or step or
group of integers or steps.
                                                               5

SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
[00016]        The present invention provides a composition comprising: (i) a
sulforaphane precursor, preferably glucoraphanin; (ii) an enzyme capable of
converting the sulforaphane precursor to sulforaphane, preferably a glucosidase
enzyme, more preferably a thioglucosidase enzyme, and most preferably
myrosinase; (iii) an enzyme potentiator, preferably ascorbic acid; and (iv) a milk
thistle extract or powder. The present invention also provides a method of treating,
preventing, reducing the occurrence of, decreasing the symptoms associated with,
and/or reducing secondary recurrences of, a disease or condition associated with the
liver, prostate, brain, lung, kidneys, colon, breast, esophagus, pancreas, or ovaries in
a subject, comprising administering to the subject: (i) a sulforaphane precursor, (ii)
an enzyme capable of converting the sulforaphane precursor to sulforaphane, (iii) an
enzyme potentiator, and (iv) a milk thistle extract or powder. The present invention
also provides a method of increasing glutathione levels in a subject in need thereof
in a subject, comprising administering to the subject: (i) a sulforaphane precursor, (ii)
an enzyme capable of converting the sulforaphane precursor to sulforaphane, (iii) an
enzyme potentiator, and (iv) a milk thistle extract or powder. The present invention
also provides a method of treating, preventing, reducing the occurrence of,
decreasing the symptoms associated with, and/or reducing secondary recurrences of
a non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) and/or any other disorder of the liver,
comprising administering to the subject: (i) a sulforaphane precursor, (ii) an enzyme
capable of converting the sulforaphane precursor to sulforaphane, (iii) an enzyme
potentiator, and (iv) a milk thistle extract or powder.
[00017]        The present invention provides a composition comprising: (i)
sulforaphane or a derivative thereof, and (ii) a milk thistle extract or powder. The
present invention also provides a method of treating, preventing, reducing the
occurrence of, decreasing the symptoms associated with, and/or reducing secondary
recurrences of, a disease or condition associated with the liver, prostate, brain, lung,
kidneys, colon, breast, esophagus, pancreas, or ovaries in a subject, comprising
administering to the subject: (i) sulforaphane or a derivative thereof, and (ii) a milk
thistle extract or powder. The present invention also provides a method of
increasing glutathione levels in a subject in need thereof in a subject, comprising
administering to the subject, comprising administering to the subject: (i) sulforaphane
                                              6

or a derivative thereof, and (ii) a milk thistle extract or powder. The present invention
also provides a method of treating, preventing, reducing the occurrence of,
decreasing the symptoms associated with, and/or reducing secondary recurrences of
a non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) and/or any other disorder of the liver,
comprising administering to the subject: (i) sulforaphane or a derivative thereof, and
(ii) a milk thistle extract or powder.
[00018]           The present invention provides a composition comprising: (i) a
broccoli extract or powder, and (ii) milk thistle extract or powder. The present
invention also provides a method of treating, preventing, reducing the occurrence of,
decreasing the symptoms associated with, and/or reducing secondary recurrences
of, a disease or condition associated with the liver, prostate, brain, lung, kidneys,
colon, breast, esophagus, pancreas, or ovaries in a subject, comprising
administering to the subject: (i) a broccoli extract or powder, and (ii) a milk thistle
extract or powder. The present invention also provides a method of increasing
glutathione levels in a subject in need thereof in a subject, comprising administering
to the subject, comprising administering to the subject: (i) a broccoli extract or
powder, and (ii) a milk thistle extract or powder. The present invention also provides
a method of treating, preventing, reducing the occurrence of, decreasing the
symptoms associated with, and/or reducing secondary recurrences of a non
alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) and/or any other disorder of the liver,
comprising administering to the subject: (i) a broccoli extract or powder, and (ii) a
milk thistle extract or powder.
BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE FIGURES
[00019]          FIG. 1 is a graph showing the conversion of glucoraphanin at 380C
without ascorbic acid, as described in Example 4.
[00020]          FIG. 2 is a graph showing the conversion within about 10 minutes at
380C as a function of ascorbic acid concentration, as described in Example 4.
[00021]          FIG. 3 is a graph showing the conversion to sulforaphane within 30
minutes at 380C and 1 mM ascorbic acid, as described in Example 4.
[00022]          FIG. 4 is a graph showing the conversion of glucoraphanin to
sulforaphane in simulated intestinal fluid, as described in Example 5.
                                               7

[00023]        FIG. 5 is a graph showing the results of the experiment described in
Example 6.
[00024]        FIG. 6 is a graph showing the results of the experiment described in
Example 6.
DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION
[00025]        The present invention relates to the combination of a sulforaphane
precursor, an enzyme capable of converting the sulforaphane precursor to
sulforaphane, an enzyme potentiator, and a milk thistle extract or powder. The
present invention also relates to the combination of sulforaphane or a derivative
thereof and a milk thistle extract or powder. The present invention also relates to the
combination of a broccoli extract or powder and a milk thistle extract or powder. The
present invention also relates to the use of milk thistle extract or powder, with a
mixture of one or more of the following: sulforaphane precursor, sulforaphane or a
derivative thereof, and broccoli extract. The present invention provides compositions
relating to these combinations.
[00026]        The present invention provides methods comprising administering
these combinations. In some embodiments, the combination may be administered
for treating, preventing, reducing the occurrence of, decreasing the symptoms
associated with, and/or reducing secondary recurrences of, a disease or condition
associated with the liver, prostate, brain, lung, kidneys, colon, breast, esophagus,
pancreas, or ovaries in a subject, comprising administering to the subject. In some
embodiments, the combination may be administered for increasing glutathione levels
in a subject in need thereof in a subject. In some embodiments, the combination
may be administered for treating, preventing, reducing the occurrence of, decreasing
the symptoms associated with, and/or reducing secondary recurrences of a non
alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) and/or any other disorder of the liver in a
subject.
[00027]        Sulforaphane is also known as 1-isothiocyanato-4
methylsulfinylbutane. Derivatives of sulforaphane include, but are not limited to
sulfoxythiocarbamate analogues of sulforaphane, 6-methylsulfinylhexyl
isothiocyanate (6-HITC), and compounds which comprise the structure of
                                             8

sulforaphane with different side chains and/or various lengths of spacers between
the isothiocyanato and sulfoxide groups. Examples of derivatives of sulforaphane
include those described in the following references, each of which is incorporated
herein by reference: Hu et al., Eur J Med Chem, 2013, 64:529-539; Ahn et al., Proc
NatlAcad Sci USA, 2010, 107(21):9590-9595; and Morimistu et al., J. Biol. Chem.
2002, 277:3456-3463, and Baird et al., Arch Toxicol, 2011, 85(4):241-272.
[00028]       In some embodiments, the composition comprises sulforaphane or a
derivative thereof, preferably sulforaphane, in an amount of about 1 pg to about 10 g,
preferably about 3 pg to about 5 g, preferably about 5 pg to about 1000 mg,
preferably about 7 pg to about 750 mg, more preferably about 10 pg to about 500
mg, and most preferably about 100 pg to about 100 mg. In some embodiments,
compositions suitable for human use comprise about 1 mg to about 20 mg.
[00029]       In some embodiments, the methods of the present invention comprise
administration of sulforaphane or a derivative thereof to a subject, preferably
sulforaphane, in an amount of about 1 pg to about 10 g, preferably about 3 pg to
about 5 g, preferably about 5 pg to about 1000 mg, preferably about 7 pg to about
750 mg, more preferably about 10 pg to about 500 mg, and most preferably about
100 pg to about 100 mg. In some embodiments wherein the subject is a human, the
method comprises administration of about 1 mg to about 20 mg. In some
embodiments, the methods of the present invention comprise administration of
sulforaphane or a derivative thereof to a subject, preferably sulforaphane, in an
amount of about 0.01 pg/kg to about 0.2 g/kg, preferably about 0.05 pg/kg to about
0.07 g/kg, more preferably about 0.07 pg/kg to about 15 mg/kg, more preferably
about 0.1 pg/kg to about 11 mg/kg, and most preferably about 0.2 pg/kg to about 7
mg/kg. In some preferred embodiments wherein the subject is a human, the method
comprises administration of about 2 pg/kg to about 2 mg/kg, and more preferably
about 0.01 mg/kg to about 0.3 mg/kg. The above amounts may refer to each dosage
administration or a total daily dosage. The total daily dosage refers to the total
amount of a compound or ingredient which is administered to a subject in a twenty
four hour period.
[00030]       In some embodiments, the method comprises administration of more
than one of a sulforaphane or a derivative thereof. In some embodiments, the
compositions comprise more than one of a sulforaphane or a derivative thereof. For
                                           9

example, the methods or composition may comprise both sulforaphane and one or
more derivatives thereof, or two or more derivatives. In some embodiments wherein
the method or composition comprise more than one of a sulforaphane or a derivative
thereof, the above amounts may refer to the amount of each sulforaphane or a
derivative thereof, or the total amount of the more than one sulforaphane or
derivative thereof.
[00031]       The term "sulforaphane precursor" refers to any compound, substance
or material which can be used to produce sulforaphane. In preferred embodiments,
the sulforaphane precursor comprises a compound which can be converted or
metabolized to sulforaphane, preferably by an enzyme. In some preferred
embodiments, the sulforaphane precursor comprises glucoraphanin. Glucoraphanin
is a glucosinolate which is also known as 4-methylsulfinylbutyl glucosinolate and 1
S-[(1E)-5-(methylsulfinyl)-N-(sulfonatooxy) pentanimidoyl]-1-thio-p-D-glucopyranose.
[00032]       In some embodiments, the composition comprises about 1 pg to about
10 g, preferably about 250 pg to about 5 g, more preferably about 500 pg to about
2000 mg, even more preferably about 1 mg to about 750 mg, even more preferably
about 1.5 mg to about 250 mg, even more preferably about 2 mg to about 100 mg,
and most preferably about 3 mg to about 75 mg of the sulforaphane precursor,
preferably glucoraphanin. In some embodiments, compositions suitable for human
use comprise about 3.5 mg to about 50 mg of the sulforaphane precursor, preferably
glucoraphanin.
[00033]       In some embodiments, the method comprises administering the
sulforaphane precursor, preferably glucoraphanin to a subject, in an amount of about
1 pg to about 10 g, preferably about 250 pg to about 5 g, more preferably about 500
pg to about 2000 mg, even more preferably about 1 mg to about 750 mg, even more
preferably about 1.5 mg to about 250 mg, even more preferably about 2 mg to about
100 mg, and most preferably about 3 mg to about 75 mg. In some embodiments
wherein the subject is a human, the method comprises administration of about 3.5
mg to about 50 mg. In some embodiments, the method comprises administering an
amount of sulforaphane precursor to a subject in an amount of about 1 pg/kg to
about 1000 mg/kg, preferably about 5 pg/kg to about 500 mg/kg, more preferably
about 7.5 pg/kg to about 100 mg/kg, even more preferably about 10 pg/kg to about
25 mg/kg, and most preferably about 25 pg/kg to about 10 mg/kg. In some
                                            10

embodiments wherein the subject is a human, the method comprises administration
of about 50 pg/kg to about 800 pg/kg. The above amounts may refer to each
dosage administration or a total daily dosage.
[00034]        In some embodiments, the method comprises administration of more
than one sulforaphane precursor. In some embodiments, the composition comprises
more than sulforaphane precursor. In some embodiments wherein the method or
composition comprises more than one sulforaphane precursor, the above amounts
may refer to the amount of each sulforaphane precursor, or the total amount of the
sulforaphane precursors.
[00035]       The sulforaphane precursor may be converted or metabolized to
sulforaphane. In some embodiments, the sulforphane precursor is converted to
sulforaphane by an enzyme. In some embodiments, the enzyme capable of
converting the sulforaphane precursor to sulforaphane comprises a glucosidase
enzyme, preferably a thioglucosidase enzyme, and more preferably myrosinase.
Myrosinase is also known as thioglucoside glucohydrolase.
[00036]        In some embodiments, the composition comprises the enzyme in an
amount of about 1 pg to about 1 ug, preferably about 50 pg to about 500 ng, and
most preferably about 1 ng to about 150 ng. In some embodiments, compositions
suitable for human use comprise about 5 ng to about 75 ng of the enzyme.
[00037]        In some embodiments, the method comprises administering the
enzyme, preferably myrosinase, in an amount of about 1 pg to about 1 pg, preferably
about 50 pg to about 500 ng, and most preferably about 1 ng to about 150 ng. In
some embodiments wherein the subject is a human, the method comprises
administration of about 5 ng to about 75 ng of the enzyme. In some embodiments,
the method comprises administering the enzyme to a subject in an amount of about
0.02 pg/kg to about 0.02 ug/kg, preferably about 0.7 pg/kg to about 7 ng/kg, and
most preferably about 0.02 ng/kg to about 2 ng/kg. In some preferred embodiments
wherein the subject is a human, the method comprises administration of about 0.1
ng/kg to about 1 ng/kg. The above amounts may refer to each dosage
administration or a total daily dosage.
[00038]        In some embodiments, the method comprises administration of more
than one enzyme capable of converting the sulforaphane precursor to sulforaphane.
In some embodiments, the composition comprises more than one enzyme capable
                                          11

of converting the sulforaphane precursor to sulforaphane. In some embodiments
wherein the methods or compositions comprise more than one enzyme, the above
amounts may refer to the amount of each enzyme, or the total amount of the
enzymes.
[00039]        The present invention also provides for the use of a broccoli extract
and/or powder, including but not limited to broccoli seed and sprout extracts and
powders. The present invention provides methods of administration of broccoli
extract and/or powder, and compositions comprising broccoli extract and/or powder.
In some embodiments, the broccoli extract or powder is standardized to contain
about 1% to about 75% w/w, more preferably about 2.5% to about 50%, even more
preferably about 5% to about 25%, and most preferably about 10% to about 20% of
a sulforaphane precursor, preferably glucoraphanin. Examples of broccoli extracts
and powders include but are not limited to those described in U.S. Patent Nos.
5,411,986; 5,725,895; 5,968,505; 5,968,567; 6,177,122; 6,242,018; 6,521,818;
7,303,770, and 8,124,135, each of which is incorporated by reference in its entirety.
Powders of broccoli may be obtained, for example, by air drying, freeze drying, drum
drying, spray drying, heat drying and/or partial vacuum drying broccoli, preferably
broccoli sprouts. In some embodiments, the compositions and methods comprise
use of about 1 pg to about 10 g, more preferably about 250 pg to about 5 g, even
more preferably about 500 pg to about 1 g, preferably about 600 pg to about 500
mg, more preferably about 750 pg to about 400 mg, and most preferably about 1 mg
to about 300 mg of the broccoli extract. In some embodiments, the broccoli extract
or powder is present in a composition or administered to a subject in amounts
sufficient to provide a sulforaphane precursor or sulforaphane in the amounts
described above. In some embodiments, the composition may further comprise an
enzyme potentiator, preferably ascorbic acid. In some embodiments, the method
may further comprise administration of an enzyme potentiator, preferably ascorbic
acid.
[00040]        The sulforaphane or a derivative thereof, the sulforaphane precursor,
and/or the enzyme capable of converting the sulforaphane precursor to sulforaphane
may be obtained from any source, including but not limited to one or more plants
from the Brassicaceae (also known as Cruciferae) family. Examples of plants from
the Brassicaceae family include, but are not limited to, the following: broccoli,
                                           12

Brussels sprouts, cauliflower, cabbage, horseradish, parsnip, radish, wasabi,
watercress, and white mustard. In some preferred embodiments, sulforaphane
precursor, preferably glucoraphanin, and the enzyme, preferably myrosinase, are
obtained from broccoli, broccoli sprouts, or broccoli seeds. The sulforaphane
precursor and the enzyme may be obtained from the same source or from different
sources. In some embodiments, both the sulforaphane precursor and the enzyme
may be obtained from an extract or powder from these plants, preferably a broccoli
seed or sprout extract or powder.
[00041]        The present invention provides for the use of an enzyme potentiator.
Enzyme potentiators may be used to enhance the activity of the enzyme that is
capable of converting the sulforaphane precursor to sulforaphane. In some
embodiments, the enzyme potentiator comprises an enzyme co-factor, preferably
ascorbic acid. Ascorbic acid, also known as ascorbate or vitamin C, can potentiate
the activity of myrosinase. In some embodiments, without an enzyme potentiator
such as ascorbic acid, the conversion reaction to sulforaphane may be too slow to
occur in the location needed for peak absorption. The enzyme potentiator may be
obtained from a natural source, or it may be produced synthetically.
[00042]         In some embodiments, the compositions may comprise about 1 mg to
about 500 mg, preferably about 1 mg to about 250 mg, and most preferably about 1
mg to about 125 mg of the enzyme potentiator. In some preferred embodiments,
compositions suitable for human use comprise about 1 mg to about 50 mg of the
enzyme potentiator.
[00043]         In some embodiments, the method of the present invention comprises
administration of an enzyme potentiator, preferably ascorbic acid, in an amount of
about 1 mg to about 500 mg, preferably about 1 mg to about 250 mg, and most
preferably about 1 mg to about 125 mg. In some preferred embodiments wherein
the subject is a human, the method comprises administration of about 1 mg to about
50 mg. In some embodiments, the method of the present invention comprises
administration of the enzyme potentiator, preferably ascorbic acid, in an amount of
about 0.01 mg/kg to about 3 mg/kg, and most about 0.02 mg/kg to about 2 mg/kg. In
some preferred embodiments wherein the subject is a human, the method comprises
administration of about 0.02 mg/kg to 0.7 mg/kg of the enzyme potentiator. The
above amounts may refer to each dosage administration or a total daily dosage.
                                           13

[00044]        In some embodiments, the method comprises administration of more
than one enzyme potentiator. In some embodiments, the composition comprises
more than one an enzyme potentiator. In some embodiments wherein the method or
composition comprise more than one enzyme potentiator, the above amounts may
refer to the amount of each enzyme potentiator, or the total amount of the enzyme
potentiators.
[00045]        The present invention further comprises the use of a milk thistle extract
or powder. Milk thistle belongs to the species Silybum marianum. Milk thistle
comprises a number of components or fractions having biological activity. An active
fraction of milk thistle is silymarin, which comprises a number of constituents.
Examples of constituents of silymarin include, but are not limited to: silibinin (also
known as silybin or silibin), isosilibinin, silichristin, silydianin, and
kvercetin,dehydrosilybin, deoxysilycistin, deoxysilydianin, silandrin, silybinome,
silyhermin and neosilyhermin. Isomers of silibinin include Silybinin A (or Silibinin A)
and Silybinin B (or Silbinin B). In preferred embodiments, the milk thistle extract or
powder comprises silymarin.
[00046]        In some embodiments, the compositions and methods of the present
invention may comprise the use of one or more derivatives of silymarin, instead of or
in addition to a milk thistle extract or powder. Derivatives of silymarin constituents
include any modified forms of the above compounds, including but not limited to, 7
0- and 23-0-acyl derivatives, and analogues. Examples of derivatives of silymarin
constituents include, but are not limited to 2,3-dehydrosilybin (DHS); 7-0
methylsilybin; 7-0-galloylsilybin; 7,23-disulphatesilybin (DSS); 7-0-palmitoylsilybin;
and 23-0-palmitoylsilybin. Examples of derivatives include those described in the
following references, each of which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety:
Agarwal et al. PLOS ONE, 2013, 8(3):e60074; GB 2167414; and CA1337124. In
some embodiments, the compositions and methods of the present invention may
comprise the use of silymarin or silibinin in a purified form or silymarin or silibinin
produced synthetically, instead of or in addition to a milk thistle extract or powder.
[00047]        In some embodiments, the milk thistle extract or powder may be used.
In preferred embodiments, the milk thistle extract comprises silymarin. In preferred
embodiments, the milk thistle extract comprises silibinin. In some embodiments, the
milk thistle extract or powder is standardized to contain about 25% to about 95%,
                                                14

preferably about 50% to about 90%, and more preferably about 55% to about 85%
silymarin. In some embodiments, the milk thistle extract or powder is standardized
to contain about 5% to about 75%, preferably about 10% to about 60%, more
preferably about 15% to about 50%, and most preferably about 20% to about 35% of
silibinin. Examples of milk thistle extract include, but are not limited to, those
described in U.S. Patent No, 6,555,141; U.S. Patent No. 6,863,906; U.S. Patent No.
7,563,779; W0200908006; EP2020238; W02009043671; EP1584240; and
W02011076154, each of which is incorporated by reference in its entirety. Powders
of milk thistle may be obtained, for example, by air drying, freeze drying, drum
drying, spray drying, heat drying and/or partial vacuum drying milk thistle.
[00048]         In some embodiments, the compositions and methods comprise use of
about 1.25 mg to about 15 grams, preferably about 5 mg to about 10 grams, and
most preferably about 10 mg to about 7.5 grams of milk thistle extract. In some
preferred embodiments wherein the composition is suitable for human use, the
composition comprises about 25 mg to about 5 grams of the milk thistle extract. In
some embodiments, the composition comprises about 0.75 mg to about 15 grams,
preferably about 3 mg to about 7 grams, more preferably about 7 mg to about 5
grams, and most preferably about 15 mg to about 3.5 grams of silymarin. In some
preferred embodiments wherein the composition is suitable for human use, the
composition comprises about 50 mg to about 200 mg of silymarin. In some
embodiments, the composition comprises about 0.3 mg to about 5 grams, preferably
about 1.5 mg to about 3 grams, more preferably about 3 mg to about 2 grams, and
most preferably about 7 mg to about 1.5 grams of silibinin. In some preferred
embodiments wherein the composition is suitable for human use, the composition
comprises about 30 mg to about 90 mg of silibinin.
[00049]         In some embodiments, the method comprises administration of
silymarin in an amount of about 1 pg/kg to about 75 mg/kg, preferably about 2.5
pg/kg to about 50 mg/kg, more preferably about 5 pg/kg to about 25 mg/kg, more
preferably about 10 pg/kg to about 15 mg/kg, and most preferably about 15 pg/kg to
about 10 mg/kg. In some preferred embodiments wherein the subject is a human,
the method comprises administration of about 1 mg/kg to about 3 mg/kg of silymarin.
In some embodiments, the method comprises administration of silibinin in an amount
of about 0.5 pg/kg to about 50 mg/kg, preferably about 1 pg/kg to about 35 mg/kg,
                                             15

more preferably about 2.5 pg/kg to about 25 mg/kg, more preferably about 5 pg/kg to
about 10 mg/kg, and most preferably about 7.5 pg/kg to about 5 mg/kg. In some
preferred embodiments wherein the subject is a human, the method further
comprises administration of about 300 pg/kg to about 2 mg/kg of silibinin. In
embodiments wherein a derivative of a silymarin constituent are used, the methods
and compositions may comprise the derivative in an amount of about 0.75 mg to
about 15 grams, preferably about 3 mg to about 7 grams, more preferably about 7
mg to about 5 grams, and most preferably about 15 mg to about 3.5 grams. In some
preferred embodiments wherein the composition is suitable for human use, the
compositions comprise about 50 mg to about 200 mg of the derivative of a silymarin
constituent. The above amounts may refer to each dosage administration or a total
daily dosage.
[00050]         In some embodiments, S-adenosylmethionine may be used in place of,
or in addition to, the milk thistle extract, silymarin and/or silibinin.
[00051]         The methods of the present invention may further comprise
administration of one or more additional components. The compositions of the
present invention may further comprise one or more additional components. The
additional components may include active pharmaceutical ingredients, nutritional
supplements, and nutritional extracts. Examples of additional components include,
but are not limited, quercetin or a derivative thereof, an aminosugar such as
glucosamine, a glycosaminoglycan such as chondroitin, avocado/soybean
unsaponifiables, vitamins such as vitamin K2, coffee fruit, magnesium, ursolic acid,
proanthocyanidins, alpha- and beta-glucans, curcumin, phytosterols, phytostanols,
and S-adenosylmethionine (SAMe). These additional components may be present
in cranberry (Vaccinium macrocarpon) extract (proanthocyanidins, quercetin, and
ursolic acid), turmeric (Curcuma longa), medicinal mushroom extract such as
shiitake (Lentinus edodes), maitake (Grifola frondosa) mushroom extracts, and reishi
(Ganoderma lucidum) mushroom extract.
[00052]         In some embodiments, the ratio of silymarin to sulforaphane or a
derivative of is about 1:1 to about 75:1, more preferably about 2:1 to about 50:1,
more preferably about 2.5:1 to about 25:1, even more preferably about 5:1 to about
15:1, and most preferably about 6:1 to about 9:1. In some embodiments, the ratio of
silibinin to sulforaphane or a derivative of is about 1:2 to about 35:1, more preferably
                                                16

about 1:1 to about 25:1, more preferably about 1:1 to about 15:1, even more
preferably about 2:1 to about 10:1, and most preferably about 2:1 to about 5:1. In
some embodiments, the ratio of silymarin to sulforaphane precursor of is about 1:5 to
about 50:1, preferably about 1:2 to about 25:1, more preferably about 1:1 to about
10:1, more preferably about 1.5:1 to about 5:1, and most preferably about 1:1 to
about 4:1. In some embodiments, the ratio of silibinin to sulforaphane precursor is
about 1:5 to about 50:1, preferably about 1:2 to about 25:1, preferably 1:1 to about
20:1, and most preferably about 1:1 to about 13:1.
[00053]         In some embodiments, the composition comprises a unit dosage form,
including but not limited to pharmaceutical dosage forms suitable for oral, rectal,
intravenous, subcutaneous, intramuscular, transdermal, transmucosal, and topical.
In some preferred embodiments, the composition comprises an orally administrable
dosage form or a rectally administrable dosage form. Examples of orally
administrable dosage forms include, but are not limited to a tablet, capsule, powder
that can be dispersed in a beverage, a liquid such as a solution, suspension, or
emulsion, a soft gel/chew capsule, a chewable bar, or other convenient dosage form
known in the art. In preferred embodiments, the composition comprises a tablet,
capsule, or soft chewable treat. The orally administrable dosage forms may be
formulated for immediate release, extended release or delayed release.
[00054]        In some embodiments, at least the sulforaphane precursor, the
enzyme, and the enzyme potentiator are provided in a dosage form which allows for
the release in an area of the gastrointestinal tract having a pH of at least 4 and
preferably at least 5, such as the small intestine, preferably the duodenum. In some
embodiments, at least the sulforaphane or derivative thereof and/or the broccoli
extract or powder are provided in a dosage form which allows for the release in an
area of the gastrointestinal tract having a pH of at least 4 and preferably at least 5,
such as the small intestine, preferably the duodenum. In some embodiments, the
milk thistle extract or powder and/or any optional additional components are also
released in an area of the gastrointestinal tract having a pH of at least 4 and
preferably at least 5, such as the small intestine, preferably the duodenum. The
small intestine includes the duodenum, jejunum, and ileum.
[00055]        In some embodiments, each of these components (i.e, sulforaphane
precursor, enzyme, enzyme potentiator, sulforaphane or a derivative thereof,
                                            17

broccoli extract or powder, milk thistle extract or powder, and/or additional
components) are released simultaneously or concomitantly (i.e., within a short period
of time of each other). This provides benefits over glucoraphanin-containing
compositions formulated to release the glucoraphanin in an area of the
gastrointestinal tract having a pH below 4, such as the stomach. In low pH
environments such as this, the acidic environment may divert conversion of
sulforaphane precursor to other, physiologically inactive end products, such as
sulforaphane nitrile and epithionitrile.
[00056]         In some embodiments, the compositions may comprise orally
administrable compositions which comprise gastroprotective formulations, including
enteric coated dosage forms or any dosage form which is resistant to degradation in
an area of the gastrointestinal tract having pH below 4, such as the stomach. For
example, the orally administrable composition may comprise a tablet or capsule
comprising an enteric coating. The enteric coating may comprise materials
including, but not limited to cellulose acetate phthalate, hydroxypropyl
methylcellulose phthalate, polyvinyl acetate phthalate, methacrylic acid copolymer,
methacrylic acid:acrylic ester copolymer, hydroxypropyl methylcellulose acetate
succinate, hydroxypropyl methylcellulose trimellitate, shellac, cellulose acetate
trimellitate, carboxymethylethylcellulose, and mixtures thereof. The enteric coating
may comprise any suitable enteric polymers known in the art. In some
embodiments, one or more of the components in the composition may be embedded
in a matrix of enteric polymers. In some embodiments, the orally administrable
compositions comprise a capsule that dissolves slowly in gastric acid and travels to
the small intestine, such as DRCAPSTM acid resistant capsules, which are marketed
by CAPSUGEL* or any other acid resistant capsules.
[00057]         In the most preferred form, the orally administrable composition is
surrounded by a coating that does not dissolve unless the surrounding medium is at
a pH of at least 4, and more preferably at least 5. Alternatively, a coating may be
employed which controls the release by time, as opposed to pH, with the rate
adjusted so that the components are not released until after the pH of the
gastrointestinal tract has risen to at least 4, and more preferably at least 5. Thus, a
time-release formulation may be used to prevent gastric presence of the
sulforaphane precursor, the enzyme capable of converting the sulforaphane
                                              18

precursor to sulforaphane, and the enzyme potentiator, or of the sulforaphane. The
coating layer(s) may be applied onto orally administrable composition using standard
coating techniques. The enteric coating materials may be dissolved or dispersed in
organic or aqueous solvents.      The pH at which the enteric coat will dissolve can be
controlled by a polymer, or combination of polymers, selected and/or ratio of pendant
groups. For example, dissolution characteristics of the polymer film can be altered
by the ratio of free carboxyl groups to ester groups. Enteric coating layers also
contain pharmaceutically acceptable plasticizers such as triethyl citrate, dibutyl
phthalate, triacetin, polyethylene glycols, polysorbates or other plasticizers.
Additives such as dispersants, colorants, anti-adhering and anti-foaming agents may
also be included.
[00058]         The compositions may contain one or more non-active pharmaceutical
ingredients (also known generally as "excipients"). Non-active ingredients, for
example, serve to solubilize, suspend, thicken, dilute, emulsify, stabilize, preserve,
protect, color, flavor, and fashion the active ingredients into an applicable and
efficacious preparation that is safe, convenient, and otherwise acceptable for use.
The excipients are preferably pharmaceutically acceptable excipients. Examples of
classes of pharmaceutically acceptable excipients include lubricants, buffering
agents, stabilizers, blowing agents, pigments, coloring agents, flavoring agents,
fillers, bulking agents, fragrances, release modifiers, adjuvants, plasticizers, flow
accelerators, mold release agents, polyols, granulating agents, diluents, binders,
buffers, absorbents, glidants, adhesives, anti-adherents, acidulants, softeners,
resins, demulcents, solvents, surfactants, emulsifiers, elastomers and mixtures
thereof.
[00059]         In some embodiments, the combination of (i) a sulforaphane precursor,
preferably glucoraphanin, (ii) an enzyme capable of converting the sulforaphane
precursor to sulforaphane, preferably a glucosidase enzyme, more preferably a
thioglucosidase enzyme, and most preferably myrosinase, (iii) an enzyme
potentiator, preferably an enzyme co-factor, more preferably ascorbic acid, and (iv)
milk thistle extract or powder demonstrates a synergistic effect. In some
embodiments, the combination of sulforaphane (or a derivative thereof) and a milk
thistle extract or powder demonstrates a synergistic effect. Synergy refers to the
effect wherein a combination of two or more components provides a result which is
                                             19

greater than the sum of the effects produced by the agents when used alone. In
preferred embodiments, the synergistic effect is greater than an additive effect. In
some embodiments, the combination of a sulforaphane precursor, an enzyme
capable of converting the sulforaphane precursor to sulforaphane, an enzyme
potentiator, and a milk thistle extract or powder has a statistically significant, greater
effect compared to: (i) each component alone, (ii) the combination of sulforaphane
precursor and the enzyme alone; and/or (iii) the combination of sulforaphane
precursor, the enzyme, and the enzyme potentiator alone.
[00060]         In preferred embodiments, the combination of the sulforaphane
precursor, the enzyme, the enzyme potentiator, and a milk thistle extract or powder
demonstrates synergy by having a statistically significant and/or greater than additive
effect compared to the sulforaphane precursor alone and the milk thistle extract or
powder alone. In some embodiments, the combination of glucoraphanin,
myrosinase, ascorbic acid, and silymarin has a synergistic effect compared to the
combination of glucoraphanin, myrosinase, ascorbic acid alone; and compared to
silymarin alone. In some embodiments, the combination of glucoraphanin,
myrosinase, ascorbic acid, and silibinin has a synergistic effect compared to the
combination of glucoraphanin, myrosinase, ascorbic acid alone; and compared to
silibinin alone.
[00061]         In some embodiments, the combination of a sulforaphane (or a
derivative thereof) and a milk thistle extract or powder has a statistically significant
and/or greater than additive effect than: (i) sulforaphane (or a derivative thereof)
alone, and/or (ii) a milk thistle extract or powder alone. In some embodiments, the
combination of sulforaphane and silymarin has a synergistic effect compared to
sulforaphane alone, and silymarin alone. In some embodiments, the combination of
sulforaphane and silibinin has a synergistic effect compared to sulforaphane alone,
and silibinin alone.
[00062]         In some embodiments, the combination of broccoli extract or powder
and a milk thistle extract or powder has a statistically significant and/or greater than
additive effect than: (i) broccoli extract or powder alone, and/or (ii) a milk thistle
alone. In some embodiments, the combination of broccoli extract or powder and
silymarin has a synergistic effect compared to broccoli extract or powder alone, and
silymarin alone. In some embodiments, the combination of broccoli extract or
                                              20

powder and silibinin has a synergistic effect compared to broccoli extract or powder
alone, and silibinin alone.
[00063]        The present invention provides methods of use, including methods of
administration to a subject in need thereof. In some embodiments, the method
comprises administration of the combination of a sulforaphane precursor, an enzyme
capable of converting the sulforaphane precursor to sulforaphane, an enzyme
potentiator, and a milk thistle extract or powder. In some embodiments, the method
comprises administration of the combination of a sulforaphane or a derivative thereof
and a milk thistle extract or powder. In some embodiments, the method comprises
administration of the combination of a broccoli extract or powder and a milk thistle
extract or powder.
[00064]        In some embodiments, the method relates to treating, preventing,
reducing the occurrence of, decreasing the symptoms associated with, and/or
reducing secondary recurrences of, a disease or condition associated with the liver,
genitourinary system (including prostate, breast, and ovaries), brain, lung, kidneys,
colon, esophagus, pancreas, or hematopoietic system in a subject, comprising
administering to the subject. The methods may be useful in reducing damage of
slowing damage to tissues and organs, such as the liver, genitourinary system
(including prostate, breast, and ovaries), brain, lung, kidneys, colon, esophagus, and
pancreas,In some embodiments, the method relates to increasing glutathione levels
in a subject in need thereof in a subject. The method may also be useful in treating,
preventing, decreasing the symptoms associated with, and/or reducing secondary
recurrences of diseases or conditions associated with low levels of glutathione.
Examples of such diseases and conditions include, but are not limited to, non
alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD), cancer (such as cancer of the liver, lung,
prostate, colon, breast, brain, ovaries, esophagus, pancreas, nasopharynx,
osteosarcoma), leukemia, cystic fibrosis, HIV, glutathione synthetase deficiency,
Alzheimer's disease , Parkinson's disease, Huntington's disease, amyotrophic lateral
sclerosis, Friedreich's ataxia, multiple sclerosis, fibromyalgia, chronic fatigue, autism,
diabetes, hepatotoxicity, and toxicity due to environmental factors.
[00065]        In some embodiments, method relates to treating, preventing, reducing
the occurrence of, decreasing the symptoms associated with, and/or reducing
secondary recurrences of a non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) and/or any
                                             21

other disorder of the liver in a subject. In some embodiments, the methods relate to
ameliorating or reducing the deleterious effects of NAFLD.
[00066]         In some embodiments, the methods relate to providing a beneficial
effect on biomarkers, and treating, preventing, reducing the occurrence of,
decreasing the symptoms associated with abnormal levels of these biomarkers.
Examples of such biomarkers include, but are not limited to NADPH-dependent
enzymes, thioredoxin (TXN), thioredoxin reductase-1 (Txnrd-1), glutamate-cysteine
ligase subunit (GCLC), sulfotransferase 1A1 (SULT1Al), heme oxygenase-1
(HMOX1), glutathione peroxidase-3 (GPx-3), glutathione S-transferse theta 2
(GSTT2), microsomal glutathione S-transferase 1 (MGST1), aldehyde oxidase
(AOX1), aldo-keto reductase 1B8 (Akrl b8), flavin-containing monooxygenase 2
(FMO2), Fc receptor region receptor III (Fcgr3), tryptase beta 1 (TPSB1), mast cell
protease-6 (Mcpt6), neurexin-1 -alpha (NRXN-1), microphthalmia-associated
transcription factor (MITF), type II iodothyronine deiodinase (DI02), angiopoietin-14
(Angptl 4), cluster of differentiation (CD36), and Ntel. Diseases or conditions
associated with elevated or abnormal levels of these biomarkers include, but are not
limited to cancer, pulmonary and central nervous system tuberculosis, multiple
sclerosis, Crohn's disease, atherosclerosis, osteoarthritis, asthma, stroke,
emphysema, diabetic nephropathy, chronic histiocytic intervillositis of the placenta,
hypertension, abdominal aortic aneurysm, inflammatory bowel disease, chronic
rhinosinusitis, coronary artery disease, and kidney disease.
[00067]         In some embodiments, the method comprises administering to a
subject in need thereof a combination of sulforaphane and a milk thistle extract or
powder. In some embodiments the method comprises administering to a subject in
need thereof a combination of broccoli extract or powder and a milk thistle extract or
powder. In some preferred embodiments, the method comprises administering to
the subject a combination of glucoraphanin, myrosinase, ascorbic acid, and a milk
thistle extract or powder. In preferred embodiments, the combinations demonstrate
a synergistic effect in the methods of the present invention.
[00068]         In preferred embodiments, one or more components of the
combinations (for example, the sulforaphane precursor, the enzyme capable of
converting the sulforaphane precursor to sulforaphane, the enzyme potentiator, the
milk thistle extract or powder; or the sulforaphane or derivative thereof and the milk
                                             22

thistle extract or powder; or the broccoli extract or powder and the milk thistle extract
or powder) are administered together in one composition or dosage form, or
separately, preferably within a period in which their therapeutic properties overlap.
In some embodiments, the components of the combinations may be administered in
two or more orally administrable compositions or dosage forms. For example, in
some embodiments, the sulforaphane precursor, the enzyme capable of converting
the sulforaphane precursor to sulforaphane, and the enzyme potentiator are
administered in one orally administrable dosage form, while the a milk thistle extract
or powder are administered in one or more separate or additional orally
administrable dosage form(s). In preferred embodiments, the components of the
combination are administered in one dosage form.
[00069]         In some embodiments, the combination may be administered at a
frequency of 1 to 10 times daily, preferably 1 to 5 times daily, more preferably 1 to 3
times daily, and most preferably 1 time daily.
[00070]        The dosages disclosed in this application refer generally to dosages
suitable for humans. Dosage calculations can be determined by those of skilled in
the art by evaluating body weight, surface area, metabolic rate, and species
differences.
[00071]        The term "subject" refers to any animal, including mammals and birds.
Mammals include, but are not limited to, humans, dogs, cats, horses, cows, camels,
elephants, lions, tigers, bears, seals, and rabbits. In preferred embodiments, the
subjects comprise mammals that are not consumed as food, such as humans, cats,
and dogs.
                                            23

EXAMPLES
[00072]        Example 1
[00073]        The following is an exemplary formulation:
Glucoraphanin-containing broccoli extract (about 12% w/w), 50 mg to 5 g
Myrosinase-containing freeze-dried broccoli sprout powder, 25 mg to 500 mg
Ascorbic acid, 5 mg to 500 mg
Milk thistle extract (about 20% to 35% w/w silibinin), 25 mg to 5 g
[00074]        Example 2
A Hydrophobic Interaction Chromatographic (HILIC) method was developed,
comprising the following conditions:
Column: Waters BEH Amide, 1.7-pm particle size; 2.1 mm x 100 mm
Mobile Phase: 20% 10mM Ammonium Acetate, pH 5.0; 80% Acetonitrile;
Separation mode: isocratic
Column Temperature: 700C
Flow Rate: 0.7 mL/min
The above conditions allow separation of five typical Brassicaceae glucosinolates,
including the sulforaphane precursor, glucoraphanin.
[00075]        Example 3.
[00076]        Consumption of Glucoraphanin as a Function of the Ascorbic Acid
Concentration.
[00077]        About 250 mg of broccoli seed extract containing about 12% (w/w)
glucoraphanin were subjected to hydrolysis by a fixed concentration of broccoli
sprout-derived myrosinase in the presence of variable concentration of ascorbic acid,
ranging from 0 to 600 pmoles/Liter. The reaction mixtures were thermostated at
38 0C; aliquots were withdrawn every 15 minutes for 60 minutes, and concentration of
glucoraphanin determined chromatographically. The rate of glucoraphanin
consumption was interpreted as the rate its conversion to sulforaphane. Graphical
representation of glucoraphanin content reduction as a function of increasing
ascorbic acid concentration results in a series of linear plots; the slopes of the linear
regression lines reflect the rate of glucoraphanin consumption, in pmoles/minute. It
is apparent that in the presence of 600 pmoles/Liter concentration of ascorbic acid,
                                            24

the reaction rate increased 13-fold relative to that which proceeded in the absence of
modulatory effects of ascorbic acid.
                                   Content of Ascorbic Acid
  Time, min                                           250 pM
               0 pM     50 pM   125 pM     250 pM      Filtered  400 pM   600 pM
      0        93.36    93.36    93.36      93.36       93.36     93.36    93.36
      15       92.24    89.20    84.52      80.95       86.31     78.32    75.02
                                            69.06       79.44     62.78    55.66     poles
      30       90.71    84.24    75.92
                                                                                       GR
     45        89.44    80.30    68.09      57.63       71.94     47.67    37.50
     60        87.79    76.36    59.41      45.76       65.18     33.15    22.09
    Slope    -0.09293 -0.28599 -0.56217   -0.79012   -0.47140   -1.00714 -1.20029   pmol/min
  Intercept   93.496    93.271  93.123     93.053      93.386    93.270   92.734      pmol
[00078]         Example 4
[00079]         Equimolar Conversion of Glucoraphanin to Sulforaphane.
[00080]         A two-part experiment was conducted to further elucidate the role of
ascorbic acid in modulating myrosinase activity. All solutions were prepared in 20
mM Tris-buffered saline, at pH 7.5, previously identified as an optimal for myrosinase
activity; each sample tube had 100 mg of freeze-dried broccoli powder accurately
weighed in as a source of myrosinase. Experiment was conducted at 38              OC for 2
hours, with sample aliquots removed in 30-minute increments, and both
glucoraphanin and sulforaphane content assessed by HPLC. A strongly acidic "stop"
solution was utilized to instantaneously inhibit further myrosinase activity in the
removed aliquots. A control sample contained no ascorbic acid, and the enzymatic
conversion proceeded unassisted by a co-factor.
[00081]         PART 1. In the presence of the fixed concentration of ascorbic acid, 1
mmol/Liter, an increasing amount of broccoli seed extract (about 12% glucoraphanin,
w/w) was added, ranging from 250 mg to 500 mg.
[00082]         PART 2. While keeping the amount of broccoli seed extract fixed at
250 mg, the concentration of ascorbic acid was varied from 0.4 mmol/Liter to 3.8
mmol/Liter.
[00083]         The table below presents glucoraphanin and sulforaphane expressed
in pmoles. It is apparent that within the first 30 minutes in almost all the reaction
                                              25

mixtures, conversion of glucoraphanin to sulforaphane was complete. However,
careful examination of the enzymatic conversion occurring in the control sample,
without the stimulating effects of ascorbic acid, reveals an equimolar conversion of
glucoraphanin to sulforaphane, i.e., the amount of glucoraphanin consumed results
in the equivalent amount of sulforaphane produced.
                                Glucoraphanin, moles                 Sulforaphane, moles
              Time, min     0     30     60      90    120    0     30        60       90    120
 GR 250 mg AA 0.0 mM      58.02 48.57   37.52   26.58 15.67  3.42 12.08      22.27    33.17 42.89
 GR 250 mg AA 1.0 mM      40.07                             21.51 61.95      60.20   60.04  58.25
 GR 300 mg AA 1.0 mM      49.31                             24.18 74.40      73.04    72.19 70.56
 GR 350 mg AA 1.0 mM      61.41                             25.00 84.92      84.02   83.19  80.02
 GR 400 mg AA 1.0 mM      71.35  1.56                       26.71 96.60      95.38   93.39  91.16
 GR 500 mg AA 1.0 mM      89.41  1.01                       33.52 120.16    118.45   116.45 112.34
 GR 250 mg AA 0.4 mM      45.66                             15.98 62.06      61.01   60.88  58.90
 GR 250 mg AA 1.0 mM      35.24                             26.49 62.19      60.62   60.41  59.10
 GR 250 mg AA 2.0 mM      24.94                             36.05 60.85      59.78   59.65  58.08
 GR 250 mg AA 2.9 mM      22.24                             38.20 59.95      59.34   58.77  56.99
 GR 250 mg AA 3.8 mM      21.70                             37.87 58.77      57.79   58.41  56.17
[00084]           In the Part 2 of the experiment, the modulatory effect of the increasing
concentration of ascorbic acid on the activity of myrosinase was assessed. An initial,
apparently linear, increase in myrosinase-promoted conversion of glucoraphanin to
sulforaphane is observed to about 2 mmol/L of ascorbic acid concentration, followed
subsequently by a considerable leveling off.
[00085]           Finally, examination of sulforaphane yield of after 30 minutes within the
PART 1 of the experiment, reveals that in the presence of 1 mmol/Liter of ascorbic
acid, the fixed amount of myrosinase contained in 100 mg of freeze-dried broccoli
sprout powder is capable of generating at least 200 pmoles of sulforaphane, in a
predictably linear fashion. FIG. 1, 2, 3, and 4 demonstrate the results of this study.
[00086]           Example 5.
[00087]          Conversion of Glucoraphanin to Sulforaphane in the Presence of
Simulated Intestinal Fluid.
                                                  26

[00088]         Simulated Intestinal Fluid (SIF) powder, a commercially supplied
concentrate closely approximating the human intestinal content in terms of
composition, pH and ionic strength, was used. The experiment utilized a USP
Dissolution Apparatus 2 (paddles), where into six dissolution vessels 500 mL of
Simulated Intestinal Fluid was dispensed, along with 150 mg of freeze-dried broccoli
sprout powder as a source of myrosinase. In vessels 1-4, the concentration of
ascorbic acid was varied from 0.25 to 1.00 mmol/Liter; in vessel 5, in addition to 1
mmol/Liter ascorbic acid, 3.125 g of pancreatin (8x USP) was suspended; in vessel
6, in addition to 1 mmol/Liter ascorbic acid, and 3.125 g of pancreatin (8x USP), a
doubled amount of freeze-dried broccoli sprout powder (300 mg) was added. After
vessels were brought to 38 C, 250 mg of glucoraphanin-rich (12%, w/w) broccoli
seed extract was added to each, and the resulting suspensions were stirred at 75
RPM for 2 hours. Aliquots were withdrawn every 15 minutes, and assayed for
sulforaphane. FIG. 4 shows direct correlation between larger yield of sulforaphane
and higher concentrations of ascorbic acid, especially at the earlier stages of the
experiment.
[00089]         Example 6
[00090]         The following study was conducted to determine the effect of the
combination of sulforaphane and silibinin on glutathione levels. Glutathione plays an
important role in the body, as it can serve as an antioxidant, detoxifier, and immunity
enhancer. Decreased levels of glutathione can cause a patient to be susceptible to
oxidative stress, illness, and cancer. Therefore, an increase in glutathione levels is a
beneficial effect.
[00091]         In the study, the human liver cancer cell line, HepG2 cells were treated
with DMSO (vehicle control), sulforaphane (SFN), silibinin (Silib), or the combination
of sulforaphane and silibinin, for 24 hours. Cell lysates were collected and
glutathione levels were measured using o-phthalaldehyde (OPT) as a fluorescent
reagent. FIG. 5 and FIG. 6 show the results of the study.
[00092]         In Part 1 of the study, the effect of 0.5 pM SFN was compared to
various concentrations of silibinin and to the combination of 0.5 pM SFN and silibinin
at various concentrations. In particular, the cells were treated with one of the
following: (i) DMSO (vehicle control), (ii) 0.5 pM SFN, (iii) 100 pM Silib, (iv) 200 pM
                                              27

Silib, (v) 300 pM Silib, (vi) 0.5 pM SFN and 100 pM Silib, (vii) 0.5 pM SFN and 200
pM Silib, and (viii) 0.5 pM SFN and 300 pM Silib. The results demonstrate that the
combination of sulforaphane and silibinin at each of the tested dosages had a
synergistic effect compared to each component alone. For example, when the cells
were treated with individual components the glutathione levels remained the same
with treatment of sulforaphane alone or decreased slightly with Silibinin treatment
compared the DMSO (vehicle) control. However, when cells were treated with the
combination of sulforaphane and silibinin, at each of the tested dosages, the
glutathione levels synergistically increased compared to the control. An increase in
glutathione levels is a beneficial effect. The results are depicted in FIG. 5.
[00093]         In Part 2 of the study, the effect of 2 pM SFN was compared to various
concentrations of silibinin and to the combination of 2 pM SFN and silibinin at various
concentrations. In particular, the cells were treated with one of the following: (i)
DMSO (vehicle control), (ii) 2 pM SFN, (iii) 100 pM Silib, (iv) 300 pM Silib, (v) 2 pM
SFN and 100 pM Silib, and (vi) 0.5 pM SFN and 300 pM Silib. The results
demonstrate that the combination of sulforaphane and silibinin at each of the tested
dosages had a synergistic effect compared to each component alone. For example,
when the cells were treated with individual components, the glutathione levels
remained the same with treatment of sulforaphane alone or decreased slightly with
Silibinin treatment compared to the control.      However, when cells were treated with
the combination of sulforaphane and silibinin, at each of the tested dosages, the
glutathione levels synergistically increased compared to the control. An increase in
glutathione levels is a beneficial effect to detoxify cells. The results are depicted in
FIG. 6.
[00094]         Example 7
[00095]         A subject presents with non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) and
is suffering from symptoms including malaise, fatigue, and abdominal discomfort.
She is administered a tablet containing glucoraphanin, myrosinase, ascorbic acid,
and a milk thistle extract. The tablet is an enteric coated formulation which releases
the contents in the small intestine. After one month of daily administration of the
tablet, the subject experiences modulation of surrogate biomarkers including
glutathione which correlates with improvement in symptoms.
                                              28

THE CLAIMS DEFINING THE INVENTION ARE AS FOLLOWS:
Claim 1.       An orally administrable composition comprising a broccoli extract or
powder comprising sulforaphane or a derivative thereof and/or a sulforaphane
precursor and a milk thistle extract or powder comprising silymarin and/or silibinin,
wherein when the broccoli extract comprises a sulforaphane precursor, the
composition further comprises an enzyme capable of converting the sulforaphane
precursor to sulforaphane.
Claim 2.       The orally administrable composition according to claim 1, wherein
the broccoli extract or powder comprises glucoraphanin in an amount of about 1 to
about 75% w/w.
Claim 3.       The orally administrable composition according to claim 1 or claim 2,
wherein the broccoli extract or powder comprises myrosinase.
Claim 4.       The orally administrable composition according to any one of claims
1 to 3, further comprising an enzyme potentiator.
Claim 5.       The orally administrable composition according to claim 4, wherein
the enzyme potentiator comprises ascorbic acid.
Claim 6.       The orally administrable composition according to any one of claims
1 to 5, wherein the composition comprises a enteric-coated dosage form.
Claim 7.       The orally administrable composition according to any one of claims
1 to 6, further comprising one or more additional components selected from the
group consisting of: quercetin, an aminosugar, a glycosaminoglycan,
avocado/soybean unsaponifiables, a vitamin, coffee fruit, magnesium, silymarin,
proanthocyanidins, ursolic acid, curcumin, phytosterols, phytostanols, and S
adenosylmethionine (SAMe).
                                          29

Claim 8.       An orally administrable composition comprising sulforaphane or a
derivative thereof and a milk thistle extract or powder comprising silymarin and/or
silibinin.
Claim 9.       The orally administrable composition according to claim 8, further
comprising one or more additional components selected from the group consisting
of: quercetin, an aminosugar, a glycosaminoglycan, avocado/soybean
unsaponifiables, a vitamin, coffee fruit, magnesium, silymarin, proanthocyanidins,
ursolic acid, curcumin, phytosterols, and phytostanols.
Claim 10.      The orally adminisitrable composition according to any one of claims
1 to 9, comprising a milk thistle extract comprising silymarin.
Claim 11.      The orally administrable composition according to any one of claims
1 to 9, comprising a milk thistle extract comprising silibinin.
Claim 12.      A method of treating, preventing, reducing the occurrence of,
decreasing the symptoms associated with, and/or reducing secondary recurrences
of, a disease or condition associated with the liver, prostate, brain, lung, kidneys,
colon, breast, esophagus, pancreas, or ovaries in a subject in need thereof,
comprising administering to the subject a composition according to any one of
claims 1 to 11.
Claim 13.      A method of increasing glutathione levels in a subject, comprising
administering to the subject in need thereof a composition according to any one of
claims 1 to 11.
Claim 14.      A method of treating, preventing, reducing the occurrence of,
decreasing the symptoms associated with, and/or reducing secondary recurrences
of a non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) in a subject in need thereof,
comprising administering to the subject in need thereof a composition according to
any one of claims 1 to 11.
                                           30

Claim 15.      The use of a composition comprising a broccoli extract or powder
comprising sulforaphane or a derivative thereof and/or a sulforaphane precursor
and a milk thistle extract or powder comprising silymarin and/or silibinin, wherein
when the broccoli extract comprises a sulforaphane precursor, the composition
further comprises an enzyme capable of converting the sulforaphane precursor to
sulforaphane in the manufacture of a medicament for treating, preventing,
reducing the occurrence of, decreasing the symptoms associated with, and/or
reducing secondary recurrences of, a disease or condition associate with the liver,
prostate, brain, lung, kidneys, colon, breast, esophagus, pancreas, or ovaries.
Claim 16.      The use of sulforaphane or a derivative thereof and a milk thistle
extract or powder comprising silymarin and/or silibinin in the manufacture of a
medicament for treating, preventing, reducing the occurrence of, decreasing the
symptoms associated with, and/or reducing secondary recurrences of, a disease
or condition associate with the liver, prostate, brain, lung, kidneys, colon, breast,
esophagus, pancreas, or ovaries.
Claim 17.      The use of a composition comprising a broccoli extract or powder
comprising sulforaphane or a derivative thereof and/or a sulforaphane precursor
and a milk thistle extract or powder comprising silymarin and/or silibinin, wherein
when the broccoli extract comprises a sulforaphane precursor, the composition
further comprises an enzyme capable of converting the sulforaphane precursor to
sulforaphane in the manufacture of a medicament for increasing glutathione levels.
Claim 18.      The use of sulforaphane or a derivative thereof and a milk thistle
extract or powder comprising silymarin and/or silibinin in the manufacture of a
medicament for increasing glutathione levels.
Claim 19.      The use of a composition comprising a broccoli extract or powder
comprising sulforaphane or a derivative thereof and/or a sulforaphane precursor
and a milk thistle extract or powder comprising silymarin and/or silibinin, wherein
                                           31

when the broccoli extract comprises a sulforaphane precursor, the composition
further comprises an enzyme capable of converting the sulforaphane precursor to
sulforaphane in the manufacture of a medicament for treating, preventing,
reducing the occurrence of, decreasing the symptoms associated with, and/or
reducing secondary reccurrences of a non-alcoholic fatty liver diases (NAFLD).
Claim 20.      The use of sulforaphane or a derivative thereof and a milk thistle
extract or powder comprising silymarin and/or silibinin in the manufacture of a
medicament for treating, preventing, reducing the occurrence of, decreasing the
symptoms associated with, and/or reducing secondary reccurrences of a non
alcoholic fatty liver diases (NAFLD).
                                        32

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                 3/6

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
