                                        ABSTRACT
The present invention provides a liquid storage and/or treatment system comprising an
enclosure (including a partial enclosure) configured to accommodate two or more liquid
retaining vessels. The enclosure or partial enclosure may be a shipping container, or a
modified shipping container, or fabricated from a shipping container. The enclosure may
further comprise a control room, various liquid handling/processing components such as
filters, pumps and the like, reagents such as coagulants and disinfectants.  The present
systems may be used to treat waste water or sewage, and in some embodiment produce water
that may be released into the environment or even potable water.

                    1/17
                              10
       40
          32
30 l l       33
                           36
                                  38
                               26
                       22
                          2:            27
                                     30
                FIG. 1

                             LIQUID STORAGE OR TREATMENT SYSTEM
                                       FIELD OF THE INVENTION
    The present invention relates generally to the field of liquid storage and/or treatment. More
  5 particularly, the present invention relates to industrial grade tanks used for the storage and/or
    treatment of waste water and other liquids requiring storage or treatment. Also provided are
    stand-alone water storage and treatment facilities capable of providing clean and even potable
    water in remote locations.
  0                               BACKGROUND TO THE INVENTION
    Means for retaining (and optionally treating) liquids on a large scale are of course known in
    industrial and public infrastructure applications. For example, in an industrial process a liquid
    reagent may be held in a tank, and dispensed into the process as required. As another
    example, waste water or a liquid by-product of an industrial process may be retained in a tank
  5 for subsequent remediation before release into the environment.
    Given the complex engineering considerations of such sizeable systems, prior art systems are
    typically very expensive to fabricate, transport, assemble, install, test and validate. Typically,
    separate components of a storage and/or treatment system are sourced and then transported
 !0 to the installation site.   For example, pumps, tanks, filters, controllers, conduits, valves,
    sensors, and the like are all transported as separate items to an installation site.        Once
    delivered to the site, a team of workers assemble the components according to a protocol set
    by the system designers.       In many cases, errors are made in the assembly with remedial
    action required at some later point in time. In all, the assembly of the system components into
25  a system is labour intensive and dependent on the expertise of the workers involved.
    Typically, the system designer will prefer that its own workers will assemble the system given
    their better knowledge and skills. However, this requires the added expense of transporting
    workers to the installation site.
30  Once assembled, the system musted be tested and validated to ensure that all components
    operate as required within the system as designed. This is not a trivial process and requires
    significant expertise and also the generation of accurate documentation evidencing the
    validation. Again, the system designer will prefer that its own personnel take charge of any
    work in relation to testing and validation this adding further to the overall expense to the
35  installation.
                                                     -1-

    In some circumstances, it is necessary to relocate a liquid treatment and/or storage system.
    In that case, the system must be at least partially disassembled and then reassembled at the
    new installation site. Further testing and validation is then required at the new site to ensure
    correct and reliable operation.
  5
    A further problem is in the art is the longevity of liquid storage and/or treatment systems. It is
    common in the art to fabricate large, industrial scale tanks from steel. A basic form of steel
    tank may be fabricated from multiple steel sheets welded together to form a water tight vessel.
    In other forms, the steel sheets may be bolted together. In any event, steel tanks are liable to
  0 corrosion problems. To address that, many steel water tanks are galvanised, being made with
    a zinc coating that protects the steel within from oxidisation. Eventually, however, the
    galvanised layer itself oxidises and the steel that it protects becomes rusted.
    Zincalume@ (a zinc/aluminium alloy-coated steel) is more corrosion resistant than galvanised
  5 steel. However, corrosion can still occur upon contact with materials such as lead, copper,
    treated timber, uncoated steel, fertilisers and pesticides.
    Corrosion in water tanks can be inhibited by epoxy coating.       After rigorous preparation, steel
    parts are powder coated with epoxy particles in electrostatic booth with precise environmental
 !0 controls. Parts are cured at a controlled temperature to maximize the cross-link bonding of
    the epoxy particles. A polyurethane coating may be applied for extra durability and longevity.
    While generally effective, such coatings are expensive to apply and in any event will ultimately
    crack or wear to leave the underlying metal exposed to oxidation.
25  To avoid corrosion, tanks made exclusively of a polymer such as polyethylene may be used.
    Such tanks have a maximum size and therefore difficulties arise in applications for large
    volumes. In many installations, a polymer tank may be required (or at least desired) to satisfy
    a standard, guideline, code, law, or regulation. For example, in Australia and New Zealand
    the standard designated AS/NZS 4766 applies to polyethylene storage tanks for water and
30  chemicals.      This standard specifies requirements for the design and manufacture of
    polyethylene storage tanks that are rotationally moulded in one-piece seamless construction.
    The tanks are for non-buried, vertical installation and capable of containing water, liquids used
    in food and beverage manufacture and chemical solutions at atmospheric pressure.
35  The prior art further provides systems for the treatment of a liquid. For example, waste water
    may be treated by various processes configured to remove contaminants or convert
    contaminants to a non-toxic form. As discussed supra, such systems can be quite complex,
                                                     -2-

    and typically require expert installation to connect the various system components. Once
    assembled, the system as a whole must be tested and validated according to its intended
    purpose. The testing and validation must be performed to a very high level given the possibility
    that a poorly installed system may not operate correctly and release toxic agents into the
  5 environment.
    Further challenges are faced in the provision of potable water in remote locations. In many
    circumstances, local sources exist however difficulties arise in pumping, treating and storing
    the treated water. Many prior art water treatment plants in remote locations are constructed
  0 on site, and therefore require on site validation. Furthermore, the plants are often of complex
    construction and require close overseeing by an appropriately qualified personnel to ensure
    that output water is safe for human consumption.
    It is an aspect of the present invention to overcome or alleviate a problem of the prior art by
  5 providing a liquid storage and/or treatment means that is an improvement in terms of one or
    more of: potential for corrosion, economy, weight, ease of transport, ease of assembly, ease
    of installation, and ease of testing or validation. It is a further aspect to provide an alternative
    to prior art means.
 !0 The discussion of documents, acts, materials, devices, articles and the like is included in this
    specification solely for the purpose of providing a context for the present invention. It is not
    suggested or represented that any or all of these matters formed part of the prior art base or
    were common general knowledge in the field relevant to the present invention as it existed
    before the priority date of each claim of this application.
25
                                    SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
    In a first aspect, but not necessarily the broadest aspect, the present invention provides a
    liquid storage and/or treatment system comprising an enclosure (including a partial enclosure)
30  configured to accommodate two or more liquid retaining vessels.
    In one embodiment of the first aspect, and optionally implemented in combination with a
    feature of any other embodiment, the enclosure is configured to: retain and/or support and/or
    protect two or more liquid retaining vessels.
35
    In one embodiment of the first aspect, and optionally implemented in combination with a
    feature of any other embodiment, the enclosure comprises a frame and/or panels.
                                                     -3-

    In one embodiment of the first aspect, and optionally implemented in combination with a
    feature of any other embodiment, the enclosure is configured such that the panels of the
    enclosure are supported by the frame.
  5
    In one embodiment of the first aspect, and optionally implemented in combination with a
    feature of any other embodiment, the panels of the enclosure form one or more of: a roof, a
    wall, a floor.
  0 In one embodiment of the first aspect, and optionally implemented in combination with a
    feature of any other embodiment, the panels of the enclosure are configured to substantially
    enclose two liquid retaining vessels.
    In one embodiment of the first aspect, and optionally implemented in combination with a
  5 feature of any other embodiment,       (i) one or more members of the frame of the enclosure
    and/or (ii) the panels of the enclosure, is/are configured to define two regions or compartments
    within the enclosure.
    In one embodiment of the first aspect, and optionally implemented in combination with a
 !0 feature of any other embodiment, (i) one or more members of the frame of the enclosure
    and/or (ii) the panels of the enclosure, is/are configured to define a third region or compartment
    within the enclosure.
    In one embodiment of the first aspect, and optionally implemented in combination with a
25  feature of any other embodiment, the enclosure is configured to allow passage of a liquid, gas,
    electrical or data conduit between any two regions or compartments.
    In one embodiment of the first aspect, and optionally implemented in combination with a
    feature of any other embodiment, the regions or compartments of the enclosure are disposed
30  side-by-side.
    In one embodiment of the first aspect, and optionally implemented in combination with a
    feature of any other embodiment, one of the regions or compartments is configured to house
    a device for the controlling the movement of a liquid, gas, electricity or data into, out of, or
35  within the enclosure.
                                                     -4-

    In one embodiment of the first aspect, and optionally implemented in combination with a
    feature of any other embodiment, the system comprises two or more liquid retaining vessels.
    In one embodiment of the first aspect, and optionally implemented in combination with a
  5 feature of any other embodiment, each of the two or more liquid retaining vessels of the system
    are fabricated completely or predominantly from a polymer.
    In one embodiment of the first aspect, and optionally implemented in combination with a
    feature of any other embodiment, each of the two or more liquid retaining vessels of the system
  0 is substantially self-supporting.
    In one embodiment of the first aspect, and optionally implemented in combination with a
    feature of any other embodiment, the system comprises a liquid entry port and a liquid exit
    port.
  5
    In one embodiment of the first aspect, and optionally implemented in combination with a
    feature of any other embodiment, the system comprises liquid transport means and/or liquid
    treatment means.
 !0 In one embodiment of the first aspect, and optionally implemented in combination with a
    feature of any other embodiment, the liquid transport means is a pump configured to transport
    liquid (i) between the liquid retaining vessels within the liquid storage system or (ii) into the
    liquid storage system or (iii) out of the liquid storage system.
25  In one embodiment of the first aspect, and optionally implemented in combination with a
    feature of any other embodiment, the liquid treatment means is selected from any one of more
    of: aeration means, mixing means, chemical dosage means, gas injection means, bubbling
    means, flocculation means, pH adjustment means, irradiation means, filtration means,
    microbial digestion means, degasification means, partitioning means, decanting means, odour
30  control means, heavy metal removal means, nitrate removal means, temperature control
    means, conductivity control means, osmotic pressure control means, dialysis means,
    disinfection means, and electrolytic means.
    In one embodiment of the first aspect, and optionally implemented in combination with a
35  feature of any other embodiment, the system comprises electrical and/or electronic control
    means configured to control the liquid transport means and/or liquid treatment means.
                                                      -5-

    In one embodiment of the first aspect, and optionally implemented in combination with a
    feature of any other embodiment, the system comprises a region for housing most or all
    electrical and/or electronic control means.
  5 In one embodiment of the first aspect, and optionally implemented in combination with a
    feature of any other embodiment, the system comprises electrical and/or electronic connection
    means configured to electrically of electronically connect (i) the electrical and/or electronic
    control means to (ii) the liquid transport means and/or the liquid treatment means.
  0 In one embodiment of the first aspect, and optionally implemented in combination with a
    feature of any other embodiment, the electrical and/or electronic connection means is one or
    more wires, and the one or more wires is/are mounted on or about the enclosure.
    In one embodiment of the first aspect, and optionally implemented in combination with a
  5 feature of any other embodiment, the enclosure comprises a roof having one or more access
    openings configured to allow access to the interior of at least one of the two or more liquid
    retaining vessels.
    In one embodiment of the first aspect, and optionally implemented in combination with a
 !0 feature of any other embodiment, the enclosure is a modified shipping container.
    In one embodiment of the first aspect, the liquid storage and/or treatment system comprises
    solar energy and/or wind energy harvesting means.
25  In one embodiment of the first aspect, the solar energy and/or wind energy harvesting means
    is/are configured to output electrical energy, and the system optionally further comprises a
    storage battery in operable connection with the solar energy harvesting means.
    In one embodiment of the first aspect, the liquid storage and/or treatment system comprises
30  an electrically powered component, and wherein the electrically powered component is in
    operable connection with an electrical power source.
    In one embodiment of the first aspect, and where that embodiment comprises solar energy
    and/or wind energy harvesting means that is/are configured to output electrical energy, and
35  the system optionally further comprises a storage battery in operable connection with the solar
    energy harvesting means, the electrical power source is the electrical output of the solar
    energy and/or wind energy harvesting means and/or the storage battery (where present).
                                                   -6-

    In one embodiment of the first aspect, the electrically powered component is a liquid transport
    means, a liquid treatment means, air treatment means, an electrically operable valve, an
    electronic control means, computing means, air treatment means, water payment means, and
  5 light emission means.
    In one embodiment of the first aspect, the solar energy and/or wind energy harvesting means
    is/are mounted on the enclosure, or proximal to the enclosure.
  0 In one embodiment of the first aspect, the liquid storage and/or treatment system is configured
    to be operable as a potable water production facility, wherein a first of the two or more liquid
    retaining vessels is in liquid connection with an environmental water supply and configured to
    retain environmental water, and a second of the two or more liquid retaining vessels in liquid
    connection with a water dispensing means, the system further comprising environmental water
  5 treatment means operably disposed between the first and second of the two or more liquid
    retaining vessels.
    In one embodiment of the first aspect, the liquid storage and/or treatment system comprises
    water dispensing means in liquid connection with the second of the two or more liquid retaining
 .0 vessels.
    In one embodiment of the first aspect, the water dispensing means outlet is external to the
    enclosure.
25  In one embodiment of the first aspect, the water dispensing means comprises water metering
    means.
    In one embodiment of the first aspect, the water dispensing means comprises a water payment
    means.
30
    In a second aspect, the present invention provides a method of storing or treating a liquid in
    need thereof, the method comprising the step of providing the liquid storage and/or treatment
    system of any embodiment of the first aspect, and passing a liquid into least one or the two
    more retaining vessels.
35
                                                    -7-

    In a third aspect, the present invention provides a shipping container modified to have attached
    thereto a series of stiffening frame members and/or panels, at least some of the stiffening
    frame members and/or panels.
  5 In one embodiment of the third aspect, and optionally implemented in combination with a
    feature of any other embodiment, the stiffening frame members and/or panels extending
    across the interior of the shipping container divide the container into two, three, four, five or
    more regions or compartments.
  0 In one embodiment of the third aspect, and optionally implemented in combination with a
    feature of any other embodiment, each region or compartment holds a liquid retaining vessel.
    In one embodiment of the third aspect, and optionally implemented in combination with a
    feature of any other embodiment, the shipping container is modified to comprise one or more
  5 access hatches in the roof.
    In one embodiment of the third aspect, and optionally implemented in combination with a
    feature of any other embodiment, the shipping container of any one of claims 26 to 28 modified
    to comprise (i) a ladder allowing a human operator to access the exterior of the container roof,
 .0 and/or (ii) a barrier about the container roof to prevent a human operator falling from the roof.
                              BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
    FIG. 1 shows an isometric view of a highly preferred enclosure of a system of the present
25  invention. For the sake of clarity, and so as to more fully show the features of the enclosure,
    other components of the system such as tanks, plumbing, liquid mixers, valves, controllers
    and the like are not shown.
    FIG. 2A shows diagrammatically a sectional representation of the enclosure shown in FIG. 1,
30  and particularly the position of the dividing panels and also the position of two weld lines which
    run longitudinally along the walls of the enclosure. The welds are for attachment of tubular
    steel reinforcement of the enclosure. This diagram is of the section taken through the line
    marked B-B in FIG. 2C.
35  FIG. 2B shows diagrammatically and in plan view the enclosure of FIG. 1, and particularly the
    position of the access hatches on the roof and reinforcement frame members welded to the
    roof.
                                                     -8-

    FIG. 2C shows diagrammatically a sectional representation of the enclosure shown in FIG. 1,
    and taken through the lined marked A-A in FIG. 2B. This drawing shows particularly the frame
    members which extend through the interior of the enclosure so as to improve stiffness.
  5
    FIG. 3 shows diagrammatically a self-contained liquid storage and treatment system according
    to the present invention having a solar panel fitted thereto so as to provide power to electrical
    components contained with the enclosure.
  0 FIG. 4 shows a cutaway diagram of a preferred embodiment of the invention configured to be
    self-powered and dispense potable water to a consumer.
    FIG. 5 is perspective drawing of a preferred balance tank.
    FIG. 6 is a perspective drawing of a preferred anaerobic treatment tanks useful in the
  5 treatment of sewage.
    FIG. 7A is a perspective drawing of a preferred aerator configured to be plastic welded to the
    interior floor of an aerator tank.
 !0 FIG. 7B is perspective drawing of the aerator of FIG. 7A in situ.
    FIG. 8A is a perspective drawing of a preferred clarifier tank having sloped walls.
    FIG. 8B is a diagrammatic lateral sectional view of the clarifier tank shown in FIG. 7A.
25
    FIGs 8C and 8D are perspective drawings (from two views) of an alternative clarifier tank.
    FIG. 9 is a diagrammatic lateral sectional view of a preferred chlorination tank.
30  FIG. 10 is a diagrammatic plan view of an enclosure comprising a series of tanks and other
    components useful in the treatment of sewage.
    FIG. 11 is perspective drawing of a preferred recessed fluid connector as disposed in a wall
    of the enclosure.
35
    FIG. 12 is a perspective drawing of a socket bracket that is mountable on the roof of an
    enclosure, and is adapted to receive and retain a floodlight post.
                                                   -9-

    FIG. 13 is a photograph showing a reagent cage set into a side of an enclosure.
  5 FIGS. 14A through 14D show a series of computer-generated models of various shipping
    container types used as an enclosure according to the present invention, both alone and in
    combination with external tanks.
  0                        DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION
    Reference throughout this specification to "one embodiment" or "an embodiment" means that
    a particular feature, structure or characteristic described in connection with the embodiment
    is included in at least one embodiment of the present invention. Thus, appearances of the
    phrases "in one embodiment" or "in an embodiment" in various places throughout this
  5 specification are not necessarily all referring to the same embodiment, but may. Furthermore,
    the particular features, structures or characteristics may be combined in any suitable manner,
    as would be apparent to one of ordinary skill in the art from this disclosure, in one or more
    embodiments.
 !0 Similarly it should be appreciated that the description of exemplary embodiments of the
    invention, various features of the invention are sometimes grouped together in a single
    embodiment, figure, or description thereof for the purpose of streamlining the disclosure and
    aiding in the understanding of one or more of the various inventive aspects. This method of
    disclosure, however, is not to be interpreted as reflecting an intention that the claimed
25  invention requires more features than are expressly recited in each claim. Rather, as the
    following claims reflect, inventive aspects lie in less than all features of a single foregoing
    disclosed embodiment. Thus, the claims following the Detailed Description are hereby
    expressly incorporated into this Detailed Description, with each claim standing on its own as
    a separate embodiment of this invention.
30
    Furthermore, while some embodiments described herein include some but not other features
    included in other embodiments, combinations of features of different embodiments are meant
    to be within the scope of the invention, and from different embodiments, as would be
    understood by those in the art.
35
    In the claims below and the description herein, any one of the terms "comprising", "comprised
    of" or "which comprises" is an open term that means including at least the elements/features
                                                    -10-

    that follow, but not excluding others. Thus, the term comprising, when used in the claims,
    should not be interpreted as being limitative to the means or elements or steps listed
    thereafter. For example, the scope of the expression a method comprising step A and step B
    should not be limited to methods consisting only of methods A and B. Any one of the terms
  5 "including" or "which includes" or "that includes" as used herein is also an open term that also
    means including at least the elements/features that follow the term, but not excluding others.
    Thus, "including" is synonymous with and means "comprising".
    Furthermore, it is not represented that all embodiments display all advantages of the invention,
  0 although some may. Some embodiments may display only one or several of the advantages.
    Some embodiments may display none of the advantages referred to herein.
    Applicant has found that advantage is provided by a liquid storage and/or treatment system
    comprising an enclosure (including a partial enclosure) configured to accommodate two or
  5 more liquid retaining vessels. The enclosure allows two or more vessels (which may be in
    liquid connection with each other) to be unitized to some extent, thereby facilitating transport
    and installation. The use of two or more smaller vessels (as distinct from a single larger
    vessel) also allows for the use of lighter weight materials in vessel construction. Relevantly,
    non-metallic (and therefore corrosion-resistant) materials such as synthetic polymers may be
 !0 used to fabricate the vessels. The enclosure may be configured to retain the vessels in a
    manner, for example, to inhibit movement of the vessels relative to each other or indeed any
    other components of the system as described further infra.
    The enclosure may further be configured to support or protect the vessels with respect to any
25  one or more of the vessel wall, base or roof. The support may be mechanical support to
    prevent deformation or damage of the vessels. In other cases, and where the vessels are
    essentially self-supporting, the enclosure nevertheless provides containment of the vessels
    and protection from environmental elements such as weather, mechanical damage
    occasioned during transport to the installation site, or during installation, or after installation.
30
    Unless otherwise expressly provided for, reference in this specification to an "enclosure" is
    taken to include a partial enclosure. The enclosure may be a partial enclosure in that the
    vessels are not completely isolated from their surroundings. For example, a partial enclosure
    may leave exposed the upper and/or lower regions of the vessels. A partial enclosure may be
35  configured so as to enclose at least about 5%, 10%, 15%, 20%, 25%, 30%, 35%, 40%, 45%,
    50%, 55%, 60%, 65%, 70%, 75%, 80%, 85%, 90%, or 95% of the outwardly facing vessel
    surfaces.
                                                   -11-

    The enclosure may consist only of members interconnected to form a frame, although more
    typically the frame will have associated panels to provide a higher level of support and/or
    protection to the vessels and any associated equipment. In any event, the frame may be
  5 configured to provide the majority or substantially all of the resistance of the enclosure against
    mechanical deformation bought about by any cause. In this way, the vessels are retained in
    any desirable manner, as described supra. Generally, any frame members may be fabricated
    or a metal (such as steel). The frame members may be further configured to prevent or inhibit
    deformation of the enclosure during lifting or installation.
  0
    Any panels of the enclosure may be fabricated from a material with a relatively low resistance
    to deformation given the strength provided any frame members present. Materials such as
    sheet metal, polymers, foam panels and the like are able to provide some protection to the
    enclosed vessels, but not add significantly to the weight of the system.             As described
  5 elsewhere herein, some embodiments of the invention are configured so as to be transportable
    in substantially assembled form and in which case weight savings can become an important
    advantage by facilitating handling. In some embodiments, the panels are configured to impart
    a least some resistance to deformation.
 .0 In some cases, it may be required to lift or otherwise reposition the present system under
    circumstances in which significant deformation forces are applied to the enclosure.
    In one embodiment, the enclosure comprises four walls, a roof and a floor so as substantially
    completely enclose the vessels. In this arrangement, the vessels are disposed upon the floor
25  of the enclosure. Given that the system is transported with the vessels emptied, there is no
    particular requirement for the floor to be capable of supporting in its own any great amount of
    weight. When installed on site, the floor of the enclosure will generally be disposed upon a
    solid surface (such as a concrete slab or well compacted soil) so as to support the enclosure
    floor against deformation caused by the increasing weight of the vessels during filling.
30
    In one embodiment, the enclosure is divided into at least two regions or compartments, each
    of which is configured to retain one of the two or more vessels. Such division may be provided
    by way of a simple frame member extending between two vessels. In addition or alternatively,
    the division may be provided by a panel, which may completely or partially divide the enclosure
35  into two regions or compartments. Functionally, the regions or compartments may act to retain
    the vessels in any manner discussed elsewhere herein. Moreover, the panels and/or frame
    members may provide resistance to deformation of the enclosure. In some embodiments, the
                                                   -12-

    panels are attached to frame members which are configured to provide even greater levels of
    deformation resistance.
    In some respects, the invention may considered to provide a means for stiffening an enclosure
  5 whilst not substantially interfering with the ability of the enclosure to house high capacity tanks.
    Thus, the use of two liquid retaining vessels allows for the extension of a reinforcing frame
    member and/or panel to extend between the vessels. The combined capacities of the two
    vessels is large, and yet the enclosure is nevertheless stiffened by the members and/or
    panels.
  0
    In some embodiments, the stiffening (whether provided by frame members, dividers or a
    combination of both) functions to contain any deformation of a tank enclosed by the enclosure.
    As discussed more fully infra, the present enclosures may be used to enclose polymer liquid
    tanks. Upon filling, such tanks can distort outwardly especially about the mid-section. In the
  5 absence of stiffening means, an outwardly distorted tank could bear against and damage a
    wall of the enclosure. In particular, the internal horizontal stiffening ribs extending down the
    length and back of the container (as shown in the embodiment as drawn) assist in supporting
    the walls of the tank.
 .0 The enclosure may be divided in three, four, five, six, seven, eight, nine, ten or more regions
    or compartments with one vessel per region or compartment. The greater number of regions
    or compartments allows for a greater number of panels and/or frame members to extend
    across the interior of the enclosure so as to provide further stiffening.
25  In terms of assembly, the tanks may be assembled external to the enclosure along with
    associate components such as dividers (so as the compartments are substantially pre
    formed), piping and the like and subsequently slid or dropped into the enclosure (or at least
    the enclosure frame) as a single item. This modular approach to construction greatly reduces
    operator time and difficulty.
30
    Regardless of the means by which the regions or compartments are provided, the enclosure
    is in some embodiments configured to allow passage of a liquid, gas, electrical or data conduit
    between any two regions or compartments.              For example, two vessels may be in liquid
    connection with each other by way of a conduit (such as a polymer pipe) and in which case
35  provision is made to allow the conduit to span the adjacent regions or compartments. Where
    adjacent regions or compartments are divided by a substantially continuous wall panel, an
    aperture in the wall panel may allow the conduit to traverse. Alternatively, the conduit may
                                                     -13-

    pass through an aperture in an exterior wall of a first region or compartment, along the wall
    (exterior to the enclosure) and then pass through an aperture in an exterior wall of an adjacent
    region or compartment, to connect with a vessel in that adjacent region or compartment.
  5 Where the conduits traversing regions or compartments are of relatively small diameter and
    susceptible to damage (such as electrical capable, data cable and the like), the conduit may
    be laid along any frame member present in the enclosure. Alternatively, the conduit may be
    laid against any panel, wall, roof, or floor present in the enclosure. Where an intervening
    structure prevents passage of the conduit, and aperture may be formed thereinto.
  0
    In one embodiment of the enclosure, a region or compartment is provided for, and configured
    to, house non-tank components such as utility equipment. Thus, the enclosure may comprise
    a region or compartment substantially dedicated to utility equipment, and may be in the form
    of a utility room.
  5
    The utility region or compartment may take the form of a control room configured to house
    electronics such as electrical or electronic devices such as power outlets, computers,
    controllers and the like. As will be discussed more fully infra, the present systems may
    comprise controllable electrical or electronic components so as to effect the transport or
 .0 treatment of a liquid held in vessels of the system.     Power and/or control such devices may
    be advantageously provided by a dedicated region of compartment specifically configured for
    such a function. Accordingly, the region or compartment may comprise a shelf, a rack, a table,
    or a cabinet to physically support, house or protect the devices. As an example, where the
    device is a personal computer the main CPU may be enclosed in a ventilated cabinet with the
25  keyboard supported for human use on a shelf extending from a wall. As another example of
    an appropriate configuration, an electrical distribution box (with RCD) may be affixed to a wall,
    or a bank of electrical power outlets may be provided, or brackets for retaining and guiding
    electrical conduit may be installed. Given that the devices may be controlled by a human,
    further items such as a light, a door, a heater, a cooler, or a window may be included in the
30  configuration.
    The utility region or compartment may take the form of a plant room configured to house larger
    items of plant such as pumps, filtration modules that may not easily fit in a compartment or
    region holding a liquid retaining vessel. Location of such items in a separate plant room in
35  any event facilitates maintenance, repair, replacement and inspection of such items.
                                                   -14-

    The utility region or compartment may be configured so as to function as both a control room
    and a plant room.
    The utility region may be thermally insulated (by aluminium faced polystyrene for example)
  5 and provide with heating and/or air conditioning to ensure usability by persons, and also a
    stable temperature for the operation of electrical equipment such as computers and
    controllers.
    Turning now to a consideration of the system liquid retaining vessels, the provision of two or
  0 more vessels provides advantage so far as non-metallic materials may be used in fabrication.
    Non-metallic plastic materials are not suitable for fabrication of large vessels (steel of some
    type must generally be used) and so the provision of two or more smaller tanks allows for the
    use of plastics such as polyethylene. Typically, the vessels are of substantially equal capacity.
    Typically, maximum tank size for the available space within the enclosure will be provided.
  5 Where the enclosure is in the form of a modified shipping container (as discussed elsewhere
    herein) the container may have a capacity of between about 11 m3 and about 14 m3 . Smaller
    capacity tanks of between about 3m 3 and about 4m 3 are also contemplated.
    Preferably, each of the two or more liquid retaining vessels is a tank fabricated from high
 .0 density polyethylene, thereby obviating problems with corrosion. The tanks may be rotationally
    moulded polyethylene substantially square or rectangular in cross-sectional profile. Preferably
    the tank is fabricated according to the relevant industry standard such as AS/NZS 4766.
    Typically, each tank is sized so as to occupy most or virtually all of the volume of the region
25  or compartment so as to maximize liquid holding capacity of the entire system.
    In other embodiments, the liquid retaining vessel may be a bladder or liner of heavy duty
    construction. Divider panels within the enclosure may be constructed so as to constrain the
    expansion of the bladder or liner, thereby containing the bladder or liner within a compartment
30  of the enclosure when filled. As will be appreciate, the panels and/or frames may be required
    to be of substantial construction so as to contain a large volume (and therefore mass) of liquid.
    In one embodiment, a relatively low capacity liquid retaining vessel (i.e. of lower capacity, such
    as less than 50%, 45%, 35%, 30%, 25%, 20%, 15%, 10% or 5% the capacity of the lowest
35  capacity of the two main tanks) is provided.        This relatively low capacity vessel may be
    configured to function within the present system as a balance tank or a break tank. In use,
    this relatively low capacity vessel functions so as to balance out any peak inflows to the
                                                   -15-

    system, so as to evenly feed input liquid to other components of the system. This may be
    important in feeding water to a flow rate sensitive process, such as UV sterilization or filtration
    that may be performed within the system.
  5 The present system may comprise in some embodiments a product containing liquid retaining
    vessel. For example, where the system is used to treat incoming water to produce potable
    water, the so-formed potable may be stored within such a vessel for later use. The vessel may
    be one of the two main liquid retaining vessels, or may be dedicated to containing product.
  0 The liquid retaining vessels may linked by plastic piping disposed at or around the base of
    each vessel such that functionally the vessels act as a single vessel. Alternatively, overflow
    weirs or connecting pipes may be disposed about the upper regions of the tanks. Liquid
    entering a first vessel flows into the second vessel (and indeed any further vessels) with each
    vessel incrementally filling in concert until all vessels are at capacity. In this manner, multiple
  5 tanks can act functionally as a single tank. In other embodiments, the vessels may be filled
    separately, and the liquid contained therein retained separately in which case no liquid
    connection between vessels is provided.
    In one embodiment, the enclosure may be constructed from a shipping container, or be
 .0 constructed de novo to have shipping container-like dimensions and properties.            Shipping
    containers are of generally set dimensions, and may be 40 foot, 20 foot, or 10 foot in length
    as required for the application.
    The shipping container or shipping container-like structure may be fabricated from steel. A
25  typical steel container is fabricated from corrugated sheet steel walls that are welded to the
    main structural top and bottom side rails and end frames that are of fabricated or shaped steel
    sections. The end frames comprise fittings (steel castings) at all eight corners that are typically
    welded to the four corner posts, top and bottom side and front rails, and rear doorsill and
    header. The roof may be flat or corrugated sheet steel welded to the top side and end rails
30  and door header; may have interior roof bows for support. The doors are usually plymetal
    (steel-faced wood) panels fitted with locking and weatherproof seals. The floor may be soft or
    hard laminated wood, planking, or plywood either screwed or bolted to the cross members.
    The shipping container or shipping container-like structure may be fabricated from aluminium.
35  A typical aluminium container (often referred to as aluminium/steel container) typically
    comprises steel end frames, and steel-shaped or extruded aluminium side rails. The walls
    may be built of aluminium interior or exterior intermediate posts covered with sheet aluminium
                                                      -16-

    that is typically riveted to the posts. The inside walls have a plywood liner riveted to the
    intermediate posts. The nominal dimensions and many construction details are similar to those
    of steel containers. Roof bows, which support the aluminium roof panel, are aluminium
    extrusions that are bolted, riveted, or welded to the top rails. Cross members of shapes
  5 indicated for steel containers are either steel or aluminium that are bolted, riveted, or welded
    to bottom side rails.
    The shipping container or shipping container-like structure may be fabricated at least in part
    from fibreglass reinforced plastic (FRP).     A typical FRP container is constructed of steel
  0 framing having FRP panels on the side walls, front-end wall, and roof. Typically, there are no
    roof bows used to support the roof panel. These panels are usually imbedded in a mastic, to
    provide watertightness, and are riveted to the top and bottom rails and the corner posts. The
    door panels are of FRP and provided with steel locking and waterproof seals. The floor cross
    members may be box, C, Z, or I-beam sections. The floor may be of soft or hard laminated
  5 woods, planks, or plywood that is screwed or bolted to the cross members. The nominal
    dimensions and many construction details are similar to those of the steel container.
    The FRP container may be of open-top (bulk) configuration, built in general accordance with
    a closed-top container except it may also be stowed or unstowed through the top. FRP grating
 .0 may be provided so as form a single roof platform which spans the vessels beneath.
    The FRP container may be of flat rack configuration, being essentially a platform with corner
    posts. Such containers comprise a floor bed with front and back ends or posts but no side
    walls or roof. As will be appreciated, such containers will typically require more extensive
25  modification so as to properly retain and protect the tanks of the system.
    The container may be a refrigerated or heated container, this type having utility where
    temperature control of a liquid is important. For example, the rate of bacterial digestion of
    effluent may be accelerated at higher temperatures. As another example, the system may be
30  used to hold a beverage which is preferably refrigerated. These containers are insulated, and
    have a heat pump unit mounted internally or externally. This container normally has both
    refrigeration and heating ability. It has the same general construction as the closed-top
    container.
35  The use of a shipping container in construction of the present system provides significant
    advantage. Shipping containers are dimensioned so as to be transportable by way of flat-bed
    truck or by train, and furthermore can be lifted by a crane (or a forklift for smaller containers).
                                                   -17-

    Modifications to improve strength and weather resistance may be provided where necessary.
    For example, additional frame members may be welded to the interior or exterior of the
    container to generally improve stiffness. Tubular steel members may be welded or otherwise
    attached to enclosure walls, floor, any dividing panel or roof. In addition or alternatively,
  5 members may traverse the interior of the enclosure (for example between opposing walls or
    adjoining walls, or between the floor and the roof). The frame members may be configured
    as a grid or a lattice or similar to improve the overall stiffness of the enclosure.
    In another potential modification, the doors of the container may be permanently closed and
  0 sealed. As shown in the preferred embodiment of the drawings, access to the interior of the
    enclosure may be provided by a door constructed de novo into the container side wall. This
    door in the side wall may provide access to a control room or indeed any other area of the
    enclosure.
  5 A further modification may be to provide a platform upon which to place a tank, the platform
    configured to cradle the tank so as to prevent shifting.
    The use of a shipping container provides distinct economic advantages. Such containers are
    manufactured globally and on a large scale, and therefore cost of purchase and transport to
 !0 any location is relatively low compared with the labour and material costs required to build an
    enclosure de novo.      Applicant has found that with relatively low labour and material costs, a
    standard shipping container may be converted to a self-contained and fully functional liquid
    treatment plant that is easily transportable and highly economical.
25  Where the enclosure is installed in an area prone to flooding, elevation means may be used
    to elevate the enclosure a suitable clearance above the ground.            Given the weight of the
    enclosure when filled with liquid (which may be many tonnes), the elevation means will
    typically be load rated. In one embodiment, the elevated means is provided by way of a series
    of pillars, such as masonry pillars each of which is optionally constructed from mortared
30  masonry blocks. At the top of each pillar may be a top plate which provides for height
    adjustment so as to facilitate levelling an enclosure supported thereon. When properly
    levelled, any gap between the upper face of the pillar and the lower face of the top plate may
    be grouted.
35  The top plate may be fabricated from a metal thereby allowing for the enclosure (when also
    fabricated from metal) to be welded thereto. Alternatively, the enclosure may be bolted to the
    top plate of the elevation means.
                                                    -18-

    As will be appreciated from the description infra and supra, some embodiments of the
    invention comprise electrically powered components involved in the storage, movement or
    treatment of liquids.      Other electrically powered components are not directly related to the
  5 storage, movement or treatment of liquids per se, such components including lights, air
    conditioners, heaters, ventilation fans, water payment stations and the like. Where the storage
    and/or treatment system is in a remote location or in any other situation where electrical power
    is difficult or practically impossible to access solar and/or wind energy harvesting means may
    be provided.      For example, the enclosure may have solar panels or a small wind turbine
  0 mounted thereon. Where an electrical component requires alternating current or a particular
    voltage there may be provided a transformer and/or an inverter device.
    In order to provide for substantially continual operation, a storage battery may be connected
    to the solar panels or turbine in manner that allows for charging of the battery when conditions
  5 permit and discharge to electrical component(s) when necessary.
    Where fitted, a solar manual may be mounted so as to be adjustable with regard to the angle
    made to the horizontal so as to allow for improved harvesting of solar radiation according to
    the latitude of the installation site. Moreover, the mount may comprise means for tracking the
 !0 position of the sun during the day. Typically, a control unit drives a motor to ensure that the
    panel is orientated substantially directly at the sun for at least most of the day.
    In some embodiments, the solar and/or wind energy harvesting means is not mounted on the
    enclosure, but is mounted proximal (such as within 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 15, 20, 25, 30,
25  35, 40, 45, 50, 60, 70, 80, 90 or 100 m) to the enclosure. This allows for the incorporation of
    large scale solar panels or wind turbine where necessary to sufficiently power the system.
    Where the continuous operation of the present system is critical, a back-up generator may be
    incorporated into the system. For example, a fossil-fuel based generator may be operably
30  connected to a storage battery of the system (where present) and/or an electrical component.
    The generator may be configured to automatically start when the amount of electrical energy
    in a storage battery is below a predetermined level, orwhere the current drawn by the electrical
    component(s) of the system is greater than that provided by the solar and/or wind energy
    harvesting means.         Preferably, the generator is contained within the enclosure along with
35  other items of electrical equipment. Given the need for ventilation, the generator may be
    disposed within a cavity formed in a side or ceiling of the enclosure such that the generator is
                                                     -19-

    still within the bound volume of the enclosure yet substantially exposed to the atmosphere.
    The cavity may be fitted with a cage or grill so as to prevent interference by humans or animals.
    Air conditioning units may be similarly disposed within a cavity as described supra in respect
  5 of a generator.
    As will be discussed more fully infra, methods for treating liquids are provided. Accordingly,
    the present systems may comprise additional items required for any desired treatment. For
    example the system may comprise any one of more of a liquid mixer, a liquid aerator, a liquid
  0 gasifier (such as ozonation means), a liquid degassifier (such as vacuum means), a liquid
    partitioning means, a liquid filter, a liquid irradiator (such as UV light emission means), a
    reagent dosing means (such as chlorination means), a liquid sonicator, a liquid disinfection
    means, a liquid fermentation means, a heater, a cooler, a thermocouple, and the like. These
    items may be disposed (fully or partially) within a tank, or a region or compartment of the
  5 enclosure comprising a tank, or a region or compartment dedicated as a utility room of the
    enclosure.
    An advantage of the present invention is that a sophisticated self-contained water treatment
    plant having all required hardware (and optionally installed software where required to control
 !0 hardware) configured to execute one or more predetermined water treatment methods is
    provided. In the prior art, the components of such a system were transported essentially
    unassembled to the installation site, and then assembled on site to provide a functioning
    system. Upon assembly, the system would typically be required to be properly tested and
    validated to provide the required treatment process to an input liquid before real world
25  operation.     The present systems by contrast may be assembled to provide a functioning
    system and tested and validated within the factory by expert personnel. Thus, the assembled
    system is delivered in a form that is ready for operation.
    Moreover, the present system may be easily lifted from a first installation site in unitary form
30  and transported to a second installation site without the need to dissemble, reassemble, retest
    and revalidate. Instead, the present system (and especially where configured as a standard
    shipping container) may be lifted as a single unit onto a truck and transported to an alternative
    site.    In some embodiments, the base of the enclosure is fitted with skids or similar support
    means to facilitate movement on an off a truck tray and positioning on site.
35
    The present system may be used in methods for storing water only, in which case minimal
    ancillary equipment is included. In one embodiment, only a pump may be provided so as to
                                                     -20-

    transfer water into and/or out of the storage tanks. Such embodiments may find utility as a
    potable water storage system, or a fire services system.
    In more simple embodiments such as water storage systems, standard plumbing hardware
  5 may be utilized to convey and control the fluid as desired. For example polymer piping may
    extend through the wall of the enclosure via a purposed-made aperture to allow transport liquid
    into or out of the tank. Manual or automatically actuated valves may disposed along the piping
    so as to control liquid flow.
  0 In other embodiments, the system is used in methods of treating a liquid. In such methods,
    an enclosure of the present system (when fitted with liquid retaining vessels, and any required
    plumbing, liquid transport means, liquid sensing means, and liquid treatment means) may be
    used to treat a liquid       such as a waste water, effluent or other industrial waste liquid.
    Accordingly, the present system may be configured so as to provide a liquid input and liquid
  5 output, optionally with associated pumping means. The liquid input and liquid output will
    typically form a liquid connection with the two or more liquid retaining vessels of the system.
    As one example of operation of a method, the system may be configured to perform a water
    purification process. The input liquid (which may be an effluent, for example) is pumped into
 !0 a first tank and firstly processed to remove solids. The solids are maintained in suspended
    form by constant mixing (by an electric mixer) while being processed through a ultrafiltration
    membrane. The ultrafiltration permeate is passed to a second tank where a dose of chlorine
    (for disinfection) is mixed with the permeate before being pumped into the environment
    through the liquid outlet of the system. In this application, the two tanks are not interconnected
25  given that one is dedicated to retaining retentate and the other is dedicated to collecting the
    ultrafiltration permeate.      In other methods, the tanks may be interconnected so as to
    collectively function as a single large tank.
    In the context of water purification, a tank of the present system may also comprise a sloping
30  floor to assist in the settling and removable of particulate components. A tank of the present
    system may also comprise a clarifier, such as an up-flow clarifier or a lamella clarifier. The
    lamella clarifier may involves poly welding a series of sloping baffles on angle (such as 50
    degrees to 60 degrees, with spacing from 50mm to 100 mm). Solid particulates settle on the
    plates and accumulate in collection hoppers at the bottom of the clarifier unit. The sludge is
35  drawn off at the bottom of the hoppers and the clarified liquid exits the unit at the top over a
    weir.
                                                    -21-

    Some embodiments of the present invention are configured especially to provide clean (and
    preferably) potable waterfor consumption by animals or humans. Such embodiments may be
    configured to accept as input an environmental water such as bore water (which is typically
    brackish), collected rain water, storm water, river water, sea water, or lake water. In some
  5 embodiments, the environmental water is stored in a tank of significant capacity which is
    external to the enclosure. The environmental water tank may be a rain water collection tank
    which connects to a port on a wall of the enclosure, so as to feed input water into the water
    treatment or storage means internal to the enclosure.           Some embodiments allow for the
    environmental water tank to be disposed within the enclosure.
  0
    As will be appreciated, any component of the system which contacts the clean or potable water
    should be appropriately rated or certified. For example, pipework may be provided in Class
    9, Class 12, Class 18 pressure rated PVC, Schedule 80 PVC, Nylon or ABS or other
    appropriate grades of rubber hose.
  5
    In embodiments of the system configured to provide clean or potable water, the water
    treatment means will typically provide a filter of some description to remove soluble and/or
    insoluble contaminants from the environment water.          Suitable filtration technologies depend
    on the characteristics of the environmental water and include multimedia filters, zeolite,
 !0 granular activated carbon, microfiltration, ultrafiltration, nanofiltration and reverse osmosis.
    Filtration means alone may not render water free from microbial contaminants such as
    bacteria, viruses or parasites. Accordingly, disinfection means will typically be provided such
    as chlorination dosage means, iodine dosage means, ozone dosage means and ultra violet
25  radiation exposure means. Relatively low volumes storage tank(s) will typically be provided to
    hold any disinfection agent. Where required, such disinfection means would be subject to
    operation under validated conditions. The system may comprise detector means for QA/QC
    parameters such as UV intensity, Total or free Chlorine levels, ozone levels, temperature, pH,
    turbidity, flow, ORP, conductivity, etc.
30
    A system for providing clean or potable water is ideally cleaned internally a regular intervals,
    and filtration media (where present) regenerated. Thus, any vessel, pipework, fittings, valves
    etc may be exposed to various caustic solutions, acid solutions, scalants, detergents, and the
    like acting to clean such components of the system.            Generally, the cleaning solution is
35  recirculated for a validated period of time (optionally at elevated temperature) before a rinsing
    step is carried out.    Cleaning agents are typically stored in dedicated vessels within the
    enclosure.
                                                    -22-

    A third liquid retaining vessel may be provided to collect a waste product from any water
    treatment means. For example, where salt is removed from an environmental water, brine is
    a waste product which is preferably not discharged to the environment. The brine may be
  5 stored in a separate vessel which is emptied at regular intervals and disposed of in a proper
    manner. A further liquid retaining vessel may be provided to retain any effluent resulting from
    a cleaning procedure, such as a caustic wash. Again, the collected effluent will be removed
    and disposed of accordingly.       Typically, the waste product storage vessel is a tank of
    substantial capacity located outside the enclosure, but connectable to the water processing
  0 means disposed inside the enclosure via a port in a wall of the enclosure.
    Embodiments of the invention configured to provide clean or potable water may comprise a
    dispensing tap configured to deliver a volume of water to a consumer. The tap may be
    automated (for example, by electronic controlled valve means) to dispense a metered
  5 predetermined volume, or to dispense water for a predetermined time to a consumer.
    Alternatively, the systems may be configured to automatically fill a plurality of vessels, with a
    consumer able to retrieve a filled vessel from the system. Volumes will typically be less than
    a volume of water which may be carried by a person, such as less than 20, 15, 10, 5, 4, 3, 2
    or 1 litres. The dispensing tap may be mounted within a minor cavity formed in the wall of the
 !0 enclosure.
    Some embodiments of the system include payment means configured to dispense water or
    allow access to a filled water vessel only upon delivery of a payment by the user. Thus, a
    valve of the dispensing tap may not open until a token, coin, note or electronic payment is
25  processed. A vessel automatically filled with water by the system may not be releasable until
    payment is made.
    For reason of security, electronic payment means will typically be preferred especially where
    the system is installed at a remote location. Thus, the system may comprise electronic means
30  for scanning a magnetic strip of a consumer's debit card (such as EFTPOS) or credit card, or
    a reader capable of reading a chip (such as a VisaTM payWave TM chip). For embodiments
    configured to process an electronic payment, the system comprises a network interface
    configured to allow for duplex communication with the server of a financial institution such as
    a bank or a credit card company. Such communication may be a secure communication over
35  the Internet, or by any other WAN or LAN available. Typically, communication will be achieved
    by way of wireless communication with a mobile phone system such as a 3G or 4G-enabled
                                                   -23-

    system capable of data transfer. Where available, other communication systems such as
    satellite telephony, WiFi, or Ethernet.
    The control of water may be via a solenoid actuated shut-off valve which is electronically
  5 operated (to open and/or close) according to whether or not payment has been received.
    In addition or alternative to payment means, the Network interface means may be used to
    remotely monitor or control components of the system, or monitor a water quality parameter
    of the output water or a process intermediate. An exemplary remote system is SCADA.
  0
    Embodiments      configured to dispense clean or potable water may be installed                in
    environmentally sensitive, residential areas, business areas, recreational reserves, theme
    parks, sporting grounds, transient festivals, and the like. In these settings, the enclosure may
    be constructed so as to be aesthetically pleasing or to better blend with the surrounds as
  5 distinct from embodiments that have the appearance of a shipping container.
    While the appearance may depart from that of a shipping container, the footprint of the
    enclosure may be the same or similar or a standard shipping container so as to facilitate
    transport. Cladding materials may include masonry finishes (such as stack stone, brick, slate,
 .0 reconstituted stone), composite claddings (such as fibre cement/ timber), metal cladding (such
    as ColourbondTM products), aluminium and zinc cladding, timber cladding (such as reclaimed
    timber, ply sheeting, weather boards), glass, Perspex T , laminated glass), polypropylene or
    polyethylene sheeting.     The materials may not only improve aesthetic qualities, but may
    improve resistance to weather, heat and cold.
25
    A roof of the enclosure may be pitched or otherwise constructed so as to improve appearance
    and/or shed rain.      Roofing materials may include slate, tar tiles, masonry, terracotta,
    corrugated iron/zinc, zinc sheeting, glass, PerspexT M , and LaserliteTM products. Some roofing
    materials may allow for the transmission of natural light into the enclosure.
30
    A further application of the present systems is in the treatment of sewage or other effluent.
    The present systems may be configured having the required liquid retaining vessels and
    ancillary equipment to receiving incoming sewage and to treat the sewage at least to the point
    where it is acceptable to release into the environment. Embodiments suitable for this purpose
35  may comprise an anoxic treatment tank and/or an aeration tank and/or a clarifier tank and/or
    a chlorination tank. Such a system may be configured to provide process monitoring and
    control. Means for monitoring and/or controlling parameters such as sludge blanket level ad/or
                                                   -24-

    SVI (Sludge Volume Index) and/or MCRT (Mean Cell Residence Time) and/or F/M (Food to
    Microorganism) and/or the biota of the activated sludge, and/or the major nutrients and/or DO
    (Dissolved oxygen) and/or nitrogen and/or phosphate and/or BOD (Biochemical Oxygen
    Demand) and/or COD Chemical oxygen demand) may be included in the system.
  5
    In some embodiments, the sewage treatment system is configured to operate as a fully or
    partially as a gravity system so as to improve reliability and decrease energy needs. In this
    regard, the use of shipping container, or shipping container-like enclosures provides
    advantage given the significant height of such structures. For example, sewage input to the
  0 system may initially flow downwardly (under gravity) through a screen in an upper region of
    the enclosure, the screen configured to catch indigestible solids. The solids retained on the
    screen may be later dropped (under gravity) from the screen and through a chute into a solid
    rubbish container disposed below the screen.
  5 As another example, input sewage (after screening) may flow downwardly (under gravity) into
    a balance tank below, the balance tank functioning to balance peaks and troughs in input
    flows.    The treatment tanks (anoxic treatment tank, aeration tank, clarifier tank and/or
    chlorination tank may be fed by gravity from the balance tank which is disposed relatively high
    in the enclosure so as to provide a head of pressure, such that sewage is first passed to the
 !0 anoxic treatment tank, and the treated intermediate subsequently flows due to the pressure
    head to the aeration tank, and the treated intermediate subsequently flows due to the pressure
    head to the clarifier tank below, and the treated intermediate subsequently flows due to the
    pressure head to the chlorination tank.
25  For sewage treatment systems (and indeed systems configured for other purposes) various
    chemicals may need to be stored within or about the enclosure. Such chemicals may be used
    to treat incoming liquid or for a clean-in-place (CIP) facility. The chemicals may be in a dry
    form and stored in bulk above a treatment tank and dispensed in the form of a controlled dose
    into a treatment tank under gravity under gravity below. Where the chemicals are in liquid
30  form, gravity dispensation may be provided for, or alternatively a pumping means used to
    convey the chemical from a bulk vessel to the treatment tank. In the context of a sewerage
    treatment system as one example, a relevant chemical is chlorine which is used for disinfection
    may be provided in solid form (typically as a granulate, tablet, or pelletised) or in solution (such
    as hypochlorite),
35
    Where a chemical is liable to fume, vaporise, form an airborne dust or otherwise enter the
    environment, the chemical may be retained in a sealed container within the enclosure, or
                                                   -25-

    preferably external to the enclosure. As described elsewhere herein, some embodiments of
    the invention are configured with a control room which a human operator may enter and
    remain for some time. The environment of control room may be liable to entry of a chemical
    used in a liquid treatment method, thereby providing an occupational health and safety hazard.
  5 Risk to a human operator is minimised where a chemical is retained outside the control room
    and preferably outside the enclosure completely.
    Preferably, however, the chemical is retained within the enclosure so as to minimise the
    external bounding volume.        In such instances, the means for retaining the chemical is
  0 configured so as to limit entry of the chemical into the environment (a substantially sealed
    container may be provided for example), and/or the enclosure is configured to prevent entry
    of the chemical into the control room environment (such as by a physical barrier or suitable air
    flow control means).
  5 Advantageously, in these embodiments the present system may be used to provide sewage
    treatment means as a self-contained unit for remote communities, camping sites and work
    sites. These embodiments can be produced within the confines of a 20 foot or a 40 foot
    shipping container providing further advantages in terms of transport.
 !0 As a further advantage, the sewage treatment system may be delivered partially or fully
    validated. As will be appreciated, the discharge of incorrectly treated sewage can lead to
    significant public health issues, and in any event is illegal in many jurisdictions.        Some
    embodiments of the system may retain treated or partially sewage within for later collection.
25  One or more of the liquid retaining vessels may have structural features to facilitate a particular
    process in which the vessel(s) is/are involved. Taking the example of a system configured for
    sewage treatment, the aeration tank may have physical feature(s) which facilitate the injection
    of gaseous air into a liquid contained in the tank. One feature may be aeration means fixed to,
    or incorporated into, the tank floor configured to bubble air from the lower regions to the upper
30  regions of the tank. This bubbling may act further to mix the contents of the tank thereby
    facilitating the oxygen-dependent processes occurring in the liquid under treatment by
    improving contact of all regions of the liquid bulk to oxygen.
    The present invention will now be more fully described by reference to the following non
35  limiting preferred embodiment.
                                                    -26-

         DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF PREFERRED EMBODIMENTS OF THE INVENTION
    Turning firstly to FIG. 1, there is shown an isometric view (part cutaway and part shown
    transparently) of a highly preferred enclosure 10 of the present invention. The basic structure
  5 is a 40 foot shipping container including walls 12, a roof 14, and a floor 16. Four internal
    panels 18, 20, 22, 24 divide the enclosure 10 into four compartments. Each of the panels is
    fortified with a frame (one frame member marked 26). The right-hand most compartment (as
    drawn) is a control room 27 having a door 28 dimensioned so as to allow the passage of a
    human operator. The control room 27 is configured to house power outlets, various control
  0 devices such as computers, various display units (such as a visual display unit showing
    system parameters) and the like (none of which are shown for the sake of clarity).
    An aperture 29 in panel 22 is shown, being configured to allow the passage of a pipe (not
    shown) which connects a first tank (not shown) in the compartment bounded by panels 20 and
  5 22 to a second tank (not shown) in the compartment bounded by panels 22 and 24. In reality,
    identical apertures would be present in panels 18 and 20 so as to allow the enclosure to house
    four tanks, with each tank being in liquid communication directly or indirectly with each other
    tank via a conduit passing through an aperture 29.
 .0 As will be noted the enclosure resists deformation due to the frame members (several of which
    are marked as 30) along with the corrugated nature of the roof 14 and walls 12. The frame
    members traversing the panels 18, 20, 22 and 24 also assist in resisting deformation.
    The roof 14 is fitted with a number of access hatches 32 (one of which is marked as 32) which
25  can be lifted by a human operator to provide access to the interior of each compartment. The
    operator is thereby permitted to access any liquid transport means (such as a pump; not
    shown) or any liquid treatment means (such as an electric mixer; not shown) or any liquid flow
    control means (such as a valve) for reasons of inspection, maintenance, installation, removal,
    repair, replacement or adjustment.
30
    The access hatches 32 may further allow operator access to the tanks beneath, and optionally
    the interior of the tanks. Such access may allow for an operator to dispense a reagent into
    the tank, or to remove a sample of the liquid in a tank.
35  The roof is further provided with longitudinal frame elements (one of which is marked as 33)
    to further stiffen the enclosure.
                                                  -27-

    Any liquid transport means, liquid treatment or liquid flow control means which is electrically
    powered may be connected to a power outlet in the control room 27. Moreover any liquid
    transport means, liquid treatment or liquid flow control means which is electrically or
    electronically controlled may be connected to a controller device in the control room 27.
  5
    It is proposed that the tanks (or any conduit leading to or from a tank) may be fitted with
    sensors (such as level sensors, flow sensors, temperature sensors, pH sensors, solids
    sensors, dissolved oxygen sensors and the like) which are in electrical or electronic
    communication with control devices in the control room 27. Depending on the information of
  0 the sensors, the controllers may modulate the operation of any liquid transport means, liquid
    treatment or liquid flow control means associated with any tank.
    The control room 27 may comprise non-electrical or non-electronic control means such as
    hand-operable valves, pneumatic actuators, mechanical actuators and the like.
  5
    To facilitate access to hatches 32, there is a ladder 34 provided so as to allow a human
    operator to climb onto the enclosure roof 14. To prevent the operator from falling, the entire
    roof is equipped with a handrail/barrier 36 and non-slip flooring 38 (being in this embodiment
    corrosion resistant FRP (isophtalic polyester). Furthermore, in this preferred embodiment a
 !0 flood light 40 is provided to illuminate the roof of the enclosure so as to facilitate an operator's
    activities about the access hatches 32. To facilitate transport, components such as the ladder
    34, barrier 36, and flood light 40 may be configured for easily removal and reattachment by
    the use of reversible engagement means (such as bolt engagement).
25  Reference is made to FIG. 2A which shows in particular two lines 42 along which tubular steel
    frame members are welded to the interior of the enclosure so as to provide improved stiffening.
    Identical tubular steel frame members are welded in an identical manner along the opposing
    long wall (not shown).
30  Reference is made to FIG. 2B which highlights the tubular steel reinforcement members 33
    which are welded to the exterior of roof, again to provide further stiffening to the enclosure.
    Also highlighted are the access hatches 32 which are disposed two per compartment.
    FIG. 2C shows a section just to the right (as drawn) of panel 18 showing the position of vertical
35  frame members 26a and horizontal frame members 26b fabricated from tubular steel. The
    members 26a and 26b are also provided with panels 20, 22 and 24.
                                                    -28-

    It will be noted that the combination of reinforcing members 26a, 26b, 33 and 42 combine to
    form a rigid skeleton extending throughout the enclosure. The members augment the existing
    members 30 in the shipping container used to construct the enclosure. Accordingly, the
    enclosure may be lifted and transported without any detriment, or indeed damage to any
  5 component inside.
    Reference is made to FIG. 3 which shows an enclosure 10 similar to that of FIG. 1 however
    with a solar panel 50 mounted on the roof. The mounting allows for adjustment so as to
    maximize the generated power according to the latitude of the installation site. The solar panel
  0 is connected to an internal storage battery (not shown), and also to an inverter (not shown)
    which is in turn connected to the electrical wiring circuit running within the enclosure 10.
    Turning now to FIG. 4 there is shown an embodiment of the invention configured as a self
    contained and self-powered facility configured to dispense potable water. The enclosure 10
  5 has external ports for bore water suction 52, raw water discharge 54, brine discharge 56, and
    raw water suction 58. The ports allow for connection to pipe work in connection with a water
    source or a water tank external to the enclosure 10. It will be understood that all ports will not
    necessarily be operable for any particular application. For example, where the environmental
    water used to produce the potable water is rain water, the bore water suction port 52 and brine
 .0 discharge 56 ports will be redundant.
    A potable water dispenser 60 is shown. A consumer approaches the dispenser any uses a
    credit card or debit card to electronically pay for potable water. Upon receipt of adequate
    payment, the dispenser 60 pumps water from a storage tank (not shown, but disposed beneath
25  the access hatch 62) holding potable water within the enclosure 10. A pad 64 is provided
    upon which the consumer stands for the course of the transaction.
    Reverse osmosis membrane cartridges are disposed within the enclosure (one of which is
    marked 66) along with bag filters (one of which is marked 68).
30
    Chemical dosing units (one of which is marked 70) are disposed along the rear wall of the
    enclosure. Each unit provides is responsible for storing and a single chemical. The chemical
    may be a disinfectant or a cleaning agent.
35
                                                   -29-

    FIGs 5 through 9 show exemplary tanks for use in a sewage treatment system.            FIG. 10
    provides an overview of the assembly of the various tanks and other components into a
    functional sewage treatment system.
  5 Turning now to FIG. 5, there is shown an exemplary balance tank 72, having primary balance
    pumps 73, ball valve 74, conduit 75 with clips 76, and elbows 77. A true union check valve
    78 and a drain valve 79 are provided.
  0 Reference is made to FIG. 6 which shows the internals of a preferred anaerobic tank 80 having
    an anaerobic region stirred by the mixer 82, the anaerobic region substantially separated by
    the baffle 84 from an anoxic region stirred by the mixer or a pump 86. Various pipe clips 88,
    elbows 90 conduit 92, check valves 94 and ball valves 96 are provided, along with an overflow
    pipe 98 and a drain plug 99.
  5
    Reference is now made to FIG. 7A which shows an aeration apparatus 100 which may be
    plastic welded by way of the polymer attaching blocks 102 to the internal floor of an aeration
    tank. The aeration tank may form part of a sewage treatment system as described elsewhere
    herein. The aeration apparatus comprises an air manifold connector 104 adapted to admit
 .0 pressurised air into the conduit 106 of the apparatus 10. The conduit 106 distributes the
    pressurised air to a series of diffusers 108 which have small perforations (not shown) in their
    upper surfaces that allow escape of the pressurised air into the surrounding liquid so as to
    form a plurality of bubbles (not shown) which rise through the liquid. Each of the diffusers is
    physically attached and in gaseous communication with the conduit 106 by way of tapping
25  saddles 110.
    In FIG. 7B the aeration apparatus 100 is shown disposed inside a tank 111, having a conduit
    112 to receive pressurized air, and overflow pipe 113.        The aeration apparatus 100 is
    supported on the tank floor by polymer blocks 102. A drain valve 103 is provided.
30
    FIG. 8A and FIG. 8B show an exemplary clarifier tank 120, used to facilitate separation of
    particular matter by a settling process. The clarifier tank 120 is fabricated from a standard
    conical polymer tank having sloping walls 122. A liquid inlet pipe 124 and an opposed liquid
    outlet pipe 126 are provided, both extending toward the interior of the tank 120. Connectors
35  128 are provided on the outer side of the tank 120.       Liquid entering the tank is directly
    upwardly, but then flows downwardly so as to contact the sloping walls 122. Particulate matter
    (not shown) contacts the sloping walls 122, and then migrates downwardly along the sloping
                                                  -30-

    walls 122 under gravity so as to settle in the lower region 130 where it may be subsequently
    collected. Clarified water exists via the outlet pipe 126.
    FIG 8C and FIG. 8D show an alternative clarifying tank 130 constructed so as to be generally
  5 rectangular prismatic so as to conform well with the internal space of a shipping container-like
    enclosure. A wedge 131 provides a sloped surface 132. A baffle 134 having ribs 135 is
    disposed vertically within the tank, and suspended above the tank floor. Also marked is an
    elbow 136 (in communication with the next tank), and a dropper pipe 137 connected to a
    further elbow 138. An isolation valve 139, check valve 139A, return activated sludge pump
  0 139B and conduit 139C for a system for removing the settled particulate material.
    FIG. 9 shows an exemplary chlorination tank 140, fabricated from a standard cylindrical
    polymer tank, with a 160mm poly pipe 142 welded into the top cover 144. The pipe 142 is
    immersed in the liquid within the tank 140, and has a series of apertures 146 in the wall
  5 providing fluid communication between the interior and exterior of the pipe 142. A chlorine
    tablet (not shown) may be dropped by a user or into the pipe 142 through an opening 148 in
    the top cover 144. The chlorine tablet dissolves within the pipe 142, so as to provide sufficient
    free chlorine in solution so as to at least partially disinfect the liquid.
 !0 Liquid enters the tank chlorination tank 140 by way of inlet pipe 150 and exits via outlet pipe
    152. Incoming liquid therefore flows from the inlet pipe 150, and through the apertures 146 of
    the pipe 142 such that incoming liquid is exposed to the chorine tablets contained therein and
    subject to disinfection.
25  Connectors 154 are provided on the exterior of the chlorination tank 140.
    Reference is now made to FIG. 10 which shows that arrangement of components in a
    complete self-contained sewage treatment system disposed within a shipping container 200.
    Sewage passes firstly though the screen 202 to remove solids. Any removed solids are
30  intermittently subsequently deposited into wheeled bin 204 disposed below. Sewage that has
    passed the screen 202 enters firstly into the balance tank 203, and is then passed by way of
    pump 205 into the anaerobic tank 206 and the anoxic tank 208. Pump 210 passes material
    treated under anaerobic/anoxic conditions to the aeration tank 212. Material treated under
    aerobic conditions is the passed to the clarifier tank 214. Sludge from the clarifier tank 214 is
35  passed intermittently by way of pump 216 to the discharge port 218 or returned to the Anoxic
    tank. Clarified material is passed to the chlorination tank 219, and then final to the treated
    effluent discharge port 220.
                                                     -31-

    The system shown in FIG. 10 has furthermore an air blower 222 to supply slightly pressurized
    air to the aeration tank 212.       Also provided is a chemical dosing injection port 224, a
    recirculation pump 226 for the chlorination tank 218, a process tank overflow 228, a treated
  5 effluent sample port 230.
    Chemical dosing tanks are provided at 232 (holding Poly Aluminum Chloride solution - a
    coagulant) and 234 (holding Sodium Hypochlorite solution - a disinfectant).
  0 Also visible in this plan view is the cage ladder 236 for roof access.
    FIG. 11 shows a preferred means for penetrating an external surface of the enclosure. Such
    penetration may be required for the purpose of presenting a liquid inlet or outlet to the outside,
    or a user operable contrivance (such as a valve, switch, lever etc) control valve or button. The
  5 means for penetrating in this preferred embodiment is configured such that the inlet, outlet or
    use operable contrivance does not extend beyond the periphery of the enclosure. Accordingly,
    the enclosure may be handled without any significant need to prevent damage to any
    component extending outwardly form the enclosure, or any need to transgress standard or
    maximum widths of transport containers such as shipping containers. In FIG. 9 there is shown
 !0 a fluid connector 150 which is essentially contained within a steel box, the base of which is
    marked 152, and a wall 154, the steel box 152, 154 being recessed below the surface 156 of
    the enclosure so as to also the connector 150 to be recessed.
    FIG. 12 shows a preferred means of mounting a floodlight (such as that marked 40 in FIG. 1),
25  in the form of a quick mount bracket socket 160 which may be welded or bolted to the
    enclosure roof. The bracket socket comprises a mounting plate 162, and a cylinder 164 sized
    to receive and support a flood light pole (not shown). The pole is dropped into the cylinder164
    opening 166 and retained in place by winding the bolt 168 inwardly. Fin-like struts 170 act to
    stabilise the cylinder 160 on the mounting plate 162.
30
    Reference is no made to FIG. 13 which shows a caged enclosure on a side of a shipping
    container enclosure.     Each of the containers holds a different dosage chemical used in a
    sewage treatment process.
35  Reference is made to FIGs 14A, 14B, 14C, and 14D demonstrating how the present invention
    may take the form of a single enclosure (FIG. 14A) or taken a modularform by way of multiple
    enclosures (FIGs 14B and 14D). AS shown by FIGs 14C and 14D, the present invention may
                                                   -32-

  be used in combination with a variety of external tanks that mat hold a process starting
  material, or an intermediate, or a product.
  In the description provided herein, numerous specific details are set forth. However, it is
5 understood that embodiments of the invention may be practiced without these specific details.
  In other instances, well-known methods, structures and techniques have not been shown in
  detail in order not to obscure an understanding of this description.
  In the following claims, any of the claimed embodiments can be used in any combination.
0
                                                -33-

    THE CLAIMS DEFINING THE INVENTION ARE AS FOLLOWS:
    1.     A liquid storage and/or treatment system comprising an enclosure (including a partial
  5 enclosure) configured to accommodate two or more liquid retaining vessels.
    2.     The liquid storage and/or treatment system of claim 1 wherein the enclosure is
    configured to: retain and/or support and/or protect two or more liquid retaining vessels.
  0 3.     The liquid storage and/or treatment system of claim 1 or claim 2 wherein the
    enclosure comprises a frame and/or panels.
    4.     The liquid storage and/or treatment system of claim 3 configured such that the panels
    are supported by the frame.
  5
    5.     The liquid storage and/or treatment system of claim 3 or claim 4 wherein the panels
    form one or more of: a roof, a wall, a floor.
    6.     The liquid storage and/or treatment system of claim 5 wherein the panels are
 .0 configured to substantially enclose two liquid retaining vessels.
    7.     The liquid storage and/or treatment system of any one of claims 3 to 6 wherein (i)
    one or more members of the frame and/or (ii) the panels, is/are configured to define two
    regions or compartments within the enclosure.
 .5
    8      The liquid storage and/or treatment system of claim 7 wherein (i) one or more
    members of the frame and/or (ii) the panels, is/are configured to define a third region or
    compartment within the enclosure.
30  9.     The liquid storage and/or treatment system of claim 7 or claim 8 configured to allow
    passage of a liquid, gas, electrical or data conduit between any two regions or
    compartments.
    10.    The liquid storage and/or treatment system of any one of claims 7 to 9 wherein the
35  regions or compartments are disposed side-by-side.
                                                   -34-

    11.      The liquid storage and/or treatment system of any one of claims 7 to 10 wherein one
    of the regions or compartments is configured to house a device for the controlling the
    movement of a liquid, gas, electricity or data into, out of, or within the enclosure.
  5 12.      The liquid storage and/or treatment system of any one of claims 1 to 11 comprising
    two or more liquid retaining vessels.
    13.      The liquid storage and/or treatment system of claim 12 wherein each of the two or
    more liquid retaining vessels are fabricated completely or predominantly from a polymer.
  0
    14.      The liquid storage and/or treatment system of claim 12 or claim 13 wherein each of
    the two or more liquid retaining vessels is substantially self-supporting.
    15.      The liquid storage and/or treatment system of any one of claims 1 to 14 comprising a
  5 liquid entry port and a liquid exit port.
    16.      The liquid storage and/or treatment system of claim 1 comprising liquid transport
    means and/or liquid treatment means.
 !0 17.      The liquid storage and/or treatment system of claim 16 wherein the liquid transport
    means is a pump configured to transport liquid (i) between the liquid retaining vessels within
    the liquid storage system or (ii) into the liquid storage system or (iii) out of the liquid storage
    system.
25  18.      The liquid storage and/or treatment system of claim 16 wherein the liquid treatment
    means is selected from any one of more of: aeration means, mixing means, chemical
    dosage means, gas injection means, bubbling means, flocculation means, pH adjustment
    means, irradiation means, filtration means, microbial digestion means, degasification means,
    partitioning means, decanting means, odour control means, heavy metal removal means,
30  nitrate removal means, temperature control means, conductivity control means, osmotic
    pressure control means, dialysis means, disinfection means, and electrolytic means.
    19.      The liquid storage and/or treatment system of any one of claims 16 to 18 comprising
    electrical and/or electronic control means configured to control the liquid transport means
35  and/or liquid treatment means.
                                                     -35-

    20.     The liquid storage and/or treatment system of claim 19 comprising a region for
    housing most or all electrical and/or electronic control means.
    21.     The liquid storage and/or treatment system of claim 19 or claim 20 comprising
  5 electrical and/or electronic connection means configured to electrically of electronically
    connect (i) the electrical and/or electronic control means to (ii) the liquid transport means
    and/or the liquid treatment means.
    22.     The liquid storage and/or treatment system of claim 21 wherein the electrical and/or
  0 electronic connection means is one or more wires, and the one or more wires is/are mounted
    on or about the enclosure.
    23.     The liquid storage and/or treatment system of claim 22 comprising a roof having one
    or more access openings configured to allow access to the interior of at least one of the two
  5 or more liquid retaining vessels.
    24.     The liquid storage and/or treatment system of any one of claims 1 to 23 wherein the
    enclosure is a modified shipping container.
 !0 25.     The liquid storage and/or treatment system of any one of claims 1 to 24 comprising
    solar energy and/or wind energy harvesting means.
    26.      The liquid storage and/or treatment system of claim 25 wherein the solar energy
    and/or wind energy harvesting means is/are configured to output electrical energy, and the
25  system optionally further comprises a storage battery in operable connection with the solar
    energy harvesting means.
    27.     The liquid storage and/or treatment system of any one of claims 1 to 26 comprising
    an electrically powered component, and wherein the electrically powered component is in
30  operable connection with an electrical power source.
    28.     The liquid storage and/or treatment system of claim 27 when appended to claim 26
    wherein the electrical power source is the electrical output of the solar energy and/or wind
    energy harvesting means and/or the storage battery (where present).
35
    29.     The liquid storage and/or treatment system of claim 27 or claim 28 wherein the
    electrically powered component is a liquid transport means, a liquid treatment means, air
                                                   -36-

    treatment means, an electrically operable valve, an electronic control means, computing
    means, air treatment means, water payment means, and light emission means.
    30.      The liquid storage and/or treatment system of any one of claims 25 to 29 wherein the
  5 solar energy and/or wind energy harvesting means is/are mounted on the enclosure, or
    proximal to the enclosure.
    31.      The liquid storage and/or treatment system of any one of claims 1 to 30 configured to
    be operable as a potable water production facility, wherein a first of the two or more liquid
  0 retaining vessels is in liquid connection with an environmental water supply and configured
    to retain environmental water, and a second of the two or more liquid retaining vessels in
    liquid connection with a water dispensing means, the system further comprising
    environmental water treatment means operably disposed between the first and second of the
    two or more liquid retaining vessels.
  5
    32.      The liquid storage and/or treatment system of claim 31 comprising water dispensing
    means in liquid connection with the second of the two or more liquid retaining vessels.
    33.      The liquid storage and/or treatment system of claim 32 wherein the water dispensing
 !0 means outlet is external to the enclosure.
    34.      The liquid storage and/or treatment system of claim 32 to 32 wherein the water
    dispensing means comprises water metering means.
25  35.      The liquid storage and/or treatment system of any one of claims 33 to 34 wherein the
    water dispensing means comprises a water payment means.
    36.      A method of storing or treating a liquid in need thereof, the method comprising the
    step of providing the liquid storage and/or treatment system of any one of claims 1 to 35,
30  passing a liquid into least one or the two more retaining vessels.
    37.      A shipping container modified to have attached thereto a series of stiffening frame
    members and/or panels, at least some of the stiffening frame members and/or panels.
35  38.      The shipping container of claim 37 wherein the stiffening frame members and/or
    panels extending across the interior of the shipping container divide the container into two,
    three, four, five or more regions or compartments.
                                                    -37-

   39.     The shipping container of claim 38 wherein each region or compartment holds a
   liquid retaining vessel.
 5 40.     The shipping container of any one of claims 37 to 39 modified to comprise one or
   more access hatches in the roof.
   41.     The shipping container of any one of claims 37 to 40 modified to comprise (i) a ladder
   allowing a human operator to access the exterior of the container roof, and/or (ii) a barrier
 0 about the container roof to prevent a human operator falling from the roof.
   DATED: 21 November 2017
   By:
 5 CHURCHILL ATTORNEYS
   Patent Attorneys for:
   AKS INDUSTRIES AUSTRALIA PTY LTD
   ACN 151 483 984
   191 Station Street
.0 CORIO VIC 3214
   AUSTRALIA
                                                -38-

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
              <U+2701><U+260E>                                            <U+270D><U+2712><U+2713><U+2714>
<removed-date>
                                                            <U+271E>                                  <U+2702>
                                                                                                   <U+2701><U+2702>
                                                                                                   <U+2701><U+2702>
                   <U+2702><U+2704>
<removed-apn>
                                     <U+2702><U+2701>                <U+2702><U+2702>              <U+2702><U+260E>             <U+271D><U+2704>
                                                       <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E><U+270C> <U+270D><U+270E>
                                <U+2702><U+2704>
                                    <U+2702><U+2701>                 <U+2702><U+2702>              <U+2702><U+260E>        <U+271D><U+2704>
                   <U+2702><U+2706>
                                <U+2702>         <U+2702>        <U+2702>         <U+2702>     <U+2702>         <U+2702>   <U+2702>         <U+2702>
                                     <U+2704>                 <U+2704>                 <U+2704>            <U+2704>
                        <U+2701>                              <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E><U+270C> <U+270D><U+270F>
                                                                    <U+2701><U+260E>
                                               <U+271E>
                            <U+2701>
                                                                   <U+2702><U+271E><U+271F>
                                                                   <U+2702><U+271E><U+2720>
                                              <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E><U+270C> <U+270D><U+2711>

       <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
       <U+2701><U+260E>
<U+2721><U+261B><U+261E><U+270C>
                                  <U+2712><U+2713><U+2714>
            <U+271D><U+260E>

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
                            <U+2721><U+2712><U+2713><U+2714>
<removed-date>
                                   <U+271D>
                      <U+2701>
<removed-apn>
                                           <U+271E>
                                               <U+2702><U+2701><U+2704><U+260E>
                                                      <U+271F>
                  <U+2720>
              <U+2704>
                                       <U+2706>
                          <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E><U+270C> <U+2721>

                                   <U+2701><U+2712><U+2713><U+2714>
<removed-date>             <U+2720>
                                               <U+2720><U+2720>
<removed-apn>
                                                    <U+2704>
                   <U+2704><U+271F>
                                                             <U+2704><U+2720>
        <U+2704><U+271D>
                                                              <U+2704><U+2701>
              <U+2704><U+2704>
                                                        <U+2720><U+271D>
                            <U+2720><U+2701>
                                          <U+2720><U+271F>
                                 <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E><U+270C> <U+2701>

                                  <U+2714><U+2712><U+2713><U+2714>
<removed-date>
                     <U+2702>                   <U+2701> <U+2702><U+2704><U+260E> <U+2706><U+2702><U+271D><U+2704><U+271E><U+2701><U+271F><U+2720>
<removed-apn>    <U+2702> <U+271F>
                                                    <U+2702> <U+2720>
                                                    <U+2702><U+2702>
               <U+2702> <U+271D>
                         <U+2702> <U+2701>
                               <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E><U+270C> <U+2714><U+270E>

                                     <U+2712><U+2713><U+2714>
<removed-date>
                          <U+2702><U+2702><U+2702>
<removed-apn>
                                                <U+2702><U+2702><U+2706>
                                                      <U+2702><U+2702><U+2701>
              <U+2702> <U+2706>
                    <U+2702> <U+2701>
                           <U+2702>
                                          <U+2702> <U+2701>
                                <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E><U+270C> <U+2714><U+270F>

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
                               <U+2713><U+2704><U+2712><U+2713><U+2714>
<removed-date>
                                                                    <U+2702><U+2706>
              <U+2702><U+2706><U+271F>
               <U+2702><U+2706><U+2720>                                     <U+2702><U+2706><U+271D>
<removed-apn>
                                                       <U+2702><U+2706><U+271E>
               <U+2702><U+2706>
               <U+2702><U+2706>
                                               <U+2702><U+2706><U+2701>
                      <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E><U+270C> <U+2711>           <U+2702><U+2706><U+2702>
              <U+2702><U+2706>
                                                             <U+2702><U+2706><U+2704><U+260E>
                                                        <U+2702><U+2706><U+2704>
                       <U+2702><U+2706><U+2701>
              <U+2702><U+2706><U+2702>
                                                        <U+2702><U+2706><U+2704><U+2701>
                                                <U+2702><U+2706><U+2704><U+260E>
                     <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E><U+270C>                    <U+2702><U+2706><U+2704><U+2702>

                                             <U+2713><U+2713><U+2712><U+2713><U+2714>
<removed-date>                      <U+2702><U+271D><U+271D>          <U+270F><U+2711><U+2712>
                   <U+270F><U+2713><U+2714>
                         <U+2704><U+2704><U+2702><U+260E><U+260E> <U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+271F> <U+2720><U+2721><U+261B><U+261B><U+261E><U+271F><U+270C><U+271D> <U+271F><U+270C><U+2720><U+270D><U+261E>
                                                      <U+2702><U+271E><U+2701>     <U+2702><U+271D>
<removed-apn>    <U+2702><U+271E><U+271D>                                                  <U+2702><U+271E><U+271D>
              <U+2702><U+271D><U+2701>
                                                            <U+2704><U+2702><U+2702><U+2702>
              <U+2701><U+2702>
                                       <U+2702><U+271D><U+271F>
                                             <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E><U+270C> <U+270E>

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
                     <U+2713> <U+2712><U+2713><U+2714>
<removed-date>
                    <U+2702><U+271E><U+2701>
                                   <U+2702><U+271E><U+271F>
<removed-apn>
                                         <U+2702><U+271E><U+271F>
              <U+2702><U+271E><U+271D>             <U+2702><U+271E>
                    <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E><U+270C> <U+2713><U+2713>

                                                        <U+2713> <U+2712><U+2713><U+2714>
                                                         <U+272A>
<removed-date>
                                                                 <U+2702><U+271F>
                                                 <U+2702><U+271F><U+271F>
<removed-apn>
                                <U+2605>
                                 <U+2702><U+271F><U+271D>
                            <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704> <U+260E><U+260E> <U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+271F>
                <U+2720><U+2721><U+2702> <U+2701><U+271D><U+2706>
                                     <U+2702><U+271F><U+2720>
                 <U+261B><U+261E><U+270C><U+270C> <U+270D><U+270E><U+260E><U+2706> <U+271E><U+271F><U+270F><U+270E><U+261B><U+271F><U+2729> <U+2711><U+271F><U+270C> <U+261E><U+2701><U+2712> <U+2701><U+271D><U+2706>
                           <U+2702>
                  <U+2716> <U+2704><U+270D><U+270C> <U+2713><U+2714><U+2715><U+260E><U+260E>        <U+2726>
              <U+2717><U+2718><U+2719> <U+271A><U+271B><U+271B> <U+271C><U+2722><U+2723><U+2724><U+2717><U+2725>
                                     <U+2727>
                                         <U+2702><U+271F><U+2701>
                                    <U+2704><U+270D><U+270C> <U+2713><U+2714><U+2715><U+260E><U+260E>
                                                       <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E><U+270C> <U+2713><U+270D>

         <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
<U+2721><U+261B><U+261E><U+270C> <U+2713>                              <U+2713><U+2721><U+2712><U+2713><U+2714>

                  <U+2713><U+2701><U+2712><U+2713><U+2714>
<removed-date>
<removed-apn>
              <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E><U+270C> <U+2713><U+272A><U+270E>
              <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E><U+270C> <U+2713><U+272A><U+270F>

                     <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
<U+2721><U+261B><U+261E><U+270C> <U+2713><U+272A>   <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E><U+270C> <U+2713><U+272A><U+2711>
                                                <U+2713><U+2714><U+2712><U+2713><U+2714>

