                                                                Atty Dkt: GR-006.02
                      ABSTRACT OF THE DISCLOSURE
A unique process and catalyst is described that operates efficiently for the
direct production of a high cetane diesel type fuel or diesel type blending
stock from stochiometric mixtures of hydrogen and carbon monoxide. This
invention allows for, but is not limited to, the economical and efficient
production high quality diesel type fuels from small or distributed fuel
production plants that have an annual production capacity of less than 10,000
barrels of product per day, by eliminating traditional wax upgrading processes.
This catalytic process is ideal for distributed diesel fuel production plants such
as gas to liquids production and other applications that require optimized
economics based on supporting distributed feedstock resources.
                                      25

WO 2014/137473      PCT/US2014/000026
               1/2
                   VU

                                                                         Atty Dkt: GR-006.02
                 CATALYST AND PROCESS FOR THE PRODUCTION
                 OF DIESEL FUEL FROM NATURAL GAS, NATURAL
                 GAS LIQUIDS, OR OTHER GASEOUS FEEDSTOCKS
This application is a divisional application of AU 2014226579 the entire contents of which are
                                incorporated herein by reference.
                 CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS
[0001]          Not Applicable.
                STATEMENT REGARDING FEDERALLY SPONSORED
                              RESEARCH OR DEVELOPMENT
[0002]          Not Applicable.
                   INCORPORATION-BY-REFERENCE OF MATERIAL
                            SUBMITTED ON A COMPACT DISC
[0003]          Not Applicable.
                            BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
                                           INVENTORS
                             Robert Schuetzle, Dennis Schuetzle
[0004]          1. Field of the Invention
[0005]         This invention pertains generally to a unique process and catalyst
       system for the production of a premium diesel from synthesis gas that is
       produced from natural gas, natural gas liquids, carbon dioxide, or other similar
       feedstocks. The present invention pertains to catalytic processes that allow for
       the elimination of costly and complex wax cracking, hydroisomerization,
       and/or other upgrading and refining steps, commonly employed in traditional
       Gas to Liquids (or GTL), thus enabling the economical production of diesel
                                                 1

                                                                       Atty Dkt: GR-006.02
       fuel or diesel fuel blending stocks from distributed production plants that
       typically produce less than 10,000 barrels per day, although much larger
       plants can use these processes.
[0006]         2. Description of Related Art
[0007]         Global demand for energy continues to rise at a significant rate,
       particularly among developing industrialized nations. Natural gas, natural gas
       liquids, waste C02, associated stranded or flared gas, and combinations
       thereof are becoming more attractive as energy sources due to the increase
       in production of these gases worldwide.
[0008]         It is known in the art that natural gas or other feedstocks outlined
       above can be converted into synthesis gas (or hydrogen and carbon
       monoxide) from a variety of known thermochemical conversion methods,
       including partial oxidation, auto-thermal reforming, steam methane reforming,
       dry reforming, and other practiced methods that are known in the art.
       Technologies for the production of syngas from other carbonaceous
       resources are also widely known and emerging processes are also under
       development.
[0009]         The catalytic hydrogenation of carbon monoxide to produce light
       gases, liquids and waxes, ranging from methane to heavy hydrocarbons (C1oo
       and higher) in addition to oxygenated hydrocarbons, is typically referred to
       Fischer-Tropsch (or F-T) synthesis. Traditional F-T processes primarily
       produce a high weight (or wt. %) F-T wax (C25 and higher) from the catalytic
       conversion process. These F-T waxes are then hydrocracked and/or further
       processed to produce diesel, naphtha, and other fractions. During this
       hydrocracking process, light hydrocarbons are also produced, which may
       require additional upgrading to produce viable products. Some of these
       processes are known and described in the art.
[0010]         For example, US Patent 6,262,131 B1 (Syntroleum), issued July 17,
       2001, describes a structured Fischer-Tropsch catalyst system and method
       that includes at least one structure having a catalytic surface, such catalytic
                                              2

                                                                      Atty Dkt: GR-006.02
       surface having a linear dimension exceeding 20 mm, a void ratio exceeding
       0.6, and a contour that causes non-Taylor flow when CO and H2 pass through
       the structure. F-T catalysts, including iron and cobalt, are described in the
       patent.
[0011]         US Patent 7,404,936 (Velocys, Inc.) issued July 29, 2008, describes a
       micro-channel reactor system and catalysts used in the micro-channel reactor
       system to produce heavy hydrocarbons from a syngas steam.
[0012]         US Patent 4,499,209 (Shell Oil Company), issued February 12, 1985,
       describes a Fischer-Tropsch catalyst prepared by impregnation of a silica
       carrier with a solution of zirconium and titanium, followed by calcination and
       other preparation steps.
[0013]         US Patent 5,620,670 (Rentech, Inc.), issued April 15, 1997, describes
       a catalytic process converting hydrogen and carbon monoxide in a Fischer
       Tropsch synthesis reactor using a promoted iron oxide catalyst slurry.
[0014]         These patents describe catalysts that form high hydrocarbon reaction
       products (e.g., wax) that require further processing, including hydro
       processing and other upgrading processes, to produce diesel fuel or diesel
       blendstock (C8-C24).
[0015]         Hydrocracking and other upgrading processes add significant expense
       and complexity to a plant design. Such processes can be justified for large,
       refinery scale plants such as traditional gas to liquids plants. However for
       smaller, distributed applications that require lower volumes of feedstock for
       gas-to-liquids (GTL), and other plants that produce less than approximately
       10,000 barrels per day, plant designs that incorporate traditional F-T
       processes that include hydrocracking and other expensive upgrading
       processes may not be economically viable. To date, F-T type catalyst and
       catalytic process plant designs have not been available to support these
       smaller, distributed applications.
[0016]         Accordingly, there is an increasing need for a catalytic process that can
       directly convert syngas into a diesel fuel with a high yield at relatively low cost
                                             3

                                                                       Atty Dkt: GR-006.02
       under mild operating conditions. There is also a need for a catalytic process
       that does not require traditional major traditional hydrocracking and upgrading
       steps, thus enabling the economic production of distributed GTL. The present
       invention meets these needs as well as others and provides a substantial
       improvement over the prior art.
                         BRIEF SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
[0017]         Embodiments of the present invention provide a catalytic process using
       a catalyst to directly produce a diesel fuel from syngas at high yields, where
       the catalytic process produces primarily diesel fuel with some light wax. The
       light wax is first distilled to remove any diesel fuel range products and the
       remaining light wax from the distillation process is then recycled back to the
       syngas production step whereby additional syngas is produced for the
       subsequent production of additional diesel fuel.
[0018]         Traditional F-T processes before hydroprocessing or upgrading
       produce a majority of wax and only a small amount or no diesel fuel and then
       require major unit operations in order to produce fuels suitable for sale into
       the market. Thus, producing a product fraction with a majority in the diesel
       fuel range with the balance of the non-gas phase products involving a light
       wax, without requiring major traditional hydroprocessing or other upgrading
       steps, requires a significantly different catalyst and process than has been
       used in the past.
[0019]         Typical raw products of F-T synthesis include a majority of waxes, and
       are hydroprocessed to reduce boiling point. As part of this process
       hydroprocessing removes the oxygenates produced during the process by
       converting them to corresponding paraffins. The complete removal of
       oxygenates including high molecular weight linear alcohols is undesirable
       since these alcohols provide good lubricity properties.
[0020]         Using the supported catalyst and process described herein, the
       catalytic process can produce a product distribution that comprises
                                              4

                                                                      Atty Dkt: GR-006.02
       approximately 2/3 of the liquid product in the diesel fuel range comprising a
       majority of hydrocarbons in the C8-C24 range. The balance of the non-gas
       phase material consists of a light wax that can be easily processed into diesel
       fuel range hydrocarbons or recycled back to the syngas generator to produce
       additional syngas.
[0021]         Post processing or recycling of the remaining wax fraction enable the
       production of 100% diesel fuel using the proposed process. The light wax
       after distillation produced from this process is unique in that the hydrocarbons
       contained in the wax consist of no greater than 0.5 wt. % of each carbon
       number greater than C35 (for example, each carbon number C35, C36, etc.
       each consist of no greater than 0.5% wt. %).
[0022]         Embodiments of the invention provide desirable combinations of
       variables to produce a process and catalysts that produce a high diesel
       fraction yield directly from syngas.
[0023]         A variety of catalyst parameters of the catalyst makes it unique and
       allow for efficient operation. Structural parameters include support material
       which may include A1203, SiO 2 , activated carbon, carbon nanotubes, zeolites,
       or other support materials size, shape, pore diameter, surface area, crush
       strength, effective pellet radius, and other parameters as described herein.
[0024]         A unique combination of these parameters provide for an effective
       catalyst that produces the unique product. Procedures for the reduction of the
       catalyst and the type of reactor used in the process are also important factors
       that determine selectivity to product.
[0025]         As has been shown through testing, variations of the parameters
       mentioned above can have a dramatic effect on product distribution in some
       embodiments. For example, finding the optimal support, metals loading,
       crystalline size, pore diameter, surface area, crush strength, and effective
       pellet radius of a supported catalyst can change the product distribution and
       can make a difference between an economical distributed plant and one that
       requires expensive upgrading processes. Further, the reduction procedures
                                             5

                                                                         Atty Dkt: GR-006.02
       and type of reactor used in the process are integral to obtaining the desired
       yields.
[0026]          In one aspect of the invention, the process comprises reacting a feed
       gas (e.g., syngas, cleaned up syngas, and others) with a supported catalyst to
       produce a product stream comprising diesel fuel, gases and a light wax,
       wherein after the light wax fraction is distilled, the distribution of the product
       approximates greater than 2/3 diesel fuel and approximately less than 1/3 wax
       out of the non-gas phase components.
[0027]          In one embodiment of the invention, the light wax is distilled as part of
       the integrated process whereby the light wax fraction is fed into a distillation
       column whereby the distillation column is operated to produce a usable diesel
       fuel fraction in the approximate C8-C24 range which is blended with the diesel
       fuel fraction directly produced by the catalyst.
[0028]          In another embodiment of the invention, an overhead stream, a bottom
       stream, and at least one side stream are withdrawn from the distillation
       column. The diesel fuel produced from the distillation process is an ideal
       synthetic diesel that meets ASTM specifications including flash point, D90
       distillation.
[0029]          In another embodiment of the invention, the distillation column is fed
       both the light wax and liquid fraction produced from the catalyst and the
       distillation column is operated to produce three streams including a naphta
       fraction (approximately C4-C7), a diesel fuel fraction (approximately C8-C24
       range), and a wax fraction (approximately C25+).
[0030]          In another embodiment of the invention, the naphta fraction is
       recycled back to the syngas generation unit to produce additional
       syngas that is subsequently used to produce more diesel fuel as
       described herein.
[0031]          In another embodiment of the invention, the remaining wax
       fraction is recycled back to the syngas generation unit to produce
                                             6

                                                                      Atty Dkt: GR-006.02
       additional syngas that is subsequently used to produce more diesel fuel
       as described herein.
[0032]          In another embodiment of the invention, the wax that is recycled
       back to the syngas generation unit whereby the syngas generation unit
       is a non-catalytic partial oxidation (POX) system and the wax is
       converted along with the primary feedstock which may be natural gas,
       natural gas liquids, or combinations thereof.
[0033]          In another embodiment of the invention, the naphta fraction from
       the distillation unit is also recycled and converted along with the wax
       and primary feedstock into syngas.
[0034]          In embodiments of the invention, the metal catalyst may be cobalt, iron,
       nickel, or a combination of these metals deposited at greater than 5 weight
       percent (wt. %) on gamma alumina, silica, or another support material along
       with one or more promoters at about 0.01 wt. % to about 10 wt. %, based on
       the total weight of the supported catalyst.
[0035]         The promoters may include one or more of the following: cerium,
       ruthenium, lanthanum, platinum, rhenium. gold, nickel, or rhodium. In one
       embodiment of the invention, the catalyst has a mean pore diameter greater
       than 8 nm. The catalyst may be a lobed extrudate, a sphere, granule, or other
       shape that allows for efficient operation in a catalyst bed. Ideally, the lobed
       support consisting of either three, four, or five lobes with two or more of the
       lobes being longer and the other two shorter, with both the longer lobes being
       symmetric and the shorter lobes being symmetric.
[0036]         The distance from the mid-point of the support or the mid-point of each
       lobe is called the "effective pellet radius" which is an important parameter to
       achieve the desired selectivity to diesel fuel product.
[0037]          Production methods of the catalyst include impregnation and other
       methods of production commonly used in the industry and are described in
       the art.
                                              7

                                                                       Atty Dkt: GR-006.02
[0038]         Conventional high surface area catalyst supports have an average
       pore diameter less than 100 angstroms.        Supports that have been
       engineered to have an average pore volume greater than 40 cc/g or an
       average pore diameter greater than 80 angstroms will have surface area
       much lower than 150 m2/g and crush strength will be below 2 lbs/mm.
       Achieving the above combination of variables is unique in the art (i.e. the
       unique combination of high surface area, large pore volume and pore
       diameter, and sufficient crush strength). To ensure a crush strength as high
       as 2 lbs/mm, the carrier would have to be calcined at very high temperatures
       (> 1,800F) at the expense of losing substantial surface area.
[0039]         The catalyst support used has an average pore diameter greater than
       about 80 angstroms, a mean effective pellet radius less than 600 microns, a
       crush strength of greater than 3 lbs/mm, and a BET surface area of greater
       than 150 m2 /g and a dispersion value of 4%. This combination of variables is
       unique.
[0040]         Support types that have been found to be of benefit to maximizing
       diesel fuel yield include alumina, alumina / silica combinations, activated
       carbon, carbon nanotubes, carbon nanofibers, and/or zeolite based supports.
[0041]          It has been discovered that the supported catalyst in accordance with
       the present invention, when used in a fixed bed reactor and using a unique in
       situ reduction process is very effective and produces a high selectivity to
       diesel type fuel product.
[0042]         The diesel fuel produced from the process in accordance with the
       present invention is ideal for blending with a petroleum diesel to improve its
       cetane content and to reduce sulfur in the blended fuel. The diesel fuel has
       lubricity ranging from 200 micron to 475 micron per ASTM D6079.
[0043]         A further aspect of this invention is to splash blend the diesel fuel with
       a small percentage of cold flow improver such that it can meet specifications
       for neat fuel operation in cold climates.
                                             8

                                                                      Atty Dkt: GR-006.02
                      BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
[0044]         The invention will be more fully understood by reference to the
       following drawings which are for illustrative purposes only.
[0045]         FIG. 1 shows a process flow diagram with Items A through E, each of
       which presenting different process steps from the production of syngas to
       processing a diesel fuel.
[0046]         FIG. 2 shows the effective pellet radius of a lobed and a spherical
       support and also shows different sized lobes on the lobed catalyst.
                    DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION
[0047]         Embodiments of the present invention provide a catalytic process that
       produces diesel type fuels (which include a majority of C8-C24 hydrocarbons)
       with high selectivity, while minimizing F-T wax (which includes a majority of
       C25*  hydrocarbons) production using a unique catalyst and process. In this
       context, "selectivity" refers to moles of referenced fuel product formed per
       mole of CO converted.
[0048]          In the preferred embodiment described herein, the product is a diesel
       type fuel or diesel type fuel blendstock consisting of majority of C8-C24
       hydrocarbons and a minimal amount of wax (C24+) whereby the wax produced
       is a wax produced from this process is unique in that the hydrocarbons
       contained in the wax consist of no greater than 0.5 wt. % of each carbon
       number greater than C35 (for example, each carbon number C35, C36, etc.
       each consist of no greater than 0.5% wt. %).
[0049]          Hereinafter, the diesel fuel or diesel blendstock fraction that consists
       of hydrocarbons with a majority in the C8-C24 range is referred to as "diesel
       fuel." A process in accordance with the present invention described herein
       produces a non-gas product distribution of about 2/3 diesel fuel and about 1/3
       light wax.
                                             9

                                                                      Atty Dkt: GR-006.02
[0050]         The product produced directly from the application of this invention is a
       high cetane diesel type fuel or high cetane diesel type fuel blendstock.
       Contrary to the traditional F-T product, in embodiments of the invention, the
       diesel fuel can be produced directly from syngas at high yields by passing the
       syngas through a F-T reactor in a single pass or by operating reactors in
       series to achieve a high overall carbon conversion.     In other embodiments,
       unconverted syngas is recycled to the head of the reactor and blended with
       incoming feed gas.
[0051]         The diesel fuel is liquid under ambient conditions (e.g., at 72 OF and
       atmospheric pressure). The liquid hydrocarbon product of the present
       catalytic reaction that is produced from F-T catalytic reaction can be used
       directly as a diesel blending stock or as a neat fuel without a need to employ
       costly refining or upgrading processes. The blendstock improves cetane
       number and reduces sulfur of typical petroleum derived diesel fuels. The
       blendstock also has superior lubricity properties. If the original feedstock from
       the syngas production is renewable such as derived from a bio-gas, the
       blendstock may also provide a beneficial low carbon component when
       blended with petroleum derived fuels.
[0052]         Following the catalytic production process, product fractions are
       separated using a series of condensers or "knock out vessels". For example,
       in other F-T process, a wax product is first condensed in a knock out vessel
       that is operated at 300 IF - 420 IF. The liquid and water fractions are then
       condensed out in a second vessel at or below ambient conditions (80 OF or
       below).
[0053]         In order to produce the ideal fraction of products, in another
       embodiment of the invention distillation is used to produce the desired product
       cuts from direct effluent from the catalytic reaction. This distillation column
       may contain as few as 5 plates or as many as 40 plates and may be run at a
       variety of temperatures ranging to efficiently produce the desired product
       fractions.
                                             10

                                                                      Atty Dkt: GR-006.02
[0054]         Embodiments of the invention also provide for the recycling of by
       product streams such as naphtha and wax which are gasified or reformed to
       produce additional syngas which is then subsequently used to produce more
       diesel fuel.
[0055]         Embodiments of the invention include recycling wax back to the
       syngas generation unit whereby the syngas generation unit is a non
       catalytic partial oxidation (POX) system and the wax is converted along
       with the primary feedstock which may be natural gas, natural gas
       liquids, or combinations thereof. Recycling these byproduct steams
       back to produce additional syngas enables production of 100% diesel
       fuel.
[0056]         Embodiments of the invention provide several advantages. The diesel
       type fuels produced in accordance with the present invention are ideal as
       current diesel fuel blend-stocks since such blending improves cetane number,
       lowers fuel sulfur content, and lowers engine emissions. The diesel fuel
       product can be used a neat fuel, as a blend, or can either be mildly
       isomerized or splash blended with a cold flow improver to meet specifications
       for low temperature climates.
[0057]         Furthermore, maximization of the C8-C24 selectivity for the diesel type
       fuel fraction allows elimination of costly upgrading processes for this fuel
       fraction. Thus, embodiments of the present invention enable the economic
       production of distributed gas to liquids plants that produce less than
       approximately 10,000 barrels of fuels per year, however much larger plant
       designs are possible.
[0058]         Referring more specifically to the drawings, FIG. 1 illustrates a
       schematic flow diagram with Items A through E, each of which represents a
       different process step, starting with the production of a syngas feed to the
       processing of a diesel fuel.
[0059]         In FIG. 1, Item A refers to any process that produces a syngas feed,
                                             11

                                                                       Atty Dkt: GR-006.02
       which may include steam reforming, autothermal reforming, catalytic partial
       oxidation (CPOX), non-catalytic partial oxidation, dry reforming, or other
       methods known in the art, as well as emerging processes that are being
       developed as economical ways to produce syngas from renewable, fossil, and
       other resources.
[0060]         Item B represents syngas cleanup and conditioning processes. Clean
       syngas free of impurities (which may affect catalyst performance and lifetime)
       is necessary for efficient and economical operation. Impurities may include
       hydrogen sulfide, ammonia, chlorides, and other contaminants that result from
       a syngas production process. Syngas cleanup processes are well known and
       described in the art. For example, syngas cleanup processes may include
       sulfur clean up catalysts, particulate filters, and other technologies to produce
       clean syngas for subsequent conversion to fuels.
[0061]         Item C represents the conversion of syngas into a product gas stream
       which results in a product mixture containing F-T liquids, light gases, and wax.
       The present invention relates to the catalyst used in this process step and the
       corresponding operating conditions required for efficient operation during this
       process step.
[0062]         Item D includes product separation processes whereby the liquid and
       wax products are condensed out of the product gas stream and the light
       gases are recycled back to the catalytic reactor and/or may be used for power
       production or other parasitic load requirements. Item D may also include
       condensing out the product gas stream into a product mixture comprising
       diesel, water, and wax in a single knock out vessel wherein the wax stays
       entrained in the water fraction for ease of separation from the diesel fuel
       fraction.
[0063]         Item E may also represent another optional step, where a small
       percentage of a cold flow improver or other additives are blended into the
       diesel fuel fraction in order to help cold flow properties of the fuel for use in
       cold climates.
                                             12

                                                                       Atty Dkt: GR-006.02
[0064]         Item F represents a step whereby the remaining wax and/or the naphta
       fraction may be recycled back to the syngas generation unit whereby more
       syngas is produced from the wax and/or the naphta products.          Ideally, the
       naphta and wax fractions are converted in addition to the natural gas and/or
       natural gas liquids primary feedstocks using a partial oxidation system.
[0065]         In F-T synthesis which occurs in Item C, hydrocarbon product
       selectivity depends on diffusion, reaction, and convection processes occurring
       within the catalyst pellets (i.e., supported catalyst) and reactor. In
       embodiments of the invention, catalyst pellets or supported catalyst refer to a
       catalyst (which is typically a metal) dispersed on suitable support material or
       pellets. The characteristics of a supported catalyst that affect a product
       distribution (e.g., the proportion of a diesel fuel and wax) include structural
       parameters, such as an effective pellet radius and pore diameter of the
       support material, in addition to operating conditions of the catalyst.
[0066]         FIG. 2 illustrates examples of shapes of pellets (i.e., support or support
       materials) which may be used to support a catalyst in the F-T process which
       occurs in Item C. FIG. 2 shows a lobed catalyst which may be used in
       embodiments of the invention. Support material with other shapes may also
       be used.
[0067]         The catalyst shape is ideally an extrudate with a lobed, fluted, or vaned
       cross section but could also be a sphere, granule, powder, or other support
       shape that allows for efficient operation. The use of a lobed structure, for
       example, enables a significant increase in the ratio of area to volume in the
       catalytic reactor, thus improving the volumetric efficiency of a catalytic reactor
       system. The lobed structures also provide an improved pressure drop, which
       translates into a lower difference in the pressure upstream and downstream of
       the catalyst bed, especially when they are used in fixed bed reactors.
[0068]         FIG. 2 also illustrates how the effective pellet radius of a support
       material is defined. For a cylindrical support (230) the effective pellet radius is
       shown (240). For a lobed support (210) the effective pellet raidus is shown
                                              13

                                                                     Atty Dkt: GR-006.02
       (220). The effective pellet radius of a pellet or support refers to the maximum
       radius which is a distance from the mid-point of the support to the surface of
       the support. For lobed supports, the effective pellet radius refers to the
       minimum distance between the mid-point and the outer surface portion of the
       pellet as shown. In embodiments of the invention, the effective pellet radius
       may be about 600 microns or less. In one embodiment, the effective pellet
       radius may be about 300 microns or less.
[0069]         In embodiments of the invention, the pellet or support material may be
       porous. The mean pore diameter of the support material may be greater than
       100 angstroms. In one embodiment, the pellet or support material may have
       a mean pore diameter greater than about 80 angstroms.
[0070]         Any suitable material can be used as a support material in the Fischer
       Tropsch process. These include metal oxides, such as alumina, silica,
       zirconia, magnesium, or combinations of these materials. Preferably, alumina
       is used as a support material to make a supported catalyst.
[0071]         The catalytically active metals, which are included with or dispersed to
       the support material, include substances which promote the production of
       diesel fuel in the Fischer-Tropsch reaction. For example, these metals
       include cobalt, iron, nickel, or any combinations thereof. Various promoters
       may be also added to the support material. Examples of promoters include
       cerium, ruthenium, lanthanum, platinum, rhenium. gold, nickel, or rhodium.
[0072]         The catalyst support ideally has a crush strength of between than 3
       lbs/mm and 4 lbs/mm and a BET surface area of greater than 150 m2/g. This
       combination of variables is unique. Conventional high surface area supports
       have an average pore diameter less than 100 angstroms.
[0073]         Supports that have been engineered to have a large average pore
       volume greater than 80 angstroms will have surface area much lower than
       150 m2/g and crush strength will be below 2 lbs/mm despite additional
       calcination or heat treatment. Achieving the above combination of variables
       is unique in the art. This is achieved with the addition of a structural stabilizer
                                             14

                                                                       Atty Dkt: GR-006.02
       that provides additional crystallinity (for example silicon or silica oxide) and
       thus more strength upon heat treatment.
[0074]         The active metal distribution on the support is ideally between about
       2% and about 10%, preferably about 4%. The active metal dispersion is the
       fraction of the atoms on the catalyst surface that are exposed as expressed
       by:
[0075]         D = Ns/NT,
       where D is the dispersion, Ns is the number of surface atoms, and NT is the
       total number of atoms of the material. Dispersion increases with decreasing
       crystallite size.
[0076]         In one embodiment, a supported catalyst includes cobalt, iron, or nickel
       deposited at between about 5 weight % and 30 weight % on gamma alumina,
       more typically about 20 weight % on gamma alumina, based on the total
       weight of the supported catalyst. Also, the supported catalyst formulation
       includes selected combinations of one or more promoters consisting of
       ruthenium, palladium, platinum, gold nickel, rhenium, and combinations in
       about 0.0 1-20.0 weight% range, more typically in about 0.1-0.5 weight %
       range per promoter. Production methods of the catalyst include impregnation
       and other methods of production commonly used in the industry and are
       described in the art.
[0077]         Fischer-Tropsch supported catalysts are generally used in either a
       fixed bed or a slurry bed reactor. In a fixed bed reactor, the supported
       catalysts are packed within tubes or may be spread across a tray or packed
       into a number of channels, or any other fixed bed reactor design whereby the
       reaction gas is evenly distributed and flows over the catalyst in the bed. In
       one embodiment, the catalyst is loaded in a multi-tubular fixed bed reactor,
       with each tube in a shell design with one inch diameter. In one embodiment,
       the catalyst is reduced in-situ in the multi-tubular fixed bed reactor at
       temperatures below 650 F. Typical Fischer-Tropsch catalysts are reduced
       ex-situ (before loading into the reactor) and at temperatures above 650 F, and
                                             15

                                                                       Atty Dkt: GR-006.02
       can be as high as 850 F. The use of a unique low temperature, in-situ
       reduction procedure is unique in the art with this catalyst.
[0078]         The operating parameters of the supported catalyst are selected to
       achieve the desired selectivity of diesel fuel. The Fischer-Tropsch reaction in
       embodiments of the invention is typically kept at pressures between 150 psi
       and 450 psi. The Fischer-Tropsch reaction is operated at temperatures
       between about 350 F and 460 F, more typically around 410 OF.
[0079]         Figure 2 also shows a lobed support with lobes of different sizes (250).
       Lobes marked as 270 and 290 denote the longer lobes and lobes marked with
       260 and 280 denote the shorter lobes. This type of support allows for more
       efficient catalyst bed packing, better pressure drop characteristics, and higher
       diesel fuel to wax production ratios using the invention described herein.
[0080]         Optionally, the diesel fuel fraction can be further processed to improve
       its cold flow properties (e.g., cold pour properties). In some market areas, it is
       desired that the low temperature properties of the diesel fuel are improved to
       optimize the performance of diesel fueled vehicles in cold weather.
[0081]         In one embodiment, the light wax fraction can be further reacted with a
       catalyst which performs mild cracking of the wax to diesel fuel. An example of
       a suitable reactor is a trickle bed reactor.
[0082]           In the preferred embodiment described herein, the product is a diesel
       type fuel or diesel type fuel blendstock consisting of majority of C8-C24
       hydrocarbons and a minimal amount of wax (C24+) whereby the wax produced
       is a light wax produced from this process is unique in that the hydrocarbons
       contained in the wax consist of no greater than 0.5 wt. % of each carbon
       number greater than C35 (for example, each carbon number C35, C36, etc.
       each consist of no greater than 0.5% wt. %).
[0083]         Wax cracking reactors are generally operated at pressures in the range
       of about 100 psi to about 400 psi, preferably at about 150 psi. The reactor is
       kept at a temperature between about 300 OF to about 600 OF, preferably at
       about 425 OF.
                                              16

                                                                      Atty Dkt: GR-006.02
[0084]         In another embodiment, a cold flow improver may be blended with the
       diesel fuel fraction to improve cold flow properties of the diesel fuel. Cold flow
       improvers are added to diesel fuel in an amount from 100 to 5,000 ppm to
       lower the pour point and freezing point properties. These pour point
       depressants typically consist of oil-soluble copolymers such as ethylene vinyl
       acetate copolymers (EVA), esters of styrene-malefic anhydride copolymers,
       polymethyl-methacrylate copolymers and alkyl-methacrylate copolymers.
                                          EXAMPLE #1
[0085]        Supported catalysts are prepared using an incipient wetness procedure
       whereby cobalt and promoter metals are impregnated on a gamma alumina,
       quad-lobed support with a mean effective pellet radius of 0.25 mm and a
       mean pore diameter of 130 Angstroms. The surface area of the catalyst is
       110 m2/g as measured by BET/N2 physisorption technique. The crush
       strength of the catalyst is 4 lbs/mm.   Drying and calcination steps are used in
       the production process to produce a catalyst with 20 wt% cobalt and 0.3 wt%
       platinum promoter. Following the production of the supported catalysts, the
       supported catalysts are loaded in a multi-tubular fixed bed reactor of a tube in
       shell design with 1" (2.54 cm) diameter tubes. The catalyst is reduced with
       hydrogen at 75 psig and at a temperature less than 650 OF which are
       operating conditions that can be achieved in a fixed bed reactor that can be
       manufactured inexpensively.
[0086]         In an alternative embodiment, the catalyst is reduced with a syngas
       feed with a high H2/CO ratio under the same conditions. Reduction with
       syngas (instead of H2) reduces commercial operating costs, especially in
       remote areas where smaller, distributed plants are sited. While in-situ
       reduction is highlighted in this example, other reduction procedures, including
       ex-situ options, can be used.
[0087]         Following reduction, the supported catalysts are contacted with syngas
       with H2  and CO at a ratio of 2.05:1.0 (H2:CO), at a pressure of 400 psi, and at
                                            17

                                                                        Atty Dkt: GR-006.02
       a temperature of 410 OF.
[0088]          Following the catalytic conversion step, the diesel fuel fraction and the
       wax and water fraction are separated out from the light hydrocarbon gases
       and unreacted CO and        H2 in a single knock out vessel at temperatures below
       700 F. The separated liquid product fraction includes a diesel fuel fraction on
       top and a water fraction. A separator vessel with an internal vane is used to
       separate the diesel fuel fraction from the water. The wax is further distilled to
       extract an additional diesel fuel fraction.
[0089]          The catalyst system under these operating conditions produces a
       diesel fuel to wax ratio of 2/3 diesel fuel and 1/3 light wax (following
       distillation).    In the preferred embodiment described herein, the product is a
       diesel type fuel or diesel type fuel blendstock consisting of majority of   C8-C24
       hydrocarbons and a minimal amount of wax         (C24+) whereby the wax produced
       is a light wax produced from this process is unique in that the hydrocarbons
       contained in the wax consist of no greater than 0.5 wt. % of each carbon
       number greater than C35 (for example, each carbon number C35, C36, etc.
       each consist of no greater than 0.5% wt. %).
[0090]          The diesel fuel can be ideally used as a diesel fuel blendstock
       providing a petroleum derived diesel fuel with an improvement in cetane,
       reduction in sulfur, and in some cases (based on the method of syngas
       production) can be used as a low carbon blendstock.
[0091]          The wax is recycled back to the syngas production process and is used
       as an input to create additional syngas, thus improving overall conversion
       efficiencies of the integrated system.
                                         EXAMPLE #2
[0092]          In this example, a majority of diesel fuel is desired as product output
       from the plant. The same catalyst system and processes are used as
       described above in Example #1. Following the catalyst synthesis process,
       the light wax fraction is contacted with a catalyst that performs hydrocarbon
                                               18

                                                                       Atty Dkt: GR-006.02
       cracking under mild operating conditions. In this example, the catalyst used is
       a platinum promoted catalyst.
[0093]          In this example, a trickle bed reactor is used; however, other known
       reactors can be used as well. The reactor is operated in a pressure range of
       about 100 psi to about 400 psi, ideally at 150 psi in a temperature range of
       about 350 OF to about 600 OF, preferably at 425 OF. The H2/wax molar ratio is
       in the range of 1.5 - 5, preferably equal to 2.
[0094]         The output product converts up to about 75% of the normal paraffins to
       diesel fuel with a high selectivity, thus creating another diesel product steam
       that can be blended with the output from the first catalyst system.
                                        EXAMPLE #3
[0095]         The cold flow properties of a diesel fuel fraction are improved by splash
       blending the diesel fuel fraction with a cold flow improver. The same catalyst
       system and processes are used as described above in Example #1.
       Following the catalyst synthesis process, the diesel fuel fraction is splash
       blended with a cold flow improver that is blended at 2000 ppm and consists of
       alkyl-methacrylate copolymers.
[0096]         Although the description above contains many details, these should not
       be construed as limiting the scope of the invention but as merely providing
       illustrations of some of the presently preferred embodiments of this invention.
       Therefore, it will be appreciated that the scope of the present invention fully
       encompasses other embodiments which may become obvious to those skilled
       in the art, and that the scope of the present invention is accordingly to be
       limited by nothing other than the appended claims, in which reference to an
       element in the singular is not intended to mean "one and only one" unless
       explicitly so stated, but rather "one or more."
[0097]         All structural, chemical, and functional equivalents to the elements of
       the above-described preferred embodiment that are known to those of
       ordinary skill in the art are expressly incorporated herein by reference and are
                                              19

                                                                     Atty Dkt: GR-006.02
       intended to be encompassed by the present claims. Moreover, it is not
       necessary for a device or method to address each and every problem sought
       to be solved by the present invention, for it to be encompassed by the present
       claims. Furthermore, no element, component, or method step in the present
       disclosure is intended to be dedicated to the public regardless of whether the
       element, component, or method step is explicitly recited in the claims. No
       claim element herein is to be construed under the provisions of 35 U.S.C.
       112, sixth paragraph, unless the element is expressly recited using the phrase
       "'means for."
[0098]        All publications, patents and patent applications cited herein are hereby
       incorporated by reference for all purposes in their entirety.
                                           20

                                                                    Atty Dkt: GR-006.02
                                         CLAIMS
What is claimed is:
       1.     A process for the production of a hydrocarbon mixture comprising the
steps of:
        a) reducing a catalyst in-situ in a fixed bed reactor;
       b) reacting a feed gas that contains hydrogen and carbon monoxide with the
           catalyst to produce a hydrocarbon product stream, wherein the
           hydrocarbon product stream comprises light gases, a diesel fuel and a
           wax
wherein the diesel fuel fraction is produced without requiring the hydroprocessing of
wax.
       2.     A process for the production of a hydrocarbon mixture comprising:
       a) reducing a catalyst in-situ in a fixed bed reactor;
       b) reacting a feed gas that contains hydrogen and carbon monoxide with the
           catalyst, wherein the catalyst comprises active metal distributed on a
           support, and wherein the dispersion of the distributed metal is between
           about 2 percent and 10 percent
thereby producing a hydrocarbon product stream comprising light gases, diesel fuel
and a wax, wherein the majority of hydrocarbons in the diesel fuel are C8-C24
hydrocarbons.
   3. A process for the production of a hydrocarbon mixture comprising;
       reacting a feed gas that contains hydrogen and carbon monoxide with a
                                             21

                                                                   Atty Dkt: GR-006.02
   catalyst having,
           a pore diameter greater than 80 angstroms and;
           a crush strength of greater than 3 lbs/mm and;
           a BET surface area of greater than 110 m2/g;
           a dispersion value between 2% and 10%,
   producing a product stream comprising light gases, diesel fuel and a wax from
   reacting the feed gas with the supported catalyst.
4. The process of claim 1, wherein the catalyst is reduced with hydrogen at
       temperatures below 650 F.
5. The process of claim 1, wherein the diesel fuel fraction produced is about 2/3
       of the non-gas product produced.
6. The process of claim 1, wherein the supported catalyst comprises a lobed
       support with more than four lobes and an effective pellet radius of less
       than 600 microns.
7. The process of claim 4, where all of the lobes are not equal lengths.
8. The process of claim 4, wherein the supported catalyst further comprises
       about 0.01 weight percent to about 2.0 weight percent of a promoter
       selected from the group consisting of cerium, ruthenium, lanthanum,
       platinum, rhenium. gold, nickel, or rhodium and a combination thereof.
9.   The process of claim 1, wherein the light wax fraction produced from the
       catalyst consists of hydrocarbons contained in the wax consist of no
       greater than 0.5 wt. % of each carbon number greater than C35.
10.A process for the production of a hydrocarbon mixture comprising;
   a catalyst in a fixed bed reactor that is reduced in-situ at a temperature below
   650 F,
   reacting a feed gas that contains hydrogen and carbon monoxide with a
   supported catalyst,
   producing a product stream comprising light gases, diesel fuel and a wax from
   reacting the feed gas with the supported catalyst,
   further comprising introducing the product stream from the reactor into a
                                        22

                                                                   Atty Dkt: GR-006.02
    single vessel and condensing the product stream into two liquid fractions in
    the single vessel, wherein a top fraction contains the diesel fuel and a bottom
    fraction contains the wax entrained in water.
11.The process of claim 8, further comprising separating light hydrocarbon
        gases, unreacted carbon monoxide and hydrogen gas, from the two
        fractions in the single vessel at a temperature below about 80 OC.
12.The process of claim 8, wherein the product gas is brought into the separator
        at no less than 15 degrees F below operating conditions of the catalytic
        reactor.
13. The process of claim 8, wherein the diesel fuel fraction is separated from the
        wax entrained water fraction by using a vane within the single separation
        vessel and controlling the liquid levels on each side of the vane to remove
        the diesel fuel fraction.
14.The process of claim 1, further comprising blending a cold flow improver to
        the diesel fuel.
15. The process of claim 1, further comprising reacting the diesel fuel with a
        platinum-promoted catalyst to isomerize the diesel fuel.
16. The process of claim 1, further comprising reacting the diesel fuel with a
        hydrogenation catalyst.
17.A diesel fuel produced by the process of claim 2, having a lubricity of at least
        less than 450 micron by HFRR at 60 0C (scar), ASTM D 6079.
18.A process for the production of a hydrocarbon mixture comprising;
    a catalyst in a fixed bed reactor;
    reacting a feed gas that contains hydrogen and carbon monoxide with a
    catalyst having,
            a pore diameter greater than 80 angstroms and;
            an effective pellet radius of less than 500 microns and;
            a crush strength of greater than 3 lbs/mm and;
            a BET surface area of greater than 110 m2/g;
    producing a product stream comprising light gases, diesel fuel and a wax from
                                          23

                                                                   Atty Dkt: GR-006.02
    reacting the feed gas with the supported catalyst;
     wherein the diesel fuel fraction comprises approximately 2/3 of the non-gas
    product fraction;
19.A diesel fuel produced by the process of claim 14, having a lubricity of less
       than 450 microns by HFRR at 60 0C (scar), ASTM D 6079.
20. The process of claim 14, further comprising introducing the product stream
       from the reactor into a single vessel and condensing the product stream
       into two liquid fractions in the single vessel, wherein a top fraction contains
       the diesel fuel and a bottom fraction contains water.
21. The process of claim 14, further comprising separating light hydrocarbon
       gases, unreacted carbon monoxide and hydrogen gas, from the two
       fractions in the single vessel at a temperature below about 80 OC.
22.The process of claim 16, wherein the product gas is brought into the separator
       at no less than 15 degrees F below operating conditions of the catalytic
       reactor.
23. The process of claim 16, wherein the reactant gas is converted to products
       in one pass through the reactor.
24.   The process of claim 16, whereby the naphta and wax byproduct fractions
       are recycled back to the syngas generator whereby the syngas generator
       is preferably a non-catalytic partial oxidation system that is also used to
       convert the primary feedstock into syngas.
                                          24

 <removed-date>
 <removed-apn>
This data, for application number 2014226579, is current as of 2018-07-04 21:00 AEST

 <removed-date>
 <removed-apn>
This data, for application number 2014226579, is current as of 2018-07-04 21:00 AEST

