                                            ABSTRACT
Methods of delivering cromolyn to a patient in need thereof methods of treating amyloid-associated
conditions and inflammatory of allergic lung diseases, and blister packs and kits comprising cromolyn
are described.

                               Methods for Delivering Cromolyn
                          CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS
10001]    This application claims the benefit of United States Provisional              Application Serial No.
61/826,798, filed May 23. 2013 which is incorporated herein in its entirety
                                        FIELD OF THE INVENTION
10002]      The invention relates generally to methods of delivering cronolyn to a patient in need thereof, to
methods of treating amyloid-associated conditions and inflammatory or allergic lung diseases, and to blister
packs and kits comprising cromolyn.
                                               BACK ROUND
100031        Cromolyn (also known as cromoglicic acid, croinoglycate. or cromoglicate) has been approved
previously for use in asthma. Its approved form is available as a disodium salt form, cromolyn sodium (also
knowNn as disodium cromoglycate or DSCG), Cromolyn demonstrates poor oral absorption. Delivery of
cromolyn via inhalation has proven inefficient and difficult due, at least in part, to the hygroscopic nature of
cromolyn sodium. For example, micronized powders containing cromolyn sodium particles spontaneously
absorb water, forming clumps that impair efficient delivery of the cromolyn powder.            See Keller et al.
Expert Opin. Drug Deliv. 8, 1-17 (2011), Additionally, the performance and the efficiency of previously
used inhalers are highly dependent upon a patient's inspiratory flow rate, leading to a wide variability in the
amount of cromolvn sodium that is delivered to a patient. See Richards et al., Journal of Pharmacology and
Experimental Therapeutics, 241, 1028-1032 (1987).
100041     The present invention provides improved methods and compositions for delivering cromolyn via
inhalation, efficiently and consistently over a range of inspiratory flow rates.
                                     SUM-MARY OF THE INVENTION
100051     The invention is directed to a method of delivering cromolyn to a patient in need thereof       Such
patients include patients in need of systemic delivery of cromolyn. e.g., to the brain or other non-lung
tissues. In exemplary embodiments, the patient has an amyloid-associated condition. Patients in need of
cromolyn also include patients in need of pulmonary delivery of cromolyn, for lung or ainvay related
conditions. In exemplary embodiments, the patient has an inflanmatory or allergic lung disease, such as
asthma.
[00061        The method comprises administering to the patient via oral inhalation a pharmaceutically
acceptable salt or ester of cromolyn in the form of a powder comprising particles of the pharmaceutically

acceptable salt or ester of cromolyn. The particles have a mass median aerodynamic diameter (MM AD) of
about I to about 4 microns. The powder is administered using a device that deposits (a) at least 1.5 rg and
(b) at least 30% by weight of the administered amount of pharmaceutically acceptable salt or ester of
cromolyn to Stage 4 and higher of a Next Generation Pharmaceutical Impactor (NGI) cascade impactor
device at a flow rate of 30 L/min for about 4 seconds.
100071      In related methods. the invention also provides a method of delivering cromolyn to a patient in
need thereof. comprising administering to the patient via oral inhalation a pharmaceutically acceptable salt
or ester of cromolvn in the form of a powder, under conditions such that (a) at least 1.5 mg and (b) at least
30% by weight of the administered amount of the pharmaceutically acceptable salt or ester of cromolyn is
delivered to the lower airways of the patient. As used herein, the term "lower airways" refers to the region
of the airways/lung that corresponds to Stage 4 and higher of a Next Generation Pharmaceutical Impactor
(NGI) cascade impactor device.
100081        The invention also provides a method of delivering cromolyn to a patient in need thereof,
comprising administering to the patient via oral inhalation a pharmaceutically acceptable salt or ester of
cromolvn in the form of a powder comprising particles of the pharmaceutically acceptable salt or ester of
cromolvn using a dry powder inhaler (DPI) device comprising a chamber comprising a piezoelectric
vibrator or an ultrasonic vibrator for deaggregating a powder and an air flow passageway in which the
deaggregated powder is picked tip and carried for oral inhalation by a patient.          The particles of the
pharmaceutically acceptable salt or ester of cromolyn have a mass median aerodynamic diameter (MMAD)
of about I to about 4 microns.
100091       In various embodiments, about 3 mg to about 16 mg (e.g, about 3 mg to about 8 mg) of the
pharmaceutically acceptable salt or ester of cromolyn is administered to the patient.           Optionally the
pharmaceutically acceptable salt or ester of cromolyn is administered with one or more pharmaceutical
acceptable excipients.     In various embodiments, the powder comprises about 0.1% to about 80%, for
example, about 40% to about 80% by weight of an excipient. In various embodiments, the excipient is a
monosaccharide, a disaccharide. an oligosaccharide. a polysaccharide. or a polvalcohol, such as lactose,
mannitol. or sorbitol.
1[0101       Additionally, the invention provides a method of treating an amyloid-associated condition in a
patient in need thereof. The method comprises administering to the patient via oral inhalation an amount of
powder comprising particles of a pharmaceutically acceptable salt or ester of cromolyn via pulmonary
delivery, the particles having a mass median aerodynamic diameter (MMAD) of about I to about 4 microns,
using a device that deposits (a) at least 1.5 mg and (b) at least 30% by weight of the administered amount of
                                                       2

pharmaceutically acceptable salt or ester of cromolyn to Stage 4 and higher of a Next Generation
Pharmaceutical Impactor (NGI) cascade impactor device at a flow rate of 30 L/min for about 4 seconds
10011]      The invention further provides a method of treating inflammatory or allergic lung diseases in a
patient in need thereof. The method comprises administering to the patient via oral inhalation an amount of
powder comprising particles of a pharmaceutical acceptable salt or ester of cromolyn, the particles
optionally having a mass median aerodynamic diameter (MMAD) of about 1 to about 4 microns., at a
frequency of 1 or 2 times daily, each dose comprising about 3 rmg to about 16 mg of a pharmaceutically
acceptable salt or ester of cromolyn. The dose and/or frequency of delivery according to such methods are
reduced compared to the conventional dosages and frequencies.
100121        In various aspects of the invention, the powder comprising particles of a pharmaceutically
acceptable salt or ester of cromolyn is administered to a patient using an active dry powder inhaler, such as a
dry powder inhaler comprising a chamber comprising a piezoelectric vibrator or an ultrasonic vibrator for
deaggregating a dry powder and an air flow passageway in which the deaggregated powder is picked up and
carried for oral inhalation by a patient,
100131       In various aspects, the invention is directed to a method for treating an amyloid-associated
condition in a patient in need thereof, comprising administering to the patient via oral inhalation an amount
of liquid particles of a solution comprising a pharmaceutically acceptable salt or ester of cromolyn using a
nebulizer.   The particles have a mass median aerodynamic diameter (MMAD) of about I to about 4
microns.
100141      The invention further includes use of a pharmaceutically acceptable salt or ester of cromolyn in
the preparation of a medicament for treating inflammatory or allergic lung diseases in a patient in need
thereof in an amount from about 3 mg to about 16 mg. The medicament is administered via oral inhalation
at a frequency of I or 2 times daily, and the pharmaceutically acceptable salt or ester of cromolyn is in the
form of a powder comprising particles of pharmaceutical acceptable salt or ester of cromolyn optionally
having a mass median aerodynamic diameter (MMAD) of about I to about 4 microns. The invention further
contemplates use of a pharmaceutically acceptable salt or ester of cromolyn in the preparation of a
medicament for treating an amyloid-associated condition in a patient in need thereof The medicament is
administered to the patient via pulmonary delivery or oral inhalation.           In various embodiments, the
pharmaceutically acceptable salt or ester of cromolyn is in the form of a powder comprising particles of a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt or ester of cromolyn having a mass median aerodynamic diameter
(MMAD) of about I to about 4 microns.         The medicament is optionally delivered using a dry powder

inhaler device as described herein. Altematively, the pharmaceutically acceptable salt or ester of cromolyn
is in solution and administered using a nebulizer.
 10015]      Additionally, the invention provides a blister pack for delivering cromolyn to a patient in need
thereof. The blister pack comprises blisters containing about 3 mg to about 16 mg (e.g., about 3 mg to about
8 mg) of a pharmaceutically acceptable salt or ester of cromolyn. The invention also is directed to a kit
comprising a blister pack as described herein and a dry powder inhaler (DPI) device. In some embodiments,
the device is an active dry powder inhaler, such as a dry powder inhaler device comprising a chamber
comprising a piezoelectric vibrator for deaggregating a dry powder and an air flowv passageway in which the
deaggregated powder is picked up and carried for oral inhalation by a patient. In some embodiments, the kit
further comprises ibuprofen tablets.
 [0016]     Further aspects of the invention may become apparent to those skilled in the art from a review of
the following detailed description, taken in conjunction with the appended claims. While the invention is
susceptible of embodiments in various forms, described hereinafter are specific embodiments of the
invention with the understanding that the disclosure is illustrative, and is not intended to limit the invention
to specific embodiments described herein. The entire document is intended to be related as a unified
disclosure, and it should be understood that all combinations of features described herein are contemplated,
even if the combination of features are not found together in the same sentence, or paragraph, or section of
this document.       For example, where embodiments concerning a method of delivering cromolyn are
described, embodiments involving methods of therapy, kits, and the like that have the same properties and
features are specifically contemplated, and the reverse also is true.
 100171     In addition to the foregoing, the invention includes, as an additional aspect, all embodiments of the
invention narrower in scope in any way than the variations specifically mentioned above. With respect to
aspects of the invention described as a genus, all individual species are individually considered separate
aspects of the invention. With respect to elements described as a selection within a range, it should be
understood that all discrete subunits within the range are contemplated as an embodiment of the invention
Ranges may be expressed herein as from "abou" or "approximately" one particular value and/or to "about"
or "approximately" another particular value.          When such a range is expressed, another embodiment
according to the invention includes from the one particular value and/or to the other particular value,
Similarly, when particular values are expressed as approximations, but use of antecedents such as "about."
"at least about," or "less than about," it will be understood that the particular value forms another
embodiment.
                                                          4

100181       With respect to aspects of the invention described or claimed with "a" or "an," it should be
understood that these terms mean "one or more" unless context unambiguously requires a more restricted
meaning. The term "or" should be understood to encompass items in the alternative or together, unless
context unambiguously requires otherwise. If aspects of the invention are described as "comprising" a
feature, embodiments also are contemplated "consisting of" or "consisting essentially of" the feature.
                            DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION
[0019]        The invention provides improved methods and compositions for the efficient and consistent
delivery of cromolvn via inhalation. Such methods preferably deliver a consistent amount of drug over a
wide range of patient inspiratory flow rates. According to some aspects of the inventive method, a large
portion of an administered amount of cromolyn is delivered to regions of the lungs that mediate transport
into systemic circulation (the bronchi. bronchioles, and alveoli), e.g. the lower airways. Thus, the inventive
method can provide an effective means for delivering cromolyn systemically, i.e., into the blood stream
(and, bv extension, to other non-lung regions of the body, such as the brain).         The enhanced delivery
efficiency associated with the inventive method allows administration of lower doses of cromolyn and/or
less frequent administration of cromolyn, to achieve a desired biological response in any condition requiring
lung delivery or systemic delivery.      Advantages include improved therapeutic efficacy at conventional
doses, or maintained/improved therapeutic efficacy at lower doses and/or low er frequencies                  of
administration, leading to improved ease of use, higher patient compliance, and improved therapeutic
benefit, as well as cost savings associated with using reduced amounts of drug. Additionally, many drug
packaging systems containing groups of individual delivery units, such as blister packs, have maximum
capacities for a single dose of drug contained within individual delivery units. such as blisters.       More
efficient delivery of cromolyn also advantageously facilitates the packaging of a therapeutically effective
dose of cromolyn in each individual delivery unit. Advantages include delivery of a higher dose per single
administration, delivery of uniform doses in a multiple administration reginien (i.e., little variability
between doses), and/or use of a single individual delivery unit per administration rather than multiple
individual delivery units per administration.
[0020]       The invention is described in further detail below. Section headings are for convenience of
reading and not intended to be limiting per se.
POWDER ADMINISTRATION
[0021]     In one aspect, the invention provides a method of delivering cromolyn to a patient in need thereof
Such patients include patients in need of lung or systemic delivery of cromolyn, and include patients with
amyloid-associated conditions as well as patients with an inflammatory or allergic lung disease such as
asthma.     In any of the embodiments described herein, cromolyn (also known as cromoglicic acid.
                                                       5

cromoglvcate,      cromoglicate,     or    5,5-(2-hvdrovpropane-1 .3-diyl)bis(oxv)bis(4-oxo-4H-chromene-2
carboxylic acid)) can be administered as a powder comprising particles of a pharmaceutically acceptable salt
or ester of cromolyn.
 100221       Pharmaceutically acceptable salts are well known to those skilled in the art and include
pharmaceutically acceptable inorganic and organic base addition salts, which may be formed with metals or
amines, such as alkali and alkaline earth metals or organic amines.      Pharmaceutically acceptable salts of
compounds may also be prepared with a pharmaceutically acceptable cation. These salts can be prepared in
situ in the administration vehicle or the dosage form manufacturing process. or by separately reacting the
purified compound in its free acid form with a suitable base, such as the hydroxide, carbonate or bicarbonate
of a pharmaceutically-acceptable metal cation, with ammonia, or with a pharmaceutically-acceptable
organic primary. secondary or tertiary amine. Suitable pharmaceutically acceptable cations are well known
to those skilled in the art and include alkaline, alkaline earth. ammonium and quaternary ammonium cations.
Examples of metals used as cations are lithium., sodium, potassium, magnesium, ammonium. calcium,
aluminum, or ferric, and the like. Examples of suitable amines include ethylamine, diethylamine, piperazine,
isopropylamine,     trimethylamine.     histidine.  N.N-dibenzylethylenediamine,    chloroprocaine,   choline.
ethanolamine, diethanolamine, dicyclohexylamine, ethylenediamine, N-methvlglucamine, and procaine.
Suitable esters of cromolyn include, but are not limited to. carboxylate esters of one or both of the
carboxylic acids of cromolyn, such as aliphatic esters (e.g, methyl esters, ethyl esters, propyl esters, butyl
esters such as t-butyl esters., and pentyl esters), aryl esters (e.g., phenyl esters and benzyl esters), and
combinations thereof. In one example, the pharmaceutically acceptable salt of cromolyn is disodium
cromoglycate.
 100231    The pharmaceutically acceptable salt or ester of cromolyn is administered via inhalation, generally
via oral inhalation, however, nasal inhalation or a combination of oral and nasal inhalation can also be used.
When systemic delivery is desired, administration via inhalation as described herein delivers cromolyn to
the lungs of the patient, depositing the pharmaceutically acceptable salt or ester of cromolyn onto surfaces
of the lung that allow absorption into the blood stream (e.g., the bronchi, bronchioles, and alveoli), e.g. the
lower airways.
 100241    The particles of the cromolyn salt or ester typically have a median particle diameter (D50 ) of less
than about 2.5 microns, less than about 2 microns, less than about 1.8 microns, less than about 1.5 microns,
less than about 1.2 microns, less than about 1 micron, about 0.1 microns to about 2 microns, about 0.5
microns to about 2 microns, about 0.8 microns to about 2 microns, about I micron to about 2 microns, about
 1 2 microns to about 2 microns. about 1.5 microns to about 2 microns, and/or about 1.8 microns to about 2
microns. The particles of the cromolyn salt or ester optionally have a DKe (i.e., the diameter of 90% of the
                                                          6

particles) of less than 4 microns, less than 3.9 microns, less than 3.8 microns, less than 3.7 microns, less
than 16 microns, about 3 microns to about 4 microns, about 3.2 microns to about 38 microns, about 34
microns to about 3.6 microns. and/or about 3.5 microns to about 3.6 microns.
100251      The particles of the cromolyn salt or ester have a mass median aerodynamic diameter (MMAD) of
about 1 to about 4 microns. about I to about 3.5 microns, about I to about 3 microns, about I to about 2,5
microns, and/or about I to about 2 microns. Particles of a desired size are obtained by any method, such as
a method known to one of skill in the art, including micronization or milling. As used herein, the term
"aerodynamic diameter" refers to the diameter of a sphere of unit density that reaches the same velocity in
an air stream as a non-spherical particle of arbitrary density.        As used herein, the term "mass median
aerodynamic diameter" refers to the aerodynamic diameter at which 50% of the particles by mass are larger
and 50% are smaller. Methods of determining aerodynamic diameter are known in the art and described in,
e.g. Chow et al., "Particle Engineering for Pulmonary Drug Deliven," Pharm. Res., 24 (3), 411 437 (2007).
100261       The particles of the cromolyn salt or ester typically have a geometric standard deviation (GSD) of
about 1.3 to about 2.5., about 1.4 to about 2.4, about 1.5 to about 2.3. about 1.6 to about 2,2. about 1.7 to
about 2.1, and/or about 1.8 to about 2. As used herein, the term "geometric standard deviation" refers to the
spread of an aerodynamic particle size distribution           GSD typically is calculated as follows: GSD =
(d 4/d 6 )' . where dS4 and dl( represent the diameters at which 84% and 16% of the aerosol mass are
contained, respectively, in diameters less than these diameters.
100271       The powder optionally comprises one or more pharmaceutically acceptable excipients. Suitable
excipients are well tolerated by pulmonary tissue, and include, but are not limited to, monosaccharides,
disaccharides, oligosaccharides, polysaccharides., polyalcohols, and combinations thereof             Exemplary
excipients include, but are not limited to, lactose, mannitol, sorbitol, and combinations thereof           The
pharmaceutically acceptable excipient(s), when present, typically are included in the powder in a total
amount of about 0.1% to about 80% by weight, about 1%to about 80% by weight, about 5% to about 80%
by weight, about 10% to about 80% by weight, about 15% to about 80% by weight, about 20% to about
80% by weight, about 25% to about 80% by weight, about 30% to about 80% by weight, about 35% to
about 80%, by weight, about 401% to about 80% byeight, about 20 to about 75% by weight, about 20% to
about 70% by weight, about 20% to about 65% by weight, about 20% to about 60% by w-veight, about 25%
to about 55% by weight, about 30% to about 50% by weight, about 35% to about 45% by weight, and/or
about 40% by weight. The pharmaceutically acceptable excipients can be included in an anhydrous form or
as a hydrate. such as a monohvdrate or higher-order hydrate. The excipient(s) optionally have a particle size
of about 250 microns or less, such as about 10 microns to about 150 microns., although other excipient
particle sizes may be used in the context of the invention.
                                                          7

100281     A particular administration regimen for a particular patient will depend on several factors, such as
the condition being treated, co-therapies administered- the size of the patient, frequency of administration,
etc. In various embodiments, the amount of powder that is administered to a patient comprises about 3 mg
to about 16 mg of the pharmaceutically acceptable salt or ester of cromolyn. for example, about 3 mg to
about 15 mg, about 3 mg to about 14 mg, about 3 mg to about 13 mg. about 3 mg to about 12 mg, about 3
mg to about II mg. about 3 mg to about 10 mg, about 3 mg to about 9 mg, about 3 mg to about 8 mg, about
3 mg to about 7 mg, about 4 mg to about 7 mg. and/or about 5 mg to about 6 mg of the pharmaceutically
acceptable salt or ester of cromolyn. The amount of powder is optionally administered as a single dose or
administration, which may be inhaled in. a single breath or span multiple breaths in the course of the single
administration.   Optionally, the single dose or administration is administered from a single individual
delivery unit, such as a single blister or single capsule. This single dose (single administration) may be
administered repeatedly to the patient at any interval over the course of a treatment period. For example, a
single dose of pharmaceutically acceptable salt or ester of cromolyn (e.g., about 3 mg to about 16 rug) is
administered to a patient once a day. twice a day, or three times a day for a treatment period. Examples of
treatment periods include at least 1, 2, 3. 4. 5. 6., or 7 days., or at least 1, 2, 3. or 4 weeks, or at least L, 2, 3, 4,
5 or 6 months, or a year or more.
[00291      Generally, administering the powder involves suspending the powder into a gas (such as air or
oxygen), thereby forming an aerosol containing the powder and the gas. Concurrently with, or subsequent
to, suspension formation, the powder suspension is inhaled by a patient. Typically, the powder is suspended
in a gas stream being inhaled by a patient such that administering comprises suspending the powder into an
inhaled gas stream.
100301       Suspending the powder into a gas (such as air or oxygen) may be carried out by any means,
including vibration, Vibrating the powder generally aerosolizes at least a portion (i.e., at least about 10%, at
least about 30%. at least about 50%. at least about 75%. and/or at least about 90%) of the powder. For
example, vibrating the powder generally involves suspending at least a portion of the powder in the gas that
is in the immediate vicinity of the powder. Additionally, the powder comprising particles of cromolyn and
optional pharmaceutically acceptable excipient(s) can include aggregates, for example, aggregates between
two or more cromolyn particles and/or between cromolyn particles and excipient particles.                       Without
intending to be bound by any particular theory, vibrating the powder deagglomerates particle aggregates,
advantageously providing smaller particles that are more readily delivered regions of the lungs allowing
transport into the blood stream (e.g., the bronchi, bronchioles, and alveoli). e.g. the lower airways.
Optionally, the vibrator is vibrated such that the resulting vibrations generate synthetic jets that aerosolize
and/or deaggregate the powder. Methods for forming synthetic jets are described, for example, in U.S.
                                                            8

Patent No. 7,318,434, which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety. Preferably. administering
the powder involves vibrating the powder at high frequency, for example, a frequency of about 10 kHz to
about 50 kHz, about 15 kHz to about 40 kHz, and/or about 20 kHz to about 30 kHz.
100311        In various embodiments of the invention, the amount of powder comprising particles of a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt or ester of cromolyn is administered using a device that deposits (a) at least
1.5 mg and (b) at least 30% by weight of the administered amount of pharmaceutically acceptable salt or
ester of cromotyn to Stage 4 and higher of a NeXL Generation Pharmaceutical Irmpactor (NGI) cascade
impactor device at a flow rate of 30 L/min for about 4 seconds. In exemplary embodiments, the device
deposits (a) at least I mg. at least 15 mg, at least 1.8 mg. at least 2 mg, at least 2.2 mg, at least 2.5 mg, at
least 2.8 mg, at least 3 mg, at least 3.2 mg, at least 3.5 mg, at least 3.8 mg, at least 4 mg, at least 4.2 mg, at
least 4.5 mg. at least 4.8 mg., at least 5 mg, at least 5.2 mg, at least 5.5 mg, about 1.3 mg to about 3.5 mg,
about 1.5 mg to about 3 mg, about 1.5 mg to about 5 mg, about 1.5 mg to about 7 mg. about I mg to about 3
mg, about 1 mug to about 5 mig, about 1 rmg to about 7 mg, about 1L8 mug to about 2.8 mg about 1.5 mg to
about 2.5 mg, and/or about 2 mg to about 2.5 mg and (b) at least 30%, at least 35%, at least 40%, at least
45%, about 30% to about 75%,. about 30% to about 65%, about 30% to about 60%, about 30% to about
55%, and/or about 30% to about 50% by weight of the administered amount of pharmaceutically acceptable
salt or ester of cromolyn to Stage 4 and higher of an NGI cascade impactor device at a flow rate of 30 L/min
for about 4 seconds (or less), As used herein, the term "administered amount" in the phrase "% by weight of
the administered amount" refers to the amount of pharmaceutically acceptable salt or ester of cromolyn
present in the individual delivery unit (e.g. blister or capsule or other unit dose container) connected to the
device, Thus, in one illustrative embodiment. the device delivers at least about 1.8 mg of cromolyn salt or
ester to Stage 4 and higher of an NGI cascade impactor as described herein from a blister comprising 6 mn
of cromolyn salt or ester (the "administered amount") with or without added excipients. NGI cascade
impactors are useful for studying aerodynamic size distribution of aerosols and simulating delivery to
different regions of the lung.       The respiratory tract forms a particle size-selective system wherein
progressively finer particles pass through mouth, larynx and larger airways to be deposited in the peripheral
lung (e.g, the alveolar spaces). Similarly, cascade impactors include several "stages" allowing passage of
progressively finer particles through the system, An aerosol stream carrying particles passes through each
stage at a constant air flow (e.g., 30 L/min). Particles of similar aerodynamic size deposit at a particular
stage; smaller particles are deposited at further stages of the NGi cascade impactor than larger particles. At
a flow rate of 30 L/min for about 4 seconds of total actuation, Stages 4 and higher of the NGI cascade
impactor trap particles having a mass median aerodynamic diameter (MMAD) of about 4 microns or less.
The NGI cascade impactor is generally operated under conditions of low relative humidity, such as 20%
                                                         9

relative humidity or less.    Deposition in the central (bronchial) region of the lung generally peaks with
particles having an MMAD of about 4 to about 6 microns, and deposition in the peripheral (alveolar) region
of the lung generally peaks with particles having an MMAD of about 2 to about 4 microns. See Mitchell
and Nagel, "Particle Size Analysis of Aerosols from Medicinal Inhalers," KONA, 22. 32-65 (2004). Thus,
Stages 4 and higher of the NGI cascade impactor at a flow rate of 30 L/min for about 4 seconds of total
actuation simulate the regions of the lung providing significant systemic absorption of a medicament into
the bloodstream.      NGI cascade impactor devices are available from MSP Corporation, Shoreview,
Minnesota.
[00321      Advantageously, the inventive methods for delivering cromolyn allow consistent delivery of the
active agent over a wide range of flow rates. For example, a consistent amount of powder is delivered to a
patient over an inhalation flow rate of 20 L/min to 100 L/min, or 20 to 80 L/min, or 20 to 60 L/min. By
"consistent amount" is meant a relative standard deviation (RSD) of 10% or less (e.g., 5% or less, 3% or
less and/or 2.5% or less) in the amount powder that is received by the patient.
                                   DEVICES FOR POWDER ADMINISTRATION
[0033]      The devices for administering the powder described herein include, but are not limited to, a dry
powder inhaler (DPI) device, a metered dose inhaler (MDI) device, and a dry powder nebulizer (DPN)
device, Suitable devices typically administer a metered dose or a predetermined dose. Such doses generally
are administered over a set period of time or a set volume of air. In various embodiments. the device
functions independent of the patient's inspiratory flow rate.        Thus, for example, the device delivers a
consistent amount of cromolyn over a wide range of flow rates, such as an inhalation flow rate of 20 L/min
to 100 L/min, or 20 to 80 L/min, or 20 to 60 L/min,
100341      Optionally, the device is a dry powder inhaler comprising a chamber in fluid communication with
an air flow passageway. Included in the chamber is a vibrator e.g. a piezoelectric vibrator or an ultrasonic
vibrator, suitable for aerosolizing and/or deaggregating a dry powder. The inhaler optionally includes a
lever for activating the piezoelectric or ultrasonic vibrator and for cooperating with a means for puncturing a
blister or opening means for opening a blister.
[0035]       In one embodiment, powder is delivered from the inhaler by receiving a blister containing the
powder in an operating position proximal to the piezoelectric or ultrasonic vibrator. The patient places the
mouthpiece of the inhaler into the mouth, forms a seal with his/her lips around the mouthpiece,. and
withdraws air through the air flow passageway while pressing the lever. Upon activation by the lever or
other triggering event, the blister is broken, the piezoelectric or ultrasonic vibrator is activated, and the
deaggregated powder is picked up into the inspiratory air flow of the patient and carried through the air flow
passageway for inhalation by the patient.
                                                        10

 100361    The inhaler optionally includes an inhalation flow rate detector which detects the movement of air
through the air flow passageway. In some embodiments, when the inhaler includes an inhalation flow rate
detector, the event that triggers release of the powder includes movement of air through the air flow
passageway above a threshold rate.
 [00371    The powder is typically delivered in a period of time of about one second to about five seconds of
total inhalation time, for example, about one second to about two seconds. The inhalation period can be
monitored using a visual indicator, e.g., flashing or changing the color of a light emitting diode, or an
audible indicator.
 10038]     Optionally, the lever, inhalation flow rate, and piezoelectric or ultrasonic vibrator functions are
monitored and recorded in memory, such as a flash drive or other computer memory in direct contact with
the inhaler or removed from the inhaler but in signal communication with the inhaler. For example, the
functional parameters of the device may be transmitted from the device to a remote location, recorded in
memory, and made available to healthcare providers via a wired or wireless communication network. The
information also optionally may be delivered to point of care devices for monitoring treatment.            The
recorded performance information allows health care practitioners to monitor the use of the device, which
can be particularly beneficial when a patient's ability to operate the device diminishes due to declining
cognitive and/or physical health.
 [0039]       Devices also are described in U.S. Patent Nos. 6,026,809, 7,318,434, 7,334,577., 7,779,837,
8.322,338, and 8,371,294, U.S. Patent Application Publication Nos. 2009/0090361,                2010/0294278,
2012/0077786, International Application Publication No. WO 2005/076872, and European Patent No.
0591136 B1, which are incorporated by reference in their entireties.
SOLUTION ADMINISTRATION US[NG A NEBULIZER
 100401    In various embodiments, the invention also includes a method comprising administering cromolyn
to a patient using a nebulizer, preferably in a method for treating an amyloid-associated condition in a
patient in need thereof      The method comprises administering liquid particles of a solution comprising a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt or ester of cromolyn using a nebulizer via inhalation (e.g., oral inhalation)
by the patient. These solution particles are droplets of solution in which the pharmaceutically acceptable
salt or ester of cromolyn and any optional excipients are dissolved., The pharmaceutical acceptable salt or
ester of cromolvn typically is present in the solution at a concentration of about I mg/mL to about 100
mg/mL, for example, about 5 mg/mL to about 50 mg/mL, and/or about 10 mg/mL to 20 mg/mL. When
included., excipient(s) typically are present in the solution at a concentration of about I mg/mL to about 100
mg/mL, for example, about 5 mg/niL to about 50 mg/mL, and/or about 10 mg/niL to 20 mg/mL. The
solution particles (i.e., droplets) have a mass median aerodynamic diameter (MMAD) of about 1 micron to
                                                         S11

about 4 microns, for example, about I micron to about 3.5 microns, about I micron to about 3 microns,
about I micron to about 2.5 microns, about I micron to about 2 microns, about 2 microns to about 4
microns. and/or about 2.5 microns to about 3.5 microns.             The solution particles (i.e., droplets) also
optionally comprise a median diameter of less than about 2 microns. less than about 1.8 microns, less than
about 1.5 microns, less than about 1.2 microns, less than about 1 micron, about 0.5 microns to about 2
microns, about 0.8 microns to about 2 microns, about 1 micron to about 2 microns, about 1.2 microns to
about 2 microns., about 1.5 microns to about 2 microns, and/or about 1.8 microns to about 2 microns.
Excipients, dosage, target regions of the lung., delivery amounts and efficiencies, and methods of estimating
delivery to target regions of the lung are described above.
[0041]      Suitable devices for administering cromolyn as a solution include, but are not limited to, a jet,
ultrasonic or electronic nebulizers. Such nebulizer devices form aerosolized particles of cromolyn (e.g. a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt or ester of cromolyn, such as cromolyn sodium) from a pharmaceutically
acceptable solution (e.g., a hypotonic or isotonic solution).       The nebulizer device optionally includes a
liquid reservoir separated from a mouthpiece or face mask by a vibrating mesh, a piezoelectric element, or a
compressed gas atomizer element.          In such arrangements, a solution comprising a pharmaceutically
acceptable salt or ester of cromolyn is present in the liquid reservoir, and the device produces a mist of
particles for oral inhalation. When using a nebulizer. the cromolyn solution is optionally delivered to the
patient via inhalation (oral, nasal, or a combination thereof) over the course of about ten minutes or less
(e.g.. two minutes).
100421     The nebulizer may have any of the features of dry powder administration devices described herein.
In exemplary embodiments, the device deposits/delivers at least I mg. at least 1.5 mg, at least 1.8 mg, at
least 2 mg at least 2.2 mg, at least 2.5 mg, at least 2.8 mg, at least 3 mg. at least 3.2 mg, at least 3.5 mg, at
least 3.8 mg, at least 4 mg, at least 4.2 mg, at least 4.5 mg, at least 4.8 mg, at least 5 mg. at least 5.2 mg. at
least 5.5 mg, about 1.3 mg to about 3.5 mg, about 1.5 mg to about 3 mg. about 1.5 mg to about 5 nig about
 1.5 mg to about 7 mg, about I mg to about 3 mg, about I mg to about 5 mg, about I mg to about 7 mg,
about 1.8 mg to about 2.8 mg, about 1.5 mg to about 2.5 mg, and/or about 2 mg to about 2.5 mg of
pharmaceutically acceptable salt or ester of cromolvn to Stage 4 and higher of an NGI cascade impactor
device at a flow rate of 30 L/min for about 4 seconds (or less). In exemplary embodiments, the device
deposits/delivers at least 30%, at least 35%, at least 40%, at least 45%, about 30% to about 75%, about 30%
to about 65%, about 30% to about 60%, about 30% to about 55%, and/or about 30% to about 50% by
weight of the administered amount of pharmaceutically acceptable salt or ester of cromolyn (as defined
above) to Stage 4 and higher of an NGI cascade impactor device at a flow rate of 30 L/min for about 4
seconds.
                                                         12

100431         Nebulizers also are described in U.S. Patent No. 8,263,645 and U.S. Patent Application
Publication Nos. 2007/0193577, 2009/0118249, and 2012/0118991, which are incorporated by reference in
their entireties.
AMYLOID-ASSOcIATED CONDITIONS
100441     Any of the methods described herein include a method of treating an amyloid-associated condition
in a patient in need thereof. In various example embodiments, the method comprises administering to the
patient via inhalation an amount of powder comprising particles of a pharmaceutically acceptable salt or
ester of cromolyn as described herein.       As described above, in alternative embodiments, the method
comprises administering to the patient via inhalation an amount of particles of a solution comprising a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt or ester of cromolyn using a nebulizer.
100451     Without wishing to be bound by a particular theory, disodium cromolyn penetrates the blood-brain
barrier to bind beta-amyloid peptides and inhibit association of amyloid peptides and/or polymerization into
oligomers and higher order aggregates. The inhibition of beta-amyloid association and/or polymerization is
believed to arrest amyloid-mediated impairment of neurons and may enhance removal of oligomers and/or
aggregates from the brain, thereby slowing, stopping or reducing amvloid accumulation in the brain.
100461       By "amvloid-associated condition" is meant a disease or pathological disorder associated with
abnormal amyloid aggregation and/or accumulation.         See Eisenberg and Jucker, Cell, 148, 11,88-1203
(2012).      Amyloid accumulation      has been linked to a wide variety of disorders ranging from
neurodegenerative disorders to systemic amyloidoses to arthritis.          Examples of amyloid-associated
conditions include, but are not lirnited to, Alzheimer's disease (beta amyloid), dementia, diabetes mellitus
type 2 (IAPP), Parkinson's disease (alpha-synuclein), idiopathetic      myeloma, amyloid      polyneuropathy,
amyloid cardiomyopathy, systemic senile amnloidosis, transmissible spongiform encephalopathy (e.g,
Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease) (PrPSc), Down's syndrome, Huntington's Disease (Huntingtin), medullary
carcinoma of the thyroid (calcitonin), atherosclerosis (apolipoprotein), rheumatoid arthritis (serum amvloid
A), aortic medial amyloid (Medin)t prolactinomas (prolactin), familial amyloid polyneuropathy (FAP)
(transthvretin), frontemporal lobar degeneration-tau (Tau), Familial British and Danish dementia (BriPP),
hereditary non-neuropathic systemic amyloidosis (lysozyme), dialysis-related           amyloidosis   (beta 2
microglobulin), Finnish amyloidosis (Gelsolin), atrial amyloidosis (atrial natriaretic factor), transthyretin
familial amyloidosis (TTR). hereditary fibrinogen alpha-chain amyloidosis (fibrinogen alpha-chain), motor
neuron diseases, lattice comeal dystrophy (keratoepithelin)      anivotrophic lateral sclerosis (SODI), and
cerebral amyloid angiopathy (beta amyloid. cystatin).      See, e.g   Koo et al., PNAS. 96(18), 9989-9990
(1999); Eisenberg and Jucker, supra,        Other examples of amyloid-associated conditions include head
                                                      13

injuries (traumatic brain injury); amyloid-B plaques have been found in patients within hours following
traumatic brain injury. See Johnson et al Nature Reviews .Neuroscience, I1, 361-370 (2010).
10047]      As used herein, "treating" and "treatment' refers to any reduction in the severity and/or onset of
signs or symptoms associated with an ailment, such as an amyloid-associated condition or an inflammatory
or allergic lung disease (described below). Accordingly, "treating" and "treatment" includes therapeutic and
prophylactic measures that reduce any of the signs or symptoms. One of ordinary skill in the art will
appreciate that any degree of protection from, or amelioration of, an amyloid-associated condition or
symptom associated therewith is beneficial to a subject, such as a human patient. For example, a reduction
in signs such as detectable amyloid plaques can be beneficial. In another example, an increase in soluble
amyloid levels in the cerebrospinal fluid from abnormally low levels to normal, age-appropriate levels can
also be beneficial. The quality of life of a patient is improved by reducing to any degree the severity of
symptoms in a subject and/or delaying the appearance of symptoms. Accordingly, the method in one aspect
is performed as soon as possible after it has been determined that a subject is at risk for an aniyloid
associated condition or as soon as possible after the amyloid-associated condition manifests in the subject.
For example, due to the rapid development of amyloid-B plaques in traumatic brain injury patients.
prognosis may be improved by initiating treatment as soon as possible after the occurrence of the head
injury,
[004]     Detection of a risk, onset, or presence of amyloid-associated condition is performed using any of a
number techniques.      Amyloid deposits can be detected ex vio using, e.g., fluorescent dyes, circular
dichroism.. and X-ray diffraction. For example anyloids in biopsied tissue atypically demonstrate green
birefringence when stained with Congo red and viewed under a polarizing microscope. Amvloid plaques
can be detected in vivo using, e.g. magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) (see, e.g., Baltes et al., Methods Mol
Biol., 711, 511-33 (2011)) and positron emission tomography (PET) (Kepe et al., Methods Enzymol., 412,
144-60 (2006)).      Many of the neurodegenerative diseases referenced herein also are diagnosed by
conducting mental status and neuropsychological tests (assessing, e.g, memory and problem solving) and
blood tests (e.g,. blood tests for Alzheimer's disease biomarker signatures). See Burnham et al., "A blood
based predictor for neocortical Ap burden in Alzheimer's disease: results from the AJBL study," Molecular
Psychiatry (April 2013)
INFLAMMATORY OR ALLERGIC LUNG DISEASES
100491      The invention provides methods of treating inflammatory or allergic lung diseases in a patient in
need thereof, comprising administering to the patient via inhalation an amount of powder comprising
particles of a pharmaceutically acceptable salt or ester of cromolyn as described herein, The dose and/or
                                                       14

frequency of administration according to such methods are reduced compared to the conventional dosages
and frequencies.
 10050]      Inflammatory or allergic lung diseases include asthma, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease
(COPD), acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS), pulmonary fibrosis, cystic fibrosis.            Asthma, for
example, is a condition associated with inflammation of airway passages in the lungs and airway
hyperresponsiveness (AHR). Asthma also is marked by excess mucus production. Symptoms range from
minor (e.g., slight shortness of breath) to severe (wheezing, inability to breath, and/or chest tightness) and
vary from person to person. During an asthma attack, the lining of airways swell. thereby constricting the
passage and reducing airflow to and from the lungs.          Asthma is caused or triggered b., for example,
infection. allergens, chemical substances and fumes, pollutants. medications, physical exertion, stress, and
food additives. Asthma is classified into four general categories: mild intermittent (mild symptoms up to
two days/week), mild persistent (symptoms more than twice/week, but not daily, and one or two nighttime
episodes/month), moderate persistent (daily symptoms and three or four nighttime symptoms/month), and
severe persistent (symptoms throughout most days and frequently at night).
 10051]    As described herein, "treating" and "treatment" refers to any reduction in the severity and/or onset
of symptoms associated with inflammatory or allergic lung diseases (e.g., asthma) and, as such, includes
therapeutic and prophylactic measures.       For example, treatment may result in a reduced number and/or
severity of asthmatic attacks in a patient prone to allergy or airway hyperresponsiveness. The method in one
aspect is performed as soon as possible aft it has been determined that a subject is at risk for inflammatory
or allergic lung diseases (e.g., allergy or airway hyperresponsiveness is diagnosed) or as soon as possible
after an inflammatory or allergic lung disease (e.g., asthma) manifests in the subject.
COMBINATION THERAPIES
 100521     The pharmaceutically acceptable salt or ester of cromolyn is optionally administered with one or
more additional medicaments.        For example for amyloid-associated conditions, additional anti-anyloid
agents or anti-inflammatory agents can be administered.           For inflammatory or allergic lung diseases,
additional anti-asthma agents, or anti-inflammation agents. or other agents that are used to treat airway
hyperresponsiveness can be administered.
 100531     Additional medicaments may be provided in any dosage form, including solid dosage forms (e.g,
tablets, capsules and powders) and liquid dosage forms (e g., solutions, suspensions, emulsions, syrups and
elixirs). The additional medicaments may be administered by any known route of administration, including
oral (e.g., ingestion or inhalation), injection (e.g., intravenous, intraarterial, intramuscular, subcutaneous,
intradermal. intraarticular, intrathecal, epidural, intracerebral, or intraperitoneal), buccal, rectal, topical,
transdermal, intranasal, via the pulmonary route, via inhalation, or intraophthalmic.            The additional
                                                        15

medicaments may be administered concurrently with or sequentially (i.e. before or after) with the
pharmaceutical acceptable salt or ester of cromolyn.
10054]       Additional medicaments include, for example, Levodopa (Sinemet), anticholinergics, Eldepryl,
steroids, antihistamines, long-acting or short-acting beta-agonists, iimmunomodulators (e.g, Omalizumab).
and Theophylline.
100551      In the case of amyloid-associated conditions, the additional medicament can be a cholinesterase
inhibitor (e.g.,   Donepezil (Aricept@), rivastignmine (Exelon@). galantamine (Razadyne@),           or Tacrine
(Cognex@)), a NMDA receptor antagonist (e.g., memantine (Namendal)), a gamma secretase inhibitor
(e.g., LY451039 (Semagacestat, Eli Lily)), a metal ionophore (e.g., PBT2 (Prana)), a statin, and/or an
endocannabinoid (e.g.,      arachidonoylethanolamine,      tetrahydrocannabinol,   2-arachidonoyl  glyceroL   2
arachidonvl glvceryl ether, N-arachidonovl-dopamine, or virodhamine).           Examples of non-steroidal anti
inflammatory drugs, include, but are not limited to, ibuprofen, acetylsalicylic acid, diflunisal, salsalate.
dexibuprofen, naproxen, fenoprofen, ketoprofen, dexketoprofen, flurbiprofen, oxaprozin, loxoprofen,
indomethacin, tolmetin, sulindac, etodolac. ketorolac, diclofenac. nabumetone, piroxicam., meloxicam.
tenoxicam, droxicam., lomoxicam, isoxicam., mefenamic acid, meclofenamic acid, flufenamic acid,
tolfenamic acid, celecoxib, licofelone, hyperforin, and figwort.            Preferably. the non-steroidal anti
inflammatory drug is administered orally (via ingestion or inhalation). The non-steroidal anti-inflammatory
drug (e.g., ibuprofen) typically is administered in an amount of about 5 mg to about 80 mg per day. for
example, about 5 mg to about 60 mg per day, about 5 mg to about 50 mg per day, about 5 mg to about 40
mg per day, about 5 mg to about 30 ng per day- and/or about 5 mg to about 20 mg per day- The non
steroidal anti-inflammatory drug (e.g., ibuprofen) may be administered I to 4 times per day, such as I to 2
times per day. For example. ibuprofen may be administered in a once-daily dose of about 5 mg to 20 mg,
BLISTER PACKS AND KITS
100561      The invention further provides a group of individual delivery units., for example, a blister pack
comprising blisters, containing a pharmaceutically acceptable salt or ester of cromolyn. Blister packs are
known in the art, and generally comprise a solid support comprising a plurality of spaced bubbles or wells
(collectively referred to herein as "blisters") for carrying a predetermined amount of medicanent. A film or
membrane seals the wells, and is susceptible to puncture or release from the solid support to make the
medicament available for delivery. The specific shape, proportions, and dimensions of the blister pack and
the individual blisters can be adjusted for use in a particular delivery device. For example, the blister pack
is optionally provided as a coil or a circular (e.g., carousel) cartridge for insertion in a dry powder inhaler,
and the blisters are shaped as inverted cones or domes. Additionally, the number of blisters (corresponding
to the number of doses) may be varied.
                                                         16

100571     The blister pack is composed of a material that protects the contents of the blisters from exposure
to the environment and is compatible for use with an inhalation device for delivering cromolyn to a patent.
Suitable materials include, but are not limited to., PVC (polyvinyl chloride), PVC/PVDC (polyvinylidene
chloride) blends, PE (polyethylene), PP (polypropylene), polystyrene, cellophane, polyester (e.g. a polyester
terephthalate), paper, polvamide, PET (polyethylene terephthalate), COC (cyclic olefin copolymer), metallic
(e.g., aluminum) foil and any blend thereof Different materials may be layered to form individual blisters
or the blister pack, if desired.     Blister packs are further described in., for example, U.S. Patent Nos.
5,497.763: 7,080.644: 7,828, 150: 7,931,022 and 8.291,900, and International Patent Publication Nos. WO
1999/23180 and WO 1989/01348 (all of which are hereby incorporated by reference in their entirety, and
particularly with respect to their respective descriptions of blister packs).
[00581     Generally, blisters have a maximum capacity of about 15 to 16 mg of ingredients, which includes
both the active ingredient (i.e. cromolyn. or its pharmaceutically acceptable salt or ester) and
pharmaceutically acceptable excipients.
100591      In the context of the invention, the blisters of the blister pack contain about 3 mg to about 16 mg
of a pharmaceutically acceptable salt or ester of cromolyn, for example, about 3 mg to about 15 mg, about 3
mg to about 14 mg, about 3 mg to about 13 mg, about 3 mg to about 12 mg, about 3 mug to about I1 rmg,
about 3 mg to about 10 mg, about 3 mg to about 9 mg, about 3 mg to about 8 mug. about 3 mg to about 7 rug,
about 4 mg to about 7 mg, about 5 mug to about 7 mg, and/or about 5 mug to about 6 mng of the
pharmaceutically acceptable salt or ester of crormolyn. Optionally, additional amounts of pharmaceutically
acceptable excipients are included in the blisters with the cromolyn.
100601       The pharmaceutically acceptable salt or ester of cromolyn is provided in a solid dosage form.
preferably a powder containing particles of the pharmaceutically acceptable salt or ester of cromolyn as
described herein. The powder optionally comprises one or more pharmaceutically acceptable recipients, as
described above. The pharmaceutically acceptable excipients, when present. typically are included in the
powder in a total amount of about 0,1% to about 80% by weight., about 1% to about 80% by weight. about
5% to about 80% by weight, about 10% to about 80% by weight, about 15% to about 80% by weight, about
20% to about 80% by weight, about 25% to about 80% by weight, about 30% to about 80% by weight,
about 35% to about 80% by weight, about 40% to about 80% by weight, about 20 to about 75% by weight,
about 20% to about 70% by weight, about 20% to about 65% by weight., about 20% to about 60% by
weight. about 25% to about 55% by weight. about 30% to about 50% by weight, about 35% to about 45%
by weight, and/or about 40% by weight.
[00611     Alternatively, in some embodiments herein, the cromolyn is provided in liquid solution form.
                                                         17

10062]      The invention further provides a kit comprising a blister pack., such as the blister pack described
herein, and a dry powder inhaler (DPI) device. In various embodiments, the device is an active dry powder
inhaler device, such as a dry powder inhaler device that comprises a chamber comprising a piezoelectric
vibrator for deaggregating a dry powder and an air floxw passageway in which the deaggregated powder is
picked up and carried for inhalation by a patient,       The kit optionally includes one or more additional
medicaments, such as a non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug (e.g., ibuprofen, acetylsalicylic acid,
diflunisal., salsalate,  dexibuprofen,    naproxen,   fenoprofen, ketoprofen,    dexketoprofen,    flurbiprofen,
oxaprozin, loxoprofen. indomethacin, tolmetin, sulindac, etodolac, ketorolac, diclofenac, nabumetone.
piroxicam. meloxicam. tenoxicam. droxicam, lomoxican. isoxicam, mefenam ic acid, meclofenamic acid,
flufenamic acid, tolfenamic acid, celecoxib, licofelone. hyperforin, and figvort).             Such additional
medicaments may be provided in any known dosage form, including solid dosage forms (e.g.,                tablets,
capsules and powders) and liquid dosage forms (e.g.- solutions, suspensions. emulsions, syrups and elixirs).
                                                  EXAMPLES
EXAMPLE 1
100631      A Next Generation Pharmaceutical Impactor (NGt) cascade impactor device (MSP Corporation.,
Shoreview, Minnesota, US) was used to assess delivery of cromolyn by four different inhaler devices.
100641       Delivery of cromolyn by a single-use passive dry powder inhaler device was assessed. The
passive inhaler device included an active particle dispersion mechanism (ACTIVEMESH, Aespira)
involving breath-driven beating of a mesh package containing the powder to be delivered.
100651       A blend containing disodium cromoglycate (DSCG) (Cambrex) and Lactohale LH300 lactose
(Friesland Foods Domo) was prepared by blending in an Alpine Picoline high shear mixer (module
Picomix) (Hosokawa Alpine, Augsburg, Germany) at a speed of 4000 rpm for 3 minutes.                   The blend
contained 80:20 (wI/wI.) DSCG:lactose. Neat DSCG also was tested. The samples (neat cromolyn or
cromolyn:lactose blend) were loaded into the passive dry powder inhaler device and tested using an NOI
cascade impactor device at a flow rate of approximately 100 L/min for 2.4 seconds.
[0066]     The results of testing are provided in Table 1, The passive inhaler device delivered only 3% of the
initial dose of neat DSCG and only 6% of the initial dose of blended cromolyn to Stage 4 and higher of the
NGI cascade impactor device.
                                                        18

Table 1
DSCG:lactose        Initial         Fine Particle Dose < 5 Stages 4 to 8 MMAD
[wt./wt.]           DSCG            sm [pg} (% of initial [pg]                  [pm]
                    dose [mg]       dose)                      (% of initial
                   I              I     __                   ,dose)
100:0             15              1430 (9%)                     1.50(3%)        >4
80:20               4               400 (107)                  240 (6%)         >4
100671      Delivery of cromolyn by a PROHALER pre-metered multidose passive dry powder inhaler device
(Aptar) was assessed. The PROHALER. inhaler was initially expected to more efficiently deliver cromolyn
because the device creates rapidly fluctuating airflow/shear and turbulence to deagglomerate the particles
emitted from the blister prior to oral inhalation by the patient.        The PROHALER inhaler also included
breath-triggered opening of a dose and a blister cartridge system.
[00681        Two blends containing disodium cromoglycate (DSCG) (Cambrex) and lactose monohydrate
(DMV-Fonterra Excipients) (grade: lactohale 200 with 13% of fines) were prepared by blending at a speed
of 90 rpm for 60 minutes. The blends differed in the relative amounts of DSCO and lactose, and contained
either 50:50 (wt/w.t) DSCG:lactose or 20:80 (wit/wt) DSCG:lactose.               The blends were filled into
blisterstrips, which were then assembled into a PROHALER inhaler device and tested using an NGI device
at a flow rate of approximately 35 Lmin.
[0069]      The results of testing are provided in Table 2. The emitted dose represents the total quantity of
DSCG fired into the impactor. The fine particle fraction is calculated as follows: fine particle fraction =
100% * fine particle dose / emitted dose.         A fine particle dose with particles less than 3 pm in size
corresponds approximately to the amount of cromolyn delivered to Stage 4 and higher of the NGI device.
Thus, the PROHALER inhaler device delivered only about 4.4% of the initial dose of blended cromolyn
(50:50 blend) and only about 9.6% of the initial dose of blended cromolyn (20:80 blend) to Stage 4 and
higher of the NGI cascade impactor device.
Table 2
DSCG:lactose        Initial       Emitted         Fine Particle     Fine         MMAD
[wt./wt.]           DSCG          dose     [mg]   Dose <3 pm        Particle      1m]
                    dose 1mg]     (% of initial   Iggi (% of        Fraction <3
                                  dose)           initial dose)     pm 1%]
50:50               3.9           2.4 (61%)       170 (4.4%)        8            3.9
20:80               1.6            1.1 (69%)      154 (9.6%)        15           3.1
100701        In addition, delivery of cromolyn by a TWISTER inhaler device (Aptar) was assessed. The
TWISTER inhaler device is a capsule-based dry powder inhaler. Compared to blisters, capsules typically
have much higher drug loading capacities.
                                                         19

10071]      A blend containing disodium cromoglycate (DSCG) and lactose was prepared. The blend was
assembled into a TWISTER inhaler device and tested using an NGi cascade impactor device at a flow rate
of approximately 30 L/min.
100721     The results of testing are provided in Table 3. The TWISTER inhaler device delivered only about
24% of the initial dose of blended cromolyn to Stage 4 and higher of the NGI cascade impactor device.
Table 3
DSCG:lactose       Initial      Emitted         Fine Particle   Fine Particle MMAD
[wt./wt.]          DSCG         dose     [mg]   Dose <3 pin     Fraction <3 [pm]
                   dose 1mg]    ('% of initial   [pg] (% of     pm [%}
                                dose)           initial dose)
20:80              4.4          3.6 (82%)        1065 (24%)     29              >4
[0073]      Delivery of cromolyn by an active dry powder inhaler device also was assessed. The inhaler
device included injection molded plastic components, electronics, a battery, and drug filled blisters. The
inhaler included a lever arm, upon actuation of which the blister wvas placed in contact with a piezoelectric
vibrator within the device and then pierced by needles. The inhaler also included an airflow sensor which
automatically turned on the piezoelectric vibrator after a minimum inspiratory flow rate was exceeded.
Activation of the piezoelectric vibrator deaggregated the powder particles and aerosolized them out of the
blister and into the inspiratory airstream. The inhaler included visual feedback at the start of dosing and as
confirmation of successful completion of dosing, thereby facilitating improved patient compliance. Similar
devices have been shown to deliver a consistent amount of a drug at each of the different flow rates tested,
ranging from 20 Urnin to 60 Umin.
100741      A blend containing disodium cromoglycate (DSCG) (Cambrex) and lactose monohydrate (DFE
Pharma) (grade: lactohale LH201) was prepared by bending at a speed of 150 rpm for 15 minutes. The
blend contained 60:40 (wt/wt,) DSCG:lactose. Neat DSCG also wxas tested. The samples (neat cromolyn
or cromolyn:lactose blend) were filled into blisters, which were then assembled into the inhaler device and
tested using an NGI device at a flow rate of approximately 30 L/inin for 2 seconds.
[0075]     The results of testing are provided in Table 4. The fine particle dose is the amount of cromolyn
recovered below a diameter of 5 pm. The fine particle fraction <5 pm is provided as a percentage of the
amount of cromolvn recovered from the NIGI cascade impactor device (i.e., the delivered dose). The active
inhaler device delivered 42% of the initial dose of neat DSCG and 43% of the initial dose of blended
cromolyn to Stage 4 and higher of the NGI cascade impactor device.           Thus, in contrast to the results
provided in Tables I to 3, the results for the active dry powder inhaler device demonstrate delivery of over
15 mg and over 30% of the administered dose to Stages 4 and higher of the NGI cascade impactor device.
                                                        20

Table 4
DSCG:lactose Initial Fine       Fine    Particle Stages 4 to MMAD
blend        DSCG    Particle   Fraction <5 im   8 [pg] (% of [gg]
             dose    Dose <5 pm [% of delivered  initial dose)
              mg]    [pg]       dose]I
100:0        5       2321       59               2098 (42%)    126
60:40        5.8     2858       55               2505 (43%)     2.8
                                        21

WHAT IS CLAIMED IS'
         I      A method of delivering cromolyn to a patient in need thereof. comprising administering to
the patient via oral inhalation about 3 mg to about 16 mg of a pharmaceutically acceptable salt or ester of
cromolyn., optionally including one or more pharmaceutically acceptable excipients. in the form of a powder
comprising particles of the pharmaceutically acceptable salt or ester of cromolyn, the particles having a
mass median aerodynamic diameter (MM AD) of about I to about 4 microns, using a device that deposits (a)
at least 1.5 mg and (b) at least 30% by weight of the administered amount of pharmaceutically acceptable
salt or ester of cromolyn to Stage 4 and higher of a Next Generation Pharmaceutical Impactor (NGI)
cascade impactor device at a flow rate of 30 L/min for about 4 seconds.
        2.      The method of claim 1, wherein the method comprises administering about 3 mg to about 8
mg of the pharmaceutically acceptable salt or ester of cromolyn, optionally including one or more
pharmaceutically acceptable excipients.
        3.      The method of claim 1 or 2, wherein the device is selected from the group consisting of a dry
powder inhaler (DPI) device, a metered dose inhaler (MDI) device, and a dry powder nebulizer (DPN)
device.
        4.      The method of any one of claims 1-3, wherein administering comprises suspending the
powder into an inhaled gas stream.
                The method of any one of claims 1-4, wherein administering comprises vibrating the powder
at high frequency.
        6.      The method of claim 5, wherein the frequency is about 10 kHz to about 50 kHz.
        7.      The method of claim 3, wherein the device is a dry powder inhaler comprising a chamber
comprising a piezoelectric vibrator or an ultrasonic vibrator for deaggregating a dry powder and an air flow
passageway in which the deaggregated powder is picked up and carried for oral inhalation by a patient.
        8.      A method of delivering cromolyn to a patient in need thereof, comprising administering to
the patient via oral inhalation about 3 mg to about 16 mg of a pharmaceutically acceptable salt or ester of
cromolyn, optionally including one or more pharmaceutically acceptable excipients, in the form of a powder
comprising particles of the pharmaceutically acceptable salt or ester of crorolyn the particles having a
mass median aerodynamic diameter (MMAD) of about I to about 4 microns. using a dry powder inhaler
(DPI) device comprising a chamber comprising a piezoelectric vibrator or an ultrasonic vibrator for
deaggregating a powder and an air flow passageway in which the deaggregated powder is picked up and
carried for oral inhalation by a patient
                                                      22

        9.      The method of claim 8, wherein the method comprises administering about 3 mg to about 8
 mug of the pharmaceutically acceptable salt or ester of cromolyn_ optionally including one or more
pharmaceutically acceptable excipients.
        10,     The method of any one of claims 1-9, wherein the particles have a geometric standard
deviation (GSD) of about 1.3 to about 2.5.
        I1      The method of any one of claims 1-10. wherein the powder comprises about 0.1% to about
80% by weight of an excipient.
        12.     The method of any one of claims 1-10, wherein the powder comprises about 40% to about
80% by weight of an excipient.
        13.     The method of claim 11 or 12, wherein the excipient is selected from the group consisting of
a monosaccharide, a disaccharide, an oligosaccharide., a polysaccharide, and a polyalcohol.
        14.     The method of any one of claims 11-13, wherein the excipient is selected from the group
consisting of lactose, mannitol, and sorbitol.
        15,     The method of any one of claims 1-14, wherein the device delivers a consistent amount of
the pharmaceutically acceptable salt or ester of cromolyn over an oral inhalation flow rate of 20 L/min to
 100 L/min
        16.     The method of any one of claims 1- 15, further comprising administering a non-steroidal anti
inflammatory drug.
        17.     The method of claim 16, wherein the non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug is administered
orally or via inhalation.
        18.     The method of claim 16 or 17, wherein the non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug is
administered in an amount of about 5 mg to about 80 mg per day.
        19.     The method of any one of claims 16-18, wherein the non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug is
ibuprofen.
        20.     The method of any one of claims 16-19, wherein the non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug is
ibuprofen administered in a once-daily dose of about 5 mg to 20 rg.
        21.     A method of treating an amyloid-associated condition in a patient in need thereof, comprising
administering to the patient via oral inhalation an amount of powder comprising particles of a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt or ester of cromolyn via pulmonary delivery, the particles having a mass
median aerodynamic diameter (MMAD) of about I to about 4 microns, using a device that deposits (a) at
                                                     23

least 1.5 mg and (b) at least 30% by weight of the administered amount of pharmaceutically acceptable salt
or ester of cromolvn to Stage 4 and higher of a Next Generation Pharmaceutical Impactor (NG) cascade
impactor device at a flow rate of 30 Llmin for about 4 seconds.
         22     A method of treating inflammatory or allergic lung diseases in a patient in need thereof,
comprising administering to the patient via oral inhalation an amount of powder comprising particles of a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt or ester of cromolyn. the particles optionally having a mass median
aerodynamic diameter (MMAD) of about i to about 4 microns, at a frequency of 1 or 2 times daily, each
dose comprising about 3 mg to about 16 mg of a pharmaceutically acceptable salt or ester of cromolyn.
         23.    The method of claim 22, wherein the inflammatory or allergic lung disease is asthma,
         24.    The method of claim 23, wherein the asthma is allergic asthma or exercise-induced asthma.
         25.    The method of claim 22., wherein the amount of powder is administered using a device that
deposits (a) at least 1.5 mg and (b) at least 30% by weight of the amount of administered pharmaceutically
acceptable salt or ester of cromolyn to Stage 4 and higher of a Next Generation Pharmaceutical Impactor
(NG) cascade impactor device at a flow rate of 30 L/min for about 4 seconds.
         26.    The method of any one of claims 21-25, wherein the powder is administered using an active
dry powder inhaler.
         27.    The method of any one of claims 21-26, wherein the powder is administered using a dry
powder inhaler comprising a chamber comprising a piezoelectric vibrator or ultrasonic vibrator for
deaggregating a dry powder and an air flow passageway in which the deaggregated powder is picked up and
carried for oral inhalation by a patient.
         28.    A method for treating an amyloid-associated condition in a patient in need thereof
comprising administering to the patient via oral inhalation an amount of liquid particles of a solution
comprising a pharmaceutically acceptable salt or ester of cromolyn, the particles having a mass median
aerodynamic diameter (MMAD) of about I to about 4 microns, using a nebulizer.
         29.    A blister pack for delivering cromoiyn to a patient in need thereof. comprising blisters
containing about 3 mg to about 1.6 mg of a pharmaceutically acceptable salt or ester of cromolyn.
         30.    The blister pack of claim 29, comprising blisters containing about 3 mg to about 8 mg of a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt or ester of cromolyn.
         3.1    A kit comprising the blister pack of claim 29 or 30 and a dry poNder inhaler (DPI) device.
         32.    The kit of claim 31, wherein the device is an active dry powder inhaler.
                                                       24

       33.    The kit of claim 31 or 32, wherein the dry powder inhaler device comprises a chamber
comprising a piezoelectric vibrator or an ultrasonic vibrator for deaggregating a dry powder and an air flow
passageway in which the deaggregated powder is picked up and carried for oral inhalation by a patient.
       34.    The kit of any one of claims 31-33, further comprising ibuprofen tablets.
                                                      25

