                                       ABSTRACT
Provided herein are methods and compositions for the production of cheese replicas.
Generally the cheese replicas are produced by inducing the enzymatic curdling of non-dairy
milks.

                 NON-DAIRY CHEESE REPLICA COMPRISING A COACERVATE
                      CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS
           This application claims priority to U.S. Application Serial No. 61/751,818, filed
   January 11, 2013, and is related to co-pending Application Serial No PCT/US 12/46552,
 5 filed July 12, 2012, all of which are incorporated herein by reference.
                                BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
           Cheese making has relied on dairy milks as the major ingredient for more than
   4000 years. Dairy cheese is usually made from curds formed from dairy milk. Dairy
   milks can readily be made to form curds suitable for making cheese by contacting the
10 dairy milk with rennet (an aspartic protease which cleaves kappa-casein) at mildly acidic
   pH. Some cheeses, e.g., cream cheese, cottage cheese and paneer, are made without
   rennet. In the absence of rennet, dairy cheese may be induced to curdle with acid (e.g.,
   lemon juice, vinegar, etc.) or a combination of heat and acid. Acid coagulation can also
   occur naturally from starter culture fermentation. The strength of the curds depends on
15 the type of coagulation. Most commercially produced cheeses use some type of rennet
   (animal, vegetable or microbial-derived) in their production. Commodity cheeses or
   "processed cheeses" such as bulk cheddar, food-service mozzarella pizza and "cheese
   products," or "cheese foods" such as American cheese, American singles, Velveeta, and
   Cheese Whiz are typically produced from dairy-derived ingredients and other additives
20 using industrial processes which sometimes little resemble traditional cheese making.
           The global dairy sector contributes an estimated 4 percent to the total global
   anthropogenic green house gas emissions. Producing 1 kg of cheddar cheese requires an
   average of 10,000 L of fresh water. Additionally, many individuals cannot digest and
   metabolize lactose. In these individuals enteric bacteria ferment the lactose, resulting in
25 various abdominal symptoms, which can include abdominal pain, bloating, flatulence,
   diarrhea, nausea, and acid reflux. Additionally, the presence of lactose and its
   fermentation products raises the osmotic pressure of the colon contents. Approximately
   3.4% of children in the U.S.A. are reported to have allergies to dairy milks. Many
   individuals choose to avoid milk for ethical or religious reasons.
                                                 1

            Non-dairy milks, including plant-derived milks avoid many of the environmental,
   food sensitivity, ethical and religious problems associated with dairy milk and they can
   be made free of lactose, making the generation of dairy substitutes using the plant derived
   milks attractive. However, rennet is not an effective agent for inducing non-dairy
 5 proteins or emulsions, including plant-derived milks (e.g., almond milk, chestnut milk,
   pecan milk, hazelnut milk, cashew milk, pine nut milk, or walnut milk), to curdle.
   Consequently, traditional cheese making techniques have not been successfully used to
   produce non-dairy cheese replicas.
            Flavor and aroma in dairy cheese results in part from the degradation of lactose,
10 proteins and fats, carried out by ripening agents, which include bacteria and enzymes in
   the milk, bacterial cultures added during the cheese-making process, rennet, other
   proteases, lipases, added molds and/or yeasts and bacteria and fungi that opportunistically
   colonize the cheese during ripening and aging. In addition, the bacterial cultures and
   fungi used in traditional dairy cheesemaking use microorganisms adapted to growing and
15 producing flavors in dairy milks. Hence, traditional cheese culturing techniques have not
   been successfully used to produce non-dairy cheese replicas.
            Cheese replicas made principally of non-dairy ingredients are commercially
   available. Many of these cheese replicas include some dairy ingredients, for example,
   casein. Some commercially available cheese replicas contain no animal products. These
20 include fermented cheese replicas made from nut milks from which insoluble
   carbohydrates have not been effectively removed, and made without using a protein
   crosslinking agent and several products in which a starch is a principal ingredient or
   containing agar, carrageenan or tofu to provide the desired texture. The few fermented
   products contain Lactobacillus acidophilus, a microbe often used in dairy yogurts. Most
25 tasters consider none of the currently available cheese replicas to adequately replicate the
   taste, aroma and mouthfeel of dairy cheeses.
            Complex carbohydrates in currently available cheese replicas made from nut
   milks have unfavorable effects on the texture, resulting in a product with a grainy
   mouthfeel and lacking the creaminess of dairy cheeses.
                                                 2

           Starches that comprise the major gelling agent in many currently available cheese
   replicas lead to a relatively high carbohydrate content, which may be undesirable to
   consumers, for example those wishing to limit carbohydrate intake.
           Because of these deficiencies, there is currently no cheese replica that is
 5 acceptable to most consumers as an alternative to traditional dairy cheeses.
           Thus, it is clear that there is a great need in the art for an improved method and
   system for producing non-dairy cheese replicas while avoiding the shortcomings and
   drawbacks of the cheese replicas that have previously been available to consumers.
                               SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
10         The invention relates to methods and compositions for producing non-dairy milk
   and cheese products, including without limitation, plant-derived milk and cheese
   products, as an alternative to dairy products for human consumption.
                                                    3

            In one aspect, this document features a non-dairy cheese replica that includes a
   coacervate comprising one or more isolated and purified proteins from a non-animal
   source. The one or more isolated and purified proteins can be plant proteins (e.g., seed
   storage proteins, pea proteins, Lupine proteins, proteins from a legume, chickpea
 5 proteins, or lentil proteins. The pea proteins can include pea vicilins and/or pea
   legumins. The non-dairy cheese replica can include one or more microbes selected from
   bacteria, molds, and yeast.
            This document also features a non-dairy cheese replica that includes a cold set gel
   comprising one or more isolated and purified proteins from a non-animal source and a
10 salt. The non-dairy cheese replica can include one or more heat-labile ingredients such as
   one or more fats, microbes, volatile compounds, or enzymes. The non-dairy cheese
   replica can include one or more microbes selected from bacteria, molds, and yeast.
            The one or more microbes in the non-dairy cheese replicas can be selected from
   the group consisting of a Penicillium species, a Debaryomyces species, a Geotrichum
15 species, a Corynebacteriumspecies, a Streptococcus species, a Verticillium species., a
   Kluyveromyces species, a Saccharomyces species, a Candida species, a Rhodosporidum
   species, a Cornybacteriaspecies, a Micrococcus species, a Lactobacillus species, a
   Lactococcus species, a Staphylococcus species, a Halomonas species, a Brevibacterium
   species, a Psychrobacterspecies, a Leuconostocaceae species, a Pediococcus species, a
20 Propionibacteriumspecies, and a lactic acid bacterium.
            In some embodiments, the one or more microbes are selected from the group
   consisting of Lactococcus lactis lactis (LLL), Leuconostoc mesenteroides cremoris (LM),
   Lactococcus lactis cremoris (LLC), Pediococcuspentosaceus, Clostridium butyricum,
   Lactobacillus delbrueckii lactis, Lactobacillusdelbrueckii bulgaricus,Lactobacillus
25 helveticus, Lactobacillusplantarum,Lactobacillus casei, Lactobacillusrhamnosus,
   Staphylococcus xylosus (SX), Lactococcus lactis biovar diacetylactis(LLBD),
   Penicillium roqueforti,Penicillium candidum, Penicillium camemberti, Penicillium
   nalgiovensisDebaryomyces hansenii, Geotrichum candidum, Streptococcus thermophiles
   (TA61), Verticillium lecanii,Kluyveromyces lactis, Saccharomyces cerevisiae, Candida
30 utilis, Rhodosporidum infirmominiatum and Brevibacteriumlinens.
                                                 4

            This document also features a non-dairy cheese replica comprising a solidified
   mixture of one or more isolated and purified proteins from a non-animal source and one
   or more isolated plant based lipids, said cheese replica comprising one or more microbes
   selected from the group consisting of Pediococcuspentosaceus, Clostridium butyricum,
 5 Lactobacillus delbrueckii lactis, Lactobacillusdelbrueckii bulgaricus,Lactobacillus
   helveticus, Lactobacillusplantarum,Lactobacillus casei, Lactobacillusrhamnosus,
   Staphylococcus xylosus, and Brevibacteriumlinens.
            In another aspect, this document features a non-dairy cheese replica that includes
   a solidified non-dairy milk, nut milk, and one or microbes selected from the group
10 consisting of Pediococcuspentosaceus, Clostridium butyricum, Lactobacillus delbrueckii
   lactis, Lactobacillus delbrueckii bulgaricus,Lactobacillus helveticus, Lactobacillus
   plantarum,Lactobacillus casei, Lactobacillus rhamnosus, Staphylococcus xylosus, and
   Brevibacterium linens, wherein at least 85% of the insoluble solids of the non-dairy milk
   have been removed, wherein the non-dairy milk is a nut milk, a bean milk, or a grain
15 milk. Such a non-dairy replica further include one of more microbes selected from the
   group consisting of Penicillium roqueforti,Debaryomyces hansenii, Geotrichum
   candidum, Penicilliumcandidum, Corynebacteria,Streptococcus thermophiles,
   Penicillium camemberti, Penicillium nalgiovensis, Verticillium lecanii,Kluyveromyces
   lactis, Saccharomyces cerevisiae, Candida utilis, Rhodosporidum infirmominiatum,
20 Cornybacteria,a Micrococcus species, a Lactobacillus species, a Lactococcus species,
   Lactococcus lactis lactis (LLL), Leuconostoc mesenteroides cremoris (LM), Lactococcus
   lactis cremoris (LLC), a Staphylococcus species, a Halomonas species, a Brevibacterium
   sps, a Psychrobactersps, a Leuconostocaceae sps, a Pediococcus species, Leuconostoc
   mesenteroides, Lactococcus lactis biovar. diacetylactis (LLBD) or a Propionibacterium
25 species.
            In another aspect, this document features a non-dairy cheese replica that includes
   an isolated and solidified non-dairy cream fraction and one or microbes selected from the
   group consisting of Pediococcuspentosaceus, Clostridium butyricum, Lactobacillus
   delbrueckii lactis, Lactobacillus delbrueckii bulgaricus,Lactobacillus helveticus,
30 Lactobacillusplantarum,Lactobacillus casei, Lactobacillusrhamnosus, Staphylococcus
   xylosus, and Brevibacterium linens. Such a non-dairy replica further include one of more
                                                 5

   microbes selected from the group consisting of Penicilliumroqueforti, Debaryomyces
   hansenii, Geotrichum candidum, Penicilliumcandidum, Corynebacteria,Streptococcus
   thermophiles, Penicillium camemberti, Penicillium nalgiovensis, Verticillium lecanii,
   Kluyveromyces lactis, Saccharomyces cerevisiae, Candida utilis, Rhodosporidum
 5 infirmominiatum, Cornybacteria,a Micrococcus species, a Lactobacillus species, a
   Lactococcus species, Lactococcus lactis lactis (LLL), Leuconostoc mesenteroides
   cremoris (LM), Lactococcus lactis cremoris (LLC), a Staphylococcus species, a
   Halomonas species, a Brevibacteriumsps, a Psychrobactersps, a Leuconostocaceae sps,
   a Pediococcus species, Leuconostoc mesenteroides, Lactococcus lactis biovar.
10 diacetylactis (LLBD) or a Propionibacteriumspecies.
           In any of the non-dairy replicas described herein, the replica can include two of
   LLL, LLC, and LLBD (e.g., LLC and LLL, LLL and LLBD, or LLL, LLC, and LLBD)
   or can include SX and TA6 1. The non-dairy cheese replica further can include
   Penicillium roqueforti and Debaryomyces hansenii.
15         The one or more non-animal based proteins can be plant proteins (e.g., seed
   storage protein or an oil body protein).The seed storage protein can be an albumin,
   glycinin, conglycinin, globulin, legumin, vicilin, conalbumin, gliadin, glutelin, glutenin,
   hordein, prolamin, phaseolin, proteinoplast, secalin, triticeae gluten, or zein.The oil body
   protein can be an oleosin, a caloleosin, or a steroleosin. The plant protein can be selected
20 from the group consisting of ribosomal proteins, actin, hexokinase, lactate
   dehydrogenase, fructose bisphosphate aldolase, phosphofructokinases, triose phosphate
   isomerases, phosphoglycerate kinases, phosphoglycerate mutases, enolases, pyruvate
   kinases, proteases, lipases, amylases, glycoproteins, lectins, mucins, glyceraldehyde-3
   phosphate dehydrogenases, pyruvate decarboxylases, actins, translation elongation
25 factors, histones, ribulose-1,5-bisphosphate carboxylase oxygenase (RuBisCo), ribulose
   1,5-bisphosphate carboxylase oxygenase activase (RuBisCo activase), collagens, kafirin,
   avenin, dehydrins, hydrophilins, and natively unfolded proteins.
           In any of the non-dairy replicas described herein, the replica further can include
   one or more sugars (e.g., sucrose, glucose, fructose, and/or maltose), one or more purified
30 enzymes (a lipase, a protease, and/or an amylase), a melting salt (e.g., sodium citrate,
   trisodium pyrophosphate, sodium hexametaphosphate, disodium phosphate, or any
                                                  6

   combination thereof), a divalent cation (e.g., Fe 2, Mg2 l, Cu 2",or Ca2 ), an isolated amino
   acid (e.g., methionine, leucine, isoleucine, valine, proline, or alanine) or other additive
   selected from the group consisting of a food product, a yeast extract, miso, molasses, a
   nucleobase, an organic acid, a vitamin, a fruit extract, coconut milk, and a malt extract,
 5 one or more plant-derived lipids, one or more oils derived from an algae, fungus, or
   bacterium, or one or more free fatty acids. The plant-derived lipids can include corn oil,
   olive oil, soy oil, peanut oil, walnut oil, almond oil, sesame oil, cottonseed oil, canola oil,
   safflower oil, sunflower oil, flax seed oil, palm oil, palm kernel oil, palm fruit oil,
   coconut oil, babassu oil, shea butter, mango butter, cocoa butter, wheat germ oil, or rice
10 bran oil (e..g, canola oil, cocoa butter, and/or coconut oil).
            In any of the non-dairy cheese replicas described herein, the replica further can
   include a cross-linking enzyme (e.g., a transglutaminase or a lysyl oxidase).
            In any of the non-dairy cheese replicas described herein, the cheese replica can
   have one or more of: a) increased creamy, milky, buttery, fruity, cheesy, free fatty acids,
15 sulfury, fatty, sour, floral, or mushroom flavor or aroma notes; 2) reduced nutty, planty,
   beany, soy, green, vegetable, dirty, or sour flavor or aroma notes; 3) an increased creamy
   texture; 4) an improved melting characteristic; and 5) an increased stretching ability,
   relative to a corresponding cheese replica lacking the one or more microbes, sugars,
   divalent cations, isolated enzymes, isolated amino acids or other additive, plant-derived
20 lipids, or combinations thereof.
            For example, a cheese replica can have an increase in one or more of acetoin,
   diacetyl, 2,3-hexandione, or 5-hydroxy-4-octanone, or a decrease in one or more of
   benzaldehyde, 1-hexanol, 1-hexanal, furan, benzaldehyde or 2-methyl-2-propanol,
   pyrazine, or heptanal relative to a corresponding cheese replica lacking said one or more
25 microbes, sugars, divalent cations, isolated enzymes, isolated amino acids or other
   additive, plant-derived lipids, or combinations thereof.
            For example, the cheese replica can have an increase in methional and/or
   dimethyl trisulfide relative to a corresponding cheese replica lacking said one or more
   microbes, sugar, divalent cations, isolated enzymes, isolated amino acids or other
30 additive, plant-derived lipids, or combinations thereof.
                                                   7

           For example, the cheese replica can have an increase in one or more of butanoic
   acid, propanoic acid, hexanoic acid, octanoic acid, or decanoic acid relative to a
   corresponding cheese replica lacking said one or more microbes, sugars, divalent cations,
   isolated enzymes, isolated amino acids or other additive, plant-derived lipids, or
 5 combinations thereof.
           For example, the cheese replica can have an increase in one or more of 2
   heptanone, 2-undecanone, 2-nonanone, 2-butanone, 2-methyl propanoic acid, 2-methyl
   butanoic acid, or 3-methyl butanoic acid relative to a corresponding cheese replica
   lacking said one or more microbes, sugars, divalent cations, isolated enzymes, isolated
10 amino acids or other additive, plant-derived lipids, or combinations thereof.
           For example, the cheese replica can have an increase in one or more of ethyl
   butanoate or methyl hexanoate relative to a corresponding cheese replica lacking said one
   or more microbes, sugars, divalent cations, isolated enzymes, isolated amino acids or
   other additive, plant-derived lipids, or combinations thereof.
15         For example, the cheese replica can have (i) an increase in ethyl octanoate and/or
   2-ethyl-i -hexanol or (ii) an increase in 2-methyl butanal and/or 3-methyl butanal relative
   to a corresponding cheese replica lacking said one or more microbes, sugars, divalent
   cations, isolated enzymes, isolated amino acids or other additive, plant-derived lipids, or
   combinations thereof.
20         For example, the cheese replica can have an increase in acetic acid relative to a
   corresponding cheese replica lacking the one or more microbes, sugars, divalent cations,
   isolated enzymes, isolated amino acids or other additive, plant-derived lipids, or
   combinations thereof.
           For example, the cheese replica can have an increase in one or more of gamma
25 octalactone, delta-octalactone, gamma-nonalactone, butyrolactone, or methyl isobutyl
   ketone relative to a corresponding cheese replica lacking said one or more microbes,
   sugars, divalent cations, isolated enzymes, isolated amino acids, yeast extract, plant
   derived lipids, or combinations thereof.
           For example, the cheese replica can have an increase in one or more of nonanol or
30 1-octen-3-ol relative to a corresponding cheese replica lacking said one or more
                                                 8

   microbes, sugars, divalent cations, isolated enzymes, isolated amino acids, yeast extract,
   plant-derived lipids, or combinations thereof.
           This document also features a method of making a non-dairy cheese replica. The
   method includes solidifying a mixture of one or more isolated and purified proteins from
 5 a non-animal source and one or more isolated fats, the mixture comprising one or more
   microbes selected from the group consisting of Pediococcuspentosaceus, Clostridium
   butyricum, Lactobacillus delbrueckii lactis, Lactobacillus delbrueckii bulgaricus,
   Lactobacillus helveticus, Lactobacillusplantarum,Lactobacillus casei, Lactobacillus
   rhamnosus, Staphylococcus xylosus, and Brevibacterium linens. The solidifying can
10 include cross-linking the proteins using a transglutaminase or a lysyl oxidase, subjecting
   the mixture to a heat / cool cycle, forming a cold set gel, forming a coacervate comprising
   one or more isolated and purified proteins from a non-animal source. The method further
   can include adding one or more of the following: the replica further can include one or
   more sugars (e.g., sucrose, glucose, fructose, and/or maltose), one or more purified
15 enzymes (a lipase, a protease, and/or an amylase), a melting salt (e.g., sodium citrate,
   trisodium pyrophosphate, sodium hexametaphosphate, disodium phosphate, or any
   combination thereof), a divalent cation (e.g., Fe2+, Mg2+, Cu2+,or Ca2+), an isolated
   amino acid (e.g., methionine, leucine, isoleucine, valine, proline, or alanine) or other
   additive selected from the group consisting of a food product, a yeast extract, miso,
20 molasses, a nucleobase, an organic acid, a vitamin, a fruit extract, coconut milk, and a
   malt extract, one or more plant-derived lipids, one or more oils derived from an algae,
   fungus, or bacterium, or one or more free fatty acids. The method further can include
   aerating the mixture. The method can include incubating said mixture with one microbe
   for a period of time and then adding a second microbe to said mixture.
25         This document also features a method for making a cold set gel. The method
   includes denaturing a solution comprising at least one isolated and purified plant proteins
   under conditions wherein said isolated and purified protein does not precipitate out of
   said solution; optionally adding any heat-labile components to said solution of denatured
   protein; gelling said solution of denatured protein between 4'C and 25'C by increasing
30 the ionic strength; and optionally subjecting said cold set gel to high pressure processing.
   The one or more isolated and purified proteins can be plant proteins (e.g., seed storage
                                                 9

   proteins, pea proteins, Lupine proteins, proteins from a legume, chickpea proteins, or
   lentil proteins. The pea proteins can include pea vicilins and/or pea legumins. The heat
   labile components can include one or more microbes. Gelling can be induced using 5 to
   100 mM sodium or calcium chloride.
 5          This document also features a method of making a coacervate. The method
   includes acidifying a solution of one or more isolated and purified proteins from a non
   animal source to a pH between 3.5 and 5.5 (e.g., pH 4-5, wherein the solution comprises
   100 mM or less of a salt; and isolating the coacervate from said solution; and optionally
   subjecting said coacervate to high pressure processing. The isolated and purified proteins
10 can be plant proteins (e.g., seed storage proteins, chickpea proteins, lentil proteins, pea
   proteins or Lupine proteins). The pea proteins can include pea vicilins and/or pea
   legumins. The pea vicilins can include convicilins. The acidifying step can be done in
   the presence of a plant based oil.
            This document also features a method of minimizing one or more undesirable
15 odors in a composition containing plant proteins. The method includes contacting the
   composition with a ligand having binding affinity for lipoxygenases. The ligand can be
   bound to a solid substrate. The composition can be a food composition (e.g. a cheese
   replica)
            In another aspect, this document features a method of minimizing one or more
20 undesirable odors in a composition containing plant proteins. The method includes
   contacting the composition with activated carbon then removing the activated carbon
   from the composition. The composition can be a food composition (e.g. a cheese replica)
            This document also features a method of minimizing one or more undesirable
   odors in a composition containing plant proteins. The method includes contacting the
25 composition with a lipoxygenase inhibitor and/or an antioxidant. The composition can be
   a food composition (e.g. a cheese replica).
            This document also features a method for modulating a flavor profile and/or an
   aroma profile of a cultured non-dairy product. The method includes adding one or more
   microbes to a non-dairy milk source selected from the group consisting of a nut milk, a
30 grain milk or a bean milk and culturing the microbe-containing non-dairy milk and
   modulating 1) the aeration rate and/or timing of aeration during the culturing; 2) the
                                                 10

   timing of adding the microbes to the mixture; 3) the order of adding the one or more
   microbes; 4) the cell density of the contacted microbes prior to or after addition to the
   mixture; or 5) the microbial growth phase of the microbes prior to or after addition to the
   mixture, whereby the flavor profile and/or aroma profile of the non-dairy milk is
 5 modulated. The method further can include adding one or more sugars, divalent cations,
   isolated enzymes, isolated amino acids or other additives, plant-derived lipids, algal oils,
   or oil derived from bacteria, oil derived from fungi, or free fatty acids to the mixture
   during said culturing step. The method further can include solidifying the microbe
   containing mixture. The product can be a cheese replica, yogurt or sour cream, creme
10 fraiche, or kefir.
            This document also features a non-dairy cheese replica comprising a coacervate
   comprising one or more isolated proteins from a non-animal source. The The one or more
   isolated and purified proteins can be plant proteins (e.g., seed storage proteins, pea
   proteins, Lupine proteins, proteins from a legume, chickpea proteins, or lentil proteins.
15 The pea proteins can include pea vicilins and/or pea legumins.
            In another aspect, this document features a non-dairy cheese replica comprising
   (i) a solidified mixture of one or more isolated and purified proteins from a non-animal
   source and one or more isolated plant based lipids or (ii) a solidified non-dairy milk, nut
   milk, and one or microbes; wherein the non-dairy cheese replica has a) an increased
20 creamy texture; b) an improved melting characteristic; or an increased stretching ability.
            This document also features a method of making a non-dairy cheese replica. The
   method includes solidifying a mixture of one or more isolated and purified proteins from
   a non-animal source and one or more isolated fats using high pressure processing. The
   mixture can include one or more microbes comprising one or more microbes selected
25 from the group consisting of a Penicillium species, a Debaryomyces species, a
   Geotrichum species, a Corynebacteriumspecies, a Streptococcus species, a Verticillium
   species., a Kluyveromyces species, a Saccharomyces species, a Candida species, a
   Rhodosporidum species, a Cornybacteriaspecies, a Micrococcus species, a Lactobacillus
   species, a Lactococcus species, a Staphylococcus species, a Halomonas species, a
30 Brevibacterium species, a Psychrobacterspecies, a Leuconostocaceae species, a
   Pediococcus species, a Propionibacteriumspecies, and a lactic acid bacterium.
                                                 11

            This document also features a ricotta cheese replica comprising a solidified nut
   milk, Lactococcus lactis lactis, and Lactococcus lactis cremoris. The ricotta cheese of
   further can include a transglutaminase. The nut milk can be made with almond milk. In
   some embodiments, it is made with a mixture of almond milk and macadamia nut milk.
 5 The ricotta replica has a white and creamy appearance with a buttery appearance. It can
   be smooth and sweet with toasted almond overtones. The ricotta cheese replica can be
   whipped or firm. The whipped ricotta has a smooth texture, and a higher moisture content
   than the firm ricotta. The whipped ricotta replica can be used as substitute for
   mascarpone. The firm ricotta can be used as a cottage cheese substitute.
10          In yet another aspect, this document features a blue cheese replica comprising a
   solidified nut milk, Lactococcus lactis cremoris, Lactococcus lactis diacetylactis,
   Lactococcus lactis lactis; Penicilliumroquetforte, and Debaryomyces hansenii. The blue
   cheese of further can include a transglutaminase. The nut milk can include a mixture of
   almond milk and macadamia nut milk.
15          In yet another aspect, this document features a method for creating a library of
   isolated microbial strains for use in flavoring a non-dairy cheese replica. comprising:
   obtaining a starter culture comprising a heterogenous population of microbial strains;
   isolating one or more individual microbial strains from said heterogenous population; and
   determining a flavor contribution of each of said individual microbial strains to a non
20 dairy cheese replica.
            In practicing the invention, in some embodiments the cheese replica is comprised
   of less than 5% complex carbohydrates.
            In practicing the invention, in some embodiments the cheese replica is comprised
   of less than 5% polysaccharides
25          In practicing the invention, in some embodiments the cheese exhibits smooth
   melting.
            In some embodiments the invention provides a hard cheese replica and method of
   making the same. In some embodiments, a non-dairy milk is inoculated with
   thermophilic cultures before formation of the gel. The hard cheese replica is optionally
30 aged.
                                                 12

           In another aspect, the invention provides a blue cheese replica and method of
   making the same. In some embodiments, the blue cheese replica is prepared from a nut
   milk. In some embodiments, the nut milk is prepared from almonds and macadamia nuts.
   In some embodiments, the nut milk is a 50:50 composition of almond and macadamia
 5 milk. In some embodiments, the nut milk has 28% cream. In some embodiments, the nut
   milk is pasteurized. In some embodiments, the nut milk is heated, e.g., to 83    + 30  F. In
   some embodiments, microbial cultures are then added to the nut milk. In some
   embodiments, the microbial cultures comprise MAl 1 and penicillium roquefortii. In
   particular embodiments, the microbial cultures are are allowed to hydrate on top of milk
10 for about 5 minutes before they are stirred into the milk). In some embodiments,
   proteases or lipases are added. In some embodiments, the proteases or lipases are
   dissolved in water prior to adding to the milk.
           In another aspect the invention provides a washed rind cheese replica and
   methods of making the same. In some embodiments, the washed rind cheese replica is
15 prepared from a nut milk. In some embodiments, the nut milk is prepared from almonds
   and macadamia nuts. In some embodiments, the nut milk is a 50:50 composition of
   almond and macadamia milk. In some embodiments, the nut milk has 28% cream.
           Unless otherwise defined, all technical and scientific terms used herein have the
   same meaning as commonly understood by one of ordinary skill in the art to which this
20 invention pertains. Although methods and materials similar or equivalent to those
   described herein can be used to practice the invention, suitable methods and materials are
   described below. All publications, patent applications, patents, and other references
   mentioned herein are incorporated by reference in their entirety. In case of conflict, the
   present specification, including definitions, will control. In addition, the materials,
25 methods, and examples are illustrative only and not intended to be limiting.
           The details of one or more embodiments of the invention are set forth in the
   accompanying drawings and the description below. Other features, objects, and
   advantages of the invention will be apparent from the description and drawings, and from
   the claims. The word "comprising" in the claims may be replaced by "consisting
30 essentially of' or with "consisting of," according to standard practice in patent law.
                                                 13

                             BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
            The novel features of the invention are set forth with particularity in the appended
   claims. A better understanding of the features and advantages of the present invention
   will be obtained by reference to the following detailed description that sets forth
 5 illustrative embodiments, in which the principles of the invention are utilized, and the
   accompanying drawings of which:
            FIG. 1 is a bar graph of the average texture score of each of the soft ripened
   cheese replicas with the addition of proteases and lipases, as determined by the taste
   testers.
10          FIG. 2 is a bar graph of the average firmness of each of the soft ripened cheeses
   with the addition of proteases, as determined by the texture analyzes.
            FIG. 3A and FIG. 3B are bar graphs of the average preference scores and flavor
   scores, respectively, for the cheese replicas made by varying proteases added and time of
   protease addition, as determined by taste testers.
15          FIG. 4 is a bar graph of the average butteriness scores for the cheese replicas
   made by varying proteases added and time of protease addition, as determined by taste
   testers. Error bars are the standard deviation of the taste tester scores.
            FIG. 5 is a bar graph of the average acidity scores for the cheese replicas made by
   varying proteases added and time of protease addition, as determined by taste testers.
20          FIG. 6 is a line graph depicting the effect of individual LF2 and LF5 bacterial
   strains on the pH of filtered nut media.
            FIG. 7 is a bar graph depicting buttery and sour flavor scores for individual LM
   and LLBD samples.
            FIG. 8 is a bar graph depicting the combined buttery and sour flavor scores for
25 LM and LLBD samples.
            FIG. 9 is a bar graph depicting nutty and sweet flavor scores for individual LM
   and LLBD samples.
            FIG. 10 is a bar graph depicting the combined nutty and sweet flavor scores for
   LM and LLBD samples.
30          FIG. 11 depicts a cheese replica prepared using crosslinked isolated proteins.
                                                  14

            FIG. 12 is a line graph depicting the concentration of 2,3-butanedione detected in
   each sample with 10 mM, 50 mM, or 200 mM glucose and increasing concentrations of
   citrate.
            FIG. 13 is a line graph depicting the concentration of acetoin detected in each
 5 sample with 10 mM, 50 mM, or 200 mM glucose and increasing concentrations of citrate.
            FIG. 14 is a line graph depicting the concentration of 2,3-hexanedione detected in
   each sample with 10 mM, 50 mM, or 200 mM glucose and increasing concentrations of
   citrate.
            FIG. 15 is a bar graph depicting the signal intensity of free fatty acids as detected
10 by GCMS in samples cultured with SX.
            FIG. 16 is a bar graph depicting the signal intensity of 2-methyl and 3-methyl
   butanoic acids as detected by GCMS in samples cultured with SX.
            FIG. 17 is a bar graph depicting the signal intensity of the cheese acids (butanoic
   acid, propanoic acid, 3-methyl butanoic acid, and 2-methyl propanoic acid) as detected
15 by GCMS in Brevibacteriumcultured yeast extract media with additional substrates
   (citrate, oxalic acid, or pyruvate).
            FIG. 18 is a bar graph depicting the signal intensity of "buttery"' compounds
   (acetoin and 2,3-butanedione) as detected by GCMS in soymilk samples cultured with
   MD88.
20          FIG. 19 is a bar graph depicting the signal intensity of "buttery"' compounds
   (acetoin and 2,3-butanedione) as detected by GCMS in soymilk samples cultured with
   TA61.
            FIG. 20 is a bar graph depicting the signal intensity of 3-methyl-butanoic acid, as
   detected by GCMS, produced by SX in soymilk with various branched chain amino acids
25 supplemented.
            FIG. 21 is a bar graph depicting the signal intensity of 2-methyl-butanoic acid, as
   detected by GCMS, produced by SX in soymilk with various branched chain amino acids
   supplemented.
            FIG. 22 is a bar graph depicting the signal intensity of 2-methyl-propanoic acid,
30 as detected by GCMS, produced by SX in soymilk with various branched chain amino
   acids supplemented.
                                                  15

           FIG. 23 is a bar graph depicting the signal intensity of 3-methyl-butanoic acid as
   detected by GCMS in soymilk samples cultured with different concentrations of leucine.
           FIG. 24 is a bar graph depicting the signal intensity of dimethyl trisulfide as
   detected by GCMS in Brevibacteriumcultured samples.
 5         FIG. 25 is bar graph depicting the signal intensity of acetoin as detected by
   GCMS in cultured PV with coconut milk.
           FIG. 26 is bar graph depicting the signal intensity of 2,3-butanedione as detected
   by GCMS in cultured PV with coconut milk.
           FIG. 27 is bar graph depicting the signal intensity of free fatty acids as detected
10 by GCMS in cultured PV with coconut milk.
                          DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION
           The present invention discloses methods and compositions for producing desired
   flavors and textures in cheese made from non-dairy sources. One of skill in the art will
   recognize that any combination of the embodiments described herein are within the scope
15 of the invention. Broadly, the invention provides methods for making non-dairy cheeses
   by solidifying a non-dairy cheese source using a variety of techniques, including
   crosslinking, using a heat / cool cycle, forming a cold set gel, forming a coacervate, or
   using high pressure processing. The solidifying process can allow the separation of the
   crosslinked proteins and associated fats into solid curds that can be separated from the
20 "whey," e.g., the liquid remaining after curdling. The solidified proteins can hold a fat
   emulsion, and have the essential physical characteristics needed for pressing, culturing
   and ripening a cheese replica derived from non-dairy milk.
           As described herein, the texture and/or flavor of the cheese replica, as well as
   melting characteristic or stretchability of the cheese replica, can be modified by adding
25 one or more specific enzymes (e.g., lipases and/or protease), sugars, proteins, amino
   acids, divalent cations, melting salts, yeast extract, food product, miso, molasses,
   nucleobases, organic acids, vitamins, fruit extracts, coconut milk, malt extracts, plant
   based lipids, free fatty acids, and one or more microbes. In addition, culture parameters
   can be adjusted to alter the flavor, texture, melting characteristics, and strechability of a
30 cheese replica. For example, the aeration rate and/or timing of aeration during the
   culturing; the timing of adding the microbes to the mixture; the order in which two or
                                                  16

   more microbes are added, e.g., together or sequentially; the relative amounts of two or
   more microbes; the absolute number of microbes inoculated; or the microbial growth
   phase of the microbes prior to or after addition to the mixture,
            In some embodiments, one or more specific enzymes (e.g., lipases and/or
 5 protease), sugars, proteins, amino acids, divalent cations, melting salts, yeast extract, food
   product, miso, molasses, nucleobases, organic acids, vitamins, fruit extracts, coconut
   milk, malt extracts, plant-based lipids, free fatty acids, can be used to affect emulsion
   stability, protein solubility, suspension stability, or ability to support growth of microbial
   cultures used in making cheese replicas, yogurt replicas, or other food replicas of cultured
10 dairy products.
            In various embodiments, the current invention includes cheese replicas
   principally, entirely or partially composed of ingredients derived from non-animal
   sources. In additional embodiments the present invention includes methods for making
   cheese replicas from non-animal sources. In various embodiments these results are
15 achieved by replicating the curdling process of cheese making in non-dairy milks using a
   transglutaminase.
   Definitions.
            The term "isolated protein" as used herein refers to a preparation in which a
20 protein or population of proteins is substantially isolated from a source, wherein non
   proteinaceous components have been substantially reduced in the preparation. Non
   proteinaceous components may be reduced by a factor of 3 or more, a factor of 5 more
   more, or a factor of 10 or more relative to the source material from which the protein or
   proteins have been isolated. The population of proteins may be heterogenous, or the
25 population of proteins may be heterogenous. A non-limiting example of an isolated
   protein preparation comprising a heterogenous population of proteins is soy protein
   isolate.
            The term "isolated and purified protein" refers to a preparation in which the
   cumulative abundance by mass of protein components other than the specified protein,
30 which can be a single monomeric or multimeric protein species, is reduced by a factor of
   2 or more, 3 or more, 5 or more, 10 or more, 20 or more, 50 or more, 100 or more or
                                                  17

   1000 or more relative to the source material from which the specified protein was said to
   be purified. For clarity, the isolated and purified protein is described as isolated and
   purified relative to its starting material (e.g., plants or other non-animal sources). In
   some embodiments, the term "isolated and purified" can indicate that the preparation of
 5 the protein is at least 60% pure, e.g., greater than 65%, 70%, 75%, 80%, 85%, 90%, 95%,
   or 99% pure. The fact that composition can include materials in addition to the isolated
   and purified protein does not change the isolated and purified nature of the protein as this
   definition typically applies to the protein before addition to the composition.
            The term "homogeneous" can mean a single protein component comprises more
10 than 90% by mass of the total protein constituents of a preparation.
            The term "resemble" can mean one composition having characteristics
   recognizably similar to another composition by an ordinary human observer.
            The term "indistinguishable" can mean that an ordinary human observer would
   not be able to differentiate two compositions based on one or more characteristics. It is
15 possible that two compositions are indistinguishable based on one characteristic but not
   based on another, for example two compositions can have indistinguishable taste while
   having colors that are different. Indistinguishable can also mean that the product
   provides an equivalent function as or performs an equivalent role as the product for
   which it is substituting.
20          The term cheese "substitute" or "replica" can be any non-dairy product that can
   be used in any role commonly served by traditional dairy cheese. A cheese "substitute" or
   "replica" can be a product that shares visual, olfactory, textural or taste characteristics of
   cheese such that an ordinary human observer of the product is induced to think of
   traditional dairy cheese.
25          The term "controlled", "controlling", and "defined" are used interchangeably
   herein to refer to the manipulation of a method or components of a composition to
   achieve a desired characteristic or keep said desired characteristic within certain bounds
   defined by a user. By way of example only, a controlled fat profile refers to a fat profile
   wherein the fat content or content of specific fat classes (e.g., saturated or unsaturated)
30 are kept within user-defined limits. By way of other example only, a controlled amount
   refers to an amount kept within certain bounds defined by a user. For instance, adding a
                                                    18

   controlled amount of bacteria may refer to adding bacterial cultures comprising a known
   population and/or known amount of bacterial strains. By contrast, Rejuvelac is an
   exemplary composition that comprises an uncontrolled amount of, e.g., bacteria.
   Rejuvelac is prepared by incubating a liquid containing a bacterial food source in an
 5 environment that is conducive to the growth of bacteria, but the amount of bacteria or the
   types of bacteria that grow in said environment is not kept to within user-defined bounds,
   e.g., is not controlled.
   Non-dairy milks
10          In one aspect, the invention provides a non-dairy cheese source that can be used
   as a starting material for preparing a non-dairy cheese. The term "non-dairy cheese
   source" refers to an emulsion comprising proteins and fats, wherein said proteins and fats
   are prepared from a non-dairy source. In some embodiments, the non-dairy cheese
   source can be a non-dairy milk obtained from nuts or seeds. In other embodiments, one
15 or more isolated proteins from a non-animal source as used as a non-dairy cheese source.
            In some embodiments, the plant source comprises one or more nuts or seeds. In
   some embodiments, the plant source is a flour compounded from one or more nuts or
   seeds (e.g., almonds and macadamia nuts). The term "nut" generally refers to any hard
   walled, edible kernel. A nut can be a composite of a hard-shelled fruit and a seed, where
20 the hard-shelled fruit does not open to release the seed. Exemplary nuts include, but are
   not limited to almonds, butternut, hickory nuts, wingnuts (Pterocarya),beech nuts, oak
   nuts, filberts, hornbeam nuts, soy nuts, cashews, brazil nuts, chestnuts, coconuts,
   hazelnuts, macadamia nuts, mongogo (Schinziophyton rautanenii),peanuts, pecans, pine
   nuts, pistachios, or walnuts. Any large, oily kernel found within a shell and used in food
25 may be regarded as a nut. Plant seeds can include any embryonic plant enclosed in a seed
   coat. Exemplary plant seeds include, e.g., legumes such as, e.g., alfalfa, clover, peas,
   beans, lentils, lupins, mesquite, carob, soybeans, peanuts, cereals such as, e.g., corn, rice,
   wheat, barley, sorghum, millet, oats, triticale, rye, buckwheat, fonio, teff, amaranth, spelt,
   quinoa, angiosperms (e.g., flowering plants such as, for example, sunflowers) and
30 gymnosperms. "Gymnosperm" generally refer to plant species that produce seeds that are
   generally not enclosed in a nut or fruit. Exemplary gymnosperms include conifers such
                                                  19

   as, e.g., pine trees, spruce trees, and fir trees. In some embodiments, the non-dairy milk
   is not soy milk.
            Non-dairy products or compositions include products or compositions where the
   constituent proteins, fats and/or small molecules can be isolated from, or secreted by,
 5 plants, bacteria, viruses, archaea, fungi, or algae. The non-dairy proteins also can be
   recombinantly produced using polypeptide expression techniques (e.g., heterologous
   expression techniques using bacterial cells, insect cells, fungal cells such as yeast cells,
   plant cells). In some cases, standard polypeptide synthesis techniques (e.g., liquid-phase
   polypeptide synthesis techniques or solid-phase polypeptide synthesis techniques) can be
10 used to produce proteins synthetically. In some cases, in vitro transcription/translation
   reactions are used to produce the proteins. Non-dairy products are generally not derived
   from cows, goats, buffalo, sheep, horses, camels, or other mammals. In some
   embodiments non-dairy products do not contain dairy proteins. In some embodiments
   non-dairy products do not contain dairy fats.
15          The non-dairy milk can be made by a method comprising preparing the nuts or
   plant seeds with processing steps such as sterilizing, blanching, shocking,
   decompounding, centrifugation, or washing. The nuts or seeds can be decompounded for
   example, by grinding or blending or milling the nuts in a solution comprising water.
   Alternative methods for decompounding the nuts or dried seeds can include crushing,
20 tumbling, crumbling, atomizing, shaving, pulverizing, grinding, milling, water eroding
   (for example with a water jet), or finely chopping the nuts or plant seeds. In some
   embodiments, the decompounding step takes place in a blender, a continuous flow
   grinder, or a continuous flow mill. The decompounding can be followed by a sorting,
   filtering, screening, air-classification, or separation step. In some embodiments the
25 decompounded nuts or seeds can be stored prior to the formation of a non-dairy milk.
   The aqueous solution can be added before, during, or after the decompounding.
            The nuts or seeds used in some embodiments of the invention to make non-dairy
   milks may have contaminants on the surface which would make a non-dairy milk unsafe
   or unpalatable. Accordingly the nuts or seeds can be washed or blanched prior to use.
30 The nuts or seeds can also be sterilized to remove, reduce, or kill any contaminants on the
   surface of the nuts or seeds. A sterilization step can be an irradiation step, a heat step
                                                    20

   (e.g. steam sterilization, flaming, or dry heat), or a chemical sterilization (e.g., exposure
   to ozone). In some embodiments the sterilization step kills more than 95% or more than
   99% of microbes on the nuts or seeds.
            In some embodiments, the non-dairy milk is centrifuged to remove insoluble
 5 solids. The non-dairy milk can have less than 1%, 5%, 10%, 20%, 30%, 40% or 50% of
   insoluble solids found in the non-dairy milk before centrifugation. The non-dairy milk
   can have 99%, 95%, 90%, 80%, 70%, 60% or 50% of insoluble solids removed by
   centrifugation. Centrifugation of the non-dairy milk is described herein.
            In some embodiments the non-dairy milk is pasteurized or sterilized. The
10 pasteurization can be high-temperature, short-time (HTST), "extended shelf life" (ESL)
   treatment, or ultra-high temperature (UHT or ultra-heat-treated). In some embodiments
   the pasteurization procedure includes pasteurizing the non-dairy milk at 164'F -167'F for
   10 to 20 seconds (e.g., 10, 12, 14, 16, 18, or 20) seconds. In sme embodiments, the
   microbial load in the non-dairy milk is reduced by exposure to UV light or high pressure
15 pasteurization. A controlled chilling system can be used to rapidly bring non-dairy milk
   temperature down rapidly and store in a refrigerator at 36F.
            In some embodiments, the non-dairy milk is a non-dairy cream fraction.
            In some embodiments, the non-dairy milk is an emulsion comprising one or more
   isolated and purified proteins and one or more isolated fats. In some embodiments the
20 isolated and purified proteins are contained in a protein solution. The solution can
   comprise EDTA (0 - 0.1M), NaCl (0-1M), KCl (0-1M), NaSO 4 (0 - 0.2M), potassium
   phosphate (0-IM), sodium citrate (0-IM), sodium carbonate (0-IM), sucrose (0-50%),
   Urea (0-2M) or any combination thereof. The solution can have a pH of 3 to 11. In some
   embodiments, the one or more isolated and purified proteins accounts for 0.l1%, 0.2%,
25 0.5%, 1%, 2%, 3%, 4%, 5%, 6%, 7%, 8%, 9%, 10%, 15%, 20%, 25%, 30%, 35%, 40%,
   45%, 50%, 55%, 60%, 65%, 7 0%, 75%, 80%, 85%, 90%, 95%, 99% or more of the
   protein content of said protein solution. In some embodiments, the one or more isolated
   and purified proteins accounts for 0.1-5%, 1-10%, 5-20%, 10-40%, 30-60%, 40-80%, 50
   90%, 60-95%, or 7 0-100% of the protein content of said protein solution. In some
30 embodiments, the total protein content of the protein solution is about 0.l1%, 0.2%, 0.3%,
   0.4%, 0.50%, 0. 7 5 %, 1%, 1.50%, 2 %, 5 %, 7 .5 %, 10%, 12.5 %, 150%, 17 .5 %, 20%, or more
                                                    21

   than 20% weight/volume. In some embodiments, the total protein content of the protein
   solution is 0.1-5%, 1-10%, 5-20%, or more than 20% weight/volume. In some
   embodiments, the protein content of the protein solution contains 1-3 isolated and
   purified proteins, 2-5 isolated and purified proteins, 4-10 isolated and purified proteins,
 5 5-20 isolated and purified proteins, or more than 20 isolated and purified proteins.
            In some embodiments, the one or more isolated, purified proteins are derived
   from non-animal sources. In some embodiments, the non-dairy milk is isolated from a
   non-dairy source (e.g., a plant). Non-limiting examples of plant sources include grain
   crops such as, e.g., maize, oats, rice, wheat, barley, rye, triticale (a wheat rye hybrid), teff
10 (Eragrostistef); oilseed crops including cottonseed, sunflower seed, safflower seed,
   Crambe, Camelina, mustard, rapeseed (Brassicanapus); leafy greens such as, e.g.,
   lettuce, spinach, kale, collard greens, turnip greens, chard, mustard greens, dandelion
   greens, broccoli, or cabbage; or green matter not ordinarily consumed by humans,
   including biomass crops such as switchgrass (Panicumvirgatum), Miscanthus,Arundo
15 donax, energy cane, Sorghum, or other grasses, alfalfa, corn stover, kelp or other
   seaweeds, green matter ordinarily discarded from harvested plants, sugar cane leaves,
   leaves of trees, root crops such as cassava, sweet potato, potato, carrots, beets, or turnips;
   plants from the legume family, such as, e.g., clover, Stylosanthes, Sesbania, vetch
   (Vicia), Arachis, Indigofera, Leucaena, Cyamopsis, peas such as cowpeas, english peas,
20 yellow peas, or green peas, or beans such as, e.g., soybeans, fava beans, lima beans,
   kidney beans, garbanzo beans, mung beans, pinto beans, lentils, lupins, mesquite, carob,
   soy, and peanuts (Arachis hypogaea); coconut; or Acacia. One of skill in the art will
   understand that proteins that can be isolated from any organism in the plant kingdom may
   be used in the present invention. In some embodiments, the plant source is not soybeans.
25          Proteins that are abundant in plants can be isolated in large quantities from one or
   more source plants and thus are an economical choice for use in any of the cheese
   products. Accordingly, in some embodiments, the one or more isolated proteins
   comprise an abundant protein found in high levels in a plant and capable of being isolated
   and purified in large quantities. In some embodiments, the abundant protein comprises
30 about 0.5%, 1%, 2%, 3%, 4 %, 5%, 6%, 7%, 8%, 9%, 10%, 15%, 20%, 25%, 30%, 35%,
   40%, 45%, 50%, 55%, 60%, 65%, or 70% of the total protein content of the source plant.
                                                  22

   In some embodiments, the abundant protein comprises about 0.5-10%, about 5-40 %,
   about 10-50%, about 20-60%, or about 30-70% of the total protein content of the source
   plant. In some embodiments, the abundant protein comprises about 0.5%, 1%, 2%, 3%,
   4%, 5%, 6%, 7%, 8%, 9%, 10%, 15%, 20%, 25%, 30%, 35%, 40%, 45%, or 50% of the
 5 total weight of the dry matter of the source plant. In some embodiments, the abundant
   protein comprises about 0.5-5%, about 1-10%, about 5-20%, about 10-30%, about 15
   40%, or about 20-50% of the total weight of the dry matter of the source plant.
           In particular embodiments, the one or more isolated proteins comprise an
   abundant protein that is found in high levels in the leaves of plants. In some
10 embodiments, the abundant protein comprises about 0.5%, 1%, 2%, 3%, 4%, 5%, 6%,
   7%, 8%, 9%, 10%, 15%, 20%, 25%, 30%, 35%, 40%, 45%, 50%, 55%, 60%, 65%,                 7 0 %,
   75%, or 80% of the total protein content of the leaves of the source plant. In some
   embodiments, the abundant protein comprises about 0.5-10%, about 5 %-40%, about
   10%-60%, about 20%-60%, or about 30-70% of the total protein content of the leaves of
15 the source plant. In particular embodiments, the one or more isolated proteins comprise
   ribulose-1,5-bisphosphate carboxylase oxygenase (RuBisCo). RuBisCo is a particularly
   useful protein for cheese replicas because of its high solubility and an amino acid
   composition with close to the optimum proportions of essential amino acids for human
   nutrition. In particular embodiments, the one or more isolated proteins comprise
20 ribulose-1,5-bisphosphate carboxylase oxygenase activase (RuBisCo activase). In
   particular embodiments, the one or more isolated proteins comprise a vegetative storage
   protein (VSP).
           In some embodiments, the one or more isolated proteins comprise an abundant
   protein that is found in high levels in the seeds of plants. In some embodiments, the
25 abundant protein comprises about 0.5%, 1%, 2%, 3%, 4%, 5%, 6%, 7 %, 8%, 9%, 10%,
   15%, 20%, 25%, 30%, 35%, 40%, 45%, 50%, 55%, 60%, 65%, 7 0%, 7 5%, 80%, 85% or
   90% or more of the total protein content of the seeds of the source plant. In some
   embodiments, the abundant protein comprises about 0.5-10%, about 5%-40%, about
   10%- 6 0%, about 2 0%- 6 0%, or about 3 0- 7 0% or > 7 0% of the total protein content of the
30 seeds of the source plant. Non-limiting examples of proteins found in high levels in the
   seeds of plants are seed storage proteins, e.g., albumins, glycinins, conglycinins,
                                                 23

   globulins, vicilins, convicilins, legumins, conalbumin, gliadin, glutelin, glutenin, hordein,
   prolamin, phaseolin (protein), proteinoplast, secalin, triticeae gluten, zein, or oil body
   proteins such as oleosins, caloleosins, or steroleosins.
           In some embodiments, the one or more isolated proteins comprise proteins that
 5 interact with lipids and help stabilize lipids in a structure. Without wishing to be bound
   by a particular theory, such proteins may improve the integration of lipids and/or fat
   replicas with other components of the cheese product, resulting in improved mouthfeel
   and texture of the final product. A non-limiting example of a lipid-interacting plant
   protein is the oleosin family of proteins. Oleosins are lipid-interacting proteins that are
10 found in oil bodies of plants. Other non-limiting examples of plant proteins that can
   stabilize emulsions include seed storage proteins from Great Northern Beans, albumins
   from peas, globulins from peas, 8S globulins from moong bean, and 8S globulins from
   kidney bean.
           In some embodiments, the one or more isolated and purified proteins is selected
15 from the group consisting of ribosomal proteins, actin, hexokinase, lactate
   dehydrogenase, fructose bisphosphate aldolase, phosphofructokinases, triose phosphate
   isomerases, phosphoglycerate kinases, phosphoglycerate mutases, enolases, pyruvate
   kinases, proteases, lipases, amylases, glycoproteins, lectins, mucins, glyceraldehyde-3
   phosphate dehydrogenases, pyruvate decarboxylases, actins, translation elongation
20 factors, histones, ribulose-1,5-bisphosphate carboxylase oxygenase (RuBisCo), ribulose
   1,5-bisphosphate carboxylase oxygenase activase (RuBisCo activase), albumins,
   glycinins, conglycinins, globulins, legumins, vicilins, conalbumin, gliadin, glutelin,
   glutenin, hordein, prolamin, phaseolin (protein), proteinoplast, secalin, extensins, triticeae
   gluten, collagens, zein, kafirin, avenin, dehydrins, hydrophilins, late embyogenesis
25 abundant proteins, natively unfolded proteins, any seed storage protein, oleosins,
   caloleosins, steroleosins or other oil body proteins, vegetative storage protein A,
   vegetative storage protein B, moong seed storage 8S globulin, pea globulins, pea
   albumins, or any other protease described herein.
           In some embodiments, the isolated and purified proteins are concentrated using
30 any methods known in the art. The proteins may be concentrated 2-fold, five-fold, 10
   fold, or up to 100 fold. The proteins may be concentrated to a final concentration of
                                                  24

   0.001-1%, 0.05- 2 % , 0.1-5%, 1-10%, 2-15%, 4-20%, or more than 20%. Exemplary
   methods include, e.g., ultrafiltration (or tangential flow filtration), lyphilisation, spray
   drying, or thin film evaporation.
            The fats used in preparing the emulsion can be from a variety of sources. In some
 5  embodiments, the sources are non-animal sources (e.g., oils obtained from plants, algae,
    fungi such as yeast or filamentous fungi, seaweed, bacteria, Archae), including
    genetically engineered bacteria, algae, archaea or fungi. The oils can be hydrogenated
    (e.g., a hydrogenated vegetable oil) or non-hydrogenated. Non-limiting examples of
    plant oils include corn oil, olive oil, soy oil, peanut oil, walnut oil, almond oil, sesame
10  oil, cottonseed oil, rapeseed oil, canola oil, safflower oil, sunflower oil, flax seed oil,
    palm oil, palm kernel oil, coconut oil, babassu oil, shea butter, mango butter, cocoa
    butter, wheat germ oil, or rice bran oil; or margarine.
            In some embodiments, the fat can be triglycerides, monoglycerides, diglycerides,
    sphingosides, glycolipids, lecithin, lysolecithin, phospholipids such as phosphatidic
15  acids, lysophosphatidic acids, phosphatidyl cholines, phosphatidyl inositols,
    phosphatidyl ethanolamines, or phosphatidyl serines; sphingolipids such as
    sphingomyelins or ceramides; sterols such as stigmasterol, sitosterol, campesterol,
    brassicasterol, sitostanol, campestanol, ergosterol, zymosterol, fecosterol, dinosterol,
    lanosterol, cholesterol, or episterol; free fatty acids such as palmitoleic acid, palmitic
20  acid, myristic acid, lauric acid, myristoleic acid, caproic acid, capric acid, caprylic acid,
    pelargonic acid, undecanoic acid, linoleic acid (C18:2), eicosanoic acid (C22:0),
    arachidonic acid (C20:4), eicosapentanoic acid (C20:5), docosapentaenoic acid (C22:5),
    docosahexanoic acid (C22:6), erucic acid (C22:1), conjugated linoleic acid, linolenic
    acid (C 18:3), oleic acid (C 18:1), elaidic acid (trans isomer of oleic acid), trans-vaccenic
25  acid (C 18:1 trans 11), or conjugated oleic acid; or esters of such fatty acids, including
    monoacylglyceride esters, diacylglyceride esters, and triacylglyceride esters of such fatty
    acids.
            The fat can comprise phospholipids, sterols or lipids. The phospholipids can
   comprise a plurality of amphipathic molecules comprising fatty acids (e.g., see above),
30 glycerol and polar groups. In some embodiments, the polar groups are, for example,
   choline, ethanolamine, serine, phosphate, glycerol-3-phosphate, inositol or inositol
                                                   25

   phosphates. In some embodiments, the lipids are, for example, sphingolipids, ceramides,
   sphingomyelins, cerebrosides, gangliosides, ether lipids, plasmalogens or pegylated
   lipids.
            In some embodiments, the fat are the cream fraction created from seeds, nuts, and
 5 legumes, including but not limited to sunflower seeds, safflower seeds, sesame seeds,
   rape seeds, almonds, macadamia nuts, grapefruit, lemon, orange, watermelon, pumpkin,
   cocoa, coconut, mango, butternut squash, cashews, brazilnuts, chestnuts, hazelnuts,
   peanuts, pecans, walnuts, and pistachios. Methods for preparing a cream fraction are
   described herein.
10          The addition of controlled amounts of one or more fats can result in different
     cheese properties, including but not limited to firmness, water retention, oil leakage,
    melt-ability, stretching, color, and creaminess. The fats can be in the form of unsaturated
    oil, saturated oil, washed cream fraction, and/or unwashed cream fraction. The
    unsaturated oils can include, e.g., olive oil, palm oil, soybean oil, canola oil (rapeseed
15  oil), pumpkin seed oil, corn oil, sunflower oil, safflower oil, avocado oil, other nut oils,
    peanut oil, grape seed oil, sesame oil, argan oil, and rice bran oil. The saturated oils can
    include, e.g., coconut, palm, cocoa, cottonseed, mango oil, etc. The cream fraction can
    be made from, by way of example only, sunflower seeds, safflower, sesame seeds, rape
     seeds, almonds, macadamia, and pistachios. Preparation and isolation of cream fractions
20   are described herein.
            In some embodiments, an emulsion is prepared by isolating and purifying one or
   more proteins, preparing a solution comprising the one or more isolated and purified
   proteins, admixing said solution with one or more fats, thereby creating said emulsion.
   The ratio of protein solution to fats can be about 1:10, 1:5, 1:4, 1:3, 1:2, 1:1, 2:1, 3:1, 4:1,
25 5:1, or 10:1. The ratio of protein solution to fats can be about 10:1-1:2, 1:4-2:1, 1:1-4:1,
   or 2:1-10:1. The emulsion can be used as a non-dairy milk for the preparation of a non
   dairy cheese. By way of example only, 0%- 50% fat can be added to a protein solution
   by weight/weight or weight/volume.
30 Method of isolating and mixing cream and skim fractions
                                                  26

            In some embodiments, the non-dairy milk can be further separated into a cream
   fraction and a skim fraction. In some embodiments, defined amounts of cream fraction
   can be mixed with defined amounts of skim fraction to produce a non-dairy milk with a
   controlled fat profile. In one aspect, the invention provides a method for creating a non
 5 dairy cheese replica with a controlled fat profile. In some embodiments, the method
   comprises isolating a cream and skim fraction from a non-dairy milk, and mixing a
   defined amount of said cream and optionally said skim fraction to produce a mixture with
   a controlled fat profile. In some embodiments, said isolating comprises separating a non
   dairy milk into a cream and skim fraction. In some embodiments the cream fraction is
10 enriched in fats relative to the skim fraction. The cream fraction may contain at least
   50%, 55%, 60%, 65%, 70%, 75%, 80%, 85%, 90%, or 95% or more of the fat content of
   said non-dairy milk prior to separation. The cream fraction may comprise a fat content
   that is at greater than the fat content of a skim fraction. The cream fraction may comprise
   a fat content that is increased by 10%, 15 %, 20%, 25 %, 30%, 35 %, 40%, 45 %, 50%,
15 55 %, 60%, 65 %, 7 0%, 7 5%, 80%, 85 %, 90%, 95%, 100%, or greater than 100% as
   compared to the skim fraction. The cream fraction may comprise a fat content that is 0.2
   fold greater, 0.5-fold greater, 0.75-fold greater, 1-fold greater, 1.2-fold greater, 1.3-fold
   greater, 1.4-fold greater., 1.5-fold greater, 2-fold greater, 3-fold greater, 4-fold greater, 5
   fold greater, 7.5-fold greater, 10-fold greater, 15-fold greater, 20-fold greater, or more
20 than 20-fold greater than the fat content of the skim fraction.
            The cream and skim fractions can, for example, be separated by gravity or by
   centrifugation. Centrifugation generally refers to a process of separating components in a
   composition using centrifugal force. The rate of centrifugation is specified by the angular
   velocity measured in revolutions per minute (RPM), or acceleration expressed as g. The
25 term "g" generally refers to the acceleration produced by gravity at the Earth's surface. In
   some embodiments, the cream and skim fractions are separated by centrifugation at 500,
   1000, 1500,2000,2500,3000,3500,4000,4500,5000,5500,6000,6500,7000,7500,
   8000, 8500, 9000, 9500, or 10,000 RPM. In some embodiments, the cream and skim
   fraction are separated by centrifugation at about 500-2000, 1000-5000, 2000-7000, 4000
30 10,000, or greater than 10,000 RPM. In some embodiments, the cream and skim
   fractions are separated by centrifugation for about 1, 5, 10, 15, 20, 25, 30, 35, 40, 45, 50,
                                                   27

   55, 60, or more than 60 minutes. In some embodiments, the cream and skim fractions are
   separated by centrifugation for 1-10, 5-30, 10-45, 30-60, or more than 60 minutes. In one
   embodiment, the cream and skim fractions are centrifuged in a JS-5.0 rotor at 5000 RPM
   for 30 mins. In some embodiments, the cream fraction and skim fraction are separated by
 5 centrifugal separation in a Flotwegg ac1500 or GEA ME55.
           In some embodiments the cream fraction and the skim fraction are incompletely
   separated. The skim fraction and the cream fraction can be separated from the insoluble
   solids in a separation process. In some embodiments the skim fraction and the cream
   fraction are stored separately.
10         In some embodiments, a cream fraction can be used as a non-dairy cheese source.
           In some embodiments, a protein solution can be admixed with a cream fraction to
   produce a non-dairy cheese source. Exemplary protein solutions are described herein.
           In some embodiments, the method further comprises admixing the protein
   solution with a cream fraction isolated from a plant source. As used herein, the term
15 "cream fraction" refers to an emulsion comprising fats, proteins and water that is
   enriched in fats as compared to an original emulsion (i.e., non-dairy milk). Exemplary
   cream fractions and methods of preparing the same are described herein. In some
   embodiments, a cream fraction is purified from a plant source, e.g., seeds, nuts, or
   legumes such as sunflowers, safflower, sesame seeds, rape seeds, almonds, macadamia,
20 and pistachios. In some embodiments, the cream fraction is purified by blending seeds or
   nuts in water or a solution to create a slurry. Some embodiments includes blending
   seeds, nuts or legumes from 1 minute up to 30 minutes which could include a blending
   method by increasing the speed gradually to maximum speed over 4 minute, and blending
   at maximum speed for 1 minute. The solution can comprise EDTA (0 - 0.1M), NaCl (0
25 IM), KCl (0-IM), NaSO 4 (0 - 0.2M), potassium phosphate (0-1M), sodium citrate (0
   IM), sodium carbonate (0-IM), sucrose (0-50%), urea (0-2M) or any combination
   thereof. The solution can have a pH of 3 to 11. See, Example 11. The slurry can be
   centrifuged by any method known in the art or as described herein.
           Centrifugation can result in a separation of liquid layers and an insoluble solid
30 pellet. The top layer can be used as the cream fraction. The lower layer can be used as
   whey, and the pellet is removed. The cream fraction can then be used as is immediately
                                                  28

   after centrifugation, or can be further washed with the solutions described above or
   heated in solution. Washing and heating removes the unwanted color and flavor
   molecules, or unwanted grainy particles to improve the mouth feel. In particular,
   washing with a high pH buffer (e.g., above pH 9) can remove bitter tasting compounds
 5 and improve mouth feel, washing with urea can remove storage proteins, washing below
   pH 9, followed by washing with a pH above pH 9 can remove unwanted color molecules,
   and/or washing with salts can decrease taste compounds. Heating increases the removal
   of grainy particles, color and flavor compounds. Heating can be from 0-24 hours, at
   25'C to 80'C. Washing and heating can remove unwanted colors and flavor notes, and
10 can remove unwanted grainy particles. In some embodiments, washing and heating
   improves mouthfeel. In some embodiments, the resulting creamy fraction comprises seed
   storage proteins. In some embodiments, the seed storage proteins are substantially
   removed from the resulting creamy fraction.
           In some embodiments, a defined amount of a cream fraction and a defined amount
15 of a skim fraction are mixed to produce a mixture. The cream and/or skim fractions can
   be pasteurized or not pasteurized. In some embodiments, the defined amounts are
   defined by a user to result in a mixture with a controlled fat profile. In some
   embodiments, the cream and skim fractions are mixed at a defined ratio to result in a
   mixture with a controlled fat profile. In some embodiments the ratio of cream layer to
20 skim layer inthe non-dairy milk isabout 100:1, 90:1, 80:1, 70:1, 60:1, 50:1, 40:1, 30:1,
   20:1, 10:1, 9:1, 8:1, 7:1, 6:1, 5:1, 4:1, 3:1, 2:1, 1:1, 1:2, 1:3, 1:4, 1:5, 1:6, 1:7, 1:8, 1:9,
   1:10, 1:20, 1:30, 1:40, 1:50, or 1:60. In some embodiments the methods described herein
   comprise measuring the amount of skim layer and cream layer being added to a non-dairy
   milk.
25         The mixture may then be used as a non-dairy cheese source to prepare a cheese
   replica. It is understood that any of the non-dairy cheese sources as described herein may
   be used individually, or in any combination thereof, when practicing the methods
   described herein.
30 Flavoring components/methods
                                                   29

            In another aspect, the invention provides methods for flavoring cultured non-dairy
   products, including sour cream, creme fraiche, yogurt, or cheese replicas. In some
   embodiments, the method comprises comparing a flavor note profile of a test non-dairy
   product with one or more flavor additives and/or one or more individual microbial strains
 5 described herein to a flavor note profile of a control non-dairy product without the
   additives and/or individual microbial strain. The texture and flavor profile of the non
   dairy product (e.g. cheese replica) can be ascertained by any method known in the art or
   described herein. Exemplary methods of ascertaining flavor and texture can be by a taste
   test, e.g., a blind taste test, or using gas chromatography-mass spectrometry (GCMS).
10          GCMS is a method that combines the features of gas-liquid chromatography and
   mass spectrometry to identify different substances within a test sample. GCMS can, in
   some embodiments, be used to evaluate the properties of a dairy cheese and a cheese
   replica. For example volatile chemicals can be detected from the head space around a
   dairy cheese or a cheese replica. These chemicals can be identified using GCMS. A
15 profile of the volatile chemicals in the headspace around cheese is thereby created. In
   some instances each peak of the GCMS can be further evaluated. For instance, a human
   could rate the experience of smelling the chemical responsible for a certain peak. This
   information could be used to further refine the profile. GCMS could then be used to
   evaluate the properties of the cheese replicas. The GCMS could be used to refine the
20 cheese replica. In some embodiments the cheese replica has a GCMS profile similar to
   that of dairy cheese. In some embodiments the cheese replica has a GCMS profile
   identical to that of dairy cheese.
            The flavor profile can be characterized by the presence and/or intensity of one or
   more flavor notes. Exemplary flavor notes include, but are not limited to butteriness,
25 fruitiness, nuttiness, dairy, milky, chessy, fatty, fruity, pinnapple, waxy, buttery, tonka,
   dark fruit, citrus, sour, banana-like, sweet, bitter, musty, floral, goaty, sweaty, woody,
   earthly, mushroom, malty, spicy, pear, green, balsamic, pungent, oily, rose, fatty,
   butterscotch, orange, pine, carnation, melon, pineapple, vanilla, garlic, herbaceous,
   woody, cinnamon, rue, yogurt, peach, vanilla, hawthorn, and herbaceous. The flavor
30 notes may be associated with the release of one or more volatile compounds. The flavor
   profile can be characterized by the absence or reduction in the intensity of one or more
                                                    30

   flavor notes. Exemplary flavor notes include: planty, beany, soy, green, vegetable, nutty,
   dirty, and sour.
            Exemplary volatile compounds include, e.g., gamma-nonanoic lactone, gamma
   undecalactone, gamma-decalactone, delta- tetradecalactone, S-methyl thiopropionate,
 5 delta-tridecalactone, delta-tetradecalactone, 6-tetradecalactone, butyl butyryllactate, 2,3
   hexandione, methyl hexanoate, butyrolactone, propanoic acid, 2-methyl propanoic acid,
   methyl isobutyl ketone, gamma octalactone, delta octalactone, gamma nonalactone , 5
   hydroxy-4-octanone, 2-ethyl-1-hexanol, octane, ethanol, 2,3-butanedione, 2 heptanone, 1
   butanol, acetoin, butanoic acid, nonanal, acetic acid, 1,3 butanediol, methyl-3-buten-l-ol,
10 methanol, hexanol, dimethyl-benzene, ethyl-benzene, indole, limonene, toluene,
   acetophenone, pentan-2,3-dione, 2-pentanone, 2-heptanone, 2-nonanone, acetone,
   butanone, 2-methylpropionic acid, butanoic acid, 2-methylbutanoic acid, 3
   methylbutanoic acid, pentanoic acid, 4-methylpentanoic acid, hexanoic acid, octanoic
   acid, decanoic acid, undecanoic acid, dodecanoic acid, tetradecanoic acid, hexadecanoic
15 acid, octadecanoic acid, oleic acid, linoleic acid, linolenic acid, propanol, butanol,
   pentanol, hexanol, heptanol, octanol, propan-2-ol, butan-2-ol, pentan-2-ol, hexan-2-ol,
   heptan-2-ol, nonan-2-ol, undecan-2-ol, octen-3-ol, octa-1,5-dien-3-ol, 3-methyl-2
   cyclohexenol, 2-methylpropanol, 2-methylbutanol, 3-methylbutanol, 3-methylpentanol,
   phenylmethanol, 2-phenylethanol, 2-phenyl-ethan-2-ol, propan-2-one, butan-2-one,
20 pentan-2-one, hexan-2-one, heptan-2-one, octan-2-one, nonan-2-one, decan-2-one,
   undecan-2-one, dodecan-2-one, tridecan-2-one, pentadeca-2-one, pentan-3-one, octan-3
   one, 3-methylpentan-2-one, 4-methylpentan-2-one, methylhexan-2-one, hydroxypropan
   2-one, hept-5-en-2-one, 4-methylpent-3-en-2-one, octen-3-one, octa-1,5-dien-3-one,
   nonen-2-one, undecen-2-one, methylfuryl ketone, phenylpropan-2-one, propiophenone,
25 methyl butanoate, methyl hexanoate, methyl octanoate, methyl decanoate, methyl
   tetradecanoate, methyl hexadecanoate, methyl cinnamate, ethyl formate, ethyl acetate,
   ethyl propanoate, ethyl butanoate, ethyl hexanoate, ethyl octanoate, ethyl decanoate, ethyl
   dodecanoate, ethyl tetradecanoate, ethyl-3-methyl butanoate, propyl acetate, propyl
   butanoate, butyl formate, butyl acetate, amyl acetate, isoamyl formate, isoamyl acetate,
30 isoamyl propanoate, isoamyl butanoate, diethyl phthalate, dimethyl phthalate, 2
   phenylethyl acetate, 2-phenylethyl propanoate, 2-phenylethyl butanoate, 3
                                                 31

   methylthiopropanol, methanethiol, hydrogen sulfide, dimethyl disulfide, dimethyl
   trisulfide, dimethyl tetrasulfide, methylethyl disulfide, diethyl disulfide, 2,4
   dithiapentane, methional, 3-methylthio-2,4-dithiapentane, 2,4,5-trithiahexane, 1,1-bis
   methylmercaptodisulfide, methanethiol acetate, methyl thiopropanoate, methyl
 5 thiobenzoate, thiophen-2-aldehyde, methylindole, p-ethylphenol, p-cresol, acetaldehyde,
   butanal, 2-methylbutanal, 3-methylbutanal, 2-methylpropanal, hexanal, heptanal,
   nonanal, 2-methylbuten-2-al, benzaldehyde, 3-methylheptyl acetate, 1-butanol, 1-butanol,
   3-methyl, 1-heptanol, formic acid, 1-hexanol-2,ethyl, 1-octanol, 2-butanone, 2-hepten-1
   ol , 2-hexanone, heptanal, 2-octen-1-ol, 1-octen-3-ol, 2-pentanone, 2,3-butanedione, 3
10 buten-1-ol, 5-Hepten-2-one, octane, ethanol, 2,3-butanedione, 2 heptanone, 1-butanol,
   butanoic acid, nonanal, acetic acid, 1,3 butanediol, methyl-3-buten phenylethyl alcohol,
   toluene, 1-pentanol, 3-octene-1-ol, 2 octene-1-ol, 2-undecanone, 1-octanol,
   Benzaldehyde, 1-heptanol, 2-heptanone, 4-methyl-2-nonanone, 2-methyl-2-nonanol, 1
   hexanol, 2-methyl 2-propanol, Ethanol, 3 methyl 1-butanol, 1-hexanol, 2-methyl 2
15 nonanol, 2-nonanone, 2-heptanone, 4-methyl, 1-heptanol, 1-octanol, 2 octene-1-ol, 3
   octene-1-ol, 1-octanol, 1-heptanol, 2-heptanone, 4-methyl-2-nonanone, 2-dodecanol, 2
   dodecanone, 3-decene 1-ol acetate, benzyl alcohol, phenylethyl alcohol, 2-methoxy 4
   vinylphenol, 3-decene 1-ol acetate, 2-dodecanone, 2-dodecanol, or 2-methoxy 4
   vinylphenol.
20          In some embodiments, the improved flavors are due to the decreased levels of
   volatile flavor compounds, such as, e.g., benzaldehyde, 2-methyl-2-propanol,
   acetophenone, octane, ethanol, 2-pentanone, pentanal, 2 heptanone, 1-butanol, 1-hexanol,
   3-methyl-1-butanol, 2-methyl-2-noonanol, 2-nonanone, 1-octanol, 2-undecanone, 2
   octene-1-ol (Z), 1-octene-3-ol, acetophenone, 4-methyl-2 heptanone, nonanal, acetic acid,
25 3-methyl furan, 2-methyl furan, 1-hexanal, furan, 2-methyl-2-propanol, pyrazine, 1
   heptanal, 2-ethyl furan, 2-pentyl furans, or 1,3 butanediol.
            In some embodiments, the method further comprises preparing a cultured non
   dairy product such as a cheese replica, yogurt, sour cream, or creme fraiche with a
   controlled flavor profile, by the controlled addition of defined combinations of flavor
30 additives, described herein, to the non-dairy e source at any time point of the replica
   making process. Exemplary additives and specific combinations are described herein.
                                                 32

   Flavor Generators
   Control offlavor by addition of bacteria/microbes
           Flavor compounds can be generated by microbes in the non-animal derived
 5 material used for producing many different non-dairy products described herein,
   including cheese replicas. The methods of flavoring generally include contacting a non
   dairy milk or protein solution with one or more microbes, and preparing a cultured non
   dairy product from the non-dairy milk. Microbes such as bacteria, yeast, or mold can be
   used to create a product with a desired flavor profile or be used as a component of the
10 flavor in a product, as bacteria can create desirable flavors (e.g., buttery, creamy, dairy,
   or cheesy) in a neutral, planty, or beany product.
           Exemplary non-dairy milks are described herein. Any of the non-dairy cheese
   milks or combinations thereof may be contacted with one or more microbes (e.g., a
   controlled amount of bacteria) to control the flavor of a resulting cultured non-dairy
15 product such as a cheese replica. The microbes can be selected from bacteria, yeast, or
   molds. The bacteria can comprise mesophilic and/or thermophilic bacteria. The bacteria
   can comprise bacteria from a commercial starter. Exemplary commercial starters are
   described herein.
           Flavor production in the replicas can be controlled by the use of one or more
20 microbes e.g., one or more bacteria, yeast, or molds, including but not limited to Flavor
   production in the replicas can be controlled by the use of one or more microbes e.g., one
   or more bacteria, yeast, or molds, including but not limited to Lactococcus species such
   as Lactococcus lactis lactis (LLL, used alone or as a component of commercial mix
   MAl1), Lactococcus lactis cremoris (LLC, used alone or as a component of commercial
25 mix MAl1), or Lactococcus lactis biovar diacetylactis (LLBD, often used as commercial
   culture MD88), a Lactobacillusspecies such as Lactobacillus delbrueckii lactis,
   Lactobacillus delbrueckii bulgaricus, Lactobacillus helveticus, Lactobacillusplantarum,
   Lactobacillus casei, or Lactobacillus rhamnosus, a Leuconostocaceae species such as
   Leuconostoc mesenteroides cremoris(LM), a Streptococcus species such as Streptococcus
30 thermophiles (ST, often used as commercial culture TA61) a Pediococcus species such as
   Pediococcuspentosaceus, a Clostridium species such as Clostridium butyricum, a
                                                 33

   Staphylococcus species such as Staphylococcus xylosus (SX), a Brevibacterium species
   such as Brevibacterium linens, a Propioniibacteriaspecies, a Penicillium species such as
   Penicillium candidum, Penicillium camemberti, or Penicillium roqueforti, a
   Debaryomyces species such as Debaryomyces hansenii, a Geotrichum species such as
 5 Geotrichum candidum, a Corynebacteriaspecies, a Verticillium species such as
   Verticillium lecanii, a Kluyveromyces species such as Kluyveromyces lactis, a
   Saccharomyces species such as Saccharomyces cerevisiae, a Candida species such as
   Candidajeferor Candida utilis, a Rhodosporidum species such as Rhodosporidum
   infirmominiatum, a Micrococcus species., a Halomonas species., a Psychrobacter
10 species. In some embodiments, lactic acid bacteria such as Lactobacillus,Leuconostoc,
   Pediococcus, Lactococcus, or Streptococcus are used. In some embodiments, the
   bacteria do not comprise Lactobacciliusacidophilus strains. In some embodiments, a
   yeast such as Saccharomyces cerevisiae,Kluveromyces lactis and/or Debaromyces
   hansenii can be used. In some embodiments, a mold can be Penicillium candidum,
15 Penicillium camemberti, Penicillium roqueforti, Geotrichum candidum, or a combination
   thereof.
           In some embodiments, one or more of the follow microbes are used: Pediococcus
   pentosaceus, Clostridium butyricum, Lactobacillus delbrueckii lactis, Lactobacillus
   delbrueckii bulgaricus, Lactobacillushelveticus, Lactobacillusplantarum,Lactobacillus
20 casei, Lactobacillus rhamnosus, Staphylococcus xylosus, and Brevibacterium linens.
           The one or more microbes can be cultured alone (e.g., bacteria, yeast, or mold
   alone), or in combination with two ore more microbes (e.g., two different bacteria, two
   different yeast, two different molds, a bacteria and a yeast, a bacteria and a mold, or a
   yeast and a mold). When two or more microbes are used, the microbes can be co
25 cultured or sequentially cultured, i.e., one microbe can be cultured for a length of time
   before adding another microbe. Particular good combinations for flavor generation in
   replicas are pre-culturing with SX, followed by either TA61 or MD88, or MD88 co
   cultured with MAl 1.
           The growth conditions of microbes also can control flavor generation in replicas.
30 The temperature of microbes growth ranging from 4'C to 45'C can control the amount
   and type of flavor compounds produced in replicas. The amount of aeration by shaking
                                                 34

   (e.g., 0 to 300 rpm) changes the flavor productions of many different bacteria in non
   dairy media. Greater aeration during culturing by either SX, TA61, or MD88 generates
   more desired cheese and buttery compounds. Aeration also decreases the undesired flavor
   compounds. Desired cheese compounds such as 2-heptanone increase when SX, MD88,
 5 or TA61 are cultured with aeration. MD88's production of hexanoic methyl ester in
   cheese replicas is also modulated by aeration. An increase in aeration of SX during
   culturing in soymilk greatly increases 3-methyl and 2-methyl butanoic acid production
   and decreases the amounts of undesirable aroma compounds such as 2-ethyl furan or 2
   pentyl furan in cheese replicas.
10          The amount of time the one or more microbes is cultured also can modulate the
   amount and types of flavor compounds. Culturing can range from 1 hour to multiple
   days. In some embodiments, one or more microbes and the non-dairy milk are incubated
   together for a length of time ranging from 1 min-60 minutes, 0.5-5 hours, 3-10 hours, 6
   15 hours, 10-20 hours, or more than 20 hours. Most buttery compounds are created
15 within the first 10 hours, while additional cheese compounds typically require 24-48
   hours or more hours. Butyrolactone, a creamy, milky note compound is created in non
   dairy media by MD88 and MAl 1 only after 20 hours of culturing in soymilk.
            The one or more microbes also can be added at different inoculums, e.g., 102 - 109
   cfu/mL or even greater. The phase of growth (i.e, stationary phase versus exponential
20 phase) and the cell density of the bacterial culture affect the flavor compound profile of
   the medium. Higher inocula of a starter culture can protect the replica from unwanted
   microbial contamination (e.g., bacterial contamination). Therefore, an inoculum of 106 _
   109 cfu/nL is usually used.
            Flavor production by the one or more microbes also can be modulated by
25 directing the metabolic pathways, e.g., by modulating their nitrogen source, carbon
   source, additional available nutrients, and growth conditions. Non-limiting examples of
   additives that can be used are shown in Table A. The additives can be added to the media
   at the same time as the bacteria or any time during the creation of the replica. When
   sequential culturing occurs additional additives can be added at the same time that the
30 additional strains are inoculated.
                                                 35

                                            TABLE A
        Additives used to control flavor production by microbes in non-dairy replicas
              FeCl 2                 Asp                    C8:0, Caprylic acid
              MgCl 2                 Cys                    C10:0, Capric acid
              CaCl 2                 Glutamine              C12:0, lauric acid
              MnSO 4                 Glutamate              C14:0, myristic acid
              CoCl 2                 Gly                    C16:0, palmitic acid
              CuSO 4                 His                    C18:0, stearic acid
              ZnSO 4                 Ile                    C 16:1, palmitoleic acid
              Adenine                Lue                    Coconut Oil
              Guanine                Lys                    Castor Oil
              Inosine                Met                    Palm Oil
              Uracil                 Phe                    Palm Fruit Oil
              Xanthine               Pro                    Jojoba Oil
              Pyridoxamine           Ser                    Sunflower Oil
              Pyridoxine             The                    Mango Butter
              D-sorbitol             Trp                    Ala
              Citric Acid            Tyr                    Arg
              Lactic Acid            Val                    Asn
              a-ketoglutarate        Riboflavin             FAD
              Pyruvic Acid           Thiamine               NAD
              Ororic acid            Lipoic Acid            Biotin
              oxalic acid            Nicotinic acid         Pantothenate
              Ascorbic Acid          CoA hydrate            B 12
              Succinic acid          propanoic acid         Folic Acid
              p-aminobenzoic acid    C4:0, butyric acid
              DL-Malate              C6:0, caproic acid
            The amount and type of sugar is a large driver of the type of flavors produced,
 5 including buttery compounds. In some embodiments, sugars are naturally present in the
   non-dairy milk. By way of example only, sucrose is present in a variety of nuts such as,
   e.g., almonds, which can be used to provide a non-dairy milk used for preparing the
   cheese replica. In some embodiments, a controlled amount of one or more sugars is
   added to the non-dairy milk or non-dairy cheese source.
10          In some embodiments, the sugar is a monosaccharide, including but not limited to
   glucose (dextrose), fructose (levulose), galactose, mannose, arabinose, xylose (D- or L
                                                36

   xylose), and ribose, a disaccharide including but not limited to sucrose, lactose,
   melibiose, trehalose, cellobiose and maltose, a sugar alcohol such as arabitol, mannitol,
   dulcitol, or sorbitol, sugar acids such as galacturonate, glucuronate, or gluconate,
   oligosaccharides and polysaccharides such as glucans, starches such as corn starch,
 5 potato starch, pectins such as apple pectin or orange pectin, raffinose, stachyose and
   dextrans, a plant cell wall degradation product, p-galactosides, p-glucosides such as
   salicin, and/or sugar derivatives such as N-acetylglucosamine. In particular
   embodiments, the sugars are chosen from the group consisting of sucrose, maltose,
   glucose and fructose.
10          The relative growth of each isolated strain can be controlled by the addition of
   said one or more sugars. The addition of said one or more sugars can result in nondairy
   cheese replicas with significantly improved texture and flavor. A user, e.g., an individual
   or plurality of individuals practicing the invention, can select specific isolated strains and
   add controlled amounts of the selected strains to create a non-dairy cheese replica with a
15 desired flavor and texture profile. A user can additionally select specific sugars and add
   controlled amounts of the selected sugars along with controlled amounts of specific
   isolated strains to create a non-dairy cheese replica with a desired flavor and texture
   profile. Table B provides non-limiting examples of bacteria culturing conditions for
   producing dairy flavor notes created in non-dairy cheese or other non-dairy products.
                                                  37

                                                      TABLE B
                                                  growth                 sugar preference (based on
Genus             species           sub species   temperature   Aeration generation time)
                                                                         glucose=fructose           >maltose
                                                  30C (25-40C)
Lactococcus       lactis            cremoris                    yes      >sucrose*
Lactococcus       lactis            lactis        30C (25-40C)  yes      glucose=fructose=sucrose >maltose*
Leuconostoc       mesenteroides cremoris          30C (25-35C)* yes      glucose=fructose-maltose >sucrose
                                    biovar        30C (25-40C)           glucose
Lactococcus       lactis            diacetylactis               yes      >fructose=sucrose=maltose
                                                  37C                    glucose
Streptococcus     thermophilus                                  no       >maltose
                                                  37C                    glucose
Lactobacillus     delbrueckii       lactis                      no       >maltose
                                                  37C                    glucose
Lactobacillus     delbrueckii       bulgaricus                  no       >maltose
                                                  37C                    glucose
Lactobacillus     helveticus                                    no       >maltose
Lactobacillus     plantarum                       37C           no       glucose=maltose
                                                  37C                    glucose
Lactobacillus     casei                                         no       >maltose
                                                  37C                    glucose
Lactobacillus     rhamnosus                                     no       >maltose
                                                  30C                    glucose
Staphylococcus xyiosus                                          yes      >maltose
                                                  30C                    maltose
Pediococcus       pentosaceus                                            >glucose
                                                  37C                    glucose
Clostridium       butyricum                                     no       >maltose
* Large variation in different strains of this
subspecies
                                                         38

           The effect of different sugars and microbes on flavor production also depends on
   the type and composition of the starting material (e.g., the starting material can include
   any non-animal derived material, including but not limited to soymilk, pea protein,
   moong protein, soy protein, coconut milk, yeast extract, protein hydrolysate, derived
 5 media, and synthetic media), and the amino acid composition of the proteins in the
   starting materials, the types of sugars and carbohydrates included, and the types of fats,
   triglycerides, and/or free fatty acids present. The amino acid composition of the protein
   can be broken down by enzymes, such as those created by the microbes and those added
   as part of the recipe, and the resulting amino acids or peptides can serve as precursors to
10 particular flavor molecules. Synthetic media refers to using ammonium for the nitrogen
   source, and a defined sugar for the carbon source, with any other additives. The starting
   material can comprise isolated purified proteins, or crude plant extracts.
           Acetoin and diacetyl ("buttery" compounds) are created by MD88 (LLBD) in the
   greatest abundance in a yeast extract medium with maltose added. On the other hand
15 MD88 creates more of these buttery compounds in soymilk with glucose added. Acetoin
   and diacetyl are created in even higher amounts by MD88 and TA61 (ST) with the
   addition of citrate or pyruvate. Acetoin/diacetyl and 2,3-hexandione concentrations all
   increase in response to increased citrate concentration in cheese replicas made with strain
   MD88.
20         The addition of amino acids (see Table A) can directly control the production of
   particular flavor compounds in non-dairy replicas. The creation of these flavor
   compounds contributes to the overall flavor profile of the replica. Methionine can be
   added to cheese replica or media to produce methional by SX or dimethyl trisulfide by
   Brevibacterium.Methional and dimethyl trisulfide are two sulfur compounds that are
25 found in many dairy cheeses, and contribute to the aged character of cheddar. Leucine
   added to soymilk, yeast extract media, or pea proteins significantly increase the 3-methyl
   butanoic acid production by SX bacteria, adding cheesy notes. Adding multiple
   compounds can further control flavor production by bacteria, e.g. alpha-ketoglutarate
   with leucine increases the 3-methyl butanoic acid production by SX bacteria. 3-methyl
30 butanoic acid has a cheesy aroma and taste, it is similar to butanoic acid, which is a key
   flavor in American and cheddar cheeses. Organic acids can also control flavor production
                                                  39

   by bacteria in non-dairy replicas. Oxalate added to yeast extract media and cultured by
   Brevibacterium creates cheese compounds butanoic acid, 3-methyl butanoic acid, and
   2,6-nonadienal, and the flavors generated were described as "aged cheese". The creation
   of buttery compounds can be controlled by the addition of citrate, xanthine, and pyruvate,
 5 when added to cultures of TA61. Adding citric acid, pyruvate, riboflavin, and copper can
   affect the cheese and buttery flavor production by MD88. Other important aroma
   compounds like butanoic acid derivatives and 2-heptanone are produced when isoleucine,
   proline, alanine, malate, inosine, Fe2 -, Mg2 +,serine, and thiamine are added into replicas.
   Additionally, ZnSO 4 , citric acid, lactic acid, pyruvic acid, succinic acid, malic acid,
10 aspartic acid, lysine, tyrosine, valine, and jojoba oil allow for the creation of desired
   cheese flavor compounds by TA61 in replicas. The affect of each additive depends on the
   composition of the other stating materials.
           Other additives can be added before bacteria culturing or after culturing. These
   include but are not limited to fruit extracts (0.0001% -0.2% wt/vol), fruit puree (peach,
15 pineapple strawberry, mango, papaya, plum, etc) (0.001% -2% wt/vol), vegetable puree
   (potato, yam, onion, garlic, or broccoli) (0.00 1%-2% wt/vol), molasses (0.001% -2%
   wt/vol), yeast extracts (0.001% -2% wt/vol), protein hydrolysates (0.01% -10% wt/vol),
   red or white miso (0.01% -2% wt/vol), coconut milk (0.5%-60%), malt extracts (0.01%
   2% wt/vol), or coconut cream (0.5%-60%), and combinations thereof. Malt extracts and
20 molasses can add cheese flavor molecules like 3-methyl butanal, 2-methyl butanal, 2
   heptanone, butanoic acid, or butyrolactone. Replicas with the addition of peach extract or
   puree were described by trained flavor scientists as having more cream flavor. Replicas
   with the addition of papaya were described as more cheesy by trained flavor scientist and
   had an increase in 3-methyl butanoic acid by GCMS. Red miso added to MD88 cultures,
25 and white miso added to TA61 cultures resulted in improved flavor complexity and a
   perceived decrease in astringency by a trained flavor scientist.
           Yeast extract can control bacteria growth and flavor generation, and contribute
   different starting flavors. There are many vitamins in yeast extracts that improve the
   growth of TA61 in replicas. All yeast extracts are not the same. TA61 growth was
30 greater with Flavor House Flavor Spark, and BioSpringer Yeast Extract 2020, compared
   to other yeast extracts. BioSpringer Yeast Extract 2020 supports good growth and decent
                                                   40

   flavor development for MD88 and TA61. Yeast extract can be added between 0.01% -2%
   wt/vol of media to improve growth and flavor production by the bacteria. Yeast extract
   can be added at 0.02%-0. 1% improve growth and flavor production by the bacteria. Yeast
   extracts themselves can also provide certain flavors to the product including, brothy,
 5 whey, nutty, savory, roasted, malty, caramel, cooked-milk, light-sulfurous, and slight
   cheese-like. Yeast extracts also supports the production of flavor compounds by TA61,
   MA88, and SX that lead to a more cheesy and complexly flavored replicas.
            In some embodiments, the one or more microbes, the non-dairy cheese source,
   and the one or more optional components that can be used to alter flavor (e.g., sugars,
10 fats, carbohydrates, vitamins, organic acids, nucleotides, or food products) are incubated
   together for a sufficient period of time to achieve a desired pH. The pH can range from
   pH 3-5, 4-6, or 4.3-5.7. The desired pH can be pH 6 or lower, pH 5 or lower, or pH 4 or
   lower. Culturing the material by bacteria in some cases decreases the pH to 6.5, 6, 5.5, 5,
   4.5, 4, or 3.5, while in other cases, flavors are generated with no change in pH. Culturing
15 with Lactococcus, Lactobacillus,Leuconostoc, Pediococcus and/or Streptococcus
   typically results in a decrease in pH with most starting material, while culturing with
   Staphylococcus, Brevibacterium,and/or Clostridium typically has little or no effect on
   the pH.
            In some embodiments, the method further comprises solidifying said non-dairy
20 cheese source. Methods of solidifying are described herein.
            In some embodiments, the method comprises isolating a plurality of microbial
   strains from a heterogeneous population, e.g., a commercial starter or a probiotic (e.g.,
   Rejuvelac). In some embodiments, the isolated microbial strains are each characterized
   according to defined criteria. The defined criteria may include, for example, growth rates
25 in non-dairy cheese sources comprising different sugars added therein. The defined
   criteria may include the contribution of each isolated strain to a flavor palette by
   characterizing flavor notes from a cheese replica with the isolated strain added therein as
   compared to a control cheese replica without the isolated strain added therein. The
   isolated microbial strains may be characterized by genetic sequencing, and/or
30 determining sequences unique to each of the isolated strains.
                                                  41

           In some embodiments, the method further comprises preparing a cheese replica
   with a controlled flavor profile, by the controlled addition of specific combinations of
   isolated strains to provide a desired array of flavor notes to the cheese replica.
           In another aspect, the invention provides a library of isolated microbial strains. In
 5 some embodiments, the isolated strains in the library are selected to provide a palette of
   flavor profiles to non-dairy cheese. In some embodiments, the isolated microbial strains
   are bacterial strains. In some embodiments, the isolated strains are isolated from a
   commercial starter culture, e.g., a bacterial culture that is commercially available. In
   some embodiments, the commercial starter culture is a mesophilic bacterial culture. In
10 some embodiments, the commercial starter culture is a thermophilic bacterial culture.
   Exemplary commercial starters include, e.g., MAll, MA14, MA19, LM57, MA4002,
   MM100, TA061, LH100, MD88, and Flora Danica.
           Strains can be isolated by plating commercial mixes on selective or non-selective
   growth media, e.g., Reddy's selective agar, LB agar. In some embodiments, single
15 bacterial cells of an individual strain will grow into discrete colonies on said growth
   media. In some embodiments, individual colonies can be screened by PCR. In some
   embodiments, PCR can involve the use of universal primers containing sequences that
   are common to all strains of a microbial species, or can involve the use of primers
   comprising sequences that are unique to particular subspecies of the microbial
20 population. PCR products can be sequenced and the sequences compared to known
   sequences, e.g., in Gen Bank, and also to one another. pH profile, sugar fermentation,
   phenotype on Reddy's selective agar and more extensive sequencing can be carried out to
   help further identify and characterize individual strains.
           In some embodiments, the bacterial strains are selected to provide to provide an
25 array of flavors and textures, or other defined characteristics, to a non-dairy milk cheese.
   In dairy milks, LLL strains typically grow more quickly and rapidly acidify the milk,
   while LLC strains grow more slowly and provide more flavor. In dairy milks, both
   LLBD and LM contribute additional flavor compounds, notably diacetyl, which gives a
   buttery taste to the cheese. One or more isolated bacterial strains, e.g., LLL, may be
30 selected to acidify a non-dairy milk quickly, e.g., a drop in pH within one hour, or an
   overall drop in pH from 6.3 to 4.3 in less than 15 hours. One or more isolated bacterial
                                                  42

   strains, e.g., LLC, may be selected for a slower growth profile with greater production of
   flavor compounds and a less dramatic lowering of pH, e.g., from 6.3 to only 5.4 in 15
   hours. Such a slowed growth rate may serve to, e.g., provide a cheesemaker greater
   control over the flavoring process and more tightly regulate the resulting taste profile of
 5 the non-dairy cheese replica. One or more isolated bacterial strains may be used to
   provide different flavor profiles to a non-dairy cheese. The different flavor profiles may
   be characterized by the release of specific volatile chemicals from the replica. For
   example, some bacterial strains, e.g., LLBD and LM, may be used to produce diacetyl
   when contacted with a non-dairy milk or protein solution. The diacetyl may produce a
10 buttery flavor in the resulting non-dairy cheese.
            It was found that single use direct vat cultures, such as MAl 1 and Flora Danica
   (FD), provide a fairly uniform but limited characteristic flavor and texture profile when
   used to make soft fresh (SF usingMA 11) and soft ripened (SR using MAl 1 & FD)
   cheeses. To allow a much greater array of flavor and texture capability, individual
15 bacterial strains were isolated and characterized from commercial preparations, e.g.,
   Flora Danica and MAl 1. These isolated strains can be combined in new and varied
   combinations and in various proportions to create a much greater range of flavor and
   texture possibilities.
            In general, the dominant sugar in dairy milk is lactose, which is not present in
20 non-dairy milks. When controlled amounts of bacteria, e.g., controlled amounts of one or
   more isolated isolated strains of the invention are incorporated in non dairy cheese
   replicas that comprise one or more sugars, specific combinations of sugars and bacterial
   strains can alter the taste and texture profiles of the resulting non-dairy cheese replicas in
   unexpected ways. Such specific combinations can be used to prepare cheese replicas
25 with a controlled flavor profile, e.g., to prepare cheese replicas that accurately mimic the
   flavor of specific dairy cheeses such as, by way of non-limiting example only, process
   cheese, swiss cheese, string cheese, ricotta, provolone, parmesan, muenster, mozzarella,
   jack, manchego, blue, fontina, feta, edam, double Gloucester, camembert, cheddar, brie,
   asiago and Havarti.
30          The desired flavor and texture profile can be selected to mimic the flavor and
   texture of a specific dairy cheese. By way of example only, by selecting and adding a
                                                  43

   controlled amount of one or more isolated bacterial strains of the invention and optionally
   selecting and adding a controlled amount of one or more sugars, a user can create a non
   dairy cheese replica that mimics the flavor and texture profiles of e.g., process cheese,
   swiss cheese, string cheese, ricotta, provolone, parmesan, muenster, mozzarella, jack,
 5 manchego, blue, fontina, feta, edam, double Gloucester, camembert, cheddar, brie, asiago
   and Havarti.
           The texture and flavor profile of the non-dairy cheese can be ascertained by any
   method known in the art or described herein.
           To generate dairy-like flavor in replicas or other non-dairy products, or a
10 flavoring solution/paste to add to non-dairy products, particular stains can be used to
   generate cheesy, buttery, creamy, milky or other desired flavor compounds. See Table C
   for non-limiting examples of dairy flavor compounds that can be produced. Table C also
   provides examples of how to create the indicated flavor compound in non-dairy replicas.
                                                 44

           -~                                                                             0
  -~        ~             0~          ~
                                      0           0
                              0       0                                   0        0~         0
                             ~                                            ~        QO
                   o                                                      0
            o           -                       -                         o
                                                                          ~                   Q       0
            0
            o
            0                                                            ~                    o
  z~.              ~ ~               ~
                   ~                                                                          0
                                                       -                                  0   +
                                                                         +         o~Z0       o
                                                             1)                    ~-ICfl
                          0  ~                              ~                      -~       ~        -~
                                             0.                           ~        o-~        ~<
                                                            0                       ~         o       A
              Q0                -           Q0
              QC~O              \O      \OQC
0                               H       H~                                                           H
              -~   0              0      0~                                                           0
              ~QC       QC      QC      QC           QC     QC                                       QC
       \O       ~QC     QC      QC      QC           QC     QC                                       QC
       ~
~      H       ~                ~       ~H            ~
                                                                -~                 -~
                                                                                   2
                                                                 ~
                                                                         0~'0
        00
                     .-               0
        o   ~                         0           ~Q        ~    ~               ~
                                                                                                 002
                                                                   ~
                                     2-z          ~
                                    ~
                                                          0            0       0
      -~      -~                                      0~             *~      .~
                                                      ~                                               0
      -~       -~                                                    -~      -~                       0
      -       -                                                      -                                0
   0                                -                                         -~                      0
        0       00                    0                     ~          0       0
                                      0              ~                 ~
       (N          0                                                      0         0
                                                     (N~0            (N~eTh~
                                            45

                                C~                                                                        o     o
         4    -i
                                               C) -        C
                                                                       o     .-         o3
                                                                                       i-6    i-
                                                                                                e3
                                                                                                            00
-
                         0--         x         o           -C)o                         Co      ao)
So                                             C           C           o-      o     +
         -       -C                               -        C'                           c Me    c   x    -.       -o
                        i-     aA                    )..i-                        C)     C0a)
                  oo..o                 oo           o0-                      C-                 00
                              .oo-      -C)c-o
         o       0
              C)C)P
                           2
                                               oi
              Q                                o-O                   .                 2O      -         --    C
     -c    -c
            -~                     x     8
                                         o2eue       o             o
                                                                      o                    t
   QcO -                               ,.cc         cc           -              -                              .
           e       -E        D            1c        cc           -                                    ;"
           e      e..o                  0           0           <2        oe
                                                                         462

     -~        -~      -~       -~         -~
      _                .~       .~         .~
      _
                _
                        _
                                                         o0           0
                                                         o
                                                         0
                       .~       .~         .~
       o         o       o        o          o
  ~    0         0       0        0          0
                 o       o        o          o
-Q               0       0        0          0                     ~o ~
  ~    ~0        ~0      ~0       ~0         ~0           0
       ~
  0*
-                                                                     0
                                                         ~-    -.-
                                                      0  ~
                                                QC~         QC
                                                QC          QC
       000                                          0
          Q0Q0
     ~QC~QC                  H
                             +        -I~                   +
                            ~        ~          ~rjH                  H
               -~                 0~
      -~         ~                0-~~
       ~        ~00~
               ~
               -~    ~
  ~
                                       00~            ~
                              ~                 0                     0
               -~
                            -~
                                       ~
                                       0        0
                                                ~
                                      -
          ~                             0       ~            0
           ~     0            0
           0~                         ~                     -
                                                             0
                                       ~        ~            0
 -          ~-~0
                                     -~            L(~0
                                                        47

         It will be appreciated that many different types of bacteria can make buttery
compounds. MD88 and TA61 are both very good at producing buttery compounds in
non-dairy media and cheese replicas. They both can create the buttery compounds 2,3
butandione, acetoin, and 2,3-hexanedione in soymilk, purified pea proteins, purified soy
proteins, purified moong proteins, and yeast extract medias. Additionally, LLC, LLL, and
SX also can create buttery compounds in replicas. Additionally, greater refinement of
flavor can come from controlling each concentration of the butter compound; in soymilk
MD88 produces more acetoin while TA61 produces more diacetyl.
         In some embodiments, buttery notes can be enhanced by selecting particular
strains (e.g., LLBD, LM, LF2, LF5, and Streptococcus thermophilus) and/or selecting
particular sugars to use (e.g., glucose, fructose, or sucrose). In some embodiments, the
buttery notes are associated with increased levels of volatile flavor compounds. The
volatile flavor compounds can be, e.g., acetoin, 2,3-butanedione, and butanoic acid. In
some embodiments, the volatile flavor compounds can be, e.g., 2-heptanone, nonanal,
butanol, 1-hexanol, 2-heptanone, 4-methyl, Ethyl acetate, or 2-nonanone.
         In some embodiments, buttery notes can be decreased by selecting and adding a
controlled amount of LM.
         In some embodiments, said buttery flavor can be decreased by selecting one or
more sugars from the group consisting of glucose, fructose, sucrose and maltose.
         SX and Brevibacteriumare particular good at generating cheesy compounds,
including 3-methyl-butanoic acid, 2-methyl butanoic acid, and 2-methyl propanoic acid.
SX and Brevibacteriumcan also be used to generate free fatty acids, including butanoic
acid, propionic acid, dodecanoic acid, undecanoic acid, nonanoic acid, octanoic acid, and
hexanoic acid, when cultured in the presence of fats. When SX is cultured in the
presence of coconut oil, short and medium chain length free fatty acids are created. TA61
can also created additional types of cheese flavor compounds including 2-heptanoic and
2,4-heptadienal in non-dairy replicas. There are sulfur compounds including but not
limited to dimethyl trisulfide and methional that are important in providing characteristic
flavor to particular cheeses that can be generated in non-dairy medias by SX and
Brevibacterium.
                                               48

        Other bacterial cultures, including LR, can drive floral flavor production and
creamy notes can be created in replicas by LBB. In some embodiments, fruity notes are
enhanced by selecting strains from the group consisting of LLBD, LM, LLL, LLC, LF2,
LF5, and Streptococcus thermophilus strains. In some embodiments, fruity notes are
enhanced by selecting sugars from the group consisting of glucose, fructose, sucrose, and
maltose.
        In some embodiments, sour notes are enhanced by selecting strains from the
group consisting of LLBD and LM strains. In some embodiments, sour notes are
enhanced by selecting sugars from the group consisting of glucose, maltose and sucrose.
In some embodiments, sour notes are associated with increased levels of volatile flavor
compounds. The volatile flavor compounds can be, e.g., acetic acid, 2-methylbutanoic
acid, hexanoic acid, propionic acid, and octanol.
        In other embodiments, sour notes are enhanced by selecting strains from the
group consisting of LLL, LLC, and LM. In particular embodiments, sour notes are
enhanced by selecting sugars from the group consisting of glucose and sucrose. In some
embodiments, the sour notes are characterized by increased levels of volatile flavor
compounds. The volatile flavor compounds can be, e.g., nonanal or butanoic acid.
        In some embodiments, floral notes can be enhanced by selecting strains from the
group consisting of LLL, LLC and LM. In some embodiments, floral notes can be
enhanced by selecting sugars from the group consisting of glucose, fructose, maltose and
sucrose. In some embodiments, the floral notes are due to increased levels of volatile
flavor compounds, e.g., nonanol.
        In some embodiments, sweet notes are enhanced by selecting a LLBD strain. In
particular embodiments, sweet notes are enhanced by addition of sugars. In some
embodiments, sugars are added to a final concentration of 0-150 mM. In some
embodiments, sugars are added to a final concentration of about 10, 20, 30, 40, 50, 60,
70, 80, 90, 100, 110, 120, 130, 140, or 150 mM. In some embodiments, the sugars are
glucose, maltose, fructose or sucrose.
        In some embodiments, the sweet flavor of non dairy cheeses comprising LLC,
LLL, LM and LLBD can be enhanced by addition of sugars. The sugars can be, e.g.,
glucose, maltose, fructose, sucrose, or any combination thereof. In some embodiments,
                                             49

the increased sweet flavor is due to increased levels of volatile flavor compounds. In
some embodiments, the volatile flavor compound is butanoic acid.
        In some embodiments, strains can be selected to enhance citrus flavor notes of
non-dairy cheeses. In some embodiments, enhanced citrus flavor notes are due to
increased levels of volatile flavor compounds, e.g., nonanal, limonene, and 1-octanol.
        In some embodiments, strains can be selected to enhance mushroom flavor notes
of non-dairy cheeses. In some embodiments, enhanced mushroom flavor notes are due to
increased levels of volatile flavor compounds, e.g., 1-octene-3-ol, 1-hexanol, and 1
heptanol.
        In some embodiments, the addition of bacteria decreases and or masks
undesirable flavors including soy flavor, beany flavor, planty flavor, grassy flavor, and
astringency. As described herein, the addition of SX decreased or masked the "soy" and
"green" flavor and aroma of the replicas; the addition of leucine to the SX culture caused
an even larger reduction in the "soy" notes. Growth of MD88 in replicas quickly
decreases benzaldehyde, an off taste in soymilk. The soy (green, cereal) aroma present in
soymilk and other plant derived material decreases as the coconut milk percentage
increases in the cultured material. Characteristic undesirable aromas: Pentenols,
Pentanol, 2-pentyl-furan, and 1-Hexanol, also decrease with an increasing coconut milk
percentage. Samples were evaluated and compared by a 2-6 members of a trained sensory
panel.
        A limitation of currently available nut milk-based cheeses is the presence of
undesirable nutty flavor in the cheese. The nutty flavor can detract from the taste profile
of the cheese and make the cheese seem non dairy-like. Therefore, in one aspect, the
invention provides a nut-milk based cheese replica with a reduced or undetectable nutty
flavor, and methods of making the same. In some embodiments, the method comprises
contacting a nut milk with a controlled amount of Lactococcus bacteria and a controlled
amount of a sugar. In some embodiments, the nutty flavor is reduced by the selection of
one or more isolated strains described herein. In some embodiments, the nutty flavor is
reduced by the selection of one or more isolated strains selected from the group
consisting of LLL, LLC, LM, and LLBD. In some embodiments, the nutty flavor is
reduced by selecting sugars from the group consisting of glucose, fructose, sucrose and
                                             50

maltose. In some embodiments, the reduced nutty flavor is associated with decreased
levels of volatile flavor compounds. In some embodiments, said flavor compounds are
benzaldehyde or 2-methyl-2-propanol.
        The non-dairy cheese culture can be made from different sugar sources including
but not limited to glucose, fructose, maltose, sucrose, and or galactose. The cultured
material can be made into a solid like cheese or used as a liquid cultured material.
        Replicas can also be flavored by adding artificial or natural flavors in either as a
single compound or as complex product mixtures. Fatty acids (between 0.001%-0.5%)
can be added to replicas, and these replicas are described by trained flavor scientists as
being more cheesy with the addition of fatty acids. Compounds added to the replica
cheese include but are not limited to 2,3 butanedione, acetoin, butanoic acid, 5,6 decenoic
acid, y-heptalactone, y-hexalactone, y-octalactone, y-decalactone, y-nonanoiclactone, y
undecalactone, 6-decalactone, 6-dodecalactone, 6-nonanoic lactone, 6-octalactone,
gamma-nonanoic lactone, gamma-undecalactone, gamma-decalactone,delta
tetradecalactone, S-methyl thiopropionate, delta-tridecalactone, delta-tetradecalactone, 6
tetradecalactone, butyl butyryllactate, isovaleric acid, 2-undecanone, valeric acid, 2
heptanone, 2-methyl butyraldehyde, 2-nonanone, 2-methyl butanoic acid, decanoic acid,
methional, octanoic acid, 2-methyl butanal, 3-methyl butanal, ethyl-butanoate ester,
hexanoic acid, and octanoic acid. Complex mixtures include but are not limited to
coconut cream, yeast extract, molasses, fruit extracts, masking agents, cream flavor
boosters, and miso. Flavor compounds can increase the cheesy, buttery, malty, creamy,
coconut, milky, whey, and fruity taste. When present in cheese replicas these compounds
increase the preferences of the cheese replica, and can be described by trained flavor
scientists as more cheesy, more buttery, more creamy, more complex and with an
increase in dairy notes has described by trained flavor scientists. The addition of flavor
compounds can also decreases the off notes, including but not limited to planty, beany,
nutty and sour notes in replicas. The concentrations of flavor compounds added to the
replicas can be from 0.1 %to 0.0000010%vol/wt of the final cheese replica. Complex
flavor mixtures can be added from 10% to 0.01 %. Flavor compounds can be added to
cheese replicas made from bacterial cultured milks or other starting materials or acid
coagulated milks or other starting materials. The flavor compounds added to the replicas
                                              51

can be complementally to the flavors generated by the microbes. The flavor compounds
can also be added to the non-dairy milk before coagulation, so the bacteria can use the
flavor compound to generate additional compounds.
Control of Flavor and Texture Using Enzymes
         One or more enzymes can be used alone or in combination any one the culturing
methods and additives described to help modulate the flavor, texture, and/or melting
profile, comprising contacting a non-dairy cheese source with one or more isolated and
purified enzymes. The enzymes can be added before solidification, after solidification
but before the whey is drained, or after whey is drained. Surprisingly, adding trace
amounts of one or more isolated and purified enzymes (e.g., proteases, lipases, and/or
amylases) greatly enhanced the texture, flavor, and/or meltability of the resulting non
dairy cheese replica, as determined by blind taste test or by the detection of volatile
odorants by, e.g., GCMS. Using such enzymes also controls flavor production by
microbial cultures (e.g., when soymilk is pre-treated with amylases, TA61 produces
much more diacetyl).
         In the nut milk cheeses or other non-dairy cheese replicas, the presence, type,
amount, and the timing of addition of the protease can control the flavor profile as has
determined by blinded taster testers and GCMS. By way of example only, plant based
cheese replicas with proteases were judged as having a more liked flavor profile, a more
complex flavor profile, a flavor profile that tasted more like dairy cheese, and in some
cases indistinguishable to dairy cheese. In some cases plant based cheese replicas with
lipases were judged as having more liked flavor profile, a more complex flavor profile,
and a flavor profile that tastes more like dairy cheese. In some cases plant based cheese
replicas with lipases and proteases were judged as having more liked flavor profile, a
more complex flavor profile, and a flavor profile that tastes more like dairy cheese.
         Particular proteases or combinations of proteases and lipases created distinct
flavor profile that tasters described as particular types of dairy products. The addition of
proteases also controls particular flavor notes, including but not limited to buttery, sweet,
fruity, floral, nutty, and sour. In the cheese replicas the presence, the type, the amount,
and the timing of addition of the protease can control buttery flavor as determined by
                                               52

blinded taste testers and GCMS. The addition of proteases to non-dairy cheese replicas,
particularly papain and aspartic protease, are significantly more buttery than the same
non-dairy cheese without any proteases, as determined by blind taste testers. This is
supported by GCMS data that shows the addition of proteases can greatly increase the
production of compounds that create the buttery flavor in dairy cheeses, including
diacetyl and acetoin. The contribution of specific added proteases and/or lipases to a
flavor note profile of a non-dairy cheese replica can be ascertained using any of the
methods described herein, e.g., taste test and/or GCMS.
        In some embodiments, the enzyme is aspartic protease. In some embodiments, the
enzyme is papain. In some embodiments, the enzyme is not rennet. In some
embodiments, the enzyme is a protease or peptidase. In general, a protease or peptidase
is an enzyme that conducts proteolysis, that is, catalyzes the hydrolysis of peptide bonds
that link amino acids together into peptide chains. The protease can be a serine protease,
a threonine protease, an asparagine protease, a mixed protease, a cysteine protease, an
aspartate protease, or a metalloprotease. The protease can be an exopeptidase, e.g., an
aminopeptidease or carboxypeptidase, or the protease can be an endopeptidase, e.g., a
trypsin, a chymotrypsin, pepsin, papain, cathepsin G, or elastase. The protease can be
any protease selected from the group consisting of pepsin A, nepenthesin, walleye dermal
sarcoma virus retropepsin, Ty3 transposon peptidase, Gypsy transposon peptidase,
Osvaldo retrotransposon peptidase, retrotransposon peptidase, cauliflower mosaic virus
type peptidase, bacilliform virus peptidase, thermopsin, signal peptidase II, spumapepsin,
Copia transposon peptidase, Tyl transposon peptidase, presenilin 1, impas 1 peptidase,
type 4 prepilin peptidase 1, preflagellin peptidase, gpr peptidase, omptin, DNA-damage
inducible protein 1, HybD peptidase, PerP peptidase, skin SASPase, sporulation factor
SpoIIGA, papain, bleomycin hydrolase, calpain-2, poliovirus-type picomain 3C,
enterovirus picomain 2A, foot-and-mouth disease virus picornain 3C, cowpea mosaic
comovirus-type picornain 3C, hepatitis A virus-type picornain 3C, parechovirus
picornain 3C, rice tungro spherical virus-type peptidase, nuclear-inclusion-a peptidase,
adenain, potato virus Y-type helper component peptidase, chestnut blight fungus virus
p29 peptidase, chestnut blight fungus virus p48 peptidase, sindbis virus-type nsP2
peptidase, streptopain, clostripain, ubiquitinyl hydrolase-L1, legumain, caspase-1,
                                              53

metacaspase Ycal, pyroglutamyl-peptidase I, murine hepatitis coronavirus papain-like
peptidase 1, murine hepatitis coronavirus papain-like peptidase 2, hepatitis C virus
peptidase 2, ubiquitin-specific peptidase 14, tymovirus peptidase, carlavirus peptidase,
rabbit hemorrhagic disease virus 3C-like peptidase, gingipain R, gamma-glutamyl
hydrolase, rubella virus peptidase, foot-and-mouth disease virus L-peptidase, porcine
transmissible gastroenteritis virus-type main peptidase, porcine reproductive and
respiratory syndrome arterivirus-type cysteine peptidase alpha, equine arteritis virus-type
cysteine peptidase, equine arteritis virus Nsp2-type cysteine peptidase, beet necrotic
yellow vein furovirus-type papain-like peptidase, calicivirin, bacteriocin-processing
peptidase, dipeptidyl-peptidase VI, beet yellows virus-type papain-like peptidase,
amidophosphoribosyltransferase precursor, acyl-coenzyme A:6-aminopenicillanic acid
acyl-transferase precursor, hedgehog protein, staphopain A, Ulp 1 peptidase, separase, D
alanyl-glycyl peptidase, pestivirus Npro peptidase, autophagin-1, YopJ protein, PfpI
peptidase, vaccinia virus 17L processing peptidase, YopT peptidase, HopN1 peptidase,
penicillin V acylase precursor, sortase A, sortase B, gill-associated virus 3C-like
peptidase, African swine fever virus processing peptidase, Cezanne deubiquitinylating
peptidase, otubain-1, IdeS peptidase, CylD peptidase, dipeptidase A, AvrRpt2 peptidase,
pseudomurein endoisopeptidase Pei, pestivirus NS2 peptidase, AgrB peptidase, viral
tegument protein deubiquitinylating peptidase, UfSP 1 peptidase, ElaD peptidase, RTX
self-cleaving toxin, L,D-transpeptidase, gamma-glutamylcysteine
dipeptidyltranspeptidase, prtH peptidase, OTLD 1 deubiquitinylating enzyme, OTU1
peptidase, ataxin-3, nairovirus deubiquitinylating peptidase, acid ceramidase precursor,
LapG peptidase, lysosomal 66.3 kDa protein, McjB peptidase, DeSI-1 peptidase, USPLI
peptidase, scytalidoglutamic peptidase, pre-neck appendage protein, aminopeptidase N,
angiotensin-converting enzyme peptidase unit 1, thimet oligopeptidase, oligopeptidase F,
thermolysin, mycolysin, immune inhibitor A peptidase, snapalysin, leishmanolysin,
bacterial collagenase V, bacterial collagenase H, matrix metallopeptidase-1, serralysin,
fragilysin, gametolysin, astacin, adamalysin, neprilysin, carboxypeptidase Al,
carboxypeptidase E, gamma-D-glutamyl--meso-diaminopimelate peptidase I, cytosolic
carboxypeptidase 6, zinc D-Ala-D-Ala carboxypeptidase, vanY D-Ala-D-Ala
carboxypeptidase, Plyl 18 L-Ala-D-Glu peptidase, vanX D-Ala-D-Ala dipeptidase,
                                             54

pitrilysin, mitochondrial processing peptidase beta-subunit, eupitrilysin, leucyl
aminopeptidase, aminopeptidase I, membrane dipeptidase, glutamate carboxypeptidase,
peptidase T, Xaa-His dipeptidase, carboxypeptidase Ssl, camosine dipeptidase II, 0
sialoglycoprotein peptidase, beta-lytic metallopeptidase, lysostaphin, methionyl
aminopeptidase 1, aminopeptidase P, IgAl-specific metallopeptidase, tentoxilysin,
aminopeptidase S, glutamate carboxypeptidase II, IAP aminopeptidase, aminopeptidase
Ap I, aminopeptidase T, hyicolysin, carboxypeptidase Taq, anthrax lethal factor,
deuterolysin, fungalysin, isoaspartyl dipeptidase, FtsH peptidase, glutamyl
aminopeptidase, cytophagalysin, pappalysin-1, pox virus metallopeptidase, Ste24
peptidase, HtpX peptidase, Omal peptidase, dipeptidyl-peptidase III, S2P peptidase,
sporulation factor SpoIVFB, archaelysin, D-aminopeptidase DppA, BlaR1 peptidase,
prtB g.p., enhancin, glycyl aminopeptidase, IgA peptidase, StcE peptidase, PSMD14
peptidase, JAMM-like protein, AMSH deubiquitinating peptidase, peptidyl-Asp
metallopeptidase, camelysin, murein endopeptidase, imelysin, Atp23 peptidase,
tryptophanyl aminopeptidase 7-DMATS-type peptidase, ImmA peptidase, prenyl
peptidase 2, Wss1 peptidase, microcystinase MlrC, PrsW peptidase, mpriBi peptidase,
NleC peptidase, PghP gamma-polyglutamate hydrolase, chloride channel accessory
protein 3, IMPa peptidase, MtfA peptidase, NleD peptidase, TYPE ENZYME, nodavirus
peptide lyase, tetravirus coat protein, Tsh-associated self-cleaving domain, picobirnavirus
self-cleaving protein, YscU protein, reovirus type 1 coat protein, poliovirus capsid VPO
type self-cleaving protein, intein-containing V-type proton ATPase catalytic subunit A,
intein-containing replicative DNA helicase precursor, intein-containing chloroplast ATP
dependent peptide lyase, DmpA aminopeptidase, chymotrypsin A, glutamyl peptidase I,
DegP peptidase, lysyl peptidase, streptogrisin A, astrovirus serine peptidase, togavirin,
IgAl-specific serine peptidase, flavivirin, subtilisin Carlsberg, kexin, prolyl
oligopeptidase, dipeptidyl-peptidase IV, acylaminoacyl-peptidase, glutamyl
endopeptidase C, carboxypeptidase Y, D-Ala-D-Ala carboxypeptidase A, D-Ala-D-Ala
carboxypeptidase B, D-Ala-D-Ala peptidase C, peptidase Clp, Xaa-Pro dipeptidyl
peptidase, Lon-A peptidase, cytomegalovirus assemblin, repressor LexA, signal peptidase
I, signalase 21 kDa component, TraF peptidase, lysosomal Pro-Xaa carboxypeptidase,
hepacivirin, potyvirus P1 peptidase, pestivirus NS3 polyprotein peptidase, equine arteritis
                                              55

virus serine peptidase, prolyl aminopeptidase, PS-10 peptidase, sobemovirus peptidase,
luteovirus peptidase, C-terminal processing peptidase-1, tricorn core peptidase, penicillin
G acylase precursor, dipeptidyl-peptidase 7, HetR peptidase, signal peptide peptidase A,
protein C, archaean signal peptide peptidase 1, infectious pancreatic necrosis birnavirus
Vp4 peptidase, dipeptidase E, sedolisin, rhomboid-1, SpoIVB peptidase, nucleoporin
145, lactoferrin, influenza A PA peptidase, EGF-like module containing mucin-like
hormone receptor-like 2, Ssy5 peptidase, picomain-like cysteine peptidase, murein
tetrapeptidase LD-carboxypeptidase, PIDD auto-processing protein unit 1, Tellina virus 1
VP4 peptidase, MUCI self-cleaving mucin, dystroglycan, gpO peptidase, {Escherichia
coli} phage KIF endosialidase CIMCD self-cleaving protein, White bream virus serine
peptidase, prohead peptidase gp2 1, prohead peptidase, CARD8 self-cleaving protein,
prohead peptidase gp175, destabilase, archaean proteasome, beta component, HslV
component of HslUV peptidase, glycosylasparaginase precursor, gamma
glutamyltransferase 1, ornithine acetyltransferase precursor, polycystin-1, collagenase,
protein P5 murein endopeptidase, Lit peptidase, homomultimeric peptidase, yabG
protein, microcin-processing peptidase 1, AIDA-I self-cleaving autotransporter protein,
and Dop isopeptidase.
        In specific embodiments, the protease is papain, bromelain, AO protease, figin,
rennet, protease type XXI from Streptomyces griseus, a protease from Bacillus
licheniformis, a protease from Aspergillus oryzae, a protease from Bacillus
amyloliquefaciens, a protease from Aspergillus saitoi, a thermolysin from Bacillus
thermoproteolyticusrokko, Subtilisin A, protease type X, or a fungal protease type XIII.
        In some embodiments, the enzyme is a lipase. The lipase can be any enzyme that
catalyzes the hydrolysis of lipids. The lipase can break down fats and release fatty acids.
The release of fatty acids can modulate the aroma, flavor profile, and texture profile of
the resulting non-dairy cheese replica. The lipase may be derived from an animal source,
or may be derived from a non-animal source. The animal source can be, e.g., a calf, a kid
(goat), or a lamb. The non-animal source can be a plant source, or can be a bacterial
source, a yeast source, or fungus. For example, the source can be from a Lactococcus
species, a Pseudomonas species, an Aspergillius species, a Penicillium species such as
Penicillum roqueforti,Rhizopus, a Lactobacillus species, a Malassezia globusa species, a
                                             56

Mucor miehei species, or a Candida species, e.g., Candidarugosa. The non-animal
source can be a genetically modified organism that expresses a lipase.
        The lipase can be a bile salt dependent lipase, a pancreatic lipase, a lysosomal
lipase, a hepatic lipase, a lipoprotein lipase, a hormone-sensitive lipase, a gastric lipase,
an endothelial lipase, a pancreatic lipase-related protein 2, a phospholipase, a pregastric
esterase, or a pancreatic lipase related protein. Exemplary lipases are described in U.S.
Patent Nos. 3973042, 7622290, 7666618, 8012732, 7931925, 7407786, 7052879, and
WIPO Patent Application No. WO/2004/113543, all of which are hereby incorporated by
reference. Other exemplary lipases include, e.g., AK, Lipase G, Lipase PS, Lipase A, PC
lipase and WG lipase.
        The lipase can be a commercially available lipase. Exemplary lipases that are
commercially available include Italase, often used to make mild-flavored cheeses such as,
e.g., mozzarella, asiago, feta, provolone, blue cheese, and queso fresco, and Capilase,
which is often used to make sharp-flavored cheese such as, e.g., provolone, romano, and
parmesan cheese.
        The added enzyme can account for 0.00001-0.005%, 0.001-0.01%, 0.01-0.1%,
0.05-1%, 0.1-2%, or 0.5-5% of the non-dairy cheese source by weight or volume.
Preferably, the added enzyme can account for 0.00001-0.1% of the non-dairy cheese
source by weight or volume.
        In some embodiments, the protease is papain. In some embodiments, 0.001
0.01% of papain is added to the non-dairy cheese source. In particular embodiments, the
non-dairy cheese source is a protein solution that comprises purified moong protein. In
more particular embodiments, the protein solution with added protease is solidified by a
heat/cool method. In some embodiments, addition of papain improves the softness and
creaminess of the resulting non-dairy cheese replica.
        In some embodiments, addition of one or more proteases improves texture by
improving creaminess while maintaining stability of the cheese replica shape, e.g., the
cheese replica remains firm enough to dice. In some embodiments, a non-dairy cheese
replica prepared with added protease or lipase rates as significantly better in a blind taste
test than a comparable non-dairy cheese replica made without protease or lipase.
Proteases in some cases significantly improve the texture of the cheese due to an increase
                                                57

in creaminess of the cheese, as judged by blind taste testers. In some cases the proteases
decrease the firmness of the cheeses, as determined by texture analyses. In some cases the
proteases increase creaminess without decreasing the firmness of the cheese. In some
cases the non-dairy cheese replicas comprise one or more added lipases but no added
protease, while in other embodiments they replicas comprise one or more added lipases
and one or more added proteases.
         One or more enzymes can be contacted with the non-dairy cheese source before
solidifying or after solidifying (before the whey is drained, or after the whey is drained).
In some embodiments, the flavor and/or texture profile is altered depending on whether
the enzyme(s) are added before or after solidifying. In some embodiments, the
enzyme(s) are added during the solidification process. In some embodiments, addition of
the enzyme(s) during the solidification process results in a non-dairy cheese replica with
a softer texture than a comparable non-dairy cheese replica prepared by adding the
enzyme(s) at another step in the cheese-making process. In some embodiments, the
enzyme(s) are added after solidification and after the whey is removed from the curd. In
some embodiments, the non-dairy cheese source is a nut milk contacted with a controlled
amount of bacteria, and one or lipases and/or proteases are added after solidifying but
before the whey is drained. By way of example only, adding the enzyme(s) after the
crosslinking step, while the curd is forming in a soft fresh cheese replica made with
almond and macadamia milk with 0.47% transglutaminase, and 0.03% MAl 1 cultures
resulted in a softer texture as compared to addition of the enzyme(s) before curdling has
begun or after whey is drained from the curd. By way of other example only, addition of
0.004% rennet or 0.02% papain to the non-dairy cheese source before the non-dairy
cheese source is curdled to a gel or after the whey is drained from the curd results in a
firmer texture than when enzymes were added as the non-dairy milk is curdled.
         In some embodiments, the addition of one or more proteases and/or one or more
lipases can be used to enhance flavor notes in the resulting non-dairy cheese replica. The
timing of adding the protease(s) and or lipase(s) at any step of the cheesemaking process
(e.g., before solidification, after solidification but before whey is drained, or after whey is
drained) can be adjusted to enhance desired flavor notes of the resulting cheese replica.
Any of the flavor notes described herein can be enhanced by selecting individual
                                                 58

protease(s) and/or lipase(s) and by controlling the timing of adding the protease(s) and/or
lipase(s). The enhanced flavor notes can be due to the increased release of specific
volatile compounds as described herein. In some cases the flavor profile of the non-dairy
cheeses changed without changes in the texture of the cheese.
        By way of example only, cheese replicas created with 0.02% papain added after
solidifying (either before or after the whey was drained) was significantly rated as more
buttery than cheese replicas created without proteases or cheese replicas created when the
proteases were added before solidifying. By contrast, aspartic protease added before
solidifying, produced the most butter flavor, but in all cases the amount of butter flavor
was greater than the control without proteases. See Example 2. The addition of proteases
can greatly increase the production of compounds that create the buttery flavor in dairy
cheeses, including diacetyl and acetoin, as ascertained by GCMS.
        In some embodiments, the protein solution is contacted with a controlled amount
of microbes as described herein. In some embodiments, the protein solution is admixed
with a non-dairy milk, or a cream fraction, or a skim fraction, or a mixture comprising an
isolated cream and skim fraction. Exemplary non-dairy milks, cream fractions, skim
fractions, and methods of making are described herein. In some embodiments, the
protein solution is contacted with one or more enzymes. In some embodiments, the one
or more enzymes comprise a protease and/or lipase. Exemplary proteases and lipases are
described herein.
        In another aspect, the invention provides a non-dairy cheese replica and methods
of preparing the same, comprising isolating a cream fraction, and solidifying the cream
fraction. In some embodiments, a cheese replica may be made from about 0.1.%, 0.2%,
0.3%, 0.4%, 0. 5 %, 0. 7 5 %, 1%, 2 %, 3%, 4%, 5%,  7 .5 %, 10%, 12.5%, 15%, 17 .5 %, 20%,
30%, 40%, 5 0%, 60%, 7 0%, 80%, 90%, more than 90%, or 100% cream fraction. In
some embodiments, a cheese replica may be made from about 0.1-1%, 0. 5 - 5 %, 2-10%, 5
15%, or 10-20%, 15-30%, 20-50%, 30-60%, 50-80%, 60-90%, or 80-100% cream
fraction.
        The method may further comprise adding controlled amounts of one or more fats
to the non-dairy cheese source to create an emulsion.
                                             59

         By way of example only, some non-dairy cheese replicas were prepared by
adding 0% - 50% fat to the non-dairy cheese source to create the emulsion, then
solidifying the emulsion by protein denaturation, e.g., by heating. In some embodiments,
the controlled amounts of one or more fats are added before solidifying, or after
solidifying. In some embodiments, the controlled amount of one or more fats are added
after solidifying and after draining the whey. By way of other example only, some
cheese replicas made from protein denaturation have 0% to 50% fat added after
solidification by denaturation, or 0% to 50% fat added after draining the whey. After the
formation of a gel either protein denaturation or crosslinked, whey can be drained to
increase the total fat in the cheese replica, further draining and aging the cheese can
reduce the moisture content to increase the total fat of the cheese replicas.
         In some embodiments, the addition of 5-20% unsaturated fats to enzyme
crosslinked gels increased the firmness of the gel.
         In some embodiments, addition of saturated fats from 5%- 5 0% increased the
firmness of the cheese replicas.
         In some embodiments, cheese replicas made with cream fraction have an
improved texture profile characterized by increased firmness significantly enhanced
creaminess, as compared to cheese replicas made without any fat or with unsaturated or
saturated oil added. The use of fat decreases the moisture content of the cheese.
         In some embodiments, the type of fat added to the cheese replicas also determines
the fat retention in the heat cool cheeses and crosslinked cheeses. The cheese replicas can
be made with controlled fat retention through aging and heating by using different fat
types and different forms of fats. The amount of fat retention was also dependent of the
types of proteins in the cheese gels, for example pea-globulins has greater fat retention
than the same amount of soy protein.
         In some embodiments, cheese replicas made with the addition of fats, can also
modulate the melt-ability of the cheese. The addition of fat can cause a greater change in
viscosity when the non-dairy cheese is heated.
Modulating taste/texture/meltingprofile by adding salts or divalent cations
                                               60

         In dairy cheese, the interaction of calcium ions with casein molecules control the
physical properties of the cheese. However, in non-dairy cheeses, no casein is present, so
the impact of adding divalent cations to non-dairy cheeses and the impact of adding
melting salts are unknown. It was found that the physical properties of the cheese replica
can be further controlled by adding mono or divalent cations, e.g., Fe2 , Mg2 , Cu 2", or
Ca    (e.g., CaCl 2, CaSO 4), adding melting salts such as, e.g., sodium citrate, trisoidum
phosphate, sodium hexameta phosphate, or disodium phosphate, or any combination
thereof. The cation can be added to the non-dairy cheese source at any stage of the
cheesemaking process, such as, e.g., before solidifying, after solidifying, or after draining
the whey. Cations can be added at the same time as melting salts or at different times.
         In heat/cool gels, divalent cations, e.g., CaCl 2, and/or CaSO 4 at 0.01% to 5%
concentration can be added to a non-dairy cheese source. Exemplary non-dairy cheese
sources include, e.g., non-dairy cream fractions, purified proteins, non-dairy milks, e.g.,
nut milks, protein fat emulsions, or any combination thereof. The resulting cheese replica
exhibited improved meltability upon heating as compared to a comparable cheese replica
made without the addition of divalent cations and/or melting salts. The improved
meltability was characterized by reduced granulation, increased viscosity and increased
expansion of the surface area upon heating. For example, a heat cool cheese replica made
from 6% soy (7S and 1iS), 0.03% MAl 1, and 1% glucose, did not melt. However, the
addition of 1% melting salts (sodium citrate, trisodium phosphate, sodium hexameta
phosphate, and/or disodium phosphate) after draining the whey, caused the resulting
cheese replica to melt. For the above example, the addition of sodium hexamet phosphate
had the greatest affect. In addition, even greater melting can be seen with the addition of
divalent cation like CaCl 2 added with the emulsion before heat cooling.
Impact of divalent cations on creaminess
         Adding divalent cations also can improve the texture profile of a cheese replica.
For example, adding 1 mM CaSO 4 to cheese replicas prepared from a protein solution of
pea globulins before crosslinking with 0.5%-2% transglutaminase improved creaminess
as compared to a comparable cheese replica made without addition of CaSO 4 . This effect
                                                61

of CaSO 4 on creaminess was also observed with nut milk based cheeses and cheeses
made from a RuBisCo protein solution.
         Melting salts added to non-dairy cheeses also can modulate the firmness of the
resulting cheese replica. Melting salts added before or after solidifying by heat cooling
increases the firmness of the resulting cheese replica. In some cases, adding melting salts
can cause a cheese replica that has been melted to become solid at room temperature.
Melting salts added to non-dairy cheese replicas therefore can be used to improve the
melting profile of a firmer cheese replica. For example, a protein denaturation cheese
replica made with 4% moong protein, 30% palm oil, 1% glucose, and 0.03 % MAl 1
resulted in a soft gel at room temperature that becomes liquid upon heating. When 3%
sodium citrate is added to this cheese and heated, the cheese shows an increase in
viscosity change, indicating an increase in melting and upon cooling forms a firmer
cheese at room temperature.
         It is understood that the invention provides methods of controlling the flavor
profile, texture profile, melting profile, and/or stretching profile of a non-dairy cheese
replica by selecting a specific combination of the following compositions and methods as
described herein: non-dairy cheese source, method of solidifying, addition of one or more
microbes, addition of one or more proteases and or lipases, addition of one or more fats,
addition of one or more melting salts and/or cations, and varying the timing of adding
microbes, fats, melting salts, proteases, lipases, or cations at specific stages of the
cheesemaking process. Specific embodiments and examples are described herein.
Methods of solidifying
         In another aspect, the invention provides cheese replicas and methods of making
the same. In some embodiments, the method comprises solidifying a non-dairy cheese
source (e.g., a non-dairy milk) (e.g., forming a gel). In some embodiments, the non-dairy
milk is capable of retaining a shape after said solidifying. There are many ways in which
the non-dairy cheese source can be solidified, including using enzymes, heat denature,
forming cold gels, forming coacervate, liquid separation, acids, change in ionic strength,
high pressure processing, solvents, chaotropic agents, or disulfide bond reducers as
described in this section.
                                               62

        Enzymes (or chemicals) can be used to crosslink non-animal (e.g., plant based)
proteins or non-dairy cream fractions, with or without emulsified fats or oils, sugars, and
cultures. The resulting crosslinked cheese-replicas can have bacteria cultures added or
not, and the timing of addition can be either before or after the crosslinking step. In some
embodiments, solidifying involves a process of cross-linking components (e.g.,
polypeptides, also referred to as proteins herein) in the non-dairy cheese source. In some
embodiments, cross-linking comprises contacting the non-dairy cheese source with a
cross-linking enzyme, thereby creating crosslinks between polypeptide chains. The
crosslinking enzyme can be a transglutaminase, tyrosinase, lipoxygenase, protein
disulfide reductase, protein disulfide isomerase, sulfhydryl oxidase, peroxidase, hexose
oxidase, lysyl oxidase, or amine oxidase.
        In some embodiments, the cross-linking enzyme is a transglutaminase.
Transglutaminases are a family of enzymes that catalyze the formation of a covalent bond
between a free amine and the gamma-carboxyl group of glutamine thereby linking
proteins together. For example, transgluaminases catalyze crosslinking of e.g., lysine in a
protein or peptide and the gamma-carboxamide group of a protein- or peptide- glutamine
residue. The covalent bonds formed by transglutaminase can exhibit high resistance to
proteolytic degradation.
        Many types of transglutaminase can be used in various embodiments of the
invention. Acceptable transglutaminases for crosslinking include, but are not limited to,
Streptoverticilliummobaraensetransglutaminase, an enzyme that is similar to a
transglutaminase from Streptoverticillium mobaraense,other microbial
transglutaminases, transglutaminases produced by genetically engineered bacteria, fungi
or algae, Factor XIII (fibrin-stabilizing factor), Keratinocyte transglutaminase (TGM 1),
Tissue transglutaminase (TGM2), Epidermal transglutaminase (TGM3), Prostate
transglutaminase (TGM4), TGM X (TGM5), TGM Y (TGM6), TGM Z (TGM7), or a
lysyl oxidase.
        The timing of adding the cultures, the type of cultures, and amount of cultures
change the pH of the emulsion, and therefore the activity of transglutaminase and the
final texture of the cheese. In addition, changing the pH of the solution with the addition
                                               63

of acid or base, and overall buffering capacity of the emulsion alters the crosslinking
ability and the final texture of the cheese-replica.
        In some embodiments the present invention provides for a composition
comprising a non-dairy milk and a Streptoverticilliummobaraense transglutaminase, an
enzyme is similar to a transglutaminase from Streptoverticillium mobaraense, other
microbial transglutaminases, transglutaminases produced by genetically engineered
bacteria, fungi or algae, Factor XIII (fibrin-stabilizing factor), Keratinocyte
transglutaminase (TGM 1), Tissue transglutaminase (TGM2), Epidermal transglutaminase
(TGM3), Prostate transglutaminase (TGM4), TGM X (TGM5), TGM Y (TGM6) and/or
TGM Z (TGM7). In some embodiments the enzyme used for cross-linking is not Factor
XIII (fibrin-stabilizing factor), Keratinocyte transglutaminase (TGM 1), Tissue
transglutaminase (TGM2), Epidermal transglutaminase (TGM3), Prostate
transglutaminase (TGM4), TGM X (TGM5), TGM Y (TGM6) , TGM Z (TGM7), or
lysyl oxidase.
        Transglutaminases can be produced by Streptoverticilliummobaraense
fermentation in commercial quantities or extracted from animal tissues. Additionally, a
transglutaminase (TGM) of the present invention may be isolated from bacteria or fungi,
expressed in bacteria or fungi from a synthetic or cloned gene. In some particular
embodiments, a transglutaminase is obtained from a commercial source, for example in
the form of ActivaTM from Ajinmoto Food Ingredients LLC.
        In some embodiments, a transglutaminase is added at an amount between
0.0000001-0. 0 0 1%, 0.0001-0.1%, 0.001-0.05%, 0.1-2%, 0.5-4%, or greater than 4% by
weight/volume. In some embodiments, a transglutaminase is added at amounts greater
than 0.1% and up to 10%.
        In some embodiments, cross-linking by a transglutaminase can be done at
temperatures ranging from 10-30'C, 20-60'C, 30-70'C, or 50-100'C. Transglutaminase
cross-linking can occur for 10 minutes-24 hours.
        In some embodiments between 0.1 and 20 units (U) of transglutaminase is added
per 1 mL of non-dairy milk. In some embodiments about 0.1, 0.5, 1, 1.5, 2, 2.5, 3, 5, 7,
10, 15, or 20 U of transglutaminase is added per 1 mL of non-dairy milk. In some
embodiments after the transglutaminase is added, a heated incubation occurs, for example
                                              64

in a 100'F water bath. The heated incubation can be at a temperature optimized for the
enzyme function. In some embodiments the temperature is about 65, 70, 75, 80, 85, 90,
95, 100, 105, 110, 115, 120 or 125'F. In some embodiments, enzymatic cross-linking
does not comprise contacting the non-dairy cheese source with glutaminase and
transglutaminase. Transglutaminase crosslinking has been done at room temperature, and
up to 65'C, for 10 minutes to 24 hours.
        In some embodiments, solidifying comprises inducing protein denaturation. In
some embodiments, denaturation is induced by heating the mixture, followed by cooling
the mixture. In some embodiments, denaturation is induced by heating the mixture to a
temperature between 30-35, 32-40, 37-45, 40-50, 45-55, 50-60, 55-65, 60-70, 65-75, 70
80, 75-85, 80-95, 90-100 'C, or above 1000 C. In some embodiments, denaturation is
induced by heating the mixture for about 10-20, 15-30, 25-40, 30-50, 40-70 seconds or
about 1-3, 2-5, 3-8, or 5-20 minutes. In some embodiments, the mixture is allowed to
cool after heating. For example, proteins (e.g, purified or fractionated plant proteins such
as from peas, moong, soy, RuBisCO, etc), preferably at concentrations >1%, can be
homogenized with oils (such as canola oil, sunflower oil, palm oil or oil bodies from
seeds such as sunflower) at 0. 1-6 0 % concentration. The emulsion can be subjected to a
heat-cool cycle wherein it is heated to a temperature of 45-100 C for 5-60 minutes and
then cooled to less than 30'C (e.g., 20-25'C). The resulting gel can be incubated at a
temperature <30C, preferably for 2-16 hours and then drained through cheesecloth. The
drained curds are ready to be shaped and aged or processed further by heating or
pressing.
        In some embodiments, solidifying comprising forming a coacervate using one or
more plant proteins. Coacervation is the process during which a homogeneous solution
of charged polymers undergoes a phase separation to result in a polymer-rich dense phase
(the 'coacervate') and a solvent-rich phase (supernatant). Protein-polysaccharide
coacervates have been used in the development of biomaterials. See, for example, Boral
and Bohidar (2010) JournalofPhysical Chemistry B. Vol 114 (37): 12027-35; and Liu et
al., (2010) JournalofAgriculturaland Food Chemistry, Vol 58:552-556. Formation of
such coacervates is driven by associative interactions between oppositely charged
polymers. However, as described herein, coacervates can be formed using proteins (e.g.,
                                             65

plant proteins comprise one or more pea proteins, chickpea proteins, lentil proteins,
lupine proteins, other legume proteins, or mixtures thereof). In general, a coacervate can
be formed by acidifying a low ionic strength solution (e.g., a buffered solution at or
below100 mM sodium chloride) comprising one or more isolated and purified plant
proteins such as pea legumins or vicilins (e.g., a vicilin fraction comprising convicilins),
a combination of both vicilins and legumins, or unfractionated pea proteins to a pH of 3.5
to 5.5. (e.g., pH 4 to 5). Under these conditions, the proteins separate out of solution and
the mixture can be centrifuged to cleanly separate out the coacervate. This coacervate,
unlike a precipitate, is a viscous material that can be stretched by pulling and that melts
on heating. The process can be carried out in the presence of oils (up to 40%, e.g., palm
or other oil), to form a creamy material. By varying the composition of the solution (ratio
of vicilin: legumin, type and amount of oil used) the properties, such as melting and
rheology, of the coacervate can be tuned as desired. Further, emulsifying salts such as
disodium phosphate or trisodium pyrophosphate can be included in the initial mixture
prior to acidification to improve flow characteristics of the coacervate (make less viscous,
likely due to increased water retention in the coacervate). The resulting coacervate may
be used as-is or in cheese replicas or processed further by cross-linking of proteins, or
subjected to a heat-cool cycle or high pressure processing to obtain a firmer cheese
replica. and used, for example, to prepare cheese replicas with stretching properties, or to
prepare firm cheese replicas.
         In some embodiments, solidifying comprises forming a cold set gel to avoid
denaturation or the breakdown of any heat-labile components (e.g., volatile flavor
molecules such as diacetyl can be lost from the food matrix upon heating; lactic acid
bacterial cultures commonly used to coagulate milks and/or impart flavor as cheeses age
will not survive the heating step). Hence, processes that can induce gelation without
heating of such labile components are important in the development of cheeses. See, Ju
and Kilara A. (1998) J. FoodScience, Vol 63(2): 288-292; and Maltais et al., (2005) J.
Food Science, Vol 70 (1): C67-C73) for general methodologies for forming cold set gels.
In general, cold set gels are formed by first heat denaturing a protein solution below its
minimum gelling concentration (dependent on pH and type of protein, typically <8%
(w/v) at pH 6-9 for globular plant proteins such as pea proteins). The protein solution can
                                               66

heated to a temperature above the denaturation temperature of the protein under
conditions where it does not precipitate out of solution (0-500 mM sodium chloride, pH
6-9). The solution can be cooled back to room temperature or below, and any heat-labile
components (including fats at 0-50% (v/v), flavor compounds, enzymes, and bacterial
cultures) that need to be incorporated into the gel can be added just prior to the addition
of salt. Gelation can be induced by increasing the ionic strength using, for example,
calcium chloride or sodium chloride (e.g., 5-100 mM), and incubating at or below room
temperature to allow for gel formation (typically minutes-hours). The concentration of
the salt needed to induce gel formation is dependent on the nature of the protein, its
concentration, and the pH and ionic strength of the solution. The resulting gel is a soft
material, with a yogurt-like texture, that can be used as a cheese replica as-is or processed
further to obtain other cheese replicas.
         Additional denaturation procedures are possible in additional embodiments of the
invention. Acids, change in ionic strength, high pressure processing, solvents, chaotropic
agents, or disulfide bond reducers can be used to denature the proteins in the non-dairy
cheese source. In one embodiment urea is added to the non-dairy cheese source to form
curds.
         In some embodiments, solidifying results in the formation of solid curds and
whey (resulting liquid that remains after curd is formed). In some embodiments, the
curds are separated from the whey.
         In some embodiments, solidifying comprises a combination of two or more
methods. For example, solidifying can include crosslinking proteins and denaturation by
heating followed by cooling. For example, a cold set gel can be crosslinked with
transglutaminase to yield firmer gels or combined with other proteins such as soy, pea
legumins, pea-albumins, crude protein fraction from chick peas and lentils or materials
(for example, fats or pea protein coacervates) to increase firmness and/or meltability.
         In some embodiments, the non-dairy cheese source can be subjected to a shearing
force during said solidifying. Said shear force can be used to cause protein components
in said non-dairy cheese source to align, forming anisotropic fibers. Said formation of
anisotropic fibers can be useful in creating a stretch cheese.
                                              67

Formation of gels by crosslinking proteins
        In some embodiments, the cheese replica comprises a cross-linking enzyme. In
some embodiments, the cross-linking enzyme is used to solidify the non-dairy cheese
source into a gel equivalent to a cheese curd. See the above section re solidifying gels.
        For example, a method is provided for preparing a non-dairy cheese replica,
comprising isolating and purifying a soy protein (7S and 11S), moong, pea-globulin, pea
albumins, pea vicilins, pea legumins, late embryogenesis abundant proteins such as
dehydrins, lentil proteins, chickpea proteins, oleosins, RuBisCo, prolamins (including but
not limited to pea, corn and sorghum), proteins with or without fat emulsions, and non
dairy cream fractions create crosslinked gels that are cheese-replicas, or any combination
thereof, preparing a protein solution comprising any combination of said isolated and
purified proteins, and cross-linking the proteins in the solution using transglutaminase. In
some embodiments, the soy proteins are used as isolated fractions, such as the 2S
globulins, the 7S globulins or the 11S globulins. In some embodiments only the 7S
globulins are used as the soy protein.
        For example, cross-linked non-dairy cheese replicas can be created using a protein
solution comprising soy protein alone ranging from 0.65% or higher weight/volume,
using pea-globulin alone, moong bean protein alone, pea-prolamin, or RuBisCo protein
alone ranging from 1% or any higher weight/volume.
        As another example, cross-linked non-dairy cheese replicas can be created using a
protein solution comprising more than one isolated and purified protein. For example,
cross-linked non-dairy cheese replicas can be made using soy (7S and 11S) plus peas
globulin (pea-G), or soy (2S, 7S and 11S) plus RuBisCo. In some embodiments, the ratio
of soy (2S, 7S and 11S) /pea-globulin or soy (2S, 7S and 11S) /RuBisCo can be about
1:5, 1:4, 1:3, 1:2, 1:1, 2:1, 3:1, 4:1, 5:1. Cross-linked non-dairy cheese replicas can be
made with a total protein amounts greater than 1%, at all possible ratios of the two
proteins, including but not limited to 1% soy: 4% pea-G, 2% soy: 4% pea-G, 2% soy:o6%
pea-G, 4% soy:2% pea-G. Cross-linked non-dairy cheese- replicas can be made with soy
(2S, 7S and 11S) plus RuBisCo with a total protein amounts greater than 1%, at all
possible ratios of the two proteins. In some embodiments, the ratio of moong
globulins/soy (7S and 11S) can be about 1:10, 1:9. 1:8. 1:7, 1:6, 1:5, 1:4, 1:3, 1:2, 1:1,
                                                68

2:1, 3:1, 4:1, 5:1, 6:1, 7:1, 8:1, 9:1, or 10:1. Cross-linked non-dairy cheese- replicas can
be made with moong globulins plus soy (2S, 7S and 11 S) with a total protein amounts
greater than 1%, at all possible ratios of the two proteins, including but not limited to 4%
moong:1% soy, 4% moong: 2% soy, 2% moong: 4% soy, 6% moong: 1% soy, 6%
moong: 2% soy, 8% moong:1% soy, 8% moong: 2% soy, and 10% moong:1% soy.
Cross-linked non-dairy cheese replicas can be made with moong protein plus peas
globulin. In some embodiments, the ratio of moong protein/pea-G can be about 1:10, 1:9.
1:8. 1:7, 1:6, 1:5, 1:4, 1:3, 1:2, 1:1, 2:1, 3:1, 4:1, 5:1, 6:1, 7:1, 8:1, 9:1, or 10:1. In some
embodiments, the non-dairy cheese replica can be made with a total protein amounts
greater than 1%, at all possible ratios of the two proteins, including but not limited to 2%
moong: 4% pea, 4% moong: 2% pea, 4% moong: 4% pea, 6% moong: 2% pea. Cross
linked non-dairy cheese- replicas can be made with any combination of plant based
proteins, including total isolated protein, and fractioned protein with a total protein
concentration of 1% or greater. Other examples of proteins used to made cheese replicas
including prolamins, late embryonic abundant proteins that can be used alone or in
combination of the above proteins.
         In some embodiments, the cheese replica is made using cream fraction as a non
dairy cheese source, cross-linked by enzymatic cross-linking or by denaturation. For
example, cross-linked non-dairy cheese- replicas have been made with cream fraction
alone from 5% to 100%. Cheese replicas made from crosslinking the cream fraction can
be modulated by the purification method of the cream fraction. For example, sunflower
cream fraction purified with a high pH wash, crosslinks very well, forming firm curd that
is white. In other cases, purification of the sunflower cream fraction from a urea wash,
does not crosslink well, and more crosslinking enzyme or more cream fraction is required
for curd formation. In even another case, sunflower cream fraction washed only at pH 7,
can result in a green/brown colored cheese.
         In some embodiments, the cheese replica is made using a non-dairy cheese source
that comprises a cream fraction and a protein solution comprising one or more isolated
and purified proteins. Cross-linked non-dairy cheese-replicas can be made with purified
proteins and cream fraction. Cross-linked non-dairy cheese-replicas can be made with
soy plus sunflower cream fraction, with amounts including but not limited to 0.6% soy
                                                 69

(7S and 11S): 20% cream, 2% soy (7S and 11S): 20% cream, 4% soy(7S and 11S), 20%
cream, 2% soy(7S and 11S): 10% cream, 4% soy(7S and 11S): 10% cream, and 4%
soy(7S and 11 S): 30% cream. Cross-linked non-dairy cheese- replicas can be made with
pea globulins plus cream, with amounts including but not limited to 4% pea globulins:
20% cream, 7% pea globulins: 20% cream, 7% pea globulins: 10% cream, 4% pea
globulins: 10% cream, 10% pea globulins: 20% cream. Cross-linked non-dairy cheese
replicas can be made with moong plus sunflower cream, with amounts including but not
limited to 4% moong: 20% cream, 6% moong: 20% cream, 8% moong: 20% cream, 8%
moong: 10% cream. Cross-linked non-dairy cheese- replicas can be made with multiple
purified proteins plus cream fraction, for example 2.5% pea globulins: 3% soy(7S and
11S): 20% sunflower cream, 2% pea globulins: 4% soy (7S and 11S): 20% sunflower
cream, 6% pea: 2% soy (7S and 11 S): 10% sunflower cream fraction. Cheese-replicas
made with purified proteins plus the addition of cream fraction can have an improved
creamy texture as compared to cheese-replicas made with purified proteins alone or made
with the cream fraction alone. For example, a cheese-replica made with with 4-8% pea
globulins plus 10-20% cream fraction, cross-linked by transglutaminase, results in a firm
but creamy non-dairy cheese replica as compared to a comparable non-dairy cheese
replica created with only purified proteins or the cream fraction alone, both of which
result in a more granular cheese replica.   Cheese-replicas made with purified proteins
plus the addition of cream fraction can also hold oil well through aging. Such replicas
can exhibit minimal to no oil leakage in aging studies lasting a week or more. By
contrast, cheese replicas prepared from crosslinked washed cream fraction alone are firm
and hold a cheese form, are able to be diced, but may exhibit oil leakage with aging.
Surprisingly, it was found that addition of one or more isolated and purified proteins,
even trace amounts of isolated and purified proteins lower than 1%, significantly
minimizes oil leakage from the resulting cheese replica, as compared to a cheese replica
made using cream fraction alone. Addition of 0.65% wt/volume or more of isolated and
purified proteins to the cheese replica can significantly minimize oil leakage as compared
to a replica that does not comprise isolated and purified proteins.
        The invention also provides methods of creating a non-dairy cheese replica with
improved melting profile. Some currently available non-dairy cheeses exhibit poor
                                              70

melting capabilities. Instead of exhibiting smooth melting, the non-dairy cheeses often
curdle during heating and are unable to melt smoothly. In some embodiments, the
method comprises solidifying a non-dairy cheese source by denaturation. By way of
example only, the property of meltability can be imparted to cheese replicas prepared by
mixing protein solutions mixed with one or more fats into an emulsion, then solidifying
the emulsion by denaturation. Exemplary methods of denaturation are described herein.
In some embodiments, a protein solutions, preferably at concentrations >5% protein, is
homogenzied with one or more oils at a concentration between 0. 1-60%. The resulting
emulsion can be subjected to a heat-cool cycle wherein it is heated to a temperature of
45-1OOC for 5-60 minutes and then cooled back. The gel can be incubated at a
temperature <=25C, preferably for 2-16 hours and then optionally drained through
cheesecloth. In some embodiments, the drained curds are ready to be shaped and aged or
processed further by heating or pressing.
        As described herein, unfractionated pea globulins do not form reversible gels
between pH 4-9 and NaCl concentrations 0-1M. However, once fractionated (to >90%
purity as judged by gel electrophoresis) into vicilin (+ convicilin) and legumin, these
proteins can form reversible gels under certain conditions. Once purified (to >90% purity
as determined by gel electrophoresis), the 7S and 11 S proteins from peas could be used to
obtain meltable gels under certain pH and NaCl conditions. Purified pea-7S proteins
could be induced to form a meltable gel at pH7, 100mM NaCl. On the other hand,
purified pea-1 1S proteins formed meltable gels between pH 7-9 when NaCl concentration
was 300mM.
        In some cases, cheese-replicas comprising proteins from plants sources other than
soybeans (such as moong bean globulins, pea proteins etc) can be induced to form
meltable gels by using them in combination with soy (7S and 11 S). The mixture,
preferably at total protein concentrations of >5% (comprising > 0.2% soy proteins) can
then be emulsified with various oils or oil bodies and then taken through the heat-cool
cycle described above (e.g., heating to 95'C and cooling back to 25C) to form meltable
gels. Melting salts are useful for helping form the meltable gel, as well as retaining
meltability for specific protein+ oil mixture (depending on protein, not oil).
                                              71

        In some embodiments, the gels can be inoculated with microbial cultures to
improve flavor, texture and/or appearance of the cheese-replica. Microbes, such as
bacterial cultures (such as, e.g., Lactococci, Lactobacilli,Streptococci, and Propionii
bacteria) or molds (such as Penicillium,or Geotrichum) can be added at 0-1%
concentration to the non-dairy cheese source. The microbes can be combined with 0.5
3% sugars (such as glucose, fructose, maltose, sucrose etc) at any point during the
cheese-making process. In some embodiments, the microbes and optionally sugars are
added to the protein-fat emulsion during the cool-down phase of the heat-cool cycle,
preferably when the mixture is at or below 40C. The mixture can be held at this
temperature for 1hr and then cooled further before draining and shaping.
        The meltability of the curds formed by denaturation, e.g., by a heat/cool cycle can
also be modulated by adjusting the pH and/or ionic strength of the protein mixture. For
example, protein solutions, preferably at concentrations >5%, can be induced to form
meltable gels by heat-cool cycling (heating to 45-1OOC and then cooling down to <=30C)
by maintaining pH of the solution between 3-9 and an ionic strength between 0-0.5M
sodium chloride.
        The appearance of curds formed by heat-cool method can also be modulated by
pH and ionic strength of the solution. By way of example only, a solution of moong 8S
globulins comprising 200 mM sodium chloride and kept at pH 8-9 form opaque curds
greyish in color. However, when the ionic strength of the solution is lowered (50mM
sodium chloride), the appearance of the gel changes to a translucent white-light grey.
        In some embodiments, various combinations of the heat-cool method and
crosslinking (TG) are used to modulate the appearance, texture and meltability of the
cheese-replicas. For example, a solution of 6% soy (7S and 11 S) can be subject to the
heat-cool method to obtain curds that readily and reversibly melt. In addition, if
transglutaminase (0. 1%) is added to the curd at during the cool down phase, preferably at
40C, the resulting curds are more granular in appearance and melt more controllably.
Stretching:
        In some embodiments, the cheese replica is made to form stretchy strings upon
heating ("stretchy cheese replica"). A stretchy cheese replica can be made, for example,
                                              72

by using mixtures that comprise isolated and purified plant proteins such as, e.g., pea,
moong and soy globulins, albumins, prolamins (zeins, pea prolamins) and late embryonic
stage abundant proteins (LEAs). Sources of these proteins include, by way of example
only, cereal grains including, e.g., barley, wheat, legumes such as, e.g., moong, plants
from the Arabidopsis genus, and S. cereviseae. These proteins can be used at varying
concentrations, preferably >5%, in solution. The protein solution can be mixed with 0
60% fat to create an emulsion. In some embodiments, the protein solution comprises
isolated and purified prolamins. In some embodiments, the prolamins are isolated from
peas. The addition of these prolamins increases stretching.
        The emulsion can be solidified by crosslinking or by heat-cooling or a
combination of both crosslinking and heat-cooling. In some cases, 0-2% melting salts are
used to improve meltability of the gels. In some cases, 0-1 % microbial cultures could be
added to improve texture and flavor of the cheese-replicas.
        The stretchy cheese replica can be prepared using a number of non-dairy cheese
sources, including but not limited to non-dairy cream fractions, purified proteins, non
dairy milk, e.g., nut milks, protein solutions comprising one or more isolated and purified
proteins, emulsions of isolated proteins and isolated fats, or any combination thereof. In
some embodiments, the non-dairy cheese source is a non-dairy milk isolated from plant
sources with isolated and purified pea prolamin proteins, zein (purified corn prolamins)
added therein. In some embodiments, the pea prolamins are added to achieve a
concentration of 0.1-10%, or 0.5-8%. The addition of pea prolamins or zein to the non
dairy milk can improve stretchability of the resulting cheese replica, as compared to a
cheese replica made with just non-dairy milk.
        In some embodiments, stretching in cheese replicas can be improved by
incorporating oacervates. Coacervates may be used as-is to form stretchable cheeses, or
combined with other proteins with/without use of crosslinking enzymes such as
transglutaminase to form cheese replicas with stretching properties.
        Stretching also can be increased by adding starches, including but not limited to
xanthan gum, carrageenan, cassia gum, konjac gum, methylcellulose and hydroxypropyl
methylcellulose, hydroxypropyl, alginates, guar, locust bean gum, pectin and gum
arabic. The gum may be added to achieve a final concentration of 0.01-4%, or 0.05-2%.
                                              73

In some embodiments, the gum is xanthan gum. Additing xanthan gum to the non-dairy
cheese source can increase the stickiness of the curd after solidifying, which thus can
increase the stretchability of the resulting cheese replica. Xanthan gum added from
0.05% to 2% to plant based emulsions including but not limited to non-dairy cream
fractions, purified proteins, nut milks, protein fat emulsions, or a mixture of these
components, increased the stickiness of the curd, allowing for the cheese to stretch. The
addition of xanthan gum can increase stretching of an otherwise non-stretching cheese
replica, or can increase the stretching of a stretchy cheese replica.
Hard Cheeses
        In another aspect, the invention provides a method of preparing a firm cheese
replica that mimics the texture, flavor, and firmness of a hard cheese, such as parmesan or
Cheddar. In some embodiments, a non-dairy milk is inoculated with thermophilic
bacteria cultures before solidifying into a gel. The temperature may be increased during
the solidification to allow the curd to release more whey. The curd can be cut into
smaller pieces, e.g., 1/2 inch squares. The smaller pieces can be allowed to acidify. The
smaller pieces can be allowed to solidify for 10 minutes while still suspended in their
own whey. After acidification, the curd can be broken into smaller pieces, e.g., pea-sized
pieces by, for example, whisking. The temperature of the whey/coagulum can be
increased by 2 degrees every five minutes until a desired curd temperature is reached.
The desired internal temperature can be 50-200'F. The curd can be stirred, e.g., every 10
minutes to prevent reaggregating. The temperature can be raised to 125-130'F. The
curds can be separated and drained to form a hard cheese replica. The hard cheese
replica can optionally be aged.
        The cheese replicas may be ripened in a way similar to traditional cheese. For
example, surface mold may be allowed to grow to create a rind. In order to create a rind
or color, the process may introduce certain bacteria to the cheese replicas in the ripening
process. By way of example only, Brevibacterium linens can be introduced to produce an
orange color and pungent aroma to the cheese replica.
                                               74

         In some embodiments, the cheese replica can have edible materials added (e.g.
herbs, pepper, spices) on its surface to enhance flavor or add to the visual appeal of the
product. In some embodiments the edible materials are embedded in the cheese replica.
         The cheese replicas may be modified to have or not have a rind, may be coated in
wax, and may have craters or veins typical to blue cheese. The cheese replicas may be
spreadable, such as cream cheese. The cheese replicas can contain flavor additives, for
example: truffle, mushrooms, nuts, herbs, chives, and other flavors.
         In some embodiments, the cheese replica can be shaped. For example the cheese
replica can be shaped in a basket or a mold. In some embodiments the cheese replica is
pressed, for example with a weight. The pressing can help expel any additional liquid
from the cheese replica.
         In some embodiments the production of the cheese replica includes a waxing step.
In one embodiment the waxing procedure is as follows: Cut food-grade paraffin wax into
1 2-inch pieces. Place in double boiler and heat wax to 210 F. Place cheese replicas in
standard freezer for fifteen minutes to reduce temperature of cheese replicas to 33'F.
Using 3-grams of melted wax per piece, brush wax onto cheese replicas one side at a
time. Placed waxed cheese replicas onto clean waxed paper on aging racks. Age waxed
cheese replicas in aging room at 36'F with 75% humidity, for example for six months.
In some embodiments the aging room is between 33-70'F. In some embodiments the
humidity of the aging room is altered to aid in rind formation. In some embodiments the
waxed cheese is stored for years, for example for 2 years or more.
         In some embodiments the production of the cheese replica includes a smoking
step. In some embodiments the cheese replica is cold smoked. In some embodiments the
cheese replica is smoked at the curd stage or prior to the curd stage. In some
embodiments the cheese replica is smoked after the cheese replica is formed. In some
embodiment the smoking procedure is as follows: Soak wood chips for six hours. Drain
chips of all water and place in smoking unit. Ignite smoker and as soon as chips have
fully ignited, snuff out flames to create smoke-filled unit. Place cheese replicas on racks
in smoker for five minutes per side. Remove from smoker and place on cooling racks.
Place cheese replicas in cooling room for 24 hours, at 36F. In various embodiments
                                              75

smoking times and cooling times and temperatures will be adjusted according to the
particular cheese replica and particular desired taste profile.
                                              EXAMPLES
    EXAMPLE 1: The use of enzymes to improve non-dairy cheese replica texture
         Soft ripened (SR) cheese replicas were created with proteases and lipases added at
different time points and evaluated for the ability of the proteases and lipases to modulate
the texture of the replicas. Eighteen cheese replicas were made with pasteurized almond
and macadamia nut milk (see Example 20). The nut milk was cultured with 0.03%
MAll, 0.15% Flora Danica, 0.0045% Geotrichum candidum, 0.009% Penicillium
candidum, and 0.007% Debaryomyces hansenii cultures, then crosslinked with 0.5%
transglutaminase (ACTIVA TI, from Ajinomoto). Five different combinations of a
protease and/or a lipase were examined, along with three controls without protease or
lipase as follows: A   = papain 0.02%, B= FromaseTM (an aspartic protease from
Rizomucor with a similar specificity to chymosin from rennet), 0.004%, C= papain
0.01% + Fromase TM 0.002%, D= papain 0.02% + Lipase G 0.001%, E = papain 0.01%,
PC lipase 0.0001% and F= control. The proteases and lipases were added at these three
times: (i) with the cultures, (ii) after crosslinking had started (after TG hour), and (iii)
after draining the whey.
         The cheese replicas were evaluated by blind taste testers and by texture analysis
(see FIG. 1 and FIG. 2.). The tasters rated the cheese replicas from 1-5 as follows: 1: too
soft, 2: creamy yet stays intact (e.g., wedge stays intact), 3: slightly too firm, 4: much too
firm and 5: rubbery, and breakable. FIG. 1 depicts the average texture scores of the above
cheese replicas as determined by taste testers. As shown in FIG. 1, the cheese replicas
with added proteases (samples A-E, referred to as 1-5 in FIG. 1) were mostly rated as
"creamy and wedge stays intact" and were significantly creamier and softer than cheese
replicas without any proteases. The control replicas with no proteases were mostly rated
as "much too firm." The data indicate the addition of proteases can increase the
creaminess of the cheese replica.
         The cheese replicas also were tested for firmness using a texture analyzer (texture
Technologies XT plus). FIG. 2 depicts firmness of each of the soft ripened cheese
                                                 76

replicas with the addition of proteases as determined by the texture analyzes. As shown
in FIG. 2, the cheese replicas with proteases had a much softer texture than the cheese
replicas without proteases. The data indicates the addition of proteases can decrease the
firmness of the cheese replica. The data from the texture analyzer supports the data
collected by taste testers.
         EXAMPLE 2: The use of enzymes to improve non-dairy cheese replica flavor
(to create flavor that is indistinguishable from a comparable dairy cheese).
         Soft fresh (SF) cheese replicas (Example 21) created with proteases and lipases
added at different times during the creation of the cheese replicas were evaluated for the
ability of the proteases and lipases to modulate the flavor of the non-dairy cheese
replicas. Eighteen cheese replicas were made with pasteurized almond and macadamia
nut milk as detailed in Example 1. Five different combinations of protease and/or lipase
mixtures were examined, along with three controls without protease or lipase as follows:
A  = FromaseTM 0.004%, B      =  Papain 0.02% + Lipase G 0.001%, C      = control (no protease
or lipase), D  = Papain 0.02%, E = Papain 0.01% + Fromase TM 0.002%, and F          = Papain
0.01% + PC lipase 0.00010%. The proteases and lipases were added at these three times:
with the cultures, after crosslinking had started, and after draining the whey.
         Blind taste testers and GCMS were used to evaluate the cheese replicas for a
variety of flavors. FIG. 3A depicts the sum of the preference scores from 12 blind taste
testers. Each test tester rated the cheese replica from 1-3, 1 being the favorite, 2 being all
the rest, and 3 being the least favorite. Figure 3B depicts the sum of the flavor scores
from 12 blind taste testers. Each taste tester rated the cheese replicas from 1-5, 1 being
the best flavor (sweet, fermented, fresh, little sharp, salt), 5 being the worst flavor (off
flavors: nutty, plastic, metallic).
         The tasters also rated the replicas for the following: how much they liked the
flavor, their overall preferred cheese replica, the amount of acidity and the amount of
buttery flavor. The rating was from 1-5, with 1 being the most liked for flavor or the
overall favorite, or 1 being least amount for acidity or buttery flavor.
         Overall preference: The least preferred cheese replicas were the three controls,
which had no protease and lipases added; these were less liked than all of the cheese
                                               77

replicas that contained proteases and/or lipases and were significantly (p<0.05, two-tailed
T-test) less liked than the cheese replicas that contained either papain 0.02%, or papain
0.01% and FromaseTM 0.002% . The most preferred cheese replica had papain at 0.02%
added after draining the whey.
        Flavor preference: The cheese replicas least liked for flavor were the three
controls, which had no added proteases or lipases. These were less liked than all of the
cheese replicas that contained proteases and/or lipases, and were significantly (p<0.05,
two-tailed T-test) less liked than the cheese replicas that contained papain 0.02%, and the
cheese replicas with papain 0.01% and FromaseTM 0.002%. The most preferred cheese
replicas contained either papain at 0.02%, papain at 0.010%or papain 0.010%plus 0.002%
FromaseTM, added after draining the whey.
        Buttery flavor: FIG. 4 depicts the butteriness score for the cheese replica as
determined by taste testers. Each test tester rated the cheese replicas from 1-5, 1 being the
least buttery (no butter taste), 3 (good amount of butter taste), and 5 (too much butter
taste).The least buttery cheese replicas were the three controls, which had no added
proteases or lipases. These were less buttery than the cheese replicas that contained
proteases and/or lipases, and were significantly (p<0.05, two-tailed T-test) less buttery
than the cheese replicas that contained papain 0.02% and papain 0.010% and FromaseTM
0.002%. The most buttery cheese replicas were created by adding either papain at 0.02%,
papain 0.01% or 0.01% papain plus 0.002% Fromase TM, after draining the whey.
        Acidity: FIG. 5 depicts acidity scores of cheese replicas. Each test tester rated the
cheese replicas from 1-5, 1 being the least acidity (no acidity), 3 (good amount of
acidity), and 5 (too much acidity). The amount of acidity varied little among the samples.
        The cheese replicas were also evaluated using GCMS. The volatile chemicals
were isolated from the head space around the cheese replicas homogenized in 400 mM
NaCl. These aroma chemicals were identified using GCMS, and the peaks further
evaluated to identify the compounds in each cheese replica sample. This set of cheese
replicas with and without proteases and lipases were compared for the chemical
compounds in each sample to identify compounds created by the presence of protease
and/ or lipases. The control cheese replicas without any proteases or lipases were found
to have the least amount of two known buttery compounds: 2, 3, butanedione and acetoin.
                                              78

The sample with papain at 0.02% added after draining the whey had the greatest amount
of both 2, 3, butanedione and acetoin compared to all other samples. The amount of 2, 3,
butanedione in this sample was 30 fold higher than its control with no added proteases or
lipases, and acetoin was greater than 10-fold higher in the sample containing papain
added after draining the whey, compared to the control. The GCMS results were
consistent with the tasting results, which showed that adding papain at 0.02% after
draining the whey resulted in the most buttery tasting cheese replica. Table 1 depicts the
relative amounts of buttery compounds identified by GCMS that vary among the samples
with different proteases and lipases, and that also vary depending on when in the cheese
replica-making process the proteases and lipases are added. The amount of each flavor
component is shown using a qualitative scale. Where there is no symbol, the molecule
was present below detection levels. The number of + signs designates the relative
amount of the target molecule detected in the experiment, where ++++ is more than +++
and significantly more than +.
                                           TABLE 1
                                                   Timing of adding proteases and lipases
                                                   with                       after
                                                   cultures     after TG    [draining
   23, BLUaedionec
 A = FromaseTM 0.004% (samples: 1, 7, 13)           +             +++          ++
 B = Papain 0.02% + Lipase G 0.001%
  (samples: 2, 8, 14)                               +++           +            +
  C = control (no proteases or lipases),
  (samples: 3, 9, 15)
 D = Papain 0.02%, (samples: 4, 10, 16)             +++           ++           +++++
 E = Papain 0.01% + FromaseTM 0.002%
  (samples: 5, 11, 17)                              +++           +++          +++
 F = Papain 0.01% + PC lipase 0.0001%
  (samples: 6, 12, 18)                              ++++          +++          ++++
 Acetoinl
 A = FromaseTM 0.004% (samples: 1, 7, 13)           +             ++++         ++
 B = Papain 0.02% + Lipase G 0.001%
  (samples 2, 8, 14)                                ++            +            +
  C = control (no proteases or lipase), (samples
                                              79

 3, 9, 15)
 D = Papain 0.02%, (samples: 4, 10, 16)              ++              ++
 E = Papain 0.01% + FromaseTM 0.002%
 (samples: 5, 11, 17)                                ++              +++           +++
 F = Papain 0.01% + PC lipase 0.0001%
 (samples: 6, 12, 18)                                +++              ++
        EXAMPLE 3 - Selection of desired lactic acid bacteria
        Twenty-one (21) individual bacterial strains were isolated from the commercial
products MAll, MA14, MA19 and Flora Danica. These mixed direct vat cultures were
plated on non-selective media and screened by PCR with primers (Table 3) that were
designed specifically to distinguish among the various strains (Table 2, where LLL refers
to Lactococcus lactis lactis, LLC refers to Lactococcus lactis cremoris, LM refers to
Leuconostoc mesenteroides, and LLBD refers to Lactococcus lactis biovar diacetylactis.
Table 2 depicts the individual isolated strains from the starter cultures. The first column
identifies the source of the isolated strains, and the first row depicts the bacterial
subspecies classification of the individual strains. In some cases it was exploited that
certain strains, e.g., LLC, grew poorly on certain media (e.g., LB+ glucose) and the
smallest colonies were selected for PCR analysis.
                                            Table 2
                              List of isolated bacterial strains.
Source          LLL          LLC         LM           LLBD                    Other
MAll              LF5LF7     LF2
MA14            LF24LF27     LF43
                LF40
MA19            LF28         LF33
Flora           LF16 LF5     LF15 L      LF21LF53     LF13 LF14 LF49          LF51
Danica          0            F54LF5                                           undefined
                LF17          5                                               species of
                                                                              lactococcus
        Table 3 depicts the primers used for sequence analysis of the isolated strains.
Primer sets 1-3 (primer 1 pair, SEQ ID NOs: 1-2; primer 2 pair, SEQ ID NOs: 3-4;
                                               80

primer pair 3, SEQ ID NOs. 5-6):were used in preliminary identification of LLL, LLC
and LLBD strains. Primer pair 4 (SEQ ID NOs. 5 and 6) was used to identify LM strains.
                                               TABLE 3
                                           List of primers.
Primer      Forward primer (5'--3')                          Reverse primer (5' -- 3')
Primer 1 TATGAAAGGAACTTATCTTAAAGTT                           ATTTTCAATCTCCATTTTTTAGAGT
Primer 2    ATTCTTGATTTCAAAAAACCTGATT                        AAATTGATTGAAGTCGGTCAAAAGT
Primer 3    CAAAGTTCTTTGACATTATGTTG                          CTAATGATGATTTAGATATGATGAC
Primer 4    CCAGACTCCTACGGGAGGCAGC                           CTTGTGCGGGCCCCCGTCAATTC
        Strains were further identified by sequencing the PCR products and by carrying
out more extensive whole genome sequence analysis. Phenotypic analysis included:
growth on Reddy's selective medium, pH profile in nut media, sugar fermentation,
GCMS, and the tasting of curd and cheese replicas produced with individual strains.
Cheese replica tastings were blinded to the tasters and carried out multiple times. The
tasting results were evaluated for statistical significance.
        The effect of selected strains on pH of filtered nut media was also tested. Nut
media was incubated with LF2, LF5, or a 1:1 ratio of LF2 and LF5 strains for at least 17
hours, and the pH sampled at different time points. FIG. 6 depicts the effect of LF2 and
LF5 strains on pH of filtered nut medium. LF2 (an LLC isolated from MAl 1) lowered
the pH in filtered nut medium from 6.25 to 5.35 at T 17h, whereas LF5 (an LLL isolated
from the same commercial mix) lowered the pH to 4.23 in the same time period.
        EXAMPLE 4 - The use of specific lactic acid bacteria to produce desired
flavors
        The individual strains identified in Example 3 were used to make SF cheese
replicas (see Example 21). Combinations of LF2, LF5 and LF7 (including 1/3 each) and
combinations of LF2 and LF5 (including 1/2 each) were liked as well or better than
MAl 1 in blind curd and cheese replica tastings.
        A 50:50 mixture of LF2:LF5 was tested over a 4 x range of bacterial cell
concentration at inoculation, from 1.5 x 108 cfu/ml - 3.8 x 107 cfu/ml per strain, and
                                               81

found to result in the same final pH (4.3) as MAl 1 (at an inoculum concentration of 3 x
108 cfu/ml). Tasters found no significant flavor difference among samples in this
inoculum range.
         In blind taste tests, SR cheese replicas (see Example 20) made with isolated
strains of LLL, LLC, LLBD and LM (e.g., a mixture of LF2, LF5, LF21 and LF14) were
as well liked as or preferred to samples made with Flora Danica (FD).
         SF cheese replicas (Example 21) also were prepared using individual strains to
better characterize the flavor and texture profiles contributed by each strain. The results
of the taste test/texture preference tests are depicted in Table 4.
                                           TABLE 4
     Texture and flavor of cheese replicas made with various starter cultures and
                                   isolated bacterial strains
      Strain          Average Texture      Predominant Flavors         Less Dominant Flavors
                            Score
 LLBD (MD88)                   2               Buttery = nutty                   Sour
   LM (LM57)                 1.11              Buttery = sour       Nutty = sweet > floral = woody
   LF2 (LLC)                 1.44          Sour > buttery > nutty           Bitter = sweet
   LF5 (LLL)                 1.67          Sour > buttery = nutty               sweet
Predominant = more than 50% of tasters scored the flavor as present; Less dominant = a
third or more of the tasters scored the flavor as present. Texture was scored on a scale of
1 - 5, where 1 = softest, and 2 = ideal texture for a SF cheese replica.
         Some of the observations in the tasting studies included:
         Cheese replicas made with LM alone had a much softer texture than cheese
replicas made with LLBD alone.
         Cheese replicas made with LM alone had a predominantly sour flavor. Samples
also were quite buttery, but not as much so as those made with LLBD alone. Other
prominent flavors in cheese replicas made with LM alone included nutty, sweet, floral
and woody.
         Cheese replicas made with LLBD alone had a predominantly buttery taste. They
also were sour, but less so than samples made with LM. LLBD samples also had a nuttier
and sweeter flavor than cheese replicas made with LM. Other prominent LLBD flavors
included fruity and floral.
                                                82

        Cheese replicas made with LLC may have more bitter and sour flavors than those
made with LLL alone.
        EXAMPLE 5: EFFECT OF ADDED SUGARS ON FLAVOR
PRODUCTION IN SF CHEESE REPLICAS
        SF cheese replicas were prepared using the standard SF recipe (see Example 21).
Each coagulation was inoculated with either LM57 (LM, commercial product) or MD88
(LLBD, commercial product). Sugar (glucose, fructose, sucrose, or maltose) at 20 mM
final concentration was added to each sample except for the no added sugar control. Nut
milk formula is about 55 mM sucrose with negligible amounts of glucose, fructose, and
maltose. SF cheese replicas were taste tested by 10 individuals blinded to the identity of
the cheese replicas.
        Table 5 depicts a listing of cheese replica samples and their respective
bacterial/sugar experimental conditions.
                                               TABLE 5
                          List of cheese replica samples and description.
                          Sample       Description
                          A            LM57 no added sugar
                          B            LM57 + 20 mM Glucose
                          C            LM57 + 20 mM Fructose
                          D            LM57 + 20 mM Sucrose
                          E            LM57 + 20 mM Maltose
                          F            MD88 no added sugar
                          G            MD88 + 20 mM Glucose
                          H            MD88 + 20 mM Fructose
                                       MD88 + 20 mM Sucrose
                          J            MD88 + 20 mM Maltose
        Tasters were asked to score one point for each flavor tasted from the following
categories: buttery, nutty, sweet, sour, fruity, floral, bitter, earthy and nutty. For example,
a cheese replica judged to be buttery by all ten tasters would receive a score of 10. Flavor
scores for each sample are summarized in Tables 6A & 6B. Combined flavor scores for
each strain, irrespective of added sugar, are shown in Table 6C.
                                               83

                                       TABLE 6A
                 Effect of added sugar on flavors produced by LM
      Flavor         no added sugar     glucose      fructose     sucrose   maltose
      buttery              8          |7           |4           |6         4
      nutty                4            2            3            4        2
      sweet                4            1            1            2        4
      sour                 8            8            9            7        8
      fruity               0            1            1            1        2
      floral               3            1            1            2        2
      bitter                1           1            0            1        0
      earthy               2            2            0            1        0
      woody                3            1            2            2        0
                                       TABLE 6B
                Effect of added sugar on flavors produced by LLBD
        Flavor       no added    glucose        fructose      sucrose     maltose
                     sugar
        buttery    |     6           9               9            8          9
        nutty            6           5               6            5          3
        sweet            2           6               3            5          3
        sour             4           4               4            3          4
        fruity           2           2               1            1          2
        floral           2           3               1            1          0
        bitter           1           1               1            1          0
        earthy           1           1               1            0          2
        woody            0           0               0            1          1
                                       TABLE 6C
Flavors produced by LM (LM57) and LLBD (MD88), irrespective of added sugars
                            Flavor        LM         LLBD
                            buttery       29         41
                            nutty         15       |25
                            sweet       |12        |19
                            sour        i,40         19
                                             84

                               fruity ~5             8
                               floral      9         7
                               bitter      3         4
                               earthy      5         5
                               woody       8         2
        The predominant flavors that the tasters detected were buttery, sour, nutty and
sweet. A number of differences were observed between LM and LLBD samples. Both
sample sets scored high for buttery flavor, but the presence of added sugar affected
butteriness differently, uniformly increasing this flavor in LLBD samples but tending to
decrease it in LM samples (FIG. 7, see Table 5 for a description of each sample).
Samples cultured with LM were rated more sour than samples made with LLBD, and
sourness was relatively unaffected by the presence of added sugar. FIG. 8 shows the
combined buttery and sourness scores irrespective of added sugar.
        Likewise differences were observed between the two strains for nuttiness and
sweetness. Overall, samples made with LM are less nutty and less sweet than samples
made with LLBD (see FIGs. 9 & 10).
        Each cheese replica was subjected to analysis by GC-MS. The results are
summarized in Table 7.
                                         TABLE 7
Volatile flavor      Sugar                     LLBD                    LM
compound
Octane               All conditions
Ethanol              + Maltose                 +++                     ++
Ethanol              No added sugars           ++                      +
2,3-Butanedione      All conditions            +                       ++
Acetoin              No sugar or +sucrose      +++                     ++
Acetoin              + other sugars            +++                     +
Butanoic acid        All conditions            +++                     ++
2-heptanone          No added sugars
2-heptanone          + Glucose                 +++                     +
Nonanol              No added sugars           -                       +
Nonanol              + Glucose                                         ++
Acetic Acid          +Sucrose or +maltose      +++++
Acetic Acid          No added sugars           -++++                   ++
                                             85

Acetic Acid           + Glucose                  -++++                   +
Acetic Acid           + Frucose                  -++++                   +
1,3-Butanediol        All conditions             -+++                    ++
        From these data, the following conclusions were reached:
        Sourness: Cheese replicas made with LM alone have a predominantly sour flavor.
Samples made with LLBD are also sour, but less so than those made with LM. Acetic
acid was produced by both LLBD and LM: more was produced by LLBD than LM.
Although sucrose and maltose increased acetic acid production by LM and glucose and
fructose reduced it, sugar did not seem to affect the tasters' perception of sour flavor. It is
likely that acetic acid is not the only sour flavor compound produced by these strains.
        Butteriness: Both LM and LLBD samples have prominent buttery flavors, with
LLBD overall more buttery than LM. There are three buttery flavor compounds produced
by both strains: 2,3-butanedione, acetoin, and butanoic acid. LM produces more 2,3
butanedione, and LLBD produces more acetoin and butanoic acid. Glucose, fructose and
maltose decrease the amount of acetoin produced by LM, and tasters likewise found
samples made with fructose and maltose to be the least buttery. Overall added sugar
appears to increase butteriness for LLBD samples.
        LLBD samples also have a nuttier and sweeter flavor than cheese replicas made
with LM. Sweetness may increase with LLBD with added sugar.
        EXAMPLE 7 - TITRATION OF NUT MILK CREAM AND SKIM
FRACTIONS TO MAKE CHEESE REPLICAS
        Typically, the nuts milks are prepared from a 55:45 mixture of almond milk to
macadamia milk with the following recipe:
        49.45 % almond skim
        22.40% macadamia skim
        5.12 % almond cream (which is ~59% fat) (see Example 1 of WO 2013/010037)
        23.02 % macadamia cream (which is ~63% fat)
        This recipe contains 28% cream (5.12 % almond cream plus 23.02 % mac
cream). The percentage of fat in this formulation is approximately 17.5 g fat/ 100 g
formula.
                                                86

        The ratio of almonds to macadamias was changed to 78:22 (23.6% almond skim,
7 % almond cream, 4.7% macadamia nut skim, 4% macadamia nut cream), maintaining
28% cream, and carried out blind tastings. SF cheese replicas made with this formulation
were liked as much as the 45:55 mix, and were indistinguishable in flavor and texture.
        EXAMPLE 8 CONTROL OF FAT RETENTION
        Cheese replicas were made with different types and different amounts of fat and
compared for their ability to retain fat. The cheese replicas were all made with a 4%
solution of moong 8S protein homogenized with each of the following: the sunflower
cream fraction from 5-40%, sunflower oil from 5-40%, or palm oil from 5-40%, each
emulsion was heated to 95'C and then cooled back to 30'C. At 30'C, 0.03% MAl 1 and
1% glucose was added to both samples. The mixtures were then incubated at 25'C
overnight, followed by the non-gelled liquid being drained through cheesecloth.
        All the cheese replica gels were compared for their ability to retain fat at room
temperature and upon heating up to 100 C. The non-dairy cheese replicas with 4%
moong protein, and the sunflower cream fraction (all tested amounts from 5% to 40%)
had no fat leakage at room temperature, and no fat leakage upon heating to 100 C. The
cheese replica gels made with 4% moong protein, and 10% to 40% sunflower oil all had
fat leakage at room temperature, and even greater oil leakage upon heating. Oil leakage
was seen for cheese replica gels made with 4% moong protein, and 5% sunflower oil
upon heading. The cheese replica gels made with 4% moong protein and 20% to 40%
palm oil all had fat leakage at room temperature, and even greater oil leakage upon
heating. Oil leakage was seen for cheese gels made with 4% moong protein, and 10%
palm oil upon heating.
        EXAMPLE 9: PURIFICATION OF DESIRED PROTEINS
        All steps were carried out at 4'C or room temperature. Centrifugation steps were
at 8000 g for 20 mins, 4'C or room temperature. The flour is suspended in a specific
buffer, the suspension is centrifuged and the supernatant is microfiltered through a 0.2
micron PES membrane and then concentrated by ultrafiltration on a 3 kDa, 5 kDa, or 10
                                              87

kDa molecular weight cutoff PES membrane on a Spectrum Labs KrosFlo hollow fiber
tangential flow filtration system.
        Once fractionated, all ammonium sulfate precipitate fractions of interest were
stored at -20'C until further use. Prior to their use in experiments, the precipitates were
resuspended in 10 volumes of 50 mM K Phosphate buffer, pH 7.4, + 0.5 M NaCl. The
suspensions were centrifuged and the supernatants microfiltered through a 0.2 micron
PES membrane and then concentrated by ultrafiltration on a 3 kDa, 5 kDa, or 10 kDa
molecular weight cutoff PES membrane on a Spectrum Labs KrosFlo hollow fiber
tangential flow filtration system. Protein composition at individual fractionation steps
was monitored by SDS-PAGE and protein concentrations were measured by standard
UV-Vis methods.
        (i)     Pea-albumins: Dry green or yellow pea flour was used as a source of pea
albumins. The flour was suspended in 10 volumes of 50 mM sodium acetate buffer pH 5
and stirred for 1 hr. Soluble protein was separated from un-extracted protein and pea seed
debris by either centrifugation (8000 g, 20 minutes) or filtration through a 5 micron filter.
Supernatant or filtrate, respectively, was collected. To this crude protein extract, solid
ammonium sulfate was added to 50% wt/v saturation. The solution was stirred for 1 hour
and then centrifuged. To the supernatant from this step, ammonium sulfate was added to
bring to 90% wt/v saturation. The solution was stirred for 1 hour, and then centrifuged to
collect the pea albumin proteins in the pellet. The pellet was stored at -20'C until further
use. Protein was recovered from the pellet and prepared for use as described above, with
the exception that final buffer can contain 0-500 mM sodium chloride.
        In some embodiments, the flour was suspended in 10 volumes of 50 mM NaCl,
pH 3.8 and stirred for 1 hour. Soluble protein was separated from un-extracted protein
and pea seed debris by centrifugation (8000 g, 20 minutes). The supernatant was
collected and filtered through a 0.2 micron membrane and concentrated using a 10 kD
molecular weight cutoff PES membrane.
        (ii)     Pea-globulins: Dry green pea flour was used to extract pea globulin
proteins. The flour was suspended in 10 volumes of 50 mM potassium phosphate buffer
pH 8 and 0.4M sodium chloride and stirred for lhr. Soluble protein was separated from
                                               88

pea seed debris by centrifugation. The supernatant was subjected to ammonium sulfate
fractionation in two steps at 50% and 80% saturation. The 80% pellet containing
globulins of interest was stored at -20'C until further use. Protein was recovered from the
pellet and prepared for use as described above.
         iii) Soybean 7S and 11S globulins: Globulins from soybean flour were isolated by
first suspending lowfat/defatted soy flour in 4-15 volumes of 10 (or 20) mM potassium
phosphate pH 7.4. The slurry was centrifuged at 8000 rcf for 20 mins or clarified by 5
micron filtration and the supernatant was collected. The crude protein extract contained
both the 7S and 11S globulins. The solution then was 0.2 micron filtered and
concentrated using a 10 kDa molecular weight cutoff PES membrane on a Spectrum Labs
KrosFlo hollow fiber tangential flow filtration system or by passing over anion-exchange
resin prior to use in experiments. The 11S globulins were separated from the 7S proteins
by isoelectric precipitation. The pH of the crude protein extract was adjusted to 6.4 with
dilute HCl, stirred for 30 min-I hr and then centrifuged to collect the 11S precipitate and
7S proteins in the supernatant. The 11S fraction was resuspended with 1OmM Potassium
phosphate pH 7.4 and the protein fractions were microfiltered and concentrated prior to
use.
         Soybean proteins also can be extracted by suspending the defatted soy flour in 4
15 volumes (e.g., 5 volumes) of 20 mM sodium carbonate, pH 9 (or water, pH adjusted to
9 after addition of the flour) or 20 mM potassium phosphate buffer pH 7.4 and 100 mM
sodium chloride to decrease off-flavors in the purified protein. The slurry is stirred for
one hour and centrifuged at 8000 xg for 20 minutes. The extracted proteins are
ultrafiltered and then processed as above or alternatively, the supernatant was collected
and filtered through a 0.2 micron membrane and concentrated using a 10 KDa cutoff PES
membrane.
         (iv) Moong bean 8S globulins: Moong bean flour was used to extract 8S
globulins by first suspending the flour in 4 volumes of 50 mM KPhosphate buffer pH 7
(+ 0.5M NaCl for lab scale purifications). After centrifugation, proteins in the
supernatant were fractionated by addition of ammonium sulfate in 2 steps at 50% and
90% saturation respectively. The precipitate from the 90% fraction contained the 8S
                                              89

globulins and was saved at -20'C until further use. Protein was recovered from the pellet
and prepared for use as described above.
        Moong bean globulins also can be extracted by suspending the flour in 4 volumes
of 20 mM sodium carbonate buffer, pH 9 (or water adjusted to pH 9 after addition of the
moong flour) to reduce off-flavors in the purified protein fractions. The slurry is
centrifuged (or filtered) to remove solids, ultrafiltered and then processed as described
above.
        (v)      Late embryogenesis abundant proteins: Flour (including but not limited to
moong bean and soy flour) was suspended in 20 mM Tris-HCl, pH 8.0, 10 mM NaCl,
and stirred at room temperature for 1 hour then centrifuged. Acid (HCl or acetic acid)
was added to the supernatant to a 5% concentration (v/v), stirred at room temperature
then centrifuged. The supernatant was heated to 95'C for 15 minutes, and then
centrifuged. The supernatant was precipitated by adding Trichoroacetic acid to 25%,
centrifuged, then washed with acetone. Heating and acid wash steps can be carried out in
the reverse direction as well.
        (vi)     Pea-Prolamins: Dry green pea flour was suspended in 5x (w/v) 60%
ethanol, stirred at room temperature for one hour, then centrifuged (7000g, 20min) and
the supernatant collected. The ethanol in the supernatant was evaporated by heating the
solution to 85'C and then cooling to room temperature. Ice-cold acetone was added (1: 4
v/v) to precipitate the proteins. The solution then was centrifuged (4000g, 20min), and
protein recovered as the light-beige colored pellet.
        (vii)    Zein-Prolamins: Corn protein concentration or flour was suspended in 5x
(w/v) 60% ethanol, stirred at room temperature for one hour, then centrifuged. Ethanol in
supernatant was evaporated with heat, and then the solution is centrifuged, and the
protein recovered as the pellet.
        (viii)   RuBisCO was fractionated from alfalfa greens by first grinding leaves
with 4 volumes of cold 50 mM potassium phosphate buffer pH 7.4 buffer (0.5M NaCl +
2mM DTT + 1mM EDTA) in a blender. The resulting slurry was centrifuged to remove
debris, and the supernatant (crude lysate) was used in further purification steps. Proteins
in the crude lysate were fractionated by addition of ammonium sulfate to 30% (wt/v)
saturation. The solution was stirred for 1hr and then centrifuged. The pellet from this step
                                              90

was discarded and additional ammonium sulfate was added to the supernatant to 50 %
(wt/v) ammonium sulfate saturation. The solution was centrifuged again after stirring for
lhr. The pellet from this step contains RuBisCO, and was kept at -20"C until used.
Protein was recovered from the pellet and prepared for use as described above.
         RuBisCO also can be purified by adjusting the crude lysate to 0. 1M NaCl and
applying to an anion exchange resin. The weakly bound protein contaminants are washed
with 50 mM KPhosphate buffer pH 7.4 buffer + 0. 1M NaCl. RuBisCO was then eluted
with high ionic strength buffer (0.5M NaCl).
         RuBisCO solutions were decolorized (pH 7-9) by passing over columns packed
with activated carbon. The colorants bound to the column while Rubisco was isolated in
the filtrate.
         RuBisCO solutions were also alternatively decolorized by incubating the solution
with FPX66 (Dow Chemicals) resin packed in a column (or batch mode). The slurry is
incubated for 30mins and then the liquid is separated from the resin. The colorants bind
to the resin and RuBisCO was collected in the column flow-through.
         In some embodiments, RuBisCO was isolated from spinach leaves by first
grinding the leaves with 4 volumes of 20mM potassium Phosphate buffer pH 7.4 buffer +
150 mM NaCl + 0.5 mM EDTA) in a blender. The resulting slurry was centrifuged to
remove debris, and the supernatant (crude lysate) was filtered through a 0.2 micron
membrane and concentrated using a 10 KDa cutoff PES membrane.
         In some embodiments, RuBisCO was extracted from alfalfa or wheatgrass juice
powder by mixing the powder with 4 volumes of 20mM potassium Phosphate buffer pH
7.4 buffer + 150 mM NaCl + 0.5 mM EDTA) in a blender. The resulting slurry was
centrifuged to remove debris, and the supernatant (crude lysate) was filtered through a
0.2 micron membrane and concentrated using a 10 KDa cutoff PES membrane.
         (xi) Oleosin. Sunflower oil bodies were purified from sunflower seeds. Sunflower
seeds were blended in 100 mM sodium phosphate buffer pH 7.4, 50mM sodium chloride,
1 mM EDTA at 1:3 wt/v. Oil-bodies were collected by centrifugation (5000g, 20min),
and resuspended at 1:5 (wt/v) in 50 mM sodium chloride, 2M urea and stir for 30min,
4'C. 2M urea wash and centrifugation steps were repeated. Oil-bodies collected by
centrifugation were resuspended in 100 mM sodium phosphate buffer pH 7.4, 50mM
                                             91

sodium chloride. Centrifugation and washing steps were repeated once more, and the
final washed oil-bodies fraction was obtained from a last centrifugation step. Oil-bodies
were resuspended at 10% wt/w in 100 mM sodium phosphate buffer pH 7.4, 50mM
sodium chloride, 2% wt/v vegetable oil fatty acid salts, homogenized at 5000 psi and
incubated at 4'C for 12 hr. Solution was centrifuged (8000g, 30min), top layer removed
and soluble fraction collected. SDS-PAGE analysis suggested that oleosins are a major
protein present in the soluble fraction. Oleosin concentration was 2.8 mg/ml.
        (ix) Pea total proteins: Dry green or yellow pea flour was used to extract total pea
proteins. The flour was suspended in 10 volumes of 20mM potassium phosphate buffer
pH 8 and 100 mM sodium chloride and stirred for lhr. Soluble protein was separated
from pea seed debris by centrifugation. The supernatant was collected and filtered
through a 0.2 micron membrane and concentrated using a 10 kDa cutoff PES membrane.
        (x) Pea vicilin and Pea legumin: Dry green or yellow pea flour was used to extract
total pea proteins as described above. The crude pea mixture obtained thereof was
fractionated into pea vicilin and pea legumin using ion-exchange chromatography.
Material was loaded on Q Sepharose FastFlow resin and fractions were collected as salt
concentration was varied from 100 mM to 500 mM NaCl. Pea vicilin was collected at
350 mM sodium chloride while pea legumin was collected at 460 mM sodium chloride.
The collected fractions were concentrated using a 10 KDa cutoff PES membrane.
        (xi) Amaranth flour dehydrins: Amaranth flour was suspended in 5 volumes of
0.5 M sodium chloride, pH 4.0 and stirred for 1 hr. Soluble protein was separated from
un-extracted protein and lentil seed debris by centrifugation (8000 g, 20 minutes). The
supernatant was collected and filtered through a 0.2 micron membrane and concentrated
using a 3 kDa cutoff PES membrane. Further enrichment of dehydrins from this fraction
was obtained by boiling the concentrated protein material, spinning at 8000 g for 10
minutes and collecting the supernatant.
        EXAMPLE 10: ADDITION OF BACTERIAL CULTURES TO
MELTABLE GELS COMPRISING PURIFIED PROTEINS
        Meltable gels were made with bacterial cultures by subjecting a mixture
comprising 2% pea globulins and 4% soy proteins to homogenization. The emulsion was
                                              92

heated to 95'C, held at 95'C for 15 minutes and then cooled back to room temperature,
then 0.03% Lactococcus lactis culture and 1% glucose was added at 30'C during the
cool-down phase. The gel was allowed to incubate at 25'C overnight and drained to
obtain a gel that melts reversibly at 70'C.
        EXAMPLE 11: PREPARATION OF CREAM FRACTION FOR USE IN
CHEESE REPLICAS
        A cream fraction was created by blending sunflower seeds into 5 times the weight
to volume of a solution of 40 mM potassium phosphate pH 8, with 400 mM NaCl and 1
mM EDTA, then cooled to 20'C. The resulting slurry (slurry 1) was centrifuged. The top
cream layer was removed from slurry 1 and blended in the same buffer, then heated for 1
hour at 40'C, the lower aqueous layer is the skim fraction. The resulting slurry (slurry 2)
was cooled down then centrifuged; the cream layer was removed from slurry 2 and mixed
with 5 times the weight to volume of 100 mM sodium carbonate pH 10 with 400 mM
NaCl, then centrifuged to obtain slurry 3. The top layer from slurry 3 was then mixed
with 5 times the weight to volume of water and centrifuged again. The resulting cream
was very creamy white, and described by taste testers as has having no bitter tasting, a
neutral taste, and having an excellent mouth feel.
        EXAMPLE 12 - CREATION OF MELTING CHEESES REPLICAS WITH
ISOLATED SOY PROTEINS
        A 6% solution of soy protein (7S + 11 S globulins) was homogenized with 20%
sunflower oil and the emulsion was heated to 95'C and then cooled back to 25'C. The
mixture was incubated at temperatures <25'C overnight and then drained through
cheesecloth. The resulting gel melted reversibly, i.e., melts on heating and sets on re
cooling. The gel can be poured into molds for shaping.
        A gel comprising 4% moong globulins was induced to melt upon heating if
unfractionated soy protein at 0.6% was added to the mixture before the gel formed, i.e.,
before the heat-cool cycle (heating to 95'C, holding at 95'C for 15 minutes, and cooling
back to 25C) was applied.
                                            93

        A gel comprising 2% pea globulins was induced to melt upon heating if soy
protein at 4% concentration was added to the mixture before forming the gel with a heat
cool cycle as described above.
        EXAMPLE 13 - Meltable gels comprising isolated proteins without soy
proteins
        A soy-free meltable gel was made from moong 8S globulins at a concentration at
7% in a solution at pH 8 when the concentration of sodium chloride was maintained at 80
mM and the solution was subjected to a heat-cool cycle (heating to 95'C and cooling
back to 25C). The gel reversibly melted.
        A solution of moong 8S globulins at pH 7.4 and 50 mM sodium chloride also
formed a gel that reversibly melts after applying a heat-cool cycle (heating to 95'C and
cooling back to 25C).
        EXAMPLE 14: NON-DAIRY MELTING CHEESE REPLICAS, BY
ADDING MELTING SALTS AND CATIONS
        In this example, a 4% solution of moong 8S protein was homogenized with 20%
palm oil and the emulsion was heated to 95'C and then cooled back to 30'C, and 0.03%
MAl 1, and 1% glucose was added. The mixture was incubated at 25'C overnight and
then the gelled and non-gelled liquid (i.e., the whey) were separated by draining through
cheesecloth. The resulting cheese replica gel was very soft at room temperature and did
not melt upon heating as indicated by no change in viscosity reversibly. The addition of
3% sodium citrate after draining the whey caused the cheese replica gel to melt, with the
cheese replica gel becoming liquid upon heating and increasing in firmness upon cooling
to room temperature. The resulting cheese replica gel can be poured into molds for
shaping.
        In this example, two samples were compared, with and without CaCl 2 ; one sample
was a 6% solution of soy protein (7S and 11 S) mixed with 1 mM CaCl 2, and the other
was a 6% solution of soy protein (7S and 11 S) without CaCl 2 . Both samples were heated
to 95'C and then cooled back to 30 C. At 30 C, 0.03% MAl l and 1 % glucose were
added to both samples. The mixtures were then incubated at 25'C overnight, followed by
                                              94

separation of the gelled material from the non-gelled liquid by draining the non-gelled
liquid through cheesecloth. The resulting gels were solid at room temperature and did not
melt upon heating, i.e., no change in viscosity. The addition of 1% melting salts (sodium
citrate, trisodium phosphate, sodium hexameta phosphate, or disodium phosphate) added
after draining the whey caused both cheeses to change viscosity upon heating to some
extent, with both cheese replicas being firm at room temperature. The cheese replica gels
with CaCl 2 with the melting salts had a large increase in viscosity. In particular, the
addition of 1% salt hexametaphosphate to the CaCl 2 containing cheese replica gel,
resulted in the gel becoming meltable as it became liquid upon heating. Upon cool down,
all of the cheese replica gels were firm at room temperature.
         EXAMPLE 15: NON-DAIRY, NON-SOY MELTING CHEESE REPLICA,
BY THE ADDITION OF FAT
         In this example, two samples were compared, with and without saturated fat. One
sample was a 6% solution of rubisco mixed with 20% palm oil, and the other was a 6%
solution of rubisco without palm oil. Both samples were heated to 95'C and then cooled
back to 30'C. At 30'C, 0.03% MAll and 1% glucose were added and the mixture was
then incubated at 25'C overnight. The cheese replica gels were compared for firmness
and meltablity. The resulting gel without palm oil was very soft and had no viscosity
change upon heating. The sample with 6% rubisco and 20% palm oil was a gel at room
temperature, and upon heating increased the viscosity to become liquid and then re
solidified once cooled again. The addition of saturated fat allowed for a non-melting gel
to be made into a melting cheese replica. This also was observed when saturated fat was
added to moong protein cheese replica gels.
         EXAMPLE 16: CREATION OF NON-DAIRY STRETCHY CHEESE
REPLICAS USING ISOLATED PROTEINS
         In this example, two samples were compared, with and without prolamins purified
from pea flour; one sample was a 4% solution of soy protein (7S and 11 S), 2% pea
globulin, mixed with 2% pea-prolamins, and the other sample was a 6% solution of soy
protein (7S and 11 S) mixed with 2% pea-globulin; both samples were heated to 95'C and
                                              95

then cooled back to 30 C. At 30 C, 0.030%MAl l and 1% glucose were added to both
samples. The mixtures were then incubated at 25'C overnight, followed by separation of
the gelled material from the non-gelled liquid by draining the non-gelled liquid through
cheesecloth. The resulting cheese replica gels were both solid at room temperature, with
the cheese replica gel containing prolamins being firmer. Both gels also melted upon
heating, as shown with an increase in viscosity. There was no noticeable different in the
viscosity of the samples upon heating, but there was a greater change in viscosity for the
prolamin sample upon cooling as it was firmer at room temperature. Upon heating, the
cheese replica with prolamins had an increase in the interactions between the molecules.
As a portion of the cheese replica with prolamins was pulled away from the rest of the
sample, it showed stretching, due to rest of the gel retaining its intermolecular
interactions. These stretching properties were not seen in the sample without prolamins.
        EXAMPLE 17: CREATION OF STRETCHY NON-DAIRY CHEESE
REPLICAS USING POLYSACCHARIDES
        Cheese replicas were compared with and without 0.5% xanthan gum. One sample
was a 4% solution of soy protein (7S and 11 S), 2% pea-globulin, mixed with 2% pea
prolamins, and 0.5% xanthan gum; another was a 4% solution of soy protein (7S and
11 S), 2% pea-globulin, and mixed with 2% pea-prolamins; another was a 4% solution of
soy protein (7S and 11 S), 2% pea-globulin; the last sample was a 4% solution of soy
protein (7S and 11 S), 2% pea-globulin and 0.5% xanthan gum. All samples were heated
to 95'C and then cooled back to 25'C. The mixtures were then incubated at 25'C
overnight, then drained through cheesecloth to separate gelled material from non-gelled
liquid. The resulting cheese replicas gels were all gelled at room temperature, with the gel
containing prolamins and/or xanthan gum being firmer than the others. All the gels
melted upon heating, as shown with an increase in viscosity. Upon heating, it was also
shown that the two cheese replicas with xanthan gum had an increase in the interactions
between the molecules, greater than the cheese replicas with no xanthan gum. As in
Example 16, the cheese replicas with prolamins exhibited stretching properties.
                                              96

        EXAMPLE 18: CREATION OF CHEESE REPLICAS USING
CROSSLINKED ISOLATED PROTEINS
        A cheese replica was made from an emulsion of 4% pea-globulins, 20%
sunflower cream fraction, and 1% glucose, by heating to 24'C, then adding MAl 1 at
0.03% and incubating for 1 hour. After the incubation, the heat was increased to 38'C,
and 0.6% transglutaminase was added and the temperature held at 38'C for 1 hour. The
mixture in the vat/beaker was held at room temperature for 12 hours to allow the mixture
to coagulate. After 12 hours, the final curd had a pH of 4.2. The whey then was drained
from the curd through butter muslin, and then the curd was whisked and spooned into
mold forms and held at room temperature for 1 hour. After 24 hours at room temperature,
the cheese replicate was removed from the mold form and stored at 4'C.
        EXAMPLE 19 - METHOD OF MAKING HARD CHEESE REPLICAS
        The non-dairy milk was inoculated with thermophilic cultures before formation of
the gel. During formation of the gel, the temperature was slowly increased to allow the
curd to release more whey. The curd was cut into 1/2 inch squares and allowed to acidify
for 10 minutes still suspended in its own whey. After 10 minutes the curd was stirred
with a large whisk breaking it up into pea sized pieces. At that time the internal
temperature of the whey/coagulum was increased by 2 degrees every five minutes by
heating in a waterbath until the desired internal temperature (130 F) was reached. The
curd was stirred every 10 minutes to assure that it was not reaggregating. The curds were
then separated and drained to form a hard cheese replica. The hard cheese replica was
then aged.
        EXAMPLE 20 - METHOD OF MAKING A SOFT RIPENED CHEESE
REPLICA
        The following is the standard recipe used throughout the examples to make soft
ripened (SR) cheese replica. The standard pasteurized milk mixture that was used has
28% cream, made from 55% almonds and 45% Macadamia. The milk is heated to 90  3'
F, then Florica Danica, Mesophilic Starter (MA1l, LF2, LF5, LF7, LF21, MD88 or other
cultures), Geotrichum candidum, Penicillium candidum, and Debaromyces hansenii
                                              97

cultures were allowed to hydrate on top of milk for 5 minutes before it is stirred into the
milk. Proteases and/or lipases (dissolved in water) can be added at this step. The milk
containing the cultures was held at 90  3' F for 90 minutes. After an hour, the pH of the
formula usually drops to 5.6  0.2. After the hour, the circulator was adjusted to 110 F,
and transglutaminase (dissolved in water right before use) was added. The formula was
stirred until completely and evenly mixed into the milk and left unstirred for the rest of
the coagulation. Once the formula reached 100'F, the circulator was turned off, and the
formula was kept in the waterbath for 10 minutes. Proteases and/or lipases (dissolved in
water) also can be added at this step. At that point, the vat/beaker was taken from the
water and covered with plastic wrap to coagulate for 12 hours at room temperature.
         After 12 hours, the final curd had a pH of 4.4 . The curd was cut into 1 inch
squares, and allowed to sit for 5 minutes. The whey was then drained from the curd
through butter muslin, usually resulting in 50% curd and 50% whey. Proteases and/or
lipases (dissolved in water) also can be added to the curd at this step. The curd was
whisked for 5 minutes, spooned into the micro-perforated mold forms to the desired
weight, and then allowed to sit at room temperature for 1 hour. After an hour, a cover was
placed on the curd on each mold form. The curd was allowed to drain for an additional 1
hour at room temperature in the mold form, and then the curd in the mold form was
pressed for 24 hours at 36' F. After the pressing time, the cheese replicas were brined in
their mold forms (time is dependent on the size of the piece, 6 oz cheese replica   = 20
mins).
         Cheese replicas still in their mold forms were fully immersed in preheated
saturated brine at 50'F. After brining, the molds were placed on a draining rack and
returned to 36'F for 24 hours. Each cheese replica then was removed from its mold and
placed on a draining mat and returned to 36'F for 24 hour. After 24 hours, the cheese
replica was transferred from 36'F to a dry yeasting room for three days at 60'F, with
75% humidity. After three days, the cheese replica was transferred from a draining mat
to an aging mat. The mat was placed on an aging rack, and moved to a ripening room at
50'F, with 90% humidity and continuous airflow. Every two days, the cheese replica was
turned and the mat replaced. After seven days, the cheese replica was transferred directly
onto an aging rack, allowing maximum aeration for seven more days, or until mold
                                               98

coverage was complete. After mold coverage was complete, the cheese replica was
moved to 36'F for sixteen hours. The cheese replica was then wrapped in perforated
paper. Cheese replicas can be tasted two weeks later.
        EXAMPLE 21 - METHOD OF MAKING A SOFT FRESH CHEESE
REPLICA
        The following is the standard recipe used throughout the examples to make soft
fresh (SF) cheese replicas. The standard pasteurized milk used to make SF cheese replica
has 28% cream, made from 55% almonds and 45% Macadamia. The milk was heated to
83  30 F, then MAl 1 or other bacterial cultures were added (cultures are allowed to
hydrate on top of milk for 5 minutes before it is stirred into the milk). Proteases and/or
lipases (dissolved in water) can be added at this step. The milk containing the cultures
was held at 83  3' F for 1 hour. After an hour, the pH of the formula usually drops to 5.6
 0.2. After the hour, the circulator was adjusted to 1 10 F, and transglutaminase
(dissolved in water right before use) was added. The formula was stirred completely and
evenly into the milk and left unstirred for the rest of the coagulation. Once the formula
reached 100'F (it takes 50  10 minutes to reach temperature), the circulator was turned
off, and the formula was kept in the waterbath for 10 minutes. Proteases and/or lipases
(dissolved in water) also can be added at this step. At that point the vat/beaker was
removed from the waterbath and covered with plastic wrap and allowed to coagulate for
12 hours at room temperature. After 12 hours the final curd has a pH of 4.4  0.1 (if
normal formula). The curd was cut into 1-inch squares, and allowed to sit for 5 minutes.
The whey was then drained from the curd through butter muslin, usually resulting in 50%
curd and 50% whey. The proteases and/or lipases (dissolved in water) also can be added
to the curd at this step. The curd was whisked for 5 minutes, spooned into the mold forms
to the desired weight, and then let to sit at room temperature for 1 hour. After an hour, a
cover was placed on the curd and 600g of weight on each mold form were added. The
curd was allowed to drain for an additional 1 hour at room temperature in the mold form.
The curd in the mold form was then pressed for 24 hours at 36' F. After the pressing
time, the cheese replicas were brined in their mold forms (time is dependent on the size
of the piece, 8 oz cheese replica  = 10 mins). Cheese replicas in their mold forms were
                                                99

placed back at 360 F with their cover but without the weight. After 24 hours, the cheese
replicas were removed from their mold forms and placed at 360 F on draining mats. After
another 24 hours, the cheese replicas were placed on a clean tray and the entire tray was
wrapped with plastic wrap, and maintained at 360 F until tasting.
        EXAMPLE 22: Preparation of a Blue Cheese Replica
        Standard pasteurized nut milk has 28% cream, made from 55% almonds and 45%
macadamia nuts. The milk is heated to 83  30 F, then MAl 1 and Penicilliumroquefortii
are added (cultures are allowed to hydrate on top of milk for 5 minutes before it is stirred
into the milk). The proteases and/or lipases (dissolved in water) can be added at this step.
The milk containing the cultures is held at 83  30 F for 1 hour. After an hour, the pH of
the formula usually drops to 5.6  0.2. After the hour, the circulator is adjusted to 1 10 F,
and transglutaminase (dissolved in water right before use) is added. The formula is stirred
completely and evenly into the milk and left unstirred for the rest of the coagulation.
Once the formula reaches 100'F (it takes 50  10 minutes to reach temperature), the
circulator is turned off, and the formula stays in the waterbath for 10 minutes. The
proteases and/or lipases (dissolved in water) can be added at this step. At that point the
vat/beaker is taken from the water and covered with plastic wrap and allowed to
coagulate for 12 hours at room temperature. After 12 hours the final curd has a pH of 4.4
 0.1 (if normal formula). The curd is cut into 1 inch squares, and allowed to sit for 5
minutes. The whey is then drained from the curd through butter muslin, usually resulting
in 50% curd and 50% whey. Proteases and/or lipases (dissolved in water) also can be
added to the curd at this step. The curd is whisked for 5 minutes, spooned into the mold
forms to the desired weight, and then let to sit at room temperature for 1 hour. After an
hour, the follower is placed on the curd and 600g of weight on each mold form are added.
The curd is allowed to drain for an additional 1 hour at room temperature in the mold
form. The curd in the mold form is then pressed for 36 hours at 36'F. After the pressing
time, the cheese replicas are brined in their mold forms (time is dependent on the size of
the piece, 8 oz cheese replica  =  10 mins). Cheese replicas in their mold form are place
back at 36'F with their topper but without weight. The cheese replica forms will be aged
at 36'F for 2 days then the salt rub will be applied to the exterior of the cheese replicas
                                              100

each day for a 3 day period. The cheese replicas are then matured for 20 days at 41'F.
The cheese replica is then pierced with a small needle several times into the pressed
cheese replica to allow the mold to innoculate in these holes and spread through out the
interior surface of the cheese replica. This process is repeated on the 30th day of
maturation. At that point, the cheese replica is to age for another 5 months at 40'F. The
drying room will be kept at 46 to 53'F and the ripening room will be held at 35 to 50F.
         EXAMPLE 23: Preparation of a Blue Cheese Replica
         A nut milk composed of 60% almond milk and 40 % macadamia milk, having a
fat content of 14.2%, was pasteurized. The pH of the milk after pasteurization was 6.4.
The milk was heated to 81 F and individual microbial cultures (LF2 (LLC), MD88
subculture (LLBD), LF5 (LLL), Penicillium roquetforti and Debaryomyces hansenii)
were added at one time. After incubating at 81 F for 1 hour, the pH of the milk ranged
from 5.9 to 6.0. The temperature of the milk was raised to 100F, and a transglutaminase
(ACTIVA TI, from Ajinomoto), hydrated in a 2 to 1 ratio water to enzyme and allowed to
sit for 5 minutes, was added to the 100'F milk. The enzyme was stirred in gently and the
milk was held for 1 hour at 100'F without stirring. The heat was turned off and the milk
allowed to sit covered for 4 hours to form a strong coagulation. After the 4 hours, the pH
of the milk was about 5.8. There was a strong resilient gel formed before cutting the curd
into 1/2 inch squares and left to heal for 15 minutes in the whey with a pH of 5.9.
         The curd was stirred with a large whisk to just break up the curd for about 60
seconds. The temperature of the curd then was increased 2 degrees every 5 minutes until
about 120'F with stirring every 10 minutes to insure no further matting of the curd
occurred. Once the target temperature was reached, the curd was separated and firm, and
had a pH of about 5.6. The curd was put into a tightly woven linen draining bag and
hung at room temperature for 8 hours, then placed in a sterilized stainless steel bowl and
1%   Kosher salt was added and distributed evenly. After salting the curd, it was ladled
into cylindrical molds on plastic draining mats, and allowed to drain for 12 hours, with
flipping once every hour for 6 hours. At this point, the forms were salted lightly on all
sides and put back into the molds, then put into a yeasting room at 42F and 75% relative
humidity (RH) for 5 days, turning the forms 2x per day. The forms then were moved to
                                              101

the molding room at 51 0F and 90% RH, and punctured multiple times with a stainless
steel needle to increase oxygen flow to the center. The cheese replica was maintained
under these conditions for 3 weeks to encourage yeast and mold growth to occur. After 3
weeks, the yeast and mold were washed off the exterior of the forms with a 5% salt
solution and wrapped in perforated foil. The cheese replica was kept in a cold aging
room at 38'F for a minimum of 30 days for cold aging to occur. After aging, the cheese
replicas can be wrapped in new foil or plastic wrap to prohibit mold growth on the
exterior.
        Blue cheese replica crumbles were formed in a similar fashion, except that the
curd was spread out on mats and put into a 51 0 F and 90% RH aging environment to allow
the yeast and mold to grow and stabilize the natural microflora. The curd was then aged
in the molding room for 3 weeks and packaged in air tight containers to cut off oxygen
flow and stop the bluing process.
        EXAMPLE 24: Preparation of a washed rind cheese replica
        The milk (pasteurized milk has 28% cream, made from 55% almonds and 45%
macadamia nuts) was heated to 83  30 F, then MAl 1, yeast, Micrococci, Coryneform
bacteria and Geotrichum candidum were added (cultures were allowed to hydrate on top
of milk for 5 minutes before being stirred into the milk). The proteases or lipases
(dissolved in water) can be added at this step. The milk containing the cultures was held
at 83  3' F for 1 hour. After an hour, the pH of the formula usually drops to 5.6  0.2.
After the hour the circulator was adjusted to 1 10 F, and transglutaminase (dissolved in
water right before use) was added. The formula was stirred until completely and evenly
mixed into the milk and left unstirred for the rest of the coagulation. Once the formula
reached 100'F, the circulator was turned off, and the formula was left in the waterbath for
10 minutes. The proteases or lipases (dissolved in water) also can be added at this step.
At that point the vat/beaker was taken from the water and covered with plastic wrap to
coagulate for 12 hours at room temperature. After 12 hours the final curd has a pH of 4.4
 0.1 (if normal formula). The curd was cut into 1-inch squares, and let to sit for 5
minutes. The whey was then drained from the curd through butter muslin, usually
resulting in 50% curd and 50% whey. The proteases and lipases (dissolved in water) also
                                             102

can be added at this step to the curd. The curd was whisked for 5 minutes, spooned into
the mold forms to the desired weight, and then allowed to sit at room temperature for 1
hour. After an hour, a cover was placed on the curd and 600g of weight on each mold
form were added. The curd was allowed to drain for an additional 1 hour at room
temperature in the mold form. The curd in the mold form was then pressed for 36 hours at
36'F. After the pressing time, the cheese replicas were brined in their mold forms (time is
dependent on the size of the piece, 8 oz cheese replica = 10 min). Cheese replicas in their
mold form were place backed at 36'F with their cover but without weight. The cheese
replica forms were aged at 36'F for 2 days. The cheese replica forms were brined in a
saturated brine and allowed to drain for 48 hours at 36'F. After the 48 hour period the
cheese replicas were brushed with a solution of Brevibacterium linens and 5% salt
solution for two weeks turning the forms every two days. After that time, the washing of
the form was decreased. Once the Brevibacterium linens was visible on the rind, the
washing was reduced to 2x per week. After that period, the rind was brushed with a
solution of yeast and water to help dry out the rind with help from good fresh air
movement as the cheese replicas age.
        The drying room temperature for washed rind cheese replica was 57 to 640 F. and
the ripening room temp was 52 to 570 F. The cheese replicas were wrapped in breathable
paper and aged for an additional 60 days at 35' F or higher.
        EXAMPLE 25 - USE OF CITRATE IN YEAST EXTRACT MEDIA TO
DEVELOP "BUTTERY" FLAVORS
        A 2-dimensional matrix of glucose concentrations vs. citrate concentrations was
set up with MD88 (LLBD) to evaluate the relationships between citrate and glucose and
the production of "buttery" compounds (e.g., acetoin and 2,3-butanedione). The yeast
extract media (YEM) used was composed of 0.5% yeast extract (Flavor House, Inc,
Item# X1 1020) and 20 mM Potassium Phosphate buffer, pH 7.0. This YEM was
inoculated with 0.005% (w/v) MD88 lyophilysate (Danisco CHOOZIT, Item# MD088
LYO 50 DCU). Glucose and citrate stocks were added to 9 volumes of YEM with MD88
in such a way to create a 3x3 matrix of [Glucose] vs. [Citrate]. Glucose was added to this
media at 200 mM, 50 mM, or 10 mM, and citrate was added as trisodium citrate hydrate
                                             103

at 50 mM, 10 mM, or 2 mM. All media samples were incubated for 17 hours at 30'C
with 200 rpm shaking.
        Cultured samples were smelled by a trained flavor scientist and analyzed by
GCMS. Table 8 provides the recorded aroma descriptions and the GCMS data for each
sample after the 17-hour aerobic incubation. A "buttery" aroma could be smelled in all
samples down to 2 mM Citrate and this aroma was stronger with higher glucose
concentrations. All samples with 10 mM glucose had a very mild aroma and higher pH
suggesting poorMD88 growth at this glucose concentration.
                                        TABLE 8
                             Aromas and pH of each sample
            [Glucose] (mM)/[Citrate]
                      (mM)               pH                 Aroma
                       200/2              4           yeasty, light butter
                      200/10              4      buttery, pungent/sharp sour
                      200/50             4.5         buttery, strong sour
                        50/2              4           media, light butter
                       50/10              4              buttery, sour
                       50/50              7      buttery, sour, light almonds
                        10/2             5.5         bready, light butter
                       10/10             6.5            bready, yeasty
                       10/50             7.5              light media
        GCMS was used to detect the different volatile compounds present in each sample
using a solid phase micro-extraction (SPME) fiber containing polydimethylsiloxane
(PDMS) to adsorb volatile compounds from the sample headspace. Five mL volumes of
each sample in glass GCMS vials were sealed and the volatile compounds were extracted
from the headspace for 12 mins at 50'C while samples were agitated at 500 rpm. The
GCMS data for "buttery" aroma compounds (2,3-butandione, acetoin, and 2,3
hexanedione) support the aroma descriptions. All three compounds increased with
increasing citrate concentration and glucose concentrations over about 25 mM. At 10
mM Glucose, MD88 did not grow well and therefore could not produce any aroma
compounds. See, FIGs. 12-14.
                                             104

EXAMPLE 26A: USE OF STAPHYLOCOCCUS XYLOSUS TO DEVELOP
"CHEESY" FLAVORS IN YEAST EXTRACT MEDIA
        Three different microbes were cultured in YEM with 5% Refined Coconut Oil at
4 different glucose concentrations to determine if microbial growth in a low carbon
environment could promote lipid degradation to free fatty acids. The YEM was
composed of 0.5% yeast extracts (Flavor House, Inc, Item# XI11020) and 20 mM
potassium phosphate buffer, pH 7.0 which was sterile filtered and then combined with
warm coconut oil. The whole mixture was sonicated to create a homogenous emulsion.
The emulsified media mix was distributed to glass vials and sets were spiked with
different glucose concentrations: 20mM, 5mM, 1mM, or OmM. Each glucose gradient
set then was inoculated with 0.005% (w/v) MD88 (CHOOZIT, Item# MD088 LYO 50
DCU), 0.005% (w/v) TA61 (CHOOZIT, Item# TA 61 LYO 50 DCU), or 5x10 7 cells/mL
of Staphylococcus xylosus (SX) (in-house isolation). Samples inoculated with MD88 or
SX were incubated at 30'C with 200 rpm of shaking for 19 hours. Sample inoculated
with TA61 were incubated at 37 0 C with 150 rpm of shaking for 19 hours. Cultured
samples were then smelled by two individuals, the pH measured, and analyzed by GCMS
(SPME fiber sampling of headspace). Table 9 contains the recorded aroma descriptions
for each sample after the 19-hour aerobic incubation. The samples inoculated with SX
were the most interesting. At higher glucose concentrations the samples smelled
fermented and fruity, while at lower glucose concentrations the samples smelled waxy
and plastic suggesting the presence of free fatty acids. These observations were
supported by the GCMS data which detected C6:0, C8:0, C9:0 & C 11:0 free fatty acids in
samples with 0 mM and 1 mM Glucose. See FIG. 15. At 20 mM Glucose, SX produced
2-methyl-butanoic acid and 3-methyl-butanoic acid, which are described in literature to
have fermented, fruity, and cheesy aromas. See, FIG. 16.
                                          TABLE 9
                Aromas of each sample and the final pH of each sample
Media Condition
(SX)                     pH    Aroma Results 1          Aroma Results 2
20 mM Glucose            5.5   fruity, fermented,       sweaty(butyric acid-like), feety
                                             105

                                 brothy                 apricot
5 mM Glucose                7    brothy, slight waxy    bready, potato
1 mM Glucose               5.5   cheesy, plastic/waxy   waxy (C10:0)
0 mM Glucose               4.5   plastic/waxy           lighter waxy, slight fruity noticed
EXAMPLE 26B: USE OF BREVIBACTERIUM TO DEVELOP "CHEESE"
FLAVORS IN YEAST EXTRACT MEDIA
        Brevibacteriumwas cultured in YEM with several different keto-acids to
determine if Brevibacteriumwill synthesize free fatty acids from keto-acids. The YEM
was composed of 0.5% yeast extract (Flavor House, Inc, Item# X1 1020), 20 mM
Potassium Phosphate buffer, pH 7.0, and 50mM Glucose. Separate volumes were spiked
with 10 mM of Pyruvic Acid (Sigma, Cat# 10736), 10mM trisodium citrate (QC
Unlimited, LLC), or 10 mM Oxalix acid (Sigma, Item# 194131). All samples were
inoculated with 0.02% (w/v) Brevibacterium/Corynebacteriae(CHOOZIT, Item# LR
LYO 1OD) and incubated at 30 C with 200 rpm of shaking for 22 hours. Cultured
samples were then smelled, pH measured, and then analyzed by GCMS (SPME fiber
sampling of headspace). Table 10 provides the recorded aroma descriptions by a trained
flavor scientist for each sample after the 22-hour aerobic incubation. The sample with
oxalic acid added was described and "goaty" and "waxy" which are characteristic odors
of short chain free fatty acids. This observation was further supported by the GCMS data
showing butanoic acid, propanoic acid, 3-methyl butanoic acid, and 2-methyl propanoic
acid ("cheese" acids) only in the sample with oxalic acid.
                                          TABLE 10
       Aroma descriptions and measured pH values for Brevibacterium samples
     Sample Name Aroma                                                          pH
     Pyruvic Acid      brothy, rotten                                             6
     Citrate           earthy, musty, mushroom                                    7
     Oxalic Acid       brothy, mushroom, goaty, waxy (aged cheese-like)          4.5
     None              fermented, brothy, malty                                   7
EXAMPLE 27: USE OF PYRUVIC ACID AND TA61 TO ENHANCE
"BUTTERY" FLAVORS IN CULTURED SOYMILK
                                               106

           MD88 and TA61 were cultured in soy milk with varying concentrations of
   trisodium citrate and/or pyruvic acid to determine the affects on "buttery" aroma
   compound production. The soy milk (WestSoy, Unsweetened, Organic) was
   supplemented with 20% Coconut Milk (Sprouts, Premium), 50 mM Glucose, and 50 mM
   Sodium Chloride. Two separate volumes of soy milk media were inoculated with either
   0.01% (w/v) MD88 (CHOOZIT, Item# MD088 LYO 50 DCU) or 0.01%(w/v) TA61
   (CHOOZIT, Item# TA 61 LYO 50 DCU). Each set was divided into 12 volumes and
   spiked with: Na3-Citrate (QC Unlimited, LLC) at 20mM, 1OmM, 5mM, or 2mM; Pyruvic
   Acid (Sigma, Cat# 10736) at 20mM, 10mM, 5mM, or 2mM; and Citrate and Pyruvate at
    10mM & 10mM, 5mM & 5mM, 1mM & 1mM; one sample was spiked with neither.
   Samples inoculated with MD88 were incubated at 30'C for 24 hours, and samples
   inoculated with TA61 were incubated at 37 0 C for 24 hours. After incubation, the
   samples were smelled by a trained flavor scientist, tasted, the pH measured, and then
   analyzed by GCMS (SPME fiber sampling of headspace). Tables 11 and 12 contain the
   recorded aroma and flavor descriptions for each sample after the 24-hour incubation.
   Soymilk samples inoculated with TA61 had a stronger buttery aroma in comparison to
   samples inoculated with MD88. The most "buttery" TA61 samples were those spiked
   with only low concentrations of pyruvate or citrate; a higher pyruvate concentration
   resulted in a more "creamy" aroma. The addition of higher citrate concentrations also
   resulted in more sour and astringent tasting samples. The GCMS results from each
   sample set show that only the addition of pyruvate to soymilk cultured with TA61
   increase the acetoin production. The addition of citrate to soymilk does not significantly
   enhance the production of buttery aroma compounds by MD88 or TA61 in soymilk.
   Similarly, the addition of pyruvate to soymilk has no effect on acetoin or 2,3-butanedione
   production by MD88.
                                            TABLE 11
     Measured pH, and aroma and flavor descriptions of each MD88 cultured sample.
Samples with MD88        Aroma                                   pH    Taste
No Addition              butter, coconut, cream, light green     4.5   sour, creamy, soymilk
2 mM Citrate             butter, sour, cream                     4.5   sour, creamy, soymilk
5 mM Citrate             creamy, butter, light cereal            4.5   sour, creamy, soymilk
10 mM Citrate            creamy, wheat, light butter             4.5   sour, astringent, soymilk
                                                107

                                                                    taste
                                                                    sour, astringent, citrus,
20 mM Citrate            creamy, light butter, wheat          4.5   soymilk
2 mM Pyruvate            buttery, sour, light green           4.5   sour, creamy, soymilk
5 mM Pyruvate            malty, wheat                         4.5   sour, soymilk
10 mM Pyruvate           sour, light butter, wheat            4.5   sour, soymilk
20 mM Pyruvate           sour, creamy, wheat                  4.5   sour, soymilk
1 mM Pyruvate, 1mM
Citrate                  butter, creamy, wheat                4.5   light sour, soymilk
5mM Pyruvate, 5mM
Citrate                  butter, cream                        4.5   sour, soymilk
10mM Pyruvate,           sour, slight citrus, light butter,
10mM Citrate             wheat                                4.5   sour, soymilk
                                             TABLE 12
      Measured pH, and aroma and flavor descriptions of each TA61 cultured sample.
 Samples with TA61             Aroma                            pH     Taste
 0 mM Citrate or Pyruvate      butter, soy                        4    sour, cream, soymilk
 2 mM Citrate                  butter, soy                        4    sour, soymilk
 5 mM Citrate                  butter, cream, wheat               4    sour, soymilk
  10 mM Citrate                creamy, light butter, wheat        4    sour, citrus, soymilk
 20 mM Citrate                 cream, wheat                       4    sour, citrus, soymilk
 2 mM Pyruvate                 butter, creamy                     4    sour, soymilk
 5 mM Pyruvate                 buttery, cream, sweet, wheat       4    sour, soymilk
  10 mM Pyruvate               creamy, light butter, wheat        4    sour, soymilk
 20 mM Pyruvate                cream, sweet, wheat                4    sour, soymilk
  1 mM Pyruvate, 1mM
 Citrate                       buttery, creamy                    4    sour, soymilk
 5mM Pyruvate, 5mM
 Citrate                       cream, butter, sweet               4    very sour, soymilk
  1OmM Pyruvate, 10mM                                                  very sour, citrus,
 Citrate                       sweet, cream, wheat                4    soymilk
    EXAMPLE 28A: USE OF STAPHYLOCOCCUS XYLOSUS TO DEVELOP
    "CHEESY" ACIDS IN SOYMILK
           SX was cultured in soy milk with varying branched chain amino acids to
    determine affects of supplemental amino acids on 3-methyl-butanoic acid, 2-methyl
                                                  108

butanoic acid, and 2-methyl propanoic acid production by SX. The soy milk (WestSoy,
Unsweetened, Organic) was supplemented with 20% Coconut Milk (Sprouts, Premium),
50 mM Glucose, and 50 mM Sodium Chloride. Leucine (Leu), Isolecuine (Ile), and
Valine (Val) were spiked in at 10 mM into separate samples. An additional sample was
spiked with all 3 amino acids at 6mM. A final sample included 0.5% yeast extract
(Flavor House Inc, Item# 090656) as a source of branched chain amino acids. All
samples were then inoculated with 1x 108 cells/mL of SX and incubated at 37 0 C for 24
hours. Cultured samples were analyzed by GCMS (SPME fiber sampling of headspace).
FIGs. 20-22 depict the GCMS data for the 3-methyl-butanoic acid, 2-methyl butanoic
acid, and 2-methyl propanoic acid detected in each sample after the 24-hour incubation.
The addition of leucine increased 3-methyl butanoic acid production while the addition of
isoleucine increased 2-methyl butanoic acid production. Similarly, addition of valine
increased 2-methyl propanoic acid production.
EXAMPLE 28B: USE OF STAPHYLOCOCCUS XYLOSUS TO DEVELOP 3
METHYL BUTANOIC ACID IN SOYMILK
        SX was cultured in soymilk with varying concentrations of leucine to determine
affects of supplemental leucine on 3-methyl-butanoic acid production by SX. The
soymilk (WestSoy, Unsweetened, Organic) was supplemented with 20% Coconut Milk
(Sprouts, Premium), 50 mM Glucose, and 50 mM Sodium Chloride. Leucine was spiked
in to separate samples at 30 mM, 20 mM, 10 mM, 5 mM, 2 mM, and 0 mM.
Additionally, a sample with 10 mM leucine was spiked with an additional 10 mM of
alpha-ketoglutaric acid (aKG). All samples were then inoculated with 1x 108 cells/mL of
SX and incubated at 30'C for 24 hours. Cultured samples were smelled by a trained
flavor scientist, tasted, the pH measured, and then analyzed by GCMS (SPME fiber
sampling of headspace). Table 13 contains the recorded aroma and flavor descriptions
for each sample after the 24-hour incubation. All samples spiked with leucine had a
"dried apricot" aroma and a sweet taste for the lower leucine concentrations and a savory
taste for the greater leucine concentrations. The GCMS supports the aroma descriptions
and shows all samples with additional leucine have significantly higher 3-methyl
butanoic acid. A change in GCMS signal was considered to be significant if was greater
                                             109

than 3x the signal of a compared sample. In this case, the sample with 2 mM Leu was
detected to have 28x the signal for 3-methybutanoic acid as the sample without Leu (0
mM).
                                         TABLE 13
    Measured pH, aroma descriptions, and flavor descriptions of each SX cultured
                                           sample
    [Leucine] (mM)       Aroma                         pH    Taste
                         old dried apricots, sour,
             0           slight musty                  5.5   soymilk, slight astringent
             2           dried apricots, caramel       5.5   slight sweet, yogurt-like, wheat
             5           dried apricots, caramel       5.5   slight sweet, savory-note, wheat
            10           dried apricots, malty         5.5   savory, dried apricots
                                                             savory, light sickly-sweet,
            20           dried apricots, malty         5.5   aprit
                                                             apricots
            30           dried apricots, malty, slight  6    savory, wheat, salty, apricots,
                         octane                              musty
  10, plus 10mM aKG      dried apricots, malty, slight 5.5   savory, dried apricots
                         musty
         EXAMPLE 29: USE OF BREVIBACTERIUM AND METHIONINE TO
PRODUCE DIMETHYL TRISULFIDE
Brevibacteriumwas cultured in soy milk and YEM with varying concentrations of
methionine to determine affects of supplemental methionine on "cheesy" aroma
production by Brevibacterium. The soymilk (SunOpta, SoyBase) was supplemented with
50 mM Glucose and the YEM was composed of 0.5% yeast extracts (Flavor House, Inc,
Item# X1 1020), 20 mM potassium phosphate buffer, pH 7.0, and 50 mM glucose. Both
media types were inoculated with 0.02% (w/v) Brevibacterium/Corynebacteriae
(CHOOZIT, Item# LR LYO 10D) and incubated at 30 C with 200 rpm of shaking for 22
hours. Cultured samples were then smelled, pH measured, and then analyzed by GCMS
(SPME fiber sampling of headspace). Table 15 contains the recorded aroma and flavor
descriptions for each sample after the 22-hour incubation. All samples with methionine
added had a "fermented" and "fishy" aroma. The GCMS data suggests that this strong
aroma is from dimethyl trisulfide. Methionine can be deaminated to create methional
which is a desired aged/cheddar cheese aroma compound. Additionally, Brevibacterium
                                             110

is normal cultured on the outside of cheese and will produce methional during the aging
process.
                                         TABLE 15
  Aroma descriptions and sample pH after 22-hour incubation of Brevibacterium in
      SoyBase and yeast extract media with varying Methionine concentrations.
        Sample Name             Aroma                                      pH
        SoyBase-OmM Met         fermented, thiol, potato                     7
        SoyBase-5mM Met         fermented, fishy, potato                     7
        SoyBase-1mM Met         fishy, fermented, strong fried potato        7
        SoyBase                 soy milk, mushroom, earthy                   7
        YEM-OmM Met             fermented, fishy, potato                   7.5
        YEM-5mM Met             fermented, fishy, potato                     7
        YEM-1mM Met             lighter fermented, fishy, potato             7
        YEM                     fermented, brothy, malty                     7
        EXAMPLE 30: PRODUCTION OF MICROBIAL CHEESE FLAVOR
PRODUCTION IN PEA CHEESE REPLICAS
        A 50 mg/mL solution of isolated pea vicilin (PV) protein (purified to greater than
80%) was heated to 90'C for 30 minutes to denature the proteins used as the base for
cheese flavor development by SX, TA61, and MD88 cultures. The denatured PV was
supplemented with 20% Coconut Milk (Aray-D), 20 mM Glucose, and 0.5% (w/v) yeast
extract (BioSpringer, Item# 2020). Four different culturing procedures were followed: (i)
SX culture followed by MD88 culture (SX/MD88), (ii) SX and MD88 co-culture
(SX+MD88), (iii) SX culture followed by TA61 culture (SX/TA61), and (iv) SX and
TA61 co-culture (SX+TA61). All samples were inoculated with 1x10 8 cells/mL SX and
specified samples were inoculated with 0.05%(v/w) MD88 (CHOOZIT, Item# MD088
LYO 50 DCU) or 0.05% (w/v) TA61 (CHOOZIT, Item# TA 61 LYO 50 DCU). For
sequentially cultured samples, the SX was cultured at 30'C with 200 rpm of shaking for
24 hours. Then specified samples were inoculated with MD88 or TA61 and additional
substrates (40mM Glucose, 10mM Na3-Citrate, 2mM Methionine, and 3mM MgCl 2 ).
        All samples were incubated a second time with 200 rpm of shaking for 22 hours;
MD88 inoculated samples were incubated at 30'C and TA61 inoculated samples were
incubated at 37'C. Co-cultured samples contained SX, the additional substrates (40mM
                                            111

Glucose, 10mM Na 3-citrate, 2mM methionine, and 3 mM MgCl 2), and MD88 or TA61.
Samples with MD88 were incubated at 30C while samples with TA61 were incubated at
37 0 C, but all samples were shaken at 200 rpm for the 24-hour incubation. Once all
samples were cultured, the samples were smelled and tasted by a trained flavor scientist,
the pH was measured, and then samples analyzed by GCMS (SPME fiber sampling of
headspace). The samples were created into cheese replicas by adding in 20 mM CaCl 2 to
solidify the replicas. Table 16 contains the recorded aroma and flavor descriptions for all
samples cultured with PV. Most samples smelled "buttery" and/or "creamy" and these
descriptions are supported by the GCMS data showing the presence of acetoin and 2,3
butanedione. See, FIGs. 25 and 26. FIG. 27 shows the free fatty acids detected by
GCMS in cultured PV with coconut milk.
                                           TABLE 16
     Aroma, flavor and pH descriptions of cultured pea vicilins with coconut milk.
Sample              Final
Name                 pH     Aroma                                Flavor
                            buttery, slight burnt, light cream,  burnt, buttery, slight
SX+MD88 A             5     coconut                              astringent
SX+MD88 B            4.5    buttery, creamy, slight burnt        sour, buttery, slight grainy
SX+TA61 A             5     buttery, creamy, nutty               strong burnt, pea, sour
SX+TA61 B            4.5    buttery, creamy, pea protein         sour, strong savory, burnt
SX/MD88 A             5     sweet, floral, buttery, light burnt  strong savory, sour, burnt
SX/MD88 B             5     fruity, liquor                       savory, burnt
SX/TA61 A           4.75    malty, caramel, cream                savory, burnt
SX/TA61 B           4.75    fruity, malty                        fruity, savory, light burnt
         EXAMPLE 31 - DIRECT CONTROL OF THE CREATION OF FLAVOR
COMPOUNDS BY BACTERIA
         To control flavor production of different aroma compounds produced by bacteria,
MAll, MD88, TA61 were tested in a low odor media (LOM). Two controls were run,
one with only LOM+MAl 1 and one with LOM only. A stock volume of LOM was made,
sterile filtered, and stored at 4'C thorough the study. Bacteria concentration of 1x 108
cells/mL was added to a stock. This LOM with bacteria was aliquoted into the required
                                                112

number of 10 mL GC vials. To each individual vial, the pre-determined amount of
additive was added. All vials were covered tightly with tin foil, stored at 30'C for ~ 24
hours, and then 4'C for ~ 24 hours. After culturing, the vials were allowed to warm to
room temperature as the final reaction pH was checked with pH strips. The pH of each
vial was adjusted to 3-3.5 with 6M HCl. Each vial was smelled by a trained flavor
scientist and the aroma was recorded. All vials were capped and run on the GCMS.
Original data was analyzed using the ChromoTOF library then aligned for each additive
type. Table 17 shows the LOM that was used for each of the different bacteria, TA61
was not able to grow in the other media. Table 18 shows the compounds created or
eliminated by which bacteria and the additives that control its production.
                                       TABLE 17
 Low odor media to determine how additives control flavor generation by different
                                         bacteria
                                          TA61        MD88, MA11
                       yeast extracts     0.50%               0
                           Peptone        0.10%           0.10%
                         (from Pea)
                           K-phos
                         buffer, pH          50             100
                             7.15
                           MgCl2             2                2
                            FeCl2            2                0
                           Glucose           50              25
                            NaCl                             20
                                            113

                    00-~ 
                 00Q~       0
   000tb
    I-D
        CG.
41.
            11

     +
                                      ON  0'
 ~
 00     ~~  CA
                  --            Cn
                                        Hoc
                             %C       
       CFN)
                     >00           !.        C )
00             rc
    00 ~                 110

                                g.  +
                         C13
                            o-c
            00       ~                      C.
         00       oJ             -~
      oc       OC     0
o-oc~                                     0
    >           d                     -00
+                           00
                        116

                              + +
00
      0 0
    Q                u
     oc            0
          0cc        Cd
   oc                u
                           C3
   oc                             000
              C.CA
   o                 Q  C117

           EXAMPLE 32 - CULTURING CONDITIONS FOR AMERICA CHEESE
   TYPE FLAVOR IN NON-DAIRY CHEESE REPLICA
           To prepare a non-dairy replica with an American cheese type flavor, the
   ingredients in Table 19 can be cultured at 30'C for 24 hours in a closed container with
 5 headspace. The resulting material from this culture can be cultured with the ingredients
   in Table 20 at 37 0 C for 24 hours in a closed container with headspace.
                                             TABLE 19
                Components                                       Concentrations
                Soymilk or Pea Vicilin                               80  %
                Coconut                                              20  %
                Leucine                                               2  mM
                Yeast Extract 090656 or X11020                      0.5  %
                Glucose                                              50  mM
                Isolated SX Culture                               1x10 8 cells/mL
                                 TABLE 20
                Components                                       Concentrations
                Material from '1st culture'                         100  %
                Methionine                                            5  mM
                MgCl 2                                                5  mM
                Pyruvate                                             15  mM
                Glucose                                              50  mM
                TA61                                              1x10 8 cells/mL
           EXAMPLE 33A - CHEESE REPLICA CONTAINING COACERVATES
10 MADE OF PLANT PROTEINS
           A cheese replica was made by first preparing a 3% (w/v) solution of pea vicilins
   and pea legumins (vicilin:legumin ratio of 3:1 by weight, purified to >90%) in 20mM
   potassium phosphate pH 7.4 + 10mM sodium chloride. Melted palm oil (from Jedwards
                                                 118

   International) was added to the solution to a final concentration of 5% (v/v) and mixed by
   vortexing. The emulsion was then acidified by addition of hydrochloric acid while
   stirring to a pH of 5. The resulting slurry was centrifuged and the liquid top layer was
   decanted off to obtain the coacervate. This material was creamy in texture at room
 5 temperature, solidified when on chilled ice, and melted when heated.
            EXAMPLE 33B - CHEESE REPLICA CONTAINING COACERVATES
   THAT IS FURTHER PROCESSED BY CROSSLINKING PROTEINS
            A cheese replica was prepared by first making a coacervate from a 3% (w/v)
10 solution of pea proteins at 3:1 pea vicilin: legumin ratio and cocoa butter (from Jedwards
   International) using the method described in Example 33A. The coacervate was collected
   by centrifugation and further processed by enzymatically crosslinking its constitutent
   proteins using a transglutaminase (Ajinomoto) at a final concentration of 1%(w/v). The
   material was allowed to incubate with stirring overnight at 30'C. The resulting cheese
15 replica was a firm, elastic material similar to aged cheeses such as cheddar at room
   temperature.
            EXAMPLE 33C - CHEESE REPLICA CONTAINING COACERVATES
   THAT IS FURTHER PROCESSED BY A HEAT-COOL CYCLE
20          A cheese replica was prepared by first making coacervate from a 3% (w/v)
   solution of pea proteins at a 3:1 pea vicilin: legumin ratio and canola oil using the method
   described in Example 33A. The coacervate was collected and heated in a water bath to
   70'C for 10 minutes in a closed container, then removed from the water bath to allow it
   to cool back to room temperature. The resulting material was a firm cheese replica
25 resembling hard cheeses.
            EXAMPLE 33D - USE OF COACERVATE TO MAKE MELTABLE
   CHEESE REPLICA SLICES USING HIGH PRESSURE PROCESSING
            A cheese slice-replica was made by mixing 12 g soymilk curd (soymilk from
30 Westsoy sequentially cultured with cheese cultures TA61 and MD88 (both TA61 and
   MD88 from Danisco) and drained to collect curd) with 12 g of crude soy protein mixture
                                                 119

   (at a protein concentration of 14% w/v), 6.7 mL of canola oil (final concentration of 20%
   v/v) and 2.8 g freeze-dried pea legumin (final pea legumin concentration of 8% w/v). The
   mixture was acidified to pH 5 using lemon juice to produce a cheese sauce-like
   consistency at room temperature. The sample was sealed in a heat-sealable food-saver
 5 plastic bag and then subjected to high pressure processing (85k psi for 5 minutes in an
   Avure 2L Isostatic Food Press). The samples were removed from the bags and then
   evaluated for firmness and melting properties.
            The high pressure processing caused the samples to solidify into a cheese slice
   replica that melted when heated in an oven set to 350'F. Firmness of the replica was
10 found to be comparable to Kraft American singles using compression test on a TA.XT2
   texture analyzer (slices were cut into 1cm diameter disks and stacked to a height of
    ~5mm. Flat cylinder probe of diameter 25mm was used to compress the samples at
   0.5mm/sec compression rate up to a distance of 2mm. The compression force was
   measured to be 19.2g for Kraft American singles and between 7.3g-12.2g for the
15 replicas).
            EXAMPLE 33E - MODULATING VISCOSITY OF THE COACERVATE
   BY VARYING THE PEA LEGUMIN: VICILIN RATIO
            Coacervates were prepared as described in Example 33A using 1:1 or 1:3 pea
20 vicilin: legumin mixtures at a total protein concentration of 10% (w/v) in 20 mM
   potassium phosphate buffer pH 7.4 + 100 mM sodium chloride, 10% canola oil (v/v) +
   10% cocoa butter (v/v) (from Jedwards International). The mixtures were acidified to pH
   5 using IN hydrochloric acid and centrifuged at 5000 x g for 10 minutes to collect the
   coacervate. The coacervate sample from the 1:1 vicilin:legumin mixture was more
25 creamy and sauce-like in appearance at room temperature and set when chilled on ice. In
   contrast, the sample prepared from the 1:3 vicilin:legumin ratio was more viscous and did
   not flow at room temperature.
            EXAMPLE 33F - MODULATING VISCOSITY OF THE COACERVATE
30 BY VARYING THE TYPE OF OIL
                                                120

            Coacervate were prepared as described in Example 33A using a 1:1 pea vicilin:
   legumin mixture at a total protein concentration of 10% (w/v) in 20 mM potassium
   phosphate buffer pH 7.4 + 100mM sodium chloride. Fat, either canola oil or cocoa butter
   at 16% w/v, or 10% canola oil (v/v) + 10% cocoa butter (v/v) (all oils from Jedwards
 5 International), was added to the protein solution and the mixture was emulsified by
   sonication, then acidified to a pH of 5 using IN hydrochloric acid. The coacervates
   (cheese replicas) were collected by centrifugation at 5000 x g for 10 minutes. The replica
   made using cocoa butter was viscous, did not flow easily at room temperature and
   solidified on ice. In contrast, the replica made using canola oil was less viscous and
10 creamy sauce-like at room temperature and became less runny when cooled on ice. The
   replica made with a mixture of 8% canola oil + 8% cocoa butter was of intermediate
   viscosity at room temperature, but set when cooled on ice.
            EXAMPLE 33E - MODULATING VISCOSITY OF THE COACERVATE
15 USING EMULSIFYING SALTS
            Coacervate samples were prepared by first making an emulsion of pea vicilin:
   legumin (3:1 ratio by weight, total protein concentration of 10%) and a mixture of canola
   and palm oils (10% each v/v, sourced from Jedwards International). Calcium chloride
   (Sigma) was added to a final concentration of 1 mM and trisodium pyrophosphate
20 dodecahydrate (TSP 12, from Prayon) was added to 1% (w/v). The mixture then was
   acidified using IN hydrochloric acid and centrifuged at 5000 x g for 10 minutes to collect
   the coacervate. In a control experiment, coacervate was formed using the same protein
   and fat mixture but without addition of calcium chloride and emulsifying salts. Although
   both the coacervate with TSP 12 and control sample were cheese sauce-like in nature at
25 room temperature, the coacervate formed from the mixture containing TSP12 showed
   much lower viscosity and flowed more readily than the control.
            EXAMPLE 34A - FORMING COLD GELS WITH FAT AND CHEESE
   STARTER CULTURES
30          A cheese replica was formed by first heating a solution of pea-vicilin (>90%
   purity as judged by gel electrophoresis) at a concentration of 6% (w/v)in 20 mM
                                                 121

   potassium phosphate buffer pH 7.4 + 10mM sodium chloride at 95'C for 30 minutes.
   The solution was cooled back down to room temperature. Palm fruit oil (20% v/v, from
   Jedwards International), glucose (1% w/v), and a starter culture (Lactococcuslactis lactis
   subsp. diacetylactis from Danisco) were added to the solution at 0.02% (w/v) and mixed.
 5 Calcium chloride was added to a final concentration of 20 mM and the solution was
   incubated at 30'C for 24 hours to allow for growth of the Lactococcal culture. The
   resulting gel was a soft, yogurt-like material that was smooth in texture. The gel did not
   melt on heating.
10          EXAMPLE 34B - COLD GELS WITH CROSSLINKED PROTEINS
            A cheese replica was made by heat denaturing a solution of pea-vicilin (>90%
   purity as judged by gel electrophoresis) at a concentration of 6% (w/v) in 20 mM
   potassium phosphate buffer pH 7.4 + 10mM sodium chloride at 100 C for 30 minutes.
   The solution was cooled back down to room temperature and gelled by addition of palm
15 oil (to 40% v/v from Jedwards International) and calcium chloride to 20 mM. The
   solutions were transferred to 4'C to obtain a soft, thick yogurt-like gel. The increased
   amount of fat resulted in a thicker gel. Soy protein (unfractionated) was added to a final
   concentration of 5% (w/v) and crosslinking was initiated by addition of a
   transglutaminase (from Ajinomoto) at 0.5% (w/v). The materials were stirred for 1 hr at
20 room temperature and subsequently acidified to a pH of 5 (by addition of IN
   hydrochloric acid) while mixing to produce cheese replicas with improved texture
   (increased firmness, resembling cottage cheese) and meltability (melts in oven set to
   350'F).
25          EXAMPLE 34C - COLD GELS COMBINED WITH COACERVATE TO
   FORM MELTABLE CHEESE REPLICAS
            A cheese-replica was prepared by combining a cold gel with coacervate as
   described below. The cold gel component was first prepared by heat denaturing a solution
   of pea-vicilin (>90% purity as judged by gel electrophoresis) at a concentration of 6%
30 (w/v) in 20 mM potassium phosphate buffer pH 7.4 + 100 mM sodium chloride at 100 C
   for 30 minutes. The solution was cooled back down to room temperature and gelled by
                                                122

   adding palm oil (to 40% v/v from Jedwards International) and calcium chloride to 20
   mM. The mixture was incubated for approximately 10 minutes at room temperature to
   allow the gel to form.
            The coacervate component was formed from a mixture of 3:1 pea vicilin: legumin
 5 (total protein concentration of 11% w/v) and palm fruit oil (50% v/v). The mixture was
   sonicated to form an emulsion and acidified with IN hydrochloric acid to pH 5. The
   mixture was then centrifuged at 5000 x g for 10 minutes to collect the coacervate (heavier
   phase at bottom).
            The cold gel was mixed with the coacervate in a 2:1 proportion by weight to form
10 a cheese-replica with a soft but thick curd-like consistency at room temperature. Upon
   heating in an oven at 350'F, the replica melted like cheese.
            EXAMPLE 35 - FORMATION OF MELTABLE GELS WITH
   FRACTIONATED PROTEINS
15          Solutions of pea proteins at 7-9% protein concentrations (unfractionated), 50 mM
   NaCl, were adjusted to pH 3-9 using acid (HCl) or base (NaOH) as appropriate. The
   solutions were subjected to a heat-cool cycle by heating to 95'C in a water bath, holding
   at 95'C for 1hr and then turning off the heat and allowing the samples to slowly cool
   back to room temperature while in the water bath. The samples were then removed from
20 the containers and the gels were evaluated for appearance and meltability. All samples
   showed formation of an opaque, white precipitate-like curd that did not melt upon
   heating.
            To evaluate properties of the pea protein fractions comprising the globular
   proteins in peas, the proteins were fractionated via anion exchange chromatography. A
25 mixture of crude pea proteins (0.5% w/v) in 20 mM potassium phosphate buffer pH 8 +
   50mM NaCl was passed over Q-Sepharose (GE Life Sciences). The unbound protein
   fraction was collected (albumins) and the bound proteins were fractionated over a salt
   gradient 50-500mM NaCl. Proteins were observed to elute in 2 major peaks (peak 1 =
   vicilin + convicilin, peaks 2  = legumin), fractions were pooled and then frozen until use.
30          Pea protein fractions (vicilin + convicilin and legumin) were tested for formation
   of meltable gels by dialyzing proteins into buffered solutions pH 4-9 at NaCl
                                                 123

   concentrations of 50, 100mM and 300mM (Buffers used at 20mM each: pH 4,5 sodium
   acetate, pH 6-8 potassium phosphate, pH 9 sodium carbonate). Solutions of 7% protein
   (w/v) at respective NaCl and pHs were subject to heat-gelation as described above. The
   samples were then removed from the tubes and evaluated for appearance and melting
 5 behavior. Observations are summarized in Table 21.
                                                       TABLE 21
      Summary of types of gels comprising pea protein legumins and vicilins obtained
                                  under various pH and NaCl concentrations
    Pea-vicilin + convicilin
                      pH 4          pH 5                 pH 6                  pH 7       pH 8         pH 9
    100mM NaCl                 phase separation          some precipitate    I      translucent gel, meltable
                                                                       opaque gel,
    300mM NaCl        precipitate                                         no melt
    Pea-legumin
                      pH 4         JpH 5                JpH 6                  pH 7      JpH 8        JpH 9
    100mM NaCl                 phase separation          some precipitate           opaque gel, does not melt
10  300mM NaCl                        opaque gels, do not melt                      translucent gel, meltable
              It was found that pea vicilins (+ convicilin) and legumins formed meltable gels at
   pH >7 but did so at different NaCl concentrations. This likely explains why a mixture of
15 pea-legumins and vicilins (+ convicilin) did not form a meltable gel under any condition.
              It was further explored how pure the legumin or vicilin fractions needed to be in
   order to obtain meltable gels. Fractionated pea proteins (legumin and vicilin (+
   convicilin)) fractionated as described above were mixed in ratios legumin: vicilin 0:8,
   1:7, 2:6, 3:5, 1:1, 5:3, 6:2, 7:1 and 8:0 (at total protein concentration of 8% w/v in20 mM
20 potassium phosphate buffer pH 7.4 at 158 mM and 300 mM NaCl concentrations. The
   samples were subject to heat-cool cycle by heating to 95 0 C in a water bath, holding at
   95 0 C for 15 minutes and cooling to 30'C at the rate of 0.5C/min. The samples were then
   evaluated for melting properties. At 158 mM NaCl where the viclin (+ convicilin)
   fraction was expected to form a meltable gel, only samples at legumin:vicilin ratios of
25 2:6, 1:7 and 8:0 formed meltable gels. This suggests that vicilin (+convicilin) fraction
   needs to be at least 75% pure to form meltable gels. On the other hand, at 300mM NaCl
   where legumins are expected to form meltable gels, only samples at a legumin:vicilin
                                                            124

   ratio of 7:1 and 8:0 formed meltable gels. This suggests that legumin fraction needs to be
   at least 87.5% pure to form meltable gels.
            EXAMPLE 36 - USING MELTING SALTS FOR GELLED EMULSIONS
 5 OF PROTEINS
            Solutions of pea legumin, vicilin (+ convicilin), soy proteins, and moong 8S
   proteins were prepared at 7% (w/v) in 20 mM potassium phosphate buffer pH 7.4 at 100
   mM NaCl (except pea legumins at 300 mM NaCl). Melted palm oil (from Jedwards
   International) was added at 20% (v/v), calcium chloride (from Sigma) at 1 mM and a
10 melting salt (disodium phosphate (DSP), trisodium pyrophosphate dodecahydrate
   (TSP12), sodium hexametaphosphate (SHMP) or trisodium citrate (TSC)) was added at
   1% (w/v) and the mixtures were sonicated to form an emulsion. Each salt was tested for
   every protein based emulsion. No melting salt added to control samples. The emulsions
   were transferred to closed containers in a water bath and then subjected to a heat-cool
15 cycle to induce gelation (heated to 95'C for 15 minutes, held at 95'C for 15 minutes and
   cooled to 30 C at 0.5-1C/min). The samples were then removed from the container and
   evaluated for meltability.
            It was found that while protein solutions described here readily form meltable gels
   at pH 7.4 at 100 mM NaCl (300 mM NaCl for pea-legumin), the presence of fats appears
20 to interfere with meltability of the gels, i.e., control samples containing protein + oil +/
   calcium chloride did not form meltable gels. However, addition of melting salts allowed
   the protein gels to retain meltability as summarized in Table 23.
                                                   125

                                           TABLE 23
   Summary of specificity of melting salts for emulsions comprising different proteins.
   (V) indicates heat-induced gel formed from emulsion was meltable, (x) indicates gel
    was not meltable; (*) indicates sample was heated to a maximum of 85C during the
 5                                    gelling procedure.
           Protein fraction in emulsion  DSP            TSP            SHMP         TSC
           pea-vicilin (+ convicilin)    V              /                           #
           pea-legumin                   X                                          V
           soy (unfractionated)          /
           mung 8S globulin              / *                            #
   EXAMPLE 37 - MAKING A NUT MILK RICOTTA
                  A pasteurized nut milk containing   12 - 14 % fat and having a pH between
10        6.0 to 6.3 was used to prepare ricotta cheese replica. Lactococcus lactis lactis
          (0.02g/L) and Lactococcus lactis cremoris (0.02 g/L) were inoculated into the nut
          milk held at about 80'F, then stirred for 15 minutes. Hydrated transglutaminase
          (ACTIVA TI, from Ajinomoto) was added to the inoculated milk and was
          allowed to coagulate at temperatures between 12'C and 25'C for 10 to 14 hours.
15        When the pH was below 4.6, the curd was cut into 1" cubes and drained and
          pressed for 24 hours at 41 F to obtain firm ricotta with a moisture range from 62
          to 68%. The curd can be salted and whipped as desired.
20
                                               126

   CLAIMS
            1.      A non-dairy cheese replica comprising a coacervate comprising one or
   more isolated and purified proteins from a non-animal source.
            2.      The non-dairy cheese replica of claim 1, wherein said one or more isolated
   and purified proteins are plant proteins.
 5          3.      The non-dairy cheese replica of claim 2, wherein said one or more isolated
   and purified plant proteins are selected from the group consisting of seed storage
   proteins, pea proteins, Lupine proteins, proteins from a legume, chickpea proteins, and
   lentil proteins.
            4.      The non-dairy cheese replica of claim 3, wherein said pea proteins
10 comprise pea vicilins and/or pea legumins.
            5.      A non-dairy cheese replica comprising a cold set gel of one or more
   isolated and purified proteins from a non-animal source and a salt.
            6.      The non-dairy cheese replica of any one of claims 5, wherein said non
   dairy cheese replica comprises one or more heat-labile ingredients.
15          7.      The non-dairy cheese replica of claim 6, wherein said heat-labile
   ingredients comprises one or more fats, microbes, volatile compounds, or enzymes.
            8.      The non-dairy cheese replica of any one of claims 1-7, further comprising
   one or more microbes selected from bacteria, molds, and yeast.
            9.      The non-dairy cheese replica of any one of claim 1-8, comprising one or
20 more microbes selected from the group consisting of a Penicillium species, a
   Debaryomyces species, a Geotrichum species, a Corynebacteriumspecies, a
   Streptococcus species, a Verticillium species., a Kluyveromyces species, a Saccharomyces
   species, a Candida species, a Rhodosporidum species, a Cornybacteriaspecies, a
   Micrococcus species, a Lactobacillus species, a Lactococcus species, a Staphylococcus
25 species, a Halomonas species, a Brevibacterium species, a Psychrobacterspecies, a
   Leuconostocaceae species, a Pediococcus species, a Propionibacteriumspecies, and a
   lactic acid bacterium.
            10.     The non-dairy cheese replica of any one of claims 1-9, wherein said one or
   more microbes are selected from the group consisting of Lactococcus lactis lactis (LLL),
30 Leuconostoc mesenteroides cremoris (LM), Lactococcus lactis cremoris (LLC),
   Pediococcuspentosaceus, Clostridium butyricum, Lactobacillusdelbrueckii lactis,
                                                127

   Lactobacillus delbrueckii bulgaricus, Lactobacillus helveticus, Lactobacillusplantarum,
   Lactobacillus casei, Lactobacillus rhamnosus, Staphylococcus xylosus (SX), Lactococcus
   lactis biovar diacetylactis (LLBD), Penicilliumroqueforti, Penicillium candidum,
   Penicillium camemberti, Penicillium nalgiovensis Debaryomyces hansenii, Geotrichum
 5 candidum, Streptococcus thermophiles (TA61), Verticillium lecanii, Kluyveromyces
   lactis, Saccharomyces cerevisiae, Candida utilis, Rhodosporidum infirmominiatum and
   Brevibacterium linens.
            11.    A non-dairy cheese replica comprising a solidified mixture of one or more
   isolated and purified proteins from a non-animal source and one or more isolated plant
10 based lipids, said cheese replica comprising one or more microbes selected from the
   group consisting of Pediococcuspentosaceus, Clostridium butyricum, Lactobacillus
   delbrueckii lactis, Lactobacillus delbrueckii bulgaricus,Lactobacillus helveticus,
   Lactobacillusplantarum,Lactobacillus casei, Lactobacillusrhamnosus, Staphylococcus
   xylosus, and Brevibacterium linens
15          12.    A non-dairy cheese replica comprising a solidified non-dairy milk, nut
   milk, and one or microbes selected from the group consisting of Pediococcus
   pentosaceus, Clostridium butyricum, Lactobacillus delbrueckii lactis, Lactobacillus
   delbrueckii bulgaricus, Lactobacillushelveticus, Lactobacillusplantarum,Lactobacillus
   casei, Lactobacillus rhamnosus, Staphylococcus xylosus, and Brevibacterium linens,
20 wherein at least 85% of the insoluble solids of the non-dairy milk have been removed,
   wherein said non-dairy milk is a nut milk, a bean milk, or a grain milk.
            13.    A non-dairy cheese replica comprising an isolated and solidified non-dairy
   cream fraction and one or microbes selected from the group consisting of Pediococcus
   pentosaceus, Clostridium butyricum, Lactobacillus delbrueckii lactis, Lactobacillus
25 delbrueckii bulgaricus, Lactobacillushelveticus, Lactobacillusplantarum,Lactobacillus
   casei, Lactobacillus rhamnosus, Staphylococcus xylosus, and Brevibacterium linens.
            14.    The non-dairy cheese replica of any one of claims 11-13, said replica
   further comprising one of more microbes selected from the group consisting of
   Penicillium roqueforti,Debaryomyces hansenii, Geotrichum candidum, Penicillium
30 candidum, Corynebacteria,Streptococcus thermophiles, Penicillium camemberti,
   Penicillium nalgiovensis, Verticillium lecanii,Kluyveromyces lactis, Saccharomyces
                                               128

   cerevisiae, Candida utilis, Rhodosporidum infirmominiatum, Cornybacteria,a
   Micrococcus species, a Lactobacillus species, a Lactococcus species, Lactococcus lactis
   lactis (LLL), Leuconostoc mesenteroides cremoris (LM), Lactococcus lactis cremoris
   (LLC), a Staphylococcus species, a Halomonas species, a Brevibacteriumsps, a
 5 Psychrobactersps, a Leuconostocaceae sps, a Pediococcusspecies, Leuconostoc
   mesenteroides, Lactococcus lactis biovar. diacetylactis (LLBD) or a Propionibacterium
   species
           15.      The non-dairy cheese replica of any one of claims 9-14, said replica
   comprising two of LLL, LLC, and LLBD or comprising SX and TA61.
10         16.      The non-dairy cheese replica of claim 15, said replica comprising LLC
   and LLL.
           17.      The non-dairy cheese replica of claim 15, said replica comprising LLL and
   LLBD or LLL, LLC, and LLBD.
           18.      The non-dairy cheese replica of claim 17, said replica further comprising
15 Penicillium roqueforti and Debaryomyces hansenii.
           19.      The non-dairy cheese replica of any one of claims 5-18, wherein said one
   or more non-animal based proteins are plant proteins.
           20.      The non-dairy cheese replica of claim 19, wherein said plant proteins are
   selected from the group consisting of a seed storage protein or an oil body protein.
20         21.      The non-dairy cheese replica of claim 20, wherein said seed storage
   protein is an albumin, glycinin, conglycinin, globulin, legumin, vicilin, conalbumin,
   gliadin, glutelin, glutenin, hordein, prolamin, phaseolin, proteinoplast, secalin, triticeae
   gluten, or zein.
           22.      The non-dairy cheese replica of claim 20, wherein said oil body protein is
25 an oleosin, a caloleosin, or a steroleosin.
           23.      The non-dairy cheese replica of claim 19, wherein said plant protein is
   selected from the group consisting of ribosomal proteins, actin, hexokinase, lactate
   dehydrogenase, fructose bisphosphate aldolase, phosphofructokinases, triose phosphate
   isomerases, phosphoglycerate kinases, phosphoglycerate mutases, enolases, pyruvate
30 kinases, proteases, lipases, amylases, glycoproteins, lectins, mucins, glyceraldehyde-3
   phosphate dehydrogenases, pyruvate decarboxylases, actins, translation elongation
                                                129

   factors, histones, ribulose-1,5-bisphosphate carboxylase oxygenase (rubisco), ribulose
   1,5-bisphosphate carboxylase oxygenase activase (rubisco activase), collagens, kafirin,
   avenin, dehydrins, hydrophilins, and natively unfolded proteins.
            24.     The non-dairy cheese replica of any one of claims 1-23, said replica
 5 further comprising one or more sugars.
            25.     The non-dairy cheese replica of claim 24, wherein said one or more sugars
   are selected from the group consisting of sucrose, glucose, fructose, and maltose.
            26.     The non-dairy cheese replica of any one of claims 1-25, said replica
   further comprising one or more purified enzymes.
10          27.     The non-dairy cheese replica of claim 26, wherein said one or more
   isolated enzymes is a lipase, a protease, and/or an amylase.
            28.     The non-dairy cheese replica of any one of claims 1-27, said replica
   further comprising a melting salt.
            29.     The non-dairy cheese replica of claim 26, wherein said melting salt is
15 sodium citrate, trisodium pyrophosphate, sodium hexametaphosphate, disodium
   phosphate, or any combination thereof.
            30.     The non-dairy cheese replica of any one of claims 1-27, further
   comprising a divalent cation
            31.     The non-dairy cheese replica of claim 28, wherein said divalent cation is
20 Fe 2, Mg 2 +, Cu21,or Ca2.
            32.     The non-dairy cheese replica of any one of claims 1-31, further
   comprising an isolated amino acid or other additive selected from the group consisting of
   a food product, a yeast extract, miso, molasses, a nucleobase, an organic acid, a vitamin,
   a fruit extract, coconut milk, and a malt extract.
25          33.     The non-dairy cheese replica of claim 32, wherein said isolated amino acid
   is methionine, leucine, isoleucine, valine, proline, or alanine.
            34.     The non-dairy cheese replica of any one of claims 1-33, wherein said non
   dairy cheese replica comprises one or more plant-derived lipids, one or more oils derived
   from an algae, fungus, or bacterium, or one or more free fatty acids.
30          35.     The non-dairy cheese replica of claim 34, wherein said one or more plant
   derived lipids comprises corn oil, olive oil, soy oil, peanut oil, walnut oil, almond oil,
                                                 130

   sesame oil, cottonseed oil, canola oil, safflower oil, sunflower oil, flax seed oil, palm oil,
   palm kernel oil, palm fruit oil, coconut oil, babassu oil, shea butter, mango butter, cocoa
   butter, wheat germ oil, or rice bran oil.
            36.     The non-dairy cheese replica of claim 35, wherein said one or more plant
 5 derived lipids are canola oil, cocoa butter, and/or coconut oil.
            37.     The non-dairy cheese replica of any one of claims 1-36 further comprising
   a cross-linking enzyme.
            38.     The non-dairy cheese replica of claim 37, wherein said cross-linking
   enzyme is a transglutaminase or a lysyl oxidase.
10          39.     The non-dairy cheese replica of any one of claims 1-38, wherein said
   cheese replica has one or more of: a) increased creamy, milky, buttery, fruity, cheesy,
   free fatty acids, sulfury, fatty, sour, floral, or mushroom flavor or aroma notes; 2) reduced
   nutty, planty, beany, soy, green, vegetable, dirty, or sour flavor or aroma notes; 3) an
   increased creamy texture; 4) an improved melting characteristic; and 5) an increased
15 stretching ability, relative to a corresponding cheese replica lacking said one or more
   microbes, sugars, divalent cations, isolated enzymes, isolated amino acids or other
   additive, plant-derived lipids, or combinations thereof.
            40.     The non-dairy cheese replica of any one of claims 9-39, wherein said
   cheese replica has an increase in one or more of acetoin, diacetyl, 2,3-hexandione, or 5
20 hydroxy-4-octanone, or a decrease in one or more of benzaldehyde, 1-hexanol, 1-hexanal,
   furan, benzaldehyde or 2-methyl-2-propanol, pyrazine, or heptanal relative to a
   corresponding cheese replica lacking said one or more microbes, sugars, divalent cations,
   isolated enzymes, isolated amino acids or other additive, plant-derived lipids, or
   combinations thereof.
25          41.     The non-dairy cheese replica of any one of claims 9-39, wherein said
   cheese replica has an increase in methional and/or dimethyl trisulfide relative to a
   corresponding cheese replica lacking said one or more microbes, sugar, divalent cations,
   isolated enzymes, isolated amino acids or other additive, plant-derived lipids, or
   combinations thereof.
30          42.     The non-dairy cheese replica of any one of claims 9-39, wherein said
   cheese replica has an increase in one or more of butanoic acid, propanoic acid, hexanoic
                                                    131

   acid, octanoic acid, or decanoic acid relative to a corresponding cheese replica lacking
   said one or more microbes, sugars, divalent cations, isolated enzymes, isolated amino
   acids or other additive, plant-derived lipids, or combinations thereof.
            43.    The non-dairy cheese replica of any one of claims 9-39, wherein said
 5 cheese replica has an increase in one or more of 2-heptanone, 2-undecanone, 2-nonanone,
   2-butanone, 2-methyl propanoic acid, 2-methyl butanoic acid, or 3-methyl butanoic acid
   relative to a corresponding cheese replica lacking said one or more microbes, sugars,
   divalent cations, isolated enzymes, isolated amino acids or other additive, plant-derived
   lipids, or combinations thereof.
10          44.    The non-dairy cheese replica of any one of claims 9-39, wherein said
   cheese replica has an increase in one or more of ethyl butanoate or methyl hexanoate
   relative to a corresponding cheese replica lacking said one or more microbes, sugars,
   divalent cations, isolated enzymes, isolated amino acids or other additive, plant-derived
   lipids, or combinations thereof.
15          45.    The non-dairy cheese replica of any one of claims 9-39, wherein said
   cheese replica has (i) an increase in ethyl octanoate and/or 2-ethyl-i -hexanol or (ii) an
   increase in 2-methyl butanal and/or 3-methyl butanal relative to a corresponding cheese
   replica lacking said one or more microbes, sugars, divalent cations, isolated enzymes,
   isolated amino acids or other additive, plant-derived lipids, or combinations thereof.
20          46.    The non-dairy cheese replica of any one of claims 9-39, wherein said
   cheese replica has an increase in acetic acid relative to a corresponding cheese replica
   lacking said one or more microbes, sugars, divalent cations, isolated enzymes, isolated
   amino acids or other additive, plant-derived lipids, or combinations thereof.
            47.    The non-dairy cheese replica of any one of claims 9-39, wherein said
25 cheese replica has an increase in one or more of gamma-octalactone, delta-octalactone,
   gamma-nonalactone, butyrolactone, or methyl isobutyl ketone relative to a corresponding
   cheese replica lacking said one or more microbes, sugars, divalent cations, isolated
   enzymes, isolated amino acids, yeast extract, plant-derived lipids, or combinations
   thereof.
30          48.    The non-dairy cheese replica of any one of claims 9-39, wherein said
   cheese replica has an increase in one or more of nonanol or 1-octen-3-ol relative to a
                                                 132

   corresponding cheese replica lacking said one or more microbes, sugars, divalent cations,
   isolated enzymes, isolated amino acids, yeast extract, plant-derived lipids, or
   combinations thereof.
           49.     A method of making a non-dairy cheese replica, said method comprising
 5 solidifying a mixture of one or more isolated and purified proteins from a non-animal
   source and one or more isolated fats, said mixture comprising one or more microbes
   selected from the group consisting of Pediococcuspentosaceus, Clostridium butyricum,
   Lactobacillus delbrueckii lactis, Lactobacillusdelbrueckii bulgaricus,Lactobacillus
   helveticus, Lactobacillusplantarum,Lactobacillus casei, Lactobacillusrhamnosus,
10 Staphylococcus xylosus, and Brevibacteriumlinensg.
           50.     The method of claim 49, wherein solidifying comprises cross-linking said
   proteins using a transglutaminase or a lysyl oxidase.
           51.     The method of claim 49, wherein solidifying comprises subjecting said
   mixture to a heat / cool cycle.
15         52.     The method of claim 49, wherein solidifying comprises forming a cold set
   gel.
           53.     The method of claim 49, wherein solidifying comprises forming a
   coacervate comprising one or more isolated and purified proteins from a non-animal
   source.
20         54.     The method of any one of claims 49-53, said method further comprising
   adding one or more isolated enzymes to said mixture before or after solidifying.
           55.     The method of claim 54, wherein said one or more isolated enzymes is a
   lipase, protease, and/or an amylase.
           56.     The method of any one of claims 49-55, said method further comprising
25 adding one or more sugars to said mixture.
           57.     The method of claim 56, wherein said one or more sugars are selected
   from the group consisting of sucrose, glucose, fructose, and maltose.
           58.     The method of any one of claims 49-57, said method further comprising
   adding a melting salt to said mixture.
                                               133

           59.      The method of claim 58, wherein said melting salt is sodium citrate,
   trisodium pyrophosphate, sodium hexametaphosphate, disodium phosphate, or any
   combination thereof.
           60.      The method of any one of claims 49-59, further comprising adding a
 5 divalent cation to said mixture.
           61.      The method of claim 60, wherein said divalent cation is Fe2 +, Mg2 , Cu2,
   or Ca2+.
           62.      The method of any one of claims 49-61, further comprising adding an
   isolated amino acid to said mixture, a yeast extract, or a food product to said mixture.
10         63.      The method of claim 62, wherein said isolated amino acid is methionine,
   leucine, proline, or alanine.
           64.      The method of any one of claims 49-63, wherein said one or more isolated
   fats comprises corn oil, olive oil, soy oil, peanut oil, walnut oil, almond oil, sesame oil,
   cottonseed oil, canola oil, safflower oil, sunflower oil, flax seed oil, palm oil, palm kernel
15 oil, palm fruit oil, coconut oil, babassu oil, shea butter, mango butter, cocoa butter, wheat
   germ oil, or rice bran oil, an algal oil, or an oil derived from bacteria, oil derived from
   fungi, or rice bran oil.
           65.      The method of claim 64, wherein said one or more fats are canola oil
   and/or cocoa butter.
20         66.      The method of any one of claims 49-65, said method comprises further
   aerating said mixture.
           67.      The method of any one of claims 49-66, wherein said method comprises
   incubating said mixture with one microbe for a period of time and then adding a second
   microbe to said mixture.
25         68.      A method for making a cold set gel comprising:
           a)       denaturing a solution comprising at least one isolated and purified plant
   proteins under conditions wherein said isolated and purified protein does not precipitate
   out of said solution;
           b)       optionally adding any heat-labile components to said solution of denatured
30 protein;
                                                  134

           c)       gelling said solution of denatured protein between 40 C and 250 C by
   increasing the ionic strength; and
           d) optionally subjecting said cold set gel of c) to high pressure processing.
           69.      The method of claim 68, wherein said plant proteins are pea proteins,
 5 chickpea proteins, seed storage proteins, proteins from a legume, lentil proteins, or
   Lupine proteins.
           70.      The method of claim 69, wherein said pea proteins comprise pea vicilins
   and/or pea legumins.
           71.      The method of any one of claims 68-70, wherein said heat labile
10 components comprise one or more microbes.
           72.      The method of any one of claims 68-71, wherein gelling is induced using
   5 to 100 mM sodium or calcium chloride.
           73.      A method of making a coacervate, said method comprising
           a) acidifying a solution of one or more isolated and purified proteins from a non
15 animal source to a pH between 3.5 and 5.5, wherein said solution comprises 100 mM or
   less of a salt; and
           b) isolating said coacervate from said solution; and
           c) optionally subjecting said coacervate to high pressure processing.
           74.      The method of claim 73, wherein said isolated and purified proteins are
20 plant proteins.
           75.      The method of claim 74, wherein said plant proteins are seed storage
   proteins, chickpea proteins, lentil proteins, pea proteins or Lupine proteins.
           76.      The method of claim 75, wherein said pea proteins comprise pea vicilins
   and/or pea legumins.
25         77.      The method of claim 76, wherein said pea vicilins comprises convicilins.
           78.      The method of any one of claims 73-77, wherein said acidifying step is
   done in the presence of a plant based oil.
           79.      The method of any one of claims 73-78, wherein said pH is between 4 and
   5.
                                                 135

            80.     A method of minimizing one or more undesirable odors in a composition
   containing plant proteins, said method comprising contacting said composition with a
   ligand having binding affinity for lipoxygenases.
            81.     The method of claim 80, wherein said ligand is bound to a solid substrate.
 5          82.     A method of minimizing one or more undesirable odors in a composition
   containing plant proteins, said method comprising contacting said composition with
   activated carbon then removing the activated carbon from said composition.
            83.     A method of minimizing one or more undesirable odors in a composition
   containing plant proteins, said method comprising contacting said composition with a
10 lipoxygenase inhibitor and/or an antioxidant.
            84.     The method of any one of claims 80-83, wherein said composition is a
   food composition.
            85.     The method of claim 84, wherein said composition is a cheese replica.
            86.     A method for modulating a flavor profile and/or an aroma profile of a
15 cultured non-dairy product, said method comprising a) adding one or more microbes to a
   non-dairy milk source selected from the group consisting of a nut milk, a grain milk or a
   bean milk and culturing said microbe-containing non-dairy milk and modulating 1) the
   aeration rate and/or timing of aeration during the culturing; 2) the timing of adding the
   microbes to the mixture; 3) the order of adding the one or more microbes; 4) the cell
20 density of the contacted microbes prior to or after addition to the mixture; or 5) the
   microbial growth phase of the microbes prior to or after addition to the mixture, whereby
   the flavor profile and/or aroma profile of the non-dairy milk is modulated.
            87.     The method of claim 86, further comprising adding one or more sugars,
   divalent cations, isolated enzymes, isolated amino acids or other additives, plant-derived
25 lipids, algal oils, or oil derived from bacteria, oil derived from fungi, or free fatty acids to
   said mixture during said culturing step.
            88.     The method of claim 86 or claim 87, further comprising solidifying said
   microbe containing mixture.
            89.     The method of any one of claims 86-88, wherein said product is a cheese
30 replica.
                                                  136

           90.     The method of any one of claims 86-88, wherein said product is yogurt or
   sour cream, creme fraiche, or kefir.
           91.     A non-dairy cheese replica comprising a coacervate comprising one or
   more isolated proteins from a non-animal source.
 5         92.     The non-dairy cheese replica of claim 91, wherein said one or more
   isolated proteins are plant proteins.
           93.     The non-dairy cheese replica of claim 92, wherein said one or more
   isolated plant proteins are selected from the group consisting of seed storage proteins, pea
   proteins, Lupine proteins, proteins from a legume, chickpea proteins, and lentil proteins.
10         94.     A non-dairy cheese replica comprising (i) a solidified mixture of one or
   more isolated and purified proteins from a non-animal source and one or more isolated
   plant based lipids or (ii) a solidified non-dairy milk, nut milk, and one or microbes;
   wherein said non-dairy cheese replica has a) an increased creamy texture; b) an improved
   melting characteristic; or an increased stretching ability.
15         95.     A method of making a non-dairy cheese replica, said method comprising
   solidifying a mixture of one or more isolated and purified proteins from a non-animal
   source and one or more isolated fats using high pressure processing, said mixture
   comprising one or more microbes comprising one or more microbes selected from the
   group consisting of a Penicillium species, a Debaryomyces species, a Geotrichum
20 species, a Corynebacteriumspecies, a Streptococcus species, a Verticillium species., a
   Kluyveromyces species, a Saccharomyces species, a Candida species, a Rhodosporidum
   species, a Cornybacteriaspecies, a Micrococcus species, a Lactobacillus species, a
   Lactococcus species, a Staphylococcus species, a Halomonas species, a Brevibacterium
   species, a Psychrobacterspecies, a Leuconostocaceae species, a Pediococcus species, a
25 Propionibacteriumspecies, and a lactic acid bacterium. .
           96.     A ricotta cheese replica comprising a solidified nut milk, Lactococcus
   lactis Lactis, and Lactococcus lactis cremoris.
           97.     The ricotta cheese of claim 96, further comprising a transglutaminase.
           98.     The ricotta cheese of claim 96 or 97, wherein said nut milk comprises a
30 mixture of almond milk and macadamia nut milk.
                                                 137

           99.    A blue cheese replica comprising a solidified nut milk, Lactococcus lactis
   crenoris,Lactococcus lactis diacetylactis,Lactococcus lactis lactis;Penicillium
   roquetbfrte, and Debaryomyces hansenii.
           100.   The blue cheese of claim 99, further comprising a transglutaminase.
 5         101.   The blue cheese of claim 99 or 100, wherein said nut milk comprises a
   mixture of almond milk and macadamia nut milk.
           102.   A method for creating a library of isolated microbial strains for use in
   flavoring a non-dairy cheese replica, comprising:
           a)     obtaining a starter culture comprising a heterogenous population of
10 microbial strains;
           b)      isolating one or more individual microbial strains from said heterogenous
   population; and
               c) determining a flavor contribution of each of said individual microbial
                   strains to a non-dairy cheese replica.
15
                                      Impossible Foods Inc.
                          Patent Attorneys for the Applicant/Nominated
                                               Person
                                     SPRUSON & FERGUSON
                                                138

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
