Abstract
The present invention relates to humanized monoclonal antibodies comprising the CDRs
of murine antibody BMA031, which bind to the a PTCR.CD3 complex and possess
improved biological properties.

                                                 1
                                     nti-apTCR antibody
   The present invention relates to an antibody specific for the alpha beta T cell receptor
   (aI3TCR). In particular, the invention relates to a humanized anti-apTCR antibody, which
   is derived from the murine monoclonal antibody BMA031, and the use of said humanized
 5 antibody in immunosuppressive therapy.
   Introduction
   The use of immunosuppressive agents in autoimmune diseases and organ transplant
   therapy is well documented; however the process is far from optimal. Toxicity,
   opportunistic infections, cytokine storm and increased risk of cancer are prevalent in
10 patients treated with these agents. The use of biologics in this arena has improved patient
   outcome to some degree yet these side effects remain evident.
   The use of polyclonal antisera against lymphocytes is well known for the purpose of
   immunosuppression. However, antisera are labor-intensive to produce, show properties
   which vary between batches, and the specificity which can be obtained using polyclonal
15 antisera is limited.
   Monoclonal antibody production by hybridoma technology was first described by K6hler
   and Milstein (Nature 256:495-497 (1975)).           As compared to polyclonal antisera,
   monoclonal antibodies (mAbs) are more specific, and have more consistent properties.
   mAbs have been most frequently and successfully used for immunosuppressive therapy
20 in clinical organ transplantation. However, most mAbs used as immunosuppressive
   agents for treating autoimmune diseases and in transplant patients have a broad
   immunosuppressive capacity, thus undesirably influencing functions of a wide spectrum of
   immune cells, presumably not all involved in graft rejection.
   Mouse monoclonal antibodies against T cell surface receptor antigens were first produced
25 in 1979 using hybridoma technology (Kung et al. (1979) Science 206:347-349). Of the
   three monoclonal antibodies discovered by Kung et al., one antibody designated
   muromonab-CD3 (OKT3) had defined specificity to the CD3 receptor of the T cell, reacting
   with more that 95% of peripheral mature T cells without affecting immature thymocytes.
   Binding of OKT3 to the CD3 complex causes internalization of the CD3 receptor and loss
30 of CD3 positive cells from the periphery. Successful OKT3 treatment is associated with a
   prompt decline in CD3 positive T cells from approximately 60% to less than 5%.

                                                    2
   OKT3 has been extensively used for the treatment of patients undergoing acute allograft
   rejection after kidney transplantation (Russell, P.S., Colvin, R.B., Cosimi, A.B. (1984)
   Annu. Rev. Med. 35:63 and Cosimi, A.B., Burton, R.C., Colvin, R.B. et al. (1981)
   Transplantation 32:535). Moreover, OKT3 and rabbit complement were used for purging
 5 mature T cells from donor marrow to prevent acute graft versus host disease (GVHD) in
   allogeneic bone marrow transplantation (Prentice, H.G., Blacklock, H.A., Janossy, G. et al.
   (1982) Lancet 1:700 and Blacklock, H.A., Prentice, H.G., Gilmore, M.J. et al. (1983) Exp.
   Hematol. 11:37). Whereas OKT3 treatment seems to be effective in the prevention of
   GVHD in allogeneic bone marrow transplantation for acute leukemia, a combined in
10 vitro/in vivo treatment with OKT3 failed to prevent GVHD during therapy for severe
   combined immunodeficiency (Hayward, A.R. et al. (1982) Clin. Lab. Observ. 100:665).
   Treatment of T cells with OKT3 elicits several responses inconsistent with immune
   suppression including T cell activation, production of immune mediators and T3
   modulation. The T3-antigen complex recognized by CD3-mAbs (e.g., OKT3) is postulated
15 to play a crucial role during T cell activation. Alpha/beta T lymphocytes recognize peptide
   MHC ligands by means of a multimeric protein ensemble termed the ap T cell antigen
   receptor (TCR)-CD3 complex. This structure is composed of a variable ap TCR dimer
   which binds antigens and three invariant dimers (CD3yE, 5F and () which are involved in
   TCR-CD3 surface transport, stabilization and signal transduction. The alpha beta T cell
20 receptor (apTCR) is expressed on the majority (approx. 95%) of T cells and has a critical
   role in T cell activation via engagement of antigen displayed on MHC. The remaining 5%
   of cells are gamma delta T cell receptor (y6TCR) positive.          The y6TCR positive cell
   population plays an important role in the innate immune response in defense against
   opportunistic infections of bacterial, viral and fungal origin. Gamma delta T cells do not
25 play a role in graft rejection in transplantation. Therefore, targeting the a PTCR positive
   cell population and sparing the y6TCR positive population should allow for significant
   therapeutic efficacy whilst maintaining a baseline immune protection against opportunistic
   infections.
   The mouse IgG2b monoclonal antibody BMA031 (Borst et al. (Nov. 1990) Hum. Immunol.
30 29(3):175-88;    EP0403156)     is specific for the common determinant on the TCR
   alpha/beta/CD3 complex, and does not bind to the gamma-delta TCR. BMA031 is highly
   immunosuppressive and is capable of inducing apoptosis of activated T cells via a
   mechanism of activation-induced cell death (AICD) (Wesselborg et al. (May 1993) J.
   Immunol. 150(10): 4338-4345). In vitro it inhibits a mixed lymphocyte reaction and it has
35 shown preliminary clinical efficacy in prevention of graft rejection in a number of solid

                                                  3
   organ transplant scenarios as well as the treatment of acute graft versus host disease
   (aGVHD) (Kurrle et al. (Feb 1989) Transplant Proc. 21(1): 1017-1019). BMA031 does not
   engage human Fc gamma receptors (FcyR) in the majority of the human population
   (approximately 10% of human possess FcyRs which do bind to mouse IgG2b isotype). As
 5 such the antibody does not cause T cell activation via cross-linking of the T cell receptor
   and, therefore, it does not induce T cell activation or the associated cytokine release. In
   this regard its profile is highly preferable over that of OKT3.       However, BMA031 is a
   murine antibody and, as such, is not suitable for repeat dosing in human subjects in view
   of the human anti-mouse antibody (HAMA) response elicited therein.
10 Several humanized versions of BMA031 have been described (see, EP 0403156; also
   Shearman et al., (1991) J. Immunol. 147:4366-4373). As noted in EP0403156, mere CDR
   grafting was not successful in retaining antigen binding.         One clone with significant
   framework modifications, EUCIV3, successfully bound to T cells; however, as noted in
   EP0403156, binding to the aPTCR is not as effective as the parent BMA031 antibody as
15 determined by flow cytometry competition assays. We have also shown that the ability of
   EuCIV3 to inhibit an in vitro immune response is significantly reduced as compared to
   BMA031 (see, Fig. 2). In addition EuCIV3 was originally generated on a wild-type human
   IgG1 or IgG4 backbone which still retains FcyR binding. These humanized antibodies
   therefore allowed for T cell activation, proliferation and the concomitant cytokine release
20 and as such were significantly different to the original properties of BMA031.
   The modification of antibody glycosylation is known in the art. For example, it is known
   that aglycosylated antibodies can have extensively modified functionality; see, Boyd et al.
   (1996) Mol. Immunol. 32:1311-1318.            However, aglycosylated forms of humanized
   BMA031, or derivatives with modified glycosylation patterns, have previously not been
25 described.
   There is a need in the art, therefore, for an anti-aPTCR humanized antibody which
   improves on the binding properties of EUCIV3 and advantageously retains the
   immunosuppressive and non-T cell-activatory properties of BMA031.
   Summary of the Invention
30 In a first aspect, there is provided a humanized monoclonal antibody which comprises the
   CDRs of BMA031, and retains the binding affinity of BMA031 for its cognate antigen. In a
   first embodiment, said humanized antibody comprises a heavy chain variable region
   comprising the CDRs set forth in SEQ ID NOs: 7, 12 or 13 and the human IGH3-23

                                                 4
   framework set forth in SEQ ID NO: 17, wherein framework position 6 is a donor residue; in
   an alternative embodiment, framework position 18 is a donor residue.          Optionally,
   framework positions 49 and/or 69 are donor residues.
   In a second embodiment, the humanized monoclonal antibody comprises a heavy chain
 5 variable region comprising the CDRs set forth in SEQ ID NOs: 15 or 16 and the human
   IGHV1-3*01 framework set forth in SEQ ID NO: 18, wherein one or more of framework
   positions 38, 44 and/or 48 is a donor residue; in an alternative embodiment, framework
   positions 44 and 48 are donor residues.
   In a third embodiment, the humanized monoclonal antibody comprises a light chain
10 variable region comprising the CDRs set forth in SEQ ID NO: 14 and the human IGKV3
   11*01 framework set forth in SEQ ID NO: 19, wherein framework positions 70 and/or 71
   are donor residues. Optionally, position 46 is a donor residue.
   Examples of antibodies according to the first embodiment include antibodies which
   comprise a heavy chain variable region selected from the heavy chains comprising the
15 sequences set forth in SEQ ID NO: 7, SEQ ID NO: 12 and SEQ ID NO: 13, and a light
   chain variable region sequence comprising the sequence as set forth in SEQ ID NO: 14.
   Examples of antibodies according to the second embodiment include antibodies which
   comprise a heavy chain variable region selected from the heavy chains comprising the
   sequences set forth in SEQ ID NO: 15 and SEQ ID NO: 16, and a light chain variable
20 region comprising the sequence as set forth in SEQ ID NO: 14. The humanized antibodies
   according to the described embodiments are humanized versions of the BMA031. Their
   primary structures differ from that of the humanized antibody EuCIV3, which has
   decreased binding to the a PTCR as compared to BMA031.
   In the sequence listing, CDRs are indicated by means of annotation or underlining.
25 Frameworks are all sequences outside of the CDRs, which are defined according to the
   "Kabat" numbering system and extended, where applicable, by use of "IMGT" CDR
   definition.  If a framework residue is not indicated to be changed to match a donor
   sequence, it will ordinarily be understood to be an acceptor residue.
   The humanized antibodies may comprise a constant region. In one embodiment, the
30 constant region is of human origin.
   The humanized antibodies of the invention may be further modified by Fc engineering.
   Immunoglobulins are liable to cross-link Fcy receptors, which can lead to constitutive T

                                                   5
   cell activation for anti-T cell antibodies. In order to avoid Fcy cross-linking, antibodies can
   be modified to remove the Fc region, such as by the generation of Fab or Fv fragments;
   however, truncated immunoglobulins lack beneficial effector functions and exhibit a lower
   serum half-life. Therefore, the Fc region of the humanized antibody can be modified to
 5 prevent Fcy cross-linking.       Exemplary techniques include generation of aglycosylated
   immunoglobulins, for instance by modification of the Fc region by an N297Q mutation.
   Immunoglobulins which fail to bind Fcy are also described by Armour et al., (1999) Eur. J.
   Immunol. 29:2613-2624. The modification effected to IgG1              is known as the Aab
   modification, and consists in a combination of the Aa mutation, in which IgG residues are
10 substituted at positions 327, 330 and 331, and IgG2 residues substituted at positions 233
   236, and the Ab mutation, in which residue 236 is deleted. In another embodiment, the
   glycosylation pattern of antibodies according to the invention can be modified.
   In one embodiment, the antibody comprised one or more of mutations S298N, T299A and
   Y300S.
15 In embodiments, the antibody comprises two or more of mutations N297Q, S298N, T299A
   and Y300S. For example, there is provided a humanized antibody comprising the multiple
   mutations N297Q/S298N/Y300S, S298N/T299A/Y300S or S298N/Y300S.
   In a second aspect, there is provided a humanized monoclonal antibody which comprises
   the CDRs of BMA031, and retains the T cell suppression properties of BMA031.               Said
20 humanized antibody preferably comprises a heavy chain variable region having the amino
   acid sequence set forth in SEQ ID NOs: 12, 13, 15 or 16 and a light chain variable region
   comprising the amino acid sequence set forth in SEQ ID NO: 14.
   In a third aspect, there is provided a nucleic acid encoding at least a heavy chain variable
   region of a humanized monoclonal antibody according to the preceding aspects of the
25 described embodiments. The nucleic acid may encode variable and constant regions of
   the humanized antibody. Heavy and light chains may be encoded on separate nucleic
   acids or on the same nucleic acid molecule.
   According to a fourth aspect, there is provided a cell which expresses a nucleic acid
   according to the preceding aspect. The cell is, for example, a cell adapted to express
30 antibody molecules in culture. The nucleic acid may include signal sequences and/or
   other sequences or modifications which are required for, or which modulate, expression of
   the antibody molecule in the cell, and/or secretion of the antibody molecule from the cell.

                                                  6
   In a further embodiment, a humanized antibody is provided as described in the foregoing
   aspects, for use in suppressing a T cell mediated response in a subject.
   For example, the T cell mediated response can be involved in a condition selected from
   tissue transplantation, including solid organ transplant and composite tissue transplant,
 5 tissue grafting, multiple sclerosis and type 1 diabetes.
   Moreover, another embodiment provides a method for treating a subject suffering from a
   condition involving an aberrant T cell mediated response comprising administering to a
   subject in need thereof a pharmaceutically effective dose of an antibody according to the
   described embodiments.
10 Humanized non-activatory anti-apTCR antibodies which do not induce cytokine release
   have thus been generated which are capable of selective modulation of the aIpTCR and of
   inducing apoptosis of activated apTCR positive T cells. These antibodies have been
   generated for use as immunosuppressive agents in T cell mediated diseases. These
   antibodies have been generated through humanization of a mouse anti-apTCR antibody
15 BMA031 and by Fc-engineering of the humanized antibodies to prevent engagement of Fc
   gamma receptors. The antibodies according to the described embodiments retain the
   binding affinity of BMA031, unlike the humanized versions of BMA031 available in the art.
   Further, as shown in in vitro education assays, the immunosuppressive properties of
   antibodies according to the described embodiments are superior to those of BMA031.
20 Moreover, unlike the humanized BMA031 antibodies of the prior art, the antibodies
   according to the described embodiments do not induce cytokine release in normal PBMC.
   In accordance with a fifth aspect, there is provided an antibody comprising a modified Fc,
   in which said modified Fc comprises a modified glycosylation pattern which reduces FcyR
   receptor binding, comprising one or more of mutations S298N, T299A and Y300S.
25 In one embodiment, the antibody comprises two or more of mutations N297Q, S298N,
   T299A and Y300S.
   In embodiments, the antibody comprises the multiple mutations N297Q/S298N/Y300S,
   S298N/T299A/Y300S or S298N/Y300S.
   For example, the antibody may be an antibody as described in preceding aspects of the
30 invention.

                                                7
   According to a sixth aspect, there is provided a multispecific antibody comprising at least
   a heavy chain of a first binding domain as described in the preceding aspects of the
   invention, and a second binding domain specific for a tumor-specific antigen.
   In one embodiment, the first binding domain comprises a heavy chain according to the
 5 second aspect of the invention.
   The    multispecific  antibody can   comprise   many    different conformations;   in  one
   embodiment, it comprises an anti-TCR/CD3 scFv and an anti-tumor scFv.
   In one embodiment, the multispecific antibody is bispecific.
10 Brief Description of the Figures
   Fig. 1. BMA031 binds more strongly to aPTCR compared to EuCIV3.
   Competition of binding of PE-labeled BMA031 antibody by BMA031 MolgG2b, BMA031
   HulgG1 and EuCIV3 HulgG1 antibodies. EuCIV3 has a decreased potency compared to
   BMA031.
15 Fig. 2. EuCIV3 is less potent than BMA031 in an in vitro education (IVE) assay.
   Plot showing loss of performance of EuCIV3 humanized antibody in biological assay when
   compared to parent BMA031 antibody.         CD8+ T cells were treated with anti-aTCR
   antibodies at various concentrations (x-axis) and co-cultured with autologous dendritic
   cells pulsed with the CMV peptide 495-503 (pp65) for seven days.
20 Fig. 3. HEBE1 binds aPTCR comparably to BMA031 in a competition assay.
   Competition of binding of PE-labeled BMA031 antibody by BMA031 HulgG1, HEBE1
   HulgG1 and EuCIV3 HulgG1 antibodies. EuCIV3 has a decreased potency compared to
   BMA031 and HEBE1.
   Fig. 4. HEBE1 has similar potency to EuCIV3 in an in vitro education (IVE) assay.
25 The IVE assay was performed as described in respect of Fig. 2.

                                                 8
   Fig. 5. Schematic showing iterative rounds of mutagenesis of anti-apTCR variable
   domains.
   Framework in shaded box depicts the FR region where certain mouse residues lie.
   Shaded residues in first row of mutations are the mouse amino acids that are useful to
 5 maintain off-rate. Shaded residues in second row of mutations are the mouse residues
   surrounding the CDR regions which were retained during the final germlining process.
   Fig. 6. Optimized humanized antibody has improved off-rate compared to BMA031.
   The kinetics of antibody dissociation from acTCR on T cells was measured by flow
   cytometry. BMA031 had a better off-rate compared to EuCIV3 and HEBE1. By optimizing
10 the binding domain of HEBE1 we were able to improve the off-rate of HEBE1.H10
   compared to BMA031.
   Fig. 7. Optimized humanized antibody has improved off-rate compared to BMA031.
   The kinetics of antibody dissociation from acTCR on T cells was measured by flow
   cytometry. By optimizing the binding domain of HEBE1 we were able to improve the off
15 rate of HEBE1 .H66 compared to BMA031.
   Fig. 8. Optimized humanized antibody has improved off-rate compared to BMA031
   in both Aab and aglycosylated formats.
   The kinetics of antibody dissociation from acTCR on T cells was measured by flow
   cytometry.
20 Fig. 9. Optimization of HEBE1 leads to equivalent functionality as BMA031.
   IVE assay as described in Fig. 4. BMA031 inhibited education of CD8+ T cells, as they
   were unable to lyse specific targets in a dose dependent manner. The parental humanized
   antibody, HEBE1, was not as potent as BMA031 and was able to only inhibit education at
   the highest dose (similar results observed with a second non-improved humanized Ab,
25 HEBE1 H13). Further improvements were made to the humanized antibody, HEBE1 H10,
   which had equivalent potency to BMA031 in this assay.
   Fig. 10. IVE data with anti-apTCR antibodies.
   Both HEBE1 and GL1 BM series antibodies showed improvements in IVE results in
   comparison with BMA031.

                                                9
   Fig. 11. Antigen positive cells from IVE assay as determined by antigen-specific
   tetramer binding.
   Cells which are antigen-positive (i.e., have been educated within IVE assay) are able to
   bind to an MHC-tetramer molecule. When the IVE assay was conducted in the presence
 5 of antibody which has been able to prevent the education of T cells to antigen, there were
   fewer cells able to bind to the MHC-tetramer at the end of the assay.
   Fig. 12. Proliferation of PBMCs in presence of anti-aTCR antibodies, OKT3 and
   stimulatory beads.
   The stimulatory activity of OKT3 was not seen in anti-aTCR antibodies in this
10 comparison.
   Fig. 13. Cytokine release from PBMCs in presence of anti-apTCR antibodies.
   Cytokine release profile of anti-apTCR antibodies was similar to the profile demonstrated
   by BMA031.
   Fig. 14. IFN-gamma release from T cells in IVE assay.
15 CD8+ T cells were treated with anti-apTCR antibodies at various concentrations (see Fig.
   2, x-axis) and co-cultured with autologous dendritic cells pulsed with the CMV peptide
   495-503 (pp65) for seven days in an in vitro education (IVE) assay. IFN-gamma release
   was measured in this assay.
   Fig. 15. Activation-induced apoptosis by anti-apTCR antibodies.
20 Antigen stimulated CD8+ T cells were induced to apoptosis by binding of anti-aTCR
   antibodies BMA031 and HEBE1 H66. The ability of HEBE1 H66 to induce apoptosis was
   increased compared to BMA031.
   Fig. 16. Isolation of glycosylation mutants and aglycosylated antibodies
   Coomassie-blue stained gel showing expression and purification of glycosylation mutants
25 Fig. 17. Binding of aPTCR antibody mutants to human FcyRilla using Biacore.
   Biacore was used to assess binding to recombinant human FcyRllla (V158 & F158).
   Fig 18. Binding of aPTCR antibody mutants to human FcyRI using Biacore.

                                                10
   Biacore was used to assess binding to recombinant human and FcyRI.
   Fig. 19. Cytokine release from PBMCs in presence of glycosylation mutant anti
   aPTCR antibodies (day 2).
   Cytokine release profile for TNFa, GM-CSF, IFNy and IL10 of anti-aTCR antibodies was
 5 similar to the profile demonstrated by BMA031 and H66 delta AB.
   Fig. 20. Cytokine release from PBMCs in presence of glycosylation mutant anti
   aPTCR antibodies (day 2).
   Cytokine release profile for IL6, IL4 and IL2 of anti-aTCR antibodies was similar to the
   profile demonstrated by BMA031 and H66 delta AB.
10 Fig. 21.    Cytokine release from PBMCs in presence of glycosylation mutant anti
   aPTCR antibodies (day 4).
   Cytokine release profile for TNFa, GM-CSF, IFNy and IL10 of anti-aTCR antibodies was
   similar to the profile demonstrated by BMA031 and H66 delta AB.
   Fig. 22. Cytokine release from PBMCs in presence of glycosylation mutant anti
15 acTCR antibodies (day 4).
   Cytokine release profile for IL6, IL4 and IL2 of anti-acTCR antibodies was similar to the
   profile demonstrated by BMA031 and H66 delta AB.
   Fig. 23: Binding profiles of TRACERS.
   Binding profiles of bi-specific antibodies to both tumor target cells and human T cells
20 assessed by flow cytometery.
   Fig. 24: Cytotoxic activity of different T cell recruitment arms.
   A panel of humanised BMA031 antibodies have been created and from this panel a
   number of antibodies have been selected which display cytotoxic activity against tumor
   antigen expressing cell lines
25 Fig. 25: Cytokine release profile of different T cell recruitment arms.
   A panel of TRACERs with different T cell recruitment arms show similar cytokine release
   profiles. Large amounts of cytokines are detected following activation of T cells in the

                                                  11
   presence of target cells whereas in the presence of only unstimulated human PBMC
   observed cytokine levels are significantly lower.
   Fig. 26: Binding of CD52 antibody mutants to human FcyRIIIa using Biacore.
   Biacore was used to assess binding of modified anti-CD52 to recombinant human
 5 FcyRIlIla (V158). Anti-CD52 comprising S298N/Y300S mutations in the Fc domain were
   used to assess the effector function of the modified molecule. A: binding to CD52 peptide.
   B: binding to FcyRIlIla (V158). C: control binding to mouse FcRn.
   Detailed Description of the Invention
10 Unless otherwise stated, all technical and scientific terms used herein have the same
   meanings as commonly understood by one of ordinary skill in the art to which this
   invention belongs. Any methods and materials similar or equivalent to those described
   herein can be used in the methods or techniques of the present invention. All publications
   cited herein are incorporated herein by reference in their entirety for the purpose of
15 describing and disclosing the methodologies, reagents, and tools reported in the
   publications that might be used in connection with the invention.
   The methods and techniques of the present application are generally performed according
   to conventional methods well known in the art and as described in various general and
   more specific references that are cited and discussed throughout the present specification
20 unless otherwise      indicated.    See, e.g., Gennaro, A.R.,        ed.  (1990) Remington's
   Pharmaceutical Sciences, 18th ed., Mack Publishing Co.; Hardman, J.G., Limbird, L.E.,
   and Gilman, A.G., eds. (2001) The Pharmacological Basis of Therapeutics, 10th ed.,
   McGraw-Hill Co.; Colowick, S. et al., eds., Methods In Enzymology, Academic Press, Inc.;
   Weir, D.M. and Blackwell, C.C., eds. (1986) Handbook of Experimental Immunology, Vols.
25 I-IV, Blackwell Scientific Publications; Maniatis, T. et al., eds. (1989) Molecular Cloning: A
   Laboratory Manual, 2nd edition, Vols. I-III, Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory Press; Ausubel,
   F.M. et al., eds. (1999) Short Protocols in Molecular Biology, 4th edition, John Wiley &
   Sons; Ream et al., eds. (1998) Molecular Biology Techniques: An Intensive Laboratory
   Course, Academic Press; Newton, C.R. and Graham, A., eds. (1997) PCR (Introduction to
30 Biotechniques Series), 2nd ed., Springer-Verlag.
   A humanized monoclonal antibody, as referred to herein, is an antibody which is
   composed of a human antibody framework, into which have been grafted complementarity

                                                12
   determining regions (CDRs) from a non-human antibody. Changes in the human acceptor
   framework may also be made. Procedures for the design and production of humanized
   antibodies are well known in the art, and have been described, for example, in Cabilly et
   al., U.S. Patent No. 4,816,567; Cabilly et al., European Patent Application 0 125 023;
 5 Boss et al., U.S. Patent No. 4,816,397; Boss et al., European Patent Application 0 120
   694; Neuberger, M.S. et al., WO 86/01533; Neuberger, M.S. et al., European Patent
   Application 0 194 276 B1; Winter, U.S. Patent No. 5,225,539; Winter, European Patent
   Application 0 239 400; Padlan, E.A. et al., European Patent Application 0 519 596. Further
   details on antibodies, humanized antibodies, human engineered antibodies, and methods
10 for their preparation can be found in Kontermann, R. and DObel, S. eds. (2001, 2010)
   Antibody Engineering, 2nd ed., Springer-Verlag, New York, NY.
   The term "antibody", unless indicated otherwise, is used to refer to entire antibodies as
   well as antigen-binding fragments of such antibodies.              For example, the term
   encompasses four-chain IgG molecules, as well as antibody fragments.
15 As used herein, the term "antibody fragments" refers to portions of an intact full-length
   antibody, for example, as further described below.
   Antibodies may be of any class, such as IgG, IgA or IgM; and of any subclass, such as
   IgG1 or IgG4.       Different classes and subclasses of immunoglobulin have different
   properties, which may be advantageous in different applications.          For example, IgG4
20 antibodies have reduced binding to Fc receptors.
   Specificity, in the context of the antibodies described herein, means that the claimed
   antibody be capable of selectively binding its defined cognate antigen, which is the
   a PTCR.CD3 complex.        The antibodies of the invention bind the a PTCR.CD3 complex
   expressed on cells.
25 The human a PTCR/CD3 complex is the T cell receptor complex presented on the surface
   of T cells. See, Kuhns et al., (2006) Immunity 24:133-139. This complex is targeted by
   the murine monoclonal antibody BMA031 (see, European patent application EP 0 403
   156; SEQ ID NOs: 1 and 2).
   Naturally occurring immunoglobulins have a common core structure in which two identical
30 light chains (about 24 kD) and two identical heavy chains (about 55 or 70 kD) form a
   tetramer. The amino-terminal portion of each chain is known as the variable (V) region
   and can be distinguished from the more conserved constant (C) regions of the remainder
   of each chain. Within the variable region of the light chain (also called the VL domain) is a

                                                13
   C-terminal portion known as the J region. Within the variable region of the heavy chain
   (also called the VH domain), there is a D region in addition to the J region. Most of the
   amino acid sequence variation in immunoglobulins is confined to three separate locations
   in the V regions known as hypervariable regions or complementarity determining regions
 5 (CDRs) which are directly involved in antigen binding. Proceeding from the amino
   terminus, these regions are designated CDR1, CDR2 and CDR3, respectively. The CDRs
   are held in place by more conserved framework regions (FRs). Proceeding from the
   amino-terminus, these regions are designated FR1, FR2, FR3 and FR4, respectively. The
   locations of CDR and FR regions and a numbering system have been defined by Kabat et
10 al. (Kabat, E.A. et al., Sequences of Proteins of Immunological Interest, Fifth Edition, U.S.
   Department of Health and Human Services, U.S. Government Printing Office (1991), and
   updates thereof which may be found online). In addition, CDR region boundaries have
   been further defined by IMGT nomenclature.
   Variable regions of antibodies according to the described embodiments may be found in
15 SEQ ID NOs: 5-7 and 12-16, and may be obtained by humanizing BMA031, that is, by
   transferring the CDRs of BMA031 to a human framework.            Two series of humanized
   antibodies are described; the HEBE1 series, comprising SEQ ID NOs: 5-7, 12 and 13, and
   the GL1BM series, comprising heavy chain variable regions as shown in SEQ ID NOs: 8,
   15 and 16. In both cases, the light chain variable region used is as shown in SEQ ID NO:
20 14 (GL1BM VK43).
   The human frameworks used are IGH3-23 in the case of HEBE1, and IGHV1-3*01 and
   IGKV3-11*01 in the case of GL1BM.
   Constant regions may be derived from any human antibody constant regions. Variable
   region genes may be cloned into expression vectors in frame with constant region genes
25 to express heavy and light immunoglobulin chains.         Such expression vectors can be
   transfected into antibody producing host cells for antibody synthesis.
   Human antibody variable and constant regions may be derived from sequence databases.
   For example, immunoglobulin sequences are available in the IMGT/LIGM database
   (Giudicelli et al., (2006) Nucleic Acids Res. 34 :(suppl. 1):D781-D784) or VBase
30 (vbase.mrc-cpe.cam.ac.uk).
   Aglycosylated antibodies can have extensively modified functionality; see, Boyd et al.
   (1996) Mol. Immunol. 32:1311-1318. A "delta ab" or Aab modification, referred to herein,
   is an Fc modification as described in Armour et al., (1999) Eur. J. Immunol. 29:2613-2624.
   Techniques for modifying glycosylation of antibody Fc regions are known in the art, and
35 include chemical, enzymatic and mutational means, for example, mutation of the N297

                                                 14
   position in the CH2 domain.        Techniques for mutating antibody genes for producing
   aglycosylated IgG molecules are described in Tao and Morrison (1989) J. Immunol.
   143:2595-2601.
   "Nucleic acids" as referred to herein include DNA molecules which encode the antibodies
 5 of the invention. Preferred are expression vectors, which are suitable for expressing the
   antibody genes in a host cell.       Expression vectors and host cells for antibody gene
   expression are known in the art; see, for example, Morrow, K.J. Genetic Engineering &
   Biotechnology News (June 15, 2008) 28(12), and Backliwal, G. et al. (2008) Nucleic Acids
   Res. 36(15):e96-e96.
10
   1.    Antibodies
   The invention encompasses antigen-binding fragments of the humanized anti-aPTCR
   antibodies. Fragments of the antibodies are capable of binding the a PTCR.CD3 complex.
   They encompass Fab, Fab', F(ab') 2, and F(v) fragments, or the individual light or heavy
15 chain variable regions or portion thereof. Fragments include, for example, Fab, Fab',
   F(ab') 2, Fv and scFv. These fragments lack the Fc portion of an intact antibody, clear
   more rapidly from the circulation, and can have less non-specific tissue binding than an
   intact antibody.    These fragments can be produced from intact antibodies using well
   known methods, for example by proteolytic cleavage with enzymes such as papain (to
20 produce Fab fragments) or pepsin (to produce F(ab') 2 fragments).
   The antibodies and fragments also encompass single-chain antibody fragments (scFv)
   that bind to the a PTCR.CD3 complex.         An scFv comprises an antibody heavy chain
   variable region  (VH) operably linked to an antibody light chain variable region (VL) wherein
   the heavy chain variable region and the light chain variable region, together or individually,
25 form a binding site that binds cPTCR. An scFv may comprise a         VH  region at the amino
   terminal end and a VL region at the carboxy-terminal end.            Alternatively, scFv may
   comprise a VL region at the amino-terminal end and a       VH region at the carboxy-terminal
   end. Furthermore, although the two domains of the Fv fragment, VL and VH, are coded for
   by separate genes, they can be joined, using recombinant methods, by a synthetic linker
30 that enables them to be made as a single protein chain in which the VL and          VH regions
   pair to form monovalent molecules (known as single chain Fv (scFv)).            An scFv may
   optionally further comprise a polypeptide linker between the heavy chain variable region
   and the light chain variable region.
   The antibodies and fragments also encompass domain antibody (dAb) fragments as

                                                  15
   described in Ward, E.S. et al. (1989) Nature 341:544-546 which consist of a VH domain.
   The antibodies and fragments also encompass heavy chain antibodies (HCAb).            These
   antibodies are reported to form antigen-binding regions using only heavy chain variable
   region, in that these functional antibodies are dimers of heavy chains only (referred to as
 5 "heavy-chain antibodies" or "HCAbs").        Accordingly, antibodies and fragments may be
   heavy chain antibodies (HCAb) that specifically bind to the a PTCR.CD3 complex.
   The antibodies and fragments also encompass antibodies that are SMIPs or binding
   domain immunoglobulin fusion proteins specific for apTCR.CD3 complex.                 These
   constructs are single-chain polypeptides comprising antigen-binding domains fused to
10 immunoglobulin domains necessary to carry out antibody effector functions (see, WO
   2005/017148).
   The antibodies and fragments also encompass diabodies. These are bivalent antibodies
   in which   VH  and VL domains are expressed on a single polypeptide chain, but using a
   linker that is too short to allow for pairing between the two domains on the same chain.
15 This forces the domains to pair with complementary domains of another chain and thereby
   creates two antigen-binding sites (see, for example, WO 93/11161).         Diabodies can be
   bispecific or monospecific.
   The antibody or antibody fragment thereof does not cross-react with any target other than
   the a PTCR.CD3 complex.
20 The antibody or fragment thereof may be modified in order to increase its serum half-life,
   for example, by adding molecules - such as PEG or other water soluble polymers,
   including polysaccharide polymers to increase the half-life.
   The antibodies and fragments thereof may be bispecific.             For example, bispecific
   antibodies may resemble single antibodies (or antibody fragments) but have two different
25 antigen binding sites (variable regions). Bispecific antibodies can be produced by various
   methods - such as chemical techniques, "polydoma" techniques or recombinant DNA
   techniques. Bispecific antibodies may have binding specificities for at least two different
   epitopes, at least one of which is the a PTCR.CD3 complex. The other specificity may be
   selected from any useful or desired specificities including, for example, specificity for
30 human serum albumin for the extension of half-life in vivo.
   The use of bi-specific antibodies in the clinic for oncology applications is now becoming
   reality with the tri-functional Catumaxomab (Removmab@) approved for use in cases of
   malignant ascites and the bi-specific antibody Blinatumomab now in phase || trials in
   hematological malignancies. These molecules have in common a binding arm which binds

                                                 16
   to T cells and a second arm which binds to the tumor target cell which results in T cell
   mediated lysis of the tumor target. Also in common, these molecules recruit T cells via the
   CD3 protein located on the cell surface. An alternative to recruitment via CD3 is to make
   use of the ap T cell receptor (ap TCR) which is also expressed on the surface of the cell.
 5 Accordingly, antibodies according to the present invention can be used to develop anti
   tumor antibodies by combining a specificity for a tumor associated antigen with a
   specificity for the ap T cell receptor (ap TCR).
   2. Antibody production
10 The amino acid sequences of the variable domains of the antibodies described herein are
   set forth in SEQ ID NOs: 5-7 and 12-16. Antibody production can be performed by any
   technique known in the art, including in transgenic organisms such as goats (see, Pollock
   et al. (1999) J. Immunol. Methods 231:147-157), chickens (see, Morrow, K.J.J. (2000)
   Genet. Eng. News 20:1-55), mice (see Pollock et al., supra) or plants (see, Doran, P.M.
15 (2000) Curr. Opinion Biotechnol. 11:199-204, Ma. J.K-C. (1998) Nat. Med. 4:601-606,
   Baez, J. et al. (2000) BioPharm. 13:50-54, Stoger, E. et al. (2000) Plant Mol. Biol. 42:583
   590). Antibodies may also be produced by chemical synthesis or by expression of genes
   encoding the antibodies in host cells.
   A polynucleotide encoding the antibody is isolated and inserted into a replicable construct
20 or vector such as a plasmid for further propagation or expression in a host cell. Constructs
   or vectors (e.g., expression vectors) suitable for the expression of a humanized
   immunoglobulin according to the described embodiments are available in the art.            A
   variety of vectors are available, including vectors which are maintained in single copy or
   multiple copies in a host cell, or which become integrated into the host cell's
25 chromosome(s). The constructs or vectors can be introduced into a suitable host cell, and
   cells which express a humanized immunoglobulin can be produced and maintained in
   culture. A single vector or multiple vectors can be used for the expression of a humanized
   immunoglobulin.
   Polynucleotides encoding the antibody are readily isolated and sequenced using
30 conventional procedures (e.g., oligonucleotide probes). Vectors that may be used include
   plasmid, virus, phage, transposons, minichromosomes of which plasmids are a typical
   embodiment. Generally such vectors further include a signal sequence, origin of
   replication, one or more marker genes, an enhancer element, a promoter and transcription
   termination sequences operably linked to the light and/or heavy chain polynucleotide so
35 as to facilitate expression. Polynucleotides encoding the light and heavy chains may be

                                                 17
   inserted into separate vectors and introduced (e.g., by transformation, transfection,
   electroporation or transduction) into the same host cell concurrently or sequentially or, if
   desired, both the heavy chain and light chain can be inserted into the same vector prior to
   such introduction.
 5 A promoter can be provided for expression in a suitable host cell. Promoters can be
   constitutive or inducible. For example, a promoter can be operably linked to a nucleic acid
   encoding a humanized immunoglobulin or immunoglobulin chain, such that it directs
   expression of the encoded polypeptide. A variety of suitable promoters for prokaryotic and
   eukaryotic hosts are available. Prokaryotic promoters include lac, tac, T3, T7 promoters
10 for E. coli; 3-phosphoglycerate kinase or other glycolytic enzymes e.g., enolase,
   glyceralderhyde    3-phosphate dehydrogenase, hexokinase,           pyruvate decarboxylase,
   phosphofructokinase, glucose 6 phosphate isomerase, 3-phosphoglycerate mutase and
   glucokinase.    Eukaryotic promoters include inducible yeast promoters such as alcohol
   dehydrogenase 2, isocytochrome C, acid phosphatase, metallothionein and enzymes
15 responsible for nitrogen metabolism or maltose/galactose utilization; RNA polymerase ||
   promoters including viral promoters such as polyoma, fowlpox and adenoviruses (e.g.,
   adenovirus 2), bovine papilloma virus, avian sarcoma virus, cytomegalovirus (in particular,
   the immediate early gene promoter), retrovirus, hepatitis B virus, actin, rous sarcoma virus
   (RSV) promoter and the early or late Simian virus 40 and non-viral promoters such as EF
20 1 alpha (Mizushima and Nagata (1990) Nucleic Acids Res. 18(17):5322). Those of skill in
   the art will be able to select the appropriate promoter for expressing a humanized
   antibody or portion thereof.
   Where appropriate, e.g., for expression in cells of higher eukaroytes, additional enhancer
   elements can be included instead of or as well as those found located in the promoters
25 described above. Suitable mammalian enhancer sequences include enhancer elements
   from globin, elastase, albumin, fetoprotein, metallothionine and insulin. Alternatively, one
   may use an enhancer element from a eukaryotic cell virus such as SV40 enhancer,
   cytomegalovirus early promoter enhancer, polyoma enhancer, baculoviral enhancer or
   murine IgG2a locus (see, WO 04/009823). Whilst such enhancers are often located on the
30 vector at a site upstream to the promoter, they can also be located elsewhere e.g., within
   the untranslated region or downstream of the polyadenylation signal. The choice and
   positioning of enhancer may be based upon compatibility with the host cell used for
   expression.
   In addition, the vectors (e.g., expression vectors) may comprise a selectable marker for
35 selection of host cells carrying the vector, and, in the case of a replicable vector, an origin

                                                 18
   of replication. Genes encoding products which confer antibiotic or drug resistance are
   common selectable markers and may be used in prokaryotic (e.g., f3-lactamase gene
   (ampicillin resistance), Tet gene (tetracycline resistance) and eukaryotic cells (e.g.,
   neomycin (G418 or geneticin), gpt (mycophenolic acid), ampicillin, or hygromycin
 5 resistance genes). Dihydrofolate       reductase marker genes permit selection with
   methotrexate in a variety of hosts. Genes encoding the gene product of auxotrophic
   markers of the host (e.g., LEU2, URA3, HIS3) are often used as selectable markers in
   yeast. Use of viral (e.g., baculovirus) or phage vectors, and vectors which are capable of
   integrating into the genome of the host cell, such as retroviral vectors, are also
10 contemplated.
   In eukaryotic systems, polyadenylation and termination signals are operably linked to
   polynucleotide encoding the antibody of the invention. Such signals are typically placed 3'
   of the open      reading frame. In mammalian         systems, non-limiting examples of
   polyadenylation/termination signals include those derived from growth hormones,
15 elongation factor-1 alpha and viral (e.g., SV40) genes or retroviral long terminal repeats.
   In yeast systems, non-limiting examples of polydenylation/termination signals include
   those derived from the phosphoglycerate kinase (PGK) and the alcohol dehydrogenase 1
   (ADH) genes. In prokaryotic systems polyadenylation signals are typically not required
   and it is instead usual to employ shorter and more defined terminator sequences. The
20 choice of polyadenylation/termination sequences may be based upon compatibility with
   the host cell used for expression. In addition to the above, other features that can be
   employed to enhance yields include chromatin remodeling elements, introns and host cell
   specific codon modification. The codon usage of the antibodies of the invention can be
   modified to accommodate codon bias of the host cell such to augment transcript and/or
25 product yield (e.g., Hoekema, A. et al. (1987) Mol. Cell Biol. 7(8):2914-24). The choice of
   codons may be based upon compatibility with the host cell used for expression.
   The invention thus relates to isolated nucleic acid molecules that encode the humanized
   immunoglobulins, or heavy or light chains, thereof. The invention also relates to isolated
   nucleic acid molecules that encode an antigen-binding portion of the immunoglobulins and
30 their chains.
   The antibodies can be produced, for example, by the expression of one or more
   recombinant nucleic acids encoding the antibody in a suitable host cell. The host cell can
   be produced using any suitable method. For example, the expression constructs (e.g.,
   one or more vectors, e.g., a mammalian cell expression vector) described herein can be
35 introduced into a suitable host cell, and the resulting cell can be maintained (e.g., in

                                                    19
   culture, in an animal, in a plant) under conditions suitable for expression of the
   construct(s) or vector(s). Host cells can be prokaryotic, including bacterial cells such as E.
   coli (e.g., strain DH5a   TM
                                ) (Invitrogen, Carlsbad, CA), PerC6 (Crucell, Leiden, NL), B.
   subtilis and/or other suitable bacteria; eukaryotic cells, such as fungal or yeast cells (e.g.,
 5 Pichia pastoris, Aspergillus sp., Saccharomyces cerevisiae, Schizosaccharomyces
   pombe, Neurospora crassa), or other lower eukaryotic cells, and cells of higher
   eukaryotes such as those from insects (e.g., Drosophila Schnieder S2 cells, Sf9 insect
   cells) (WO 94/126087 (O'Connor)), BTI-TN-5B1-4 (High Five         TM
                                                                        ) insect cells (Invitrogen),
   mammals (e.g., COS cells, such as COS-1 (ATCC Accession No. CRL-1650) and COS-7
10 (ATCC Accession No. CRL-1651), CHO (e.g., ATCC Accession No. CRL-9096), CHO
   DG44 (Urlaub, G. and Chasin, L.A. (1980) Proc. Nat/. Acad. Sci. USA, 77(7):4216-4220),
   293 (ATCC Accession No. CRL-1573), HeLa (ATCC Accession No. CCL-2), CVI (ATCC
   Accession No. CCL-70), WOP (Dailey, L., et al. (1985) J. Virol., 54:739-749), 3T3, 293T
   (Pear, W.S., et al. (1993) Proc. Nat/. Acad. Sci. U.S.A., 90:8392-8396), NSO cells, SP2/0
15 cells, HuT 78 cells, and the like, or plants (e.g., tobacco, lemna (duckweed), and algae).
   See, for example, Ausubel, F.M. et al., eds. Current Protocols in Molecular Biology,
   Greene Publishing Associates and John Wiley & Sons Inc. (1993). In some embodiments,
   the host cell is not part of a multicellular organism (e.g., plant or animal), e.g., it is an
   isolated host cell or is part of a cell culture.
20 Host cells may be cultured in spinner flasks, shake flasks, roller bottles, wave reactors
   (e.g., System 1000 from wavebiotech.com) or hollow fibre systems but it is preferred for
   large scale production that stirred tank reactors or bag reactors (e.g., Wave Biotech,
   Somerset, New Jersey USA) are used particularly for suspension cultures. Stirred tank
   reactors can be adapted for aeration using e.g., spargers, baffles or low shear impellers.
25 For bubble columns and airlift reactors, direct aeration with air or oxygen bubbles maybe
   used. Where the host cells are cultured in a serum-free culture medium, the medium can
   be supplemented with a cell protective agent such as pluronic F-68 to help prevent cell
   damage as a result of the aeration process. Depending on the host cell characteristics,
   microcarriers maybe used as growth substrates for anchorage dependent cell lines, or the
30 cells maybe adapted to suspension culture. The culturing of host cells, particularly
   vertebrate host cells, may utilize a variety of operational modes such as batch, fed-batch,
   repeated batch processing (see, Drapeau et al. (1994) Cytotechnology 15:103-109),
   extended batch process or perfusion culture. Although recombinantly transformed
   mammalian host cells may be cultured in serum-containing media such media comprising
35 fetal calf serum (FCS), it is preferred that such host cells are cultured in serum-free media
   such as disclosed in Keen et al. (1995) Cytotechnology 17:153-163, or commercially

                                                  20
   available    media    such   as   ProCHO-CDM       or   UltraCHOT M  (Cambrex      NJ,   USA),
   supplemented where necessary with an energy source such as glucose and synthetic
   growth factors such as recombinant insulin. The serum-free culturing of host cells may
   require that those cells are adapted to grow in serum-free conditions. One adaptation
 5 approach is to culture such host cells in serum containing media and repeatedly exchange
   80% of the culture medium for the serum-free media so that the host cells learn to adapt
   in serum-free conditions (see, e.g., Scharfenberg, K. et al. (1995) Animal Cell Technology:
   Developments Towards the 21st Century (Beuvery, E.C. et al., eds), pp.619-623, Kluwer
   Academic publishers).
10 Antibodies according to the described embodiments may be secreted into the medium
   and recovered and purified therefrom using a variety of techniques to provide a degree of
   purification suitable for the intended use. For example, the use of therapeutic antibodies
   for the treatment of human patients typically mandates at least 95% purity as determined
   by reducing SDS-PAGE, more typically 98% or 99% purity, when compared to the culture
15 media comprising the therapeutic antibodies. In the first instance, cell debris from the
   culture media can be removed using centrifugation followed by a clarification step of the
   supernatant using e.g., microfiltration, ultrafiltration and/or depth filtration. Alternatively,
   the antibody can be harvested by microfiltration, ultrafiltration or depth filtration without
   prior centrifugation. A variety of other techniques such as dialysis and gel electrophoresis
20 and chromatographic techniques such as hydroxyapatite (HA), affinity chromatography
   (optionally involving an affinity tagging system such as polyhistidine) and/or hydrophobic
   interaction chromatography (HIC) (see, US 5,429,746) are available. In one embodiment,
   the antibodies, following various clarification steps, are captured using Protein A or G
   affinity chromatography followed by further chromatography steps such as ion exchange
25 and/or HA chromatography, anion or cation exchange, size exclusion chromatography
   and ammonium sulphate precipitation. Various virus removal steps may also be employed
   (e.g., nanofiltration using, e.g., a DV-20 filter). Following these various steps, a purified
   preparation comprising at least 10 mg/ml or greater, e.g., 100 mg/ml or greater of the
   antibody of the invention is provided and, therefore, forms another embodiment of the
30 invention. Concentration to 100 mg/ml or greater can be generated by ultracentrifugation.
   Such preparations are substantially free of aggregated forms of antibodies of the
   invention.
   Bacterial systems are particularly suited for the expression of antibody fragments. Such
   fragments are localized intracellularly or within the periplasm. Insoluble periplasmic
35 proteins can be extracted and refolded to form active proteins according to methods

                                                  21
   known to those skilled in the art, see, Sanchez et al. (1999) J. Biotechnol. 72:13-20; Cupit,
   P.M. et al. (1999) Lett. Apple. Microbiol. 29:273-277.
   The present invention also relates to cells comprising a nucleic acid, e.g., a vector, of the
   invention (e.g., an expression vector). For example, a nucleic acid (i.e., one or more
 5 nucleic acids) encoding the heavy and light chains of a humanized immunoglobulin
   according to the described embodiments, or a construct (i.e., one or more constructs, e.g.,
   one or more vectors) comprising such nucleic acid(s), can be introduced into a suitable
   host cell by a method appropriate to the host cell selected (e.g., transformation,
   transfection, electroporation, infection), with the nucleic acid(s) being, or becoming,
10 operably linked to one or more expression control elements (e.g., in a vector, in a
   construct created by processes in the cell, integrated into the host cell genome). Host
   cells can be maintained under conditions suitable for expression (e.g., in the presence of
   inducer, suitable media supplemented with appropriate salts, growth factors, antibiotic,
   nutritional supplements, etc.), whereby the encoded polypeptide(s) are produced. If
15 desired, the encoded humanized antibody can be isolated, for example, from the host
   cells, culture medium, or milk. This process encompasses expression in a host cell (e.g., a
   mammary gland cell) of a transgenic animal or plant (e.g., tobacco) (see, e.g., WO
   92/03918).
20 3. Therapeutic Applications
   Suppression     of T cell activity is desirable in a number of situations in which
   immunosuppression is warranted, and/or an autoimmune condition occurs. Accordingly,
   targeting of the a PTCR.CD3 complex is indicated in the treatment of diseases involving an
   inappropriate or undesired immune response, such as inflammation, autoimmunity, and
25 other conditions involving such mechanisms. In one embodiment, such disease or
   disorder is an autoimmune and/or inflammatory disease. Examples of such autoimmune
   and/or inflammatory diseases are Systemic Lupus Erythematosus (SLE), Rheumatoid
   Arthritis (RA) and inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) (including ulcerative colitis (UC) and
   Crohn's disease (CD)), multiple sclerosis (MS), scleroderma and type 1 diabetes (T1D),
30 and other diseases and disorders, such as PV (pemphigus vulgaris), psoriasis, atopic
   dermatitis, celiac disease, Chronic Obstructive Lung disease, Hashimoto's thyroiditis,
   Graves' disease (thyroid), Sjogren's syndrome, Guillain-barre syndrome, Goodpasture's
   syndrome, Addison's disease, Wegener's granulomatosis, primary biliary sclerosis,
   sclerosing    cholangitis, autoimmune       hepatitis, polymyalgia  rheumatica,   Raynaud's
35 phenomenon, temporal arteritis, giant cell arteritis, autoimmune hemolytic anemia,

                                                 22
   pernicious anemia, polyarteritis nodosa, behcet's disease, primary bilary cirrhosis, uveitis,
   myocarditis, rheumatic fever, ankylosing spondylitis, glomerulenephritis, sarcoidosis,
   dermatomyositis, myasthenia gravis, polymyositis, alopecia areata, and vitilgo.
   In one embodiment, such disease or disorder is SLE, RA or IBD. In one embodiment,
 5 such disease or disorder is MS.
   In another embodiment, the antibodies according to the described embodiments are used
   to aid transplantation by immunosuppressing the subject.        Such use alleviates graft
   versus-host disease.        For a description of existing treatments for graft-versus-host
   disease, see , e.g., Svennilson, Bone Marrow Transplantation (2005) 35:S65-S67, and
10 references cited therein. Advantageously, the antibodies of the invention may be used in
   combination with other available therapies.
   With regard to the treatment of autoimmune diseases, combination therapy may include
   administration of an antibody of the present invention together with a medicament, which
   together with the antibody comprises an effective amount for preventing or treating such
15 autoimmune diseases. Where said autoimmune disease is Type 1 diabetes, the
   combination therapy may encompass one or more of an agent that promotes the growth
   of pancreatic beta-cells or enhances beta-cell transplantation, such as beta cell growth or
   survival factors or immunomodulatory antibodies. Where said autoimmune disease is
   rheumatoid     arthritis, said combination therapy may encompass one or more of
20 methotrexate, an anti-TNF-P antibody, a TNF-P receptor-Ig fusion protein, an anti-IL-15 or
   anti-IL-21  antibody, a non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID), or a disease
   modifying anti-rheumatic drug (DMARD). For example, the additional agent may be a
   biological agent such as an anti-TNF agent (e.g., Enbrel@, infliximab (Remicade@) and
   adalimumab (Humira@) or rituximab (Rituxan@). Where said autoimmune disease is
25 hematopoietic transplant rejection, hematopoietic growth factor(s) (such as erythropoietin,
   G-CSF, GM-CSF, IL-3, IL-1 1, thrombopoietin, etc.) or antimicrobial(s) (such as antibiotic,
   antiviral, antifungal drugs) may be administered. Where said autoimmune disease is
   psoriasis, the additional agent may be one or more of tar and derivatives thereof,
   phototherapy, corticosteroids, Cyclosporine A, vitamin D analogs, methotrexate, p38
30 mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) inhibitors, as well as biologic agents such as
   anti-TNF- agents and Rituxan@ . Where said autoimmune disease is an inflammatory
   bowel disease (IBD) such as, for example, Crohn's Disease or ulcerative colitis, the
   additional   agent      may   be  one   or   more   of   aminosalicylates,  corticosteroids,
   immunomodulators, antibiotics, or biologic agents such as Remicade@ and Humira@.

                                                 23
   The combination treatment may be carried out in any way as deemed necessary or
   convenient by the person skilled in the art and for the purpose of this specification, no
   limitations with regard to the order, amount, repetition or relative amount of the
   compounds to be used in combination is contemplated. Accordingly, the antibodies
 5 according to the described embodiments may be formulated                 into pharmaceutical
   compositions for use in therapy.
   4. Pharmaceutical Compositions
   In a preferred embodiment, there is provided a pharmaceutical composition comprising an
   antibody according to the invention, or a ligand or ligands identifiable by an assay method
10 as defined in the previous aspect of the invention.      Ligands may be immunoglobulins,
   peptides, nucleic acids or small molecules, as discussed herein. They are referred to, in
   the following discussion, as "compounds".
   A pharmaceutical composition according to the invention is a composition of matter
   comprising a compound or compounds capable of modulating T cell activity as an active
15 ingredient. The compound is in the form of any pharmaceutically acceptable salt, or e.g.,
   where appropriate, an analog, free base form, tautomer, enantiomer racemate, or
   combination thereof. The active ingredients of a pharmaceutical composition comprising
   the active ingredient according to the invention are contemplated to exhibit therapeutic
   activity, for example, in the treatment of graft-versus-host disease, when administered in
20 amount which depends on the particular case.
   In another embodiment, one or more compounds of the invention may be used in
   combination with any art recognized compound known to be suitable for treating the
   particular indication in treating any of the aforementioned conditions. Accordingly, one or
   more compounds of the invention may be combined with one or more art recognized
25 compounds known to be suitable for treating the foregoing indications such that a
   convenient, single composition can be administered to the subject. Dosage regima may
   be adjusted to provide the optimum therapeutic response.
   For example, several divided doses may be administered daily or the dose may be
   proportionally reduced as indicated by the exigencies of the therapeutic situation.
30 The active ingredient may be administered in a convenient manner such as by the oral,
   intravenous (where water soluble), intramuscular, subcutaneous, intranasal, intradermal
   or suppository routes or implanting (e.g., using slow release molecules).

                                                 24
   Depending on the route of administration, the active ingredient may be required to be
   coated in a material to protect said ingredients from the action of enzymes, acids and
   other natural conditions which may inactivate said ingredient.
   In order to administer the active ingredient by means other than parenteral administration,
 5 it will be coated by, or administered with, a material to prevent its inactivation. For
   example, the active ingredient may be administered in an adjuvant, co-administered with
   enzyme inhibitors or in liposomes. Adjuvant is used in its broadest sense and includes any
   immune stimulating compound such as interferon. Adjuvants contemplated herein include
   resorcinols, non-ionic surfactants such as polyoxyethylene oleyl ether and n-hexadecyl
10 polyethylene ether. Enzyme inhibitors include pancreatic trypsin.
   Liposomes     include water-in-oil-in-water    CGF emulsions       as well    as conventional
   liposomes.
   The active ingredient may also be administered parenterally or intraperitoneally.
   Dispersions can also be prepared in glycerol, liquid polyethylene glycols, and mixtures
15 thereof and in oils. Under ordinary conditions of storage and use, these preparations
   contain a preservative to prevent the growth of microorganisms.
   The pharmaceutical forms suitable for injectable use include sterile aqueous solutions
   (where water soluble) or dispersions and sterile powders for the extemporaneous
   preparation of sterile injectable solutions or dispersion. In all cases the form must be
20 sterile and must be fluid to the extent that easy syringability exists. It must be stable under
   the conditions of manufacture and storage and must be preserved against the
   contaminating action of microorganisms such as bacteria and fungi. The carrier can be a
   solvent or dispersion medium containing, for example, water, ethanol, polyol (for example,
   glycerol, propylene glycol, and liquid polyethylene glycol, and the like), suitable mixtures
25 thereof, and vegetable oils. The proper fluidity can be maintained, for example, by the use
   of a coating such as lecithin, by the maintenance of the required particle size in the case
   of dispersion and by the use of superfactants.
   The prevention of the action of microorganisms can be brought about by various
   antibacterial and antifungal agents, for example, parabens, chlorobutanol, phenol, sorbic
30 acid, thirmerosal, and the like. In certain cases, it may be preferable to include isotonic
   agents, for example, sugars or sodium chloride. Prolonged absorption of the injectable

                                                  25
   compositions can be brought about by the use in the compositions of agents delaying
   absorption, for example, aluminium monostearate and gelatin.
   Sterile injectable solutions are prepared by incorporating the active ingredient in
   the required amount in the appropriate solvent with several of the other ingredients
 5 enumerated above, as required, followed by filtered sterilization. Generally, dispersions
   are prepared by incorporating the sterilized active ingredient into a sterile vehicle which
   contains the basic dispersion medium and the required other ingredients from those
   enumerated above. In the case of sterile powders for the preparation of sterile injectable
   solutions, the preferred methods of preparation are vacuum drying and the freeze-drying
10 technique which yield a powder of the active ingredient plus any additional desired
   ingredient from previously sterile-filtered solution thereof.
   Various other materials may be present as coatings or to otherwise modify the physical
   form of the dosage unit. Of course, any material used in preparing any dosage unit form
   should be pharmaceutically pure and substantially non-toxic in the amounts employed. In
15 addition,   the    active  ingredient     may    be    incorporated into  sustained-release
   preparations and formulations.
   As used herein "pharmaceutically acceptable carrier and/or diluent" includes any
   and all solvents, dispersion media, coatings, antibacterial and antifungal agents, isotonic
   and absorption delaying agents and the like. The use of such media and agents for
20 pharmaceutical active substances is well known in the art. Except insofar as any
   conventional media or agent is incompatible with the active ingredient, use thereof in the
   therapeutic compositions is contemplated. Supplementary active ingredients can also be
   incorporated into the compositions.
   It is especially advantageous to formulate parenteral compositions in dosage unit form for
25 ease of administration and uniformity of dosage. Dosage unit form as used herein refers
   to physically discrete units suited as unitary dosages for the mammalian subjects to be
   treated; each unit containing a predetermined quantity of active material calculated to
   produce the desired therapeutic effect in association with the required pharmaceutical
   carrier. The specification for the novel dosage unit forms of the invention are dictated by
30 and directly dependent on (a) the unique characteristics of the active material and the
   particular therapeutic effect to be achieved, and (b) the limitations inherent in the art of
   compounding such as active material for the treatment of disease in living subjects having
   a diseased condition in which bodily health is impaired.

                                                    26
   The    principal   active   ingredients   are   compounded        for convenient and     effective
   administration in effective amounts with a suitable pharmaceutically acceptable carrier in
   dosage unit form.        In the case of compositions containing supplementary active
   ingredients, the dosages are determined by reference to the usual dose and manner of
 5 administration of the said ingredients.
   In order to facilitate delivery of peptide compounds, including antibodies, to cells, peptides
   may be modified in order to improve their ability to cross a cell membrane. For example,
   US 5,149,782 discloses the use of fusogenic peptides, ion-channel forming peptides,
   membrane peptides, long-chain fatty acids and other membrane blending agents to
10 increase protein transport across the cell membrane. These and other methods are also
   described in WO 97/37016 and US 5,108,921, incorporated herein by reference.
   In a further aspect there is provided the active ingredient of the invention as hereinbefore
   defined for use in the treatment of disease either alone or in combination with art
   recognized compounds known to be suitable for treating the particular indication.
15 Consequently there is provided the use of an active ingredient of the invention for the
   manufacture of a medicament for the treatment of disease associated with an aberrant
   immune response.
   Moreover, there is provided a method for treating a condition                    associated with
   an aberrant immune response, comprising administering to a subject a therapeutically
20 effective amount of a ligand identifiable using an assay method as described above.
   The invention is further described, for the purposes of illustration only, in the following
   examples.
   Comparative Example 1
   Binding and biological activity of EuCIV3 is decreased compared with BMA031
25 Using flow cytometry, we have shown that EuCIV3 is inferior to BMA031 in T cell binding
   (Fig. 1). In this competition assay, T cells were incubated on ice in the presence of a fixed
   concentration of directly Phycoerythrin-labeled MoIgG2b-BMA031 (murine competitor)
   and an increasing concentration of anti-apTCR antibodies. After 20 minutes incubation,
   the cells were washed and surface bound directly Phycoerythrin-labeled MolgG2b
30 BMA031 was detected by flow cytometry.               The BMA031       HulgG1 chimeric antibody
   competes much more effectively than EuCIV3.
   In order to assess its ability to inhibit T cell activity in vivo, CD8+ T cells were treated with
   anti-a PTCR antibodies at various concentrations (see, Fig. 2, x-axis) and co-cultured with

                                                27
   autologous dendritic cells (DCs) pulsed with the CMV peptide 495-503 (pp65) for seven
   days in an in vitro education (IVE) assay.
   Normal donor aphaeresis products from           HLA-A2* individuals were obtained from
   HemaCare Corp., Van Nuys, CA). PBMC were isolated by centrifugation over Ficoll (GE
 5 Healthcare, Piscataway, NJ).          CD8+ T cells were isolated using magnetic beads
   (Invitrogen, Carlsbad, California) according to the manufacturer's instructions.         To
   generate autologous immature dendritic cells, PBMC were resuspended in RPMI 1640/5%
   human AB serum (Sigma), plated in triple flasks (Corning) and incubated for more than 2
   hours at 370C/5%CO 2. The adherent monocytes were then rinsed with PBS and cultured
10 for 6 days in RPMI 1640/5% human AB serum supplemented with GM-CSF (Immunex,
   Seattle, WA) and IL-4 (PeproTech, Rocky Hill, NJ). Prior to establishing the T cell/DC co
   cultures, the DCs were pulsed with peptides (10ug/ml) for 4 hours and then matured.
   Mature dendritic cells were generated by the addition of 50ng/ml TNF-alpha, 25ng/ml IL
   13, 10ng/ml IL-6, 500ng/ml PGE-2 (PeproTech, Rocky Hill, NJ) and culturing the dendritic
15 cells for an additional 24 hours. The peptide-pulsed DCs were then added to the
   previously isolated CD8+ T cells at a T:DC ratio of 10:1.  Cultures were immediately fed
   with IL-2 (100 IU/ml) added to the cultures. The cultures were supplemented with IL-2
   (100 IU/ml) on day 4. The bulk cultures were assayed for peptide reactivity in a chromium
   release assay on day 7.
20 The graph in Fig. 2 shows lysis data from the chromium release assay, where untreated T
   cells were successfully educated against pp65 peptide and able to lyse specific targets at
   >50%. BMA031 inhibited education of these T cells, as they were unable to lyse specific
   targets in a dose-dependent manner. Humanized antibody EuCIV3 was less potent than
   BMA031 and was only able to inhibit education at the highest dose.
25 Example 2
   Fc Engineering of BMA031 chimeric antibodies
   In vitro profile
   We have assessed the in vitro profile of BMA031 in a panel of assays. Table 1 shows the
   in vitro profile of BMA031. BMA031 is compared to OKT3 in these assays.
30 In the     PBMC      proliferation assay, human   PBMC were     cultured with    increasing
   concentrations of therapeutic antibody for 72 hours, H-thymidine was added and cells
                                                          3
   were harvested 18 hours later.
   For the T cell depletion/Cytokine Release assay, human PBMC were cultured with
   increasing concentrations of therapeutic antibody and were analyzed daily for cell counts

                                                                28
   and viability (Vi-Cell, Beckman Coulter) out to day 7. Cell supernatants were also
   harvested, stored at -20C and analyzed on an 8-plex cytokine panel (Bio-Rad).
   BMA031 does not induce: (i) PBMC proliferation; (ii) T cell depletion; (iii)                                            CD25
   expression; or (iv) cytokine release.                       In contrast, OKT3 does induce all of the
 5 aforementioned effects.           BMA031 and OKT3 are capable of blocking the education of
   CD8+ cells to peptide in an in vitro education (IVE) assay and are also capable of blocking
   a mixed lymphocyte reaction (MLR). BMA031 also induces apoptosis of activated T cells
   (activation-induced cell death; AICD).
   Unlike BMA031, a chimeric version of BMA031 (HulgG1), with wild-type human IgG1
10 constant region, had an in vitro profile comparable to OKT3 (Table 1). We postulated that
   FcyR involvement was critical for this change of in vitro profile for HulgG1 BMA031
   compared to BMA031 MolgG2b.                   Therefore we made F(ab') 2 fragments of BMA031
   HulgG1 and found these to recover the profile of BMA031 MolgG2b. By Fc engineering
   we incorporated modifications that removed FcyR binding in mutations known as "delta
15 ab" (Armour et al. (1999) Eur. J. Immunol., 29:2613-2624) and by generating an
   aglycosylated form of HulgG4 (N297Q). HulgG1 delta ab and HulgG4 agly anti-apTCR
   antibodies had the same in vitro profile as BMA031 MolgG2b (Table 1).
                                                 Normal PBMC                                          Antigen Activated T-cells
                       76TCR     aPTCR     FC7R      PBMC                     CD25     Cytokine   MLR        Apoptesis   ~    IVE
                       binding   binding binding  Proliferation   Depletion Exprension Release  Inhibition     ACo         Inhibition
           OKT3          +          +       +           +            +         +         +          +           ND             +
      BMA031 MolgG2b      -         +       -           -            -         -          -         +            +             +
       BMA031 HulgG1      -         +       +           +            +         +         +         ND           ND             +
       BMA031 F(ab)2      -         +       -           -            -         -          -        ND           ND             +
     BMA031 Aab HulgGI    -         +       -           -            -         -          -         +            +             +
     HEBEI Aab HulgGI     -         +       -           -            -         -          -         +            +             +
      HEBEIIgG4 agly      -         +       -           -            -         -          -         +            +             +
20 Table 1
   Example 3
   Construction of humanized antibodies with improved binding
   We have generated two series of humanized versions of BMA031 called HEBE1 series
25 (IGH3-23) and GL1BM series (IGHV1-3*01 & IGKV3-11*01; see, VBase, vbase.mrc
   cpe.cam.ac.uk).        Initial grafting of BMA031 heavy chain CDR regions onto IGH3-23

                                                 29
   framework regions (see, SEQ ID NOs: 5 and 6) improved the binding of the antibody to
   the apTCR as shown by a competition assay (Fig. 3); see, Example 2.             However, this
   improvement did not translate into a functional improvement in the antibody as shown by
   an IVE assay (Fig. 4).
 5 Example 4
   Optimization of humanized antibodies
   The strategy for optimization of the humanized antibodies was based upon mutagenesis
   and functional screening.      Optimization was started with block changes of amino acid
   residues in one of each of the four framework regions of the variable domains, from
10 mouse to human.      Key framework regions were identified in each of the GL1BM HC,
   GL1BM LC and HEBE1 HC series. Following this identification, individual residues within
   those framework regions were mutated to human germline residues from the original
   mouse sequence. Framework residues for which identity with the mouse sequence was
   found to be important to retaining the binding properties of the antibody were retained as
15 mouse residues.      Otherwise, framework residues were changed to match the human
   germline amino acid sequence.         This was continued across the sequence until the
   minimal number of mouse residues, to retain the original binding properties of the
   antibody, were identified.      See Fig. 5. We have demonstrated that several of the
   antibodies from these series have an improved binding compared to BMA031 as
20 determined by antibody off-rate from T cells (Figs. 6, 7 and 8).
   For off-rate assays, 105 human T cells were incubated for 30-60 minutes at room
   temperature in 100uL full growth media containing 2ug/mL of the antibodies expressed as
   HulgGl-Aab. The cells were then washed, resuspended in 50uL full growth media and
25 20ug/mL of HEBE1 F(ab') 2 was added in order to prevent the rebinding of the dissociated
   candidate antibodies. At the end of this time course assay, the cells were fixed and the
   level of remaining HulgGl-Aab antibody bound to the cell surface was measured by flow
   cytometry via a PE labeled goat anti-HulgG secondary antibody.
   We have also demonstrated that the antibodies are active in preventing the immune
30 response in an IVE (Figs. 9, 10 and 11) and a MLR assay. In the IVE assay, tetramer
   binding was used as a quantitative measurement for the IVE. The percentage of cells
   which were antigen specific was determined by staining the T cells with a directly labeled
   tetramer that is specific for the educating peptide. Briefly, day 7 CD8+ T cells from the IVE
   were stained with tetramer by standard flow cytometry staining protocols and analyzed on

                                                  30
   BD FACSCalibur. In addition, the humanized antibodies demonstrated comparable levels
   of proliferative potential on PBMCs and cytokine release as compared to BMA031 (Figs.
   12 and 13).
   The antibodies also showed an ability to inhibit the release of IFNy from T cells in an IVE
 5 assay (Fig. 14). In addition we have shown that a number of these antibodies have an
   improved ability to elicit activation-induced cell death (AICD) of activated a PTCR-positive
   T cells compared to BMA031 (Fig. 15). In the AICD assay, antigen-specific CD8+ T cells
   were cultured with therapeutic antibody. At 24 hours, 48 hours and 72 hours cells were
   stained for apoptosis markers Annexin-V and 7-AAD. Cells were also stained with
10 tetramer to track apoptosis with effects on antigen-specific T cells.
   In conclusion, we have made significant improvement over previous attempts to humanize
   BMA031. The discovery of antibodies with an improved off-rate compared to BMA031 is
   an unexpected finding via this process. This improvement in binding correlates with an
   improvement in potency to suppress an immune response as demonstrated in the IVE
15 assay (Figs. 10 and 11).       The specificity of the antibodies for a PTCR, the decreased
   immunogenicity by humanization, the specific apoptosis of activated T cells and the lack
   of T cell activation upon antibody binding make these antibodies excellent candidates for
   therapeutic purposes.
   Example 5
20 Generation of Fc mutants for reduced effector function.
            Engineered Fc variants was designed and generated where a glycosylation site is
   introduced at amino acid Ser 298 position, next to the naturally-occurring Asn297 site. The
   glycosylation at Asn297 was either kept or knocked out by mutations. Mutations and
   glycosylation results are set forth in Table 2.
25

                                                  31
       #     Mutation                  Predicted result               Expected Benefit
       1     N297Q                      No glycosylation              Agly Control
                                       No glycosylation               Agly Control,
       2     T299A                                                    unknown effector
                                                                      function
                                       No glycosylation at 297 but    Reduced effector
             N297Q/S298N/Y300S
       3                               engineered glycosylation site  function
                                       at 298
                                       No glycosylation at 297 but    Reduced effector
             S298N/T299A/Y300S
       4                               engineered glycosylation site  function
                                       at 298
                                       Two potential glycosylation    Positive control for
                                       sites at 297 & 298; Double     reduced effector
                                       glycosylation? Mixed           function
                                       glycosylation?
   Table 2
   Mutations were made on the heavy chain of ap T-cell receptor antibody clone #66 by
   Quikchange using a pENTRLICIgG1 template. The VH domain of HEBE1 Aab IgG1
 5 #66     was amplified with LIC       primers,   and cloned into mutated      or wild    type
   pENTR_LICIgG1 by LIC to create a full-length Ab mutants or wild type. The subcloning
   was verified with Dralll/XhoI double digest, producing -1250 bp insert in the successful
   clones.      Those full-length mutants were then cloned into an expression vector,
   pCEP4(-E+I)Dest, via Gateway cloning. The mutations were then confirmed by DNA
10 sequencing.
   Two constructs, HEBE1 Agly IgG4 and HEBE1 Aab IgG1 in pCEP4, were used as
   controls in HEK293 transfection.
   The mutants, wt and controls (Agly and Aab) were transfected into HEK293-EBNA cells in
   triple-flask for expression. Proteins were purified from 160 ml of conditioned media (CM)
15 with 1 ml HiTrap protein A columns (GE) on multichannel peristaltic pump.               Five

                                                 32
   micrograms of each supernatant were analyzed on 4-20% Tris-Glycine reducing and non
   reducing SDS-PAGE (see Figure 16). The heavy chain of the aglycosylated mutants
   (N297Q, T299A, and Agly control, is lower (arrow in black), consistent with the loss of the
   glycans in these antibody. The heavy chains of the engineered glycosylated antibodies
 5 (NSY, STY, SY, Aab, and wt control, arrows in red), however, migrate the same way as
   the wild-type control. This result is consistent with the expected outcome of engineered
   glycosylation site at 298 positions. SEC-HPLC analysis indicated that all mutants are
   expressed as monomers.
   Glycosylation analysis by LC-MS.
10 The Engineered H66 IgG1 Fc variants were partially reduced with 20mM DTT at 370C for
   30 min. The samples were analyzed by capillary LC/MS on an Agilent 1100 capillary
   HPLC system coupling with a QSTAR qq TOF hybrid system (Applied Biosystem).
   Bayesian protein reconstruct with baseline correction and computer modeling in Analyst
   QS 1.1 (Applied Bisoystem) was used for data analysis. For mutant S298N/T299A/Y300S
15 H66 antibody lead, one glycosylation site was observed at amino acid 298 with bi
   antennary and tri- antennary complex-type glycans detected as the major species, as well
   as GOF, G1 F and G2F.
   Binding of aPTCR antibody mutants to human FcyRIlla and FcyRI using Biacore.
   Biacore was used to assess binding to recombinant human FcyRIIIa (V158 & F158) and
20 FcyRI. All 4 flowcells of a CM5 chip were immobilized with anti-HPC4 antibody via the
   standard amine coupling procedure provided by Biacore. The anti-HPC4 antibody was
   diluted to 50pg/mL in 10mM sodium acetate pH 5.0 for the coupling reaction and injected
   for 25 min at 5pL/min. Approximately 12,000 RU of antibody was immobilized to the chip
   surface. Recombinant human FcyRIIIa-V158 and FcyRIIIa-F158 were diluted to 0.6pg/mL
25 in binding buffer, HBS-P with 1mM CaC12 , and injected to flowcells 2 and 4, respectively,
   for 3 min at 5pL/min to capture 300 - 400 RU receptor to the anti-HPC4 chip. In order to
   distinguish between the low binders, three times more rhFcyRIIIa was captured to the
   anti-HPC4 surface than usually used in this assay.        Flowcells 1 and 3 were used as
   reference controls. Each antibody was diluted to 200nM in binding buffer and injected
30 over all 4 flowcells for 4 min, followed by 5 min dissociation in buffer. The surfaces were
   regenerated with 10mM EDTA in HBS-EP buffer for 3 min at 20pL/min.
   The results are shown in Figure 17.

                                                 33
   Biacore was also used to compare the FcyRI binding. Anti-tetra His antibody was buffer
   exchanged into 10mM sodium acetate pH 4.0 using a Zeba Desalting column and diluted
   to 25pg/mL in the acetate buffer for amine coupling. Two flowcells of a CM5 chip were
   immobilized with -9000 RU of the anti-Tetra-His antibody after 20 min injection at
 5 5pL/min. Similar to the previous experiment, ten times more FcyRI was captured to the
   anti-tetra-His surface in order to compare weak binders. Recombinant human FcyRI was
   diluted 10pg/mL in HBS-EP binding buffer and injected to flowcell 2 for 1 min at 5pL/min
   to capture -1000 RU receptor to the anti-tetra-His chip.       A single concentration of
   antibody, 100nM, was injected for 3 min at 30pL/min over the captured receptor and
10 control surface. Dissociation was monitored for 3 min. The surface was regeneration with
   two 30 sec injections of 10mM glycine pH 2.5 at 20pL/min.
   The results are shown in Figure 18.
   The result suggests very little binding of the glycoengineered mutants to FcyRIlIla or
   FcyRI. H66 S298N/T299A/Y300S in particular has almost completely abolished binding to
15 both receptors. This mutant was chosen as the lead for detailed characterization.
   Stability characterization using Circular Dichroism (CD).
   The stability of the S298N/T299A/Y300S antibody mutant was monitored by a Far-UV CD
   thermo melting experiment where the CD signal at 216nm and 222nm was monitored as
   temperature increases that eventually leads to the unfolding of the antibody. The CD
20 spectra were collected on a Jasco 815 spectrophotometer at a protein concentration of
   approximately 0.5 mg/mL in PBS buffer in a quartz cuvette (Hellma, Inc) with a path length
   of 10 mm.       Temperature was controlled by a thermoelectric peltier (Jasco model
   AWC100) and was ramped at a rate of 1 C/min from 25-89 *C. CD signal and HT voltage
   were both collected. Data was obtained from 210-260 nm with data intervals of 0.5 nm
25 and at temperature intervals of 1 *C. The scanning speed was 50 nm/min and a data
   pitch of 0.5 nm. A bandwidth of 2.5 nm was used with a sensitivity setting of medium. 4
   replicate scans were performed for each sample. The result suggest that both delta AB
   H66 and the S298N/T299A/Y300S H66 mutant show similar thermal behavior and have
   the same onset temperature for degradation around 63C. In other word, the mutant is as
30 stable as the delta AB format.
   See Figure 18.
   Example 6

                                                34
   Functional analysis of Fc-engineered mutants
   PBMC proliferation and cytokine release assays were conducted as set forth in Example
   2.  Normal donor PBMC were thawed and treated under the following conditions (all in
   media containing complement):
 5     *    Untreated
       "    BMA031, molgG2b 10ug/ml
       "   OKT3, molgG2a 10ug/ml
       "    H66, hulgG1 deltaAB 10ug/ml, lug/ml and 0.1ug/ml
       "    H66, hulgG1 S298N/T299A/Y300S 10ug/ml, lug/ml and 0.1ug/ml
10 Cytokines were harvested at day 2 (D2) and day 4 (D4) for Bioplex Analysis (IL2, IL4, IL6,
   IL8, IL10, GM-CSF, IFNg, TNFa).       Cells were stained at D4 for CD4, CD8, CD25 and
   abTCR expression.
   The results, shown in Figures 19-22, demonstrate that H66 S298N/T299A/Y300S
   behaved similarly to the H66 deltaAB in all cell based assays, showing minimal T-cell
15 activation by CD25 expression; binding to abTCR, although with slightly different kinetics
   to deltaAB; minimal cytokine release at both D2 and D4 time points; the mutant was in fact
   superior to deltaAB at D4 in respect of several of the cytokines.
   The S298N/T299A/Y300S mutant thus eliminated effector function as effectively as the
   deltaAB mutation.
20 Example 7
   Bispecific antibodies
   Bi-specific molecules were constructed comprised of two single chain antibodies (scFv)
   linked together via a short amino acid linker whereby one arm is capable of binding a
   tumor target and the other capable of binding T cells via the ap TCR.      The bispecific
25 molecule is referred to herein as a TRACER (T cell Receptor Activated Cytotoxic
   EnableR).
   The following humanized anti-apTCR scFv constructs were made:

                                                35
   GL1BMASxVK1
   GL1BMASxVK27
   GL1BMASVH1 1xVK1
   GL1BMASVH15xVK1
 5 GL1BMASVH28xVK43
   GL1BMASVH31xVK43
   The sequences of the heavy and light chains are set forth in SEQ ID nos 14-16 and 20-24
   Characterization of these molecules comprised an assessment of binding to tumor target
10 and T cells, in vitro cytotoxic activity and cytokine release profile in the presence and
   absence of tumor target cells.
   The binding profile assessed by flow cytometery shows that anti- ap TCR bi-specific
   antibodies are able to bind both the tumor target cell line and T cells. See Figure 23.
   In vitro cytotoxic activity measured by flow cytometery shows that T cells recruited via
15 anti- ap TCR bi-specific antibody are capable of inducing T cell mediated lysis.          See
   Figure 24.
   Analysis of the cytokine release profile has shown that upon binding of both arms of the
   bi-specific antibody there is a high level of TH1/TH2 cytokine release from the T cells
   which is not seen in the absence of target cells. Taken together this mechanism of action
20 shows a similar profile to that of the CD3 based bispecifics described in the literature.
   Example 8: Preparation and characterization of an engineered Fc variant in anti
   CD52 antibody.
   In order to test the generality of the applicability of the Fc mutations described herein,
   glycosylation mutant S298N/Y300S was also prepared in an anti-CD52 antibody (clone
25 2C3) to see whether the effector function modulation with the loss of FcyRlil binding
   applies to a different antibody backbone. S298N/Y300S 2C3 variant DNA was prepared
   by quick change mutagenesis. The protein was purified from conditioned media after
   HEK293 transient transfection. Anti-CD52 2C3 wild-type antibody was produced in parallel

                                                 36
   as a control. Biacore was used to characterize the antigen-binding, FcyRlIl, and binding
   properties of the purified antibodies (see Figure 26).
   The S298N/Y300S 2C3 variant binds to CD52 peptide tightly and the binding sensorgram
   is undistinguishable with the wild-type control, suggesting that this mutation on the Fc
 5 domain does not affect its antigen binding (Figure 26A).
   To assay Fc effector function, FcyRlI receptor (Val158) was used in binding studies. The
   mutant and wild-type control antibody were diluted to 200nM and injected to HPC4-tag
   captured FcyRlila. FcyRlI binding is almost undetectable for the S298N/Y300S mutant,
   which indicates loss of effector function with this variant (Figure 26B). The mutant also
10 binds to FcRn receptor with the same affinity as the wild-type antibody control so we
   expect no change in its circulation half-life or other pharmacokinetic properties. (see
   Figure 26C). We conclude that the S298N/Y300S mutation is applicable to antibodies in
   general, to reduce or eliminate undesired Fc effector function, for example through
   engagement of human Fcy receptors.

                                           37
Claims
1.       A humanized monoclonal antibody specific for the human a PTCR/CD3 complex
which comprises a heavy chain variable region comprising the CDRs set forth in SEQ ID
NOs: 7, 12 or 13 and a human IGH3-23 framework set forth in SEQ ID NO: 17, wherein
framework position 6 is a donor residue.
2.       A humanized monoclonal antibody specific for the human a PTCR/CD3 complex
which comprises a heavy chain variable region comprising the CDRs set forth in SEQ ID
NOs: 7, 12 or 13 and a human IGH3-23 framework set forth in SEQ ID NO: 17, wherein
framework position 18 is a donor residue.
3.       A humanized monoclonal antibody specific for the human a PTCR/CD3 complex
according to claim 1 or 2, wherein framework positions 49 and/or 69 are donor residues.
4.       A humanized monoclonal antibody specific for the human a PTCR/CD3 complex
which comprises a heavy chain variable region comprising the CDRs set forth in SEQ ID
NOs: 15 or 16 and a human IGHV1-3*01 framework set forth in SEQ ID NO: 18, wherein
one or more of framework positions 38, 44 and/or 48 is a donor residue.
5.       A humanized monoclonal antibody specific for the human a PTCR/CD3 complex
which comprises a heavy chain variable region comprising the CDRs set forth in SEQ ID
NOs: 15 or 16 and a human IGHV1-3*01 framework set forth in SEQ ID NO: 18, wherein
framework positions 44 and 48 are donor residues.
6.       A humanized monoclonal antibody specific for the human a PTCR/CD3 complex
which comprises a light chain variable region comprising the CDRs set forth in SEQ ID
NO: 14 and a human IGKV3-11*01 framework set forth in SEQ ID NO: 19, wherein
framework positions 70 and/or 71 are donor residues.
7.       A humanized monoclonal antibody specific for the human a PTCR/CD3 complex
according to claim 6, wherein framework position 46 is a donor residue.
8.       A humanized monoclonal antibody specific for the human a PTCR/CD3 complex
which comprises a heavy chain variable region selected from the heavy chains comprising
the amino acid sequences set forth in SEQ ID NO: 7, SEQ ID NO: 12 and SEQ ID NO: 13,
and a light chain variable region sequence comprising the amino acid sequence as set
forth in SEQ ID NO: 14.

                                            38
9.     A humanized monoclonal antibody specific for the human a PTCR/CD3 complex
which comprises a heavy chain variable region selected from the heavy chains comprising
the amino acid sequences set forth in SEQ ID NO: 15 and SEQ ID NO: 16, and a light
chain variable region comprising the amino acid sequence as set forth in SEQ ID NO 14.
10.    A humanized antibody according to any preceding claim, further comprising a
constant region of human origin.
11.    A humanized antibody according to claim 10, further comprising an Fc modification
which reduces Fcy receptor binding.
12.    A humanized antibody according to claim 11, which comprises an aglycosylayted
Fc region or a delta ab modification.
13.    A humanized antibody according to claim 11, which comprises a modified
glycosylation pattern.
14.    A humanized antibody according to claim 13, comprising one or more of mutations
S298N, T299A and Y300S.
15.    A humanized antibody according to claim 14, comprising two or more of mutations
N297Q, S298N, T299A and Y300S.
16.    A humanized antibody according to claim 14, comprising the multiple mutations
N297Q/S298N/Y300S, S298N/T299A/Y300S or S298N/Y300S.
17.    A nucleic acid encoding at least a heavy chain variable region of a humanized
monoclonal antibody according to any one of claims 1 to 16.
18.    A cell which expresses a nucleic acid according to claim 17.
19.    A humanized antibody according to any one of claims 1 to 16 for use in
suppressing a T cell mediated response in a subject.
20.    A humanized antibody according to claim 19, wherein the T cell mediated
response is involved in a condition selected from tissue transplantation, including solid
organ transplant and composite tissue transplant, tissue grafting, multiple sclerosis and
type 1 diabetes.

                                            39
21.     An antibody comprising a modified Fc, in which said modified Fc comprises a
modified glycosylation pattern which reduces Fcy receptor binding, comprising one or
more of mutations S298N, T299A and Y300S.
22.     An antibody according to claim 21, comprising two or more of mutations N297Q,
S298N, T299A and Y300S.
23.     An antibody     according to claim      14,  comprising the     multiple mutations
N297Q/S298N/Y300S, S298N/T299A/Y300S or S298N/Y300S.
24.     An antibody according to any one of claims 21 to 23, wherein the antibody is a
humanized antibody according to any one of claims 1 to 10.
25.     A multispecific antibody comprising at least a heavy chain of a first binding domain
according to any one of claims 1 to 9, and a second binding domain specific for a tumor
specific antigen.
26.     A multispecific antibody according to claim 25, which comprises at least a heavy
chain of a binding domain according to any one of claims 4, 5 or 9.
27.     A multispecific antibody according to claim 25 or claim 26, which comprises an
anti-a PTCR/CD3 scFv and an anti-tumor scFv.
28.     A multispecific antibody according to any one of claims 25 to 27, which is
bispecific.

                                                                     <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
              abTCR Ab Competition Assay
       70
       60
                                                   BMA031 HuG1
       50                                          BMA031 Mo2b
       40                                          EUCIV3 HuG1
 MFI
                                                   Isotype Control
       30
       20
       10
       0
       0.01     0.1             1             10      100
                      Antibody Conc (ug/ml)
                                                                                                <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704>
Figure 1

                                                                                           <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                                         E:T = 25:1
                         BMA031          EuCIV3 delta AB          No Antibody
            80.0
            70.0
            60.0
            50.0
  % Lysis   40.0
            30.0
            20.0
                                                                                                                      <U+2701> <U+2702>
            10.0
             0.0
                   1   0.5        0.25    0.125            0.06   0.03          0.01   0
                                            [antibody] ug/ml
Figure 2

                                                                 <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
  Competition assay against GMP BMA031 Mo2b
         2000
                                                   HEBE1
                                                   EUCIV3 HuG1
         1500
                                                   BMA031 HuG1
   MFI   1000
         500
                                                                                            <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704>
           0
                -4   -3   -2    -1     0   1   2
                               ug/ml
Figure 3

                                                                                                <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                                           E:T = 25:1
                       BMA031     EuCIV3 delta AB         HEBE1 delta AB          No Antibody
            80.0
            70.0
            60.0
            50.0
            40.0
  % Lysis
            30.0
                                                                                                                           <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704>
            20.0
            10.0
             0.0
                   1        0.5   0.25      0.125       0.06     0.03      0.01         0
                                            [antibody] ug/ml
Figure 4

                                                                                                                        <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
           GL1BM HC                                              GL1BM LC
  FR1              FR2           FR3                    FR1              FR2            FR3
    Lys38 Lys40       Gly44      Ile48                     Ser70     Tyr71     Ser72    Met78   Ala80   Ala83   Thr85
              Lys66      Ala67                          Arg46    Trp47     Val58
                                                                               Hebe1 HC                                                            <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704>
                                                              FR1              FR2            FR3           J
                    Gln5     Gln6        Pro9   Glu10    Lys13     Ala16     Val18     Lys19 Met20 Lys23
 Lys38     Ile48   Gly49     Lys66   Ala67      Leu69 His90
Figure 5

                                                                                                                 <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                      Off-rate Re-Humanised HEBE antibodies
                                      T cells
                                                                                                     BMA031
       700
                                                                                                     EuCIV3
       600                                                                                           Hebe1
                                                                                                     Hebe1 H10
       500                                                                                           Hebe1 H11
                                                                                                     Hebe1 H12
       400                                                                                           Hebe1 H13
 MFI
       300
       200
       100
                                                                                                                                            <U+2701><U+2702>
        0
             0   5   10   15   20   25   30   35   40   45   50   55   60   65   70   75   80   85   90   95
                                                   Time (min)
Figure 6

                                                                                      <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                                 Off-rate Re-Humanised HEBE antibodies
                                                 T cells
                                                                          BMA031
                       130                                                Hebe1 H66
                       120                                                Hebe1 H71
                       110                                                Hebe1 H72
                       100
                        90
                        80
                        70
                        60
                        50
                        40
   % Initial Binding
                        30
                        20
                        10
                         0
                             0    10   20   30   40   50   60   70   80   90   100
                                                 Time (min)
                                                                                                                 <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704>
Figure 7

                                                                                                                                            <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                                             Off-rate Re-Humanised HEBE antibodies
                                                             T cells                                    HuIgG1-<U+2206>
                                                                                                               <U+2206>AB
                           150
                                                                                                        BMA031 Dab (26/10)
                                                                                                        Hebe1 H66 Dab (07/10)
                           125
                                                                                                        Hebe1 H71 Dab (07/10)
                                                                                                        GL1BM VH28 Dab (26/10)
                                                                                                        GL1BM VH31 Dab (26/10)
                           100
% Initial Binding
                                75
                                50
                                     0       5 10 15 20 25 30 35 40 45 50 55 60 65 70 75 80 85 90 95
                                                                 Time (min)
                                              Off-rate Re-Humanised HEBE antibodies
                                                                                                                                                                       <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704>
                                                              T cells
                                140
                                                                                                  HuIgG4-Agly
                                130
                                120
                                110
                                100
                                                                                                         BMA031 G4 Agly
                                 90
                                 80                                                                      Hebe1 H66 G4 Agly
                                 70                                                                      Hebe1 H71 G4 Agly
                                 60                                                                      GL1BM VH28 G4 agly
                                 50                                                                      GL1BM VH31 G4 Agly
                                 40
            % Initial Binding
                                 30
                                 20
                                 10
                                  0
                                         0    5 10 15 20 25 30 35 40 45 50 55 60 65 70 75 80 85 90 95
                                                                  Time (min)
                                                                                                                                 Figure 8

                                                                                                                                                         <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                                                              CMV IVE, E:T = 6.25:1
            90.0                                                                                                                  cmv          irr
            80.0
            70.0
            60.0
            50.0
  % Lysis   40.0
            30.0
            20.0
            10.0
                                                                                                                                                                                    <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704>
             0.0
                   Untreated BMA031    BMA031 BMA031         HEBE1     HEBE1     HEBE1     HEBE1     HEBE1     HEBE1     HEBE1       HEBE1     HEBE1
                              1ug/ml   0.1ug/ml 0.01ug/ml   deltaAB    deltaAB deltaAB      H10       H10       H10       H13          H13      H13
                                                            1ug/ml    0.1ug/ml 0.01ug/ml   1ug/ml   0.1ug/ml 0.01ug/ml   1ug/ml     0.1ug/ml 0.01ug/ml
                             Gold Standard Ab                    Parent                        Improved                    Non-Improved
                                                               Humanised Ab                  Humanised Ab                  Humanised Ab
Figure 9

                                                                                                                              <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                                           Hebe1 Series, AGLY, Day 7 IVE Lysis
  60.000
  50.000
  40.000
                                                                                                                  BMA mo2b
                                                                                                                  H66 Agly
  30.000
                                                                                                                  H71 Agly
                                                                                                                  Untreated
  20.000
  10.000
    0.000
                 1ug/ml     .3ug/ml    .1ug/ml    .03ug/ml    .01ug/ml    .003ug/ml    .001ug/ml     0ug/ml
                   % lysis of CMV-pulsed T2 by 7d CMV-educated CD8 T cells treated with different antibodies
                                                        (25:1, E:T)
            80
                                                                                                                                                         <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E>
            70
            60
            50                                                                                                    BMA mo2b
                                                                                                                  VH28 Agly
  % lysis   40                                                                                                    VH31Agly
                                                                                                                  untreated
            30
            20
            10
            0
                 1ug/ml     .3ug/ml     .1ug/ml    .03ug/ml    .01ug/ml    .003ug/ml     .001ug/ml    untreated
Figure 10

                                                                                                    <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                                  Hebe1 Series, AGLY, Day 7, IVE Tetramer
                         80
                         70
                         60
                         50                                                      BMA031, moIgG2b
                                                                                 Hebe1 H66, Agly
                         40
                                                                                 Hebe1 H71, Agly
   % Tetramer Positive   30                                                      Untreated
                         20
                         10
                         0
                              1   0.1         0.01        0.001             0
                                        Tetramer, Day 7, GL1BM Series
                                                                                                                               <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704>
                         80
                         70
                         60
                         50                                                     BMA031, moIgG2b
                                                                                GL1BM VH 28, Agly
                         40
                                                                                GL1BM VH 31, Agly
   % Tetramer Positive   30                                                     Untreated
                         20
                         10
                         0
                              1   0.1         0.01       0.001          0
                                            [ug/ml]
Figure 11

                                                                                                                                                                       <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                                                             72 hour PBMC Proliferation (2e5/well) Donor 0738784-HC
                       250000
                       200000
                                                                                                                                                          10 ug/ml
                       150000                                                                                                                             1 ug/ml
                                                                                                                                                          0.1 ug/ml
            AV G CPM                                                                                                                                      10 ng/ml
                       100000                                                                                                                             1 ng/ml
                                                                                                                                                          0 ng/ml
                        50000
                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2701><U+2702><U+2701><U+2704>
                               0
                                       BMA mo2b    BMA G4 agly          Hebe1 H66 G4 Agly     Hebe1 H71 G4 Agly            OKT3    anti CD3/CD28 beads
                                                                  72 hour PBMC Proliferation (2e5/well) Donor 0738784-HC
                             250000
                             200000
                                                                                                                                                           10 ug/ml
                             150000                                                                                                                        1 ug/ml
                                                                                                                                                           0.1 ug/ml
                   AVG CPM                                                                                                                                 10 ng/ml
                             100000                                                                                                                        1 ng/ml
                                                                                                                                                           0 ng/ml
Figure 12
                             50000
                                   0
                                        BMA mo2b    BMA G4 agly           GL1BM VH28 agly       GL1BM VH31 agly             OKT3    anti CD3/CD28 beads

                                                                                                                                                                                      <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                                   Hu IFN-g (21)                                                                                  Hu IL-2 (38)
25                                                                                      25
20                                                                                      20
15                                                                                      15
                                                                        Hu IFN-g (21)                                                                                 Hu IL-2 (38)
10                                                                                      10
 5                                                                                      5
 0                                                                                      0
     Untreated   BMA031, moIgG2b            H66, Agly     H71, Agly                              Untreated     BMA031, moIgG2b             H66, Agly     H71, Agly
                                   Hu TNF-a (36)                                                                                  Hu IL-6 (19)
25                                                                                      2000
20
                                                                                        1500
15
                                                                        Hu TNF-a (36)   1000                                                                           Hu IL-6 (19)
10
                                                                                         500
 5
 0                                                                                           0
     Untreated   BMA031, moIgG2b           H66, Agly     H71, Agly                                 Untreated    BMA031, moIgG2b              H66, Agly    H71, Agly
                                   Hu GM-CSF (34)                                                                                 Hu IL-10 (56)
25                                                                                      25
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E>
20                                                                                      20
15                                                                                      15
                                                                      Hu GM-CSF (34)                                                                                  Hu IL-10 (56)
10                                                                                      10
 5                                                                                       5
 0                                                                                       0
     Untreated   BMA031, moIgG2b          H66, Agly     H71, Agly                                Untreated     BMA031, moIgG2b             H66, Agly     H71, Agly
Figure 13

                                                                                       <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                                       Day 7 IVE, IFN-gamma
           6000
           5000
                                                                               1
           4000
                                                                               0.1
   pg/ml   3000                                                                0.01
           2000                                                                0.001
                                                                               0
           1000
               0
                     BMA moIgG2b       H66 Agly        H71 Agly    UNTREATED
                                                                                                                  <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E>
                                       Day 7 IVE, IFN-gamma
   6000
   5000
   4000                                                                        1
                                                                               0.1
   3000
                                                                               0.01
   2000                                                                        0.001
                                                                               0
   1000
           0
                   BMA moIgG2b     GL1BM 28 Agly   GL1BM 31 Agly   UNTREATED
Figure 14

                                                                                <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                                        CD8+ T-cells
                  1200
                  1000
                   800                                              1ug/ml
                                                                    Untreated
                   600                                              BMA031
  MFI Annexin V                                                     H66
                   400
                   200
                                                                                                           <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E>
                     0
                         One Stim                         No Stim
                                    Antigen Stimulation
Figure 15

            <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                                       <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+2701>
Figure 16

            <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                                       <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E>
Figure 17

            <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                                       <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E>
Figure 18

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                                                                             TNFa                                                                                                                                                                                                                 GM-CSF
 900                                                                                                                                                                                                          70
 800                                                                                                                                                                                                          60
 700
                                                                                                                                                                                                              50
 600
 500                                                                                                                                                                                                          40
 400                                                                                                                                                                                                          30
 300
                                                                                                                                                                                                              20
 200
 100                                                                                                                                                                                                          10
  0                                                                                                                                                                                                           0
                        d           31          3                                      1                     1                                                             1                              1                        ed                31                 3                                    1                       1                                                               1                               1
                   te                        KT                    10              B                      0.                               10                                                          0.                   at                                     KT                      10            B                        0.                                10                           0                                0.
                 ea              A0      O                     B                                      B                             00                            3   00                                                                           A0          O                       B                                      B                                0                               30                            0
             r                                               dA                  dA                                                                                                               00                      re                                                         dA                dA                                                    30                            Y                               30
           nt               BM                                             6                        dA                        /   Y3                           /Y                              Y3                       nt                    BM                                                   6                        dA                          /Y                              A/
       U                                                66              H6                     66                                                            9A                          /                          U                                                           66              H6                     66                                                                                           /Y
                                                    H                                      H                                9A                             29                          9A                                                                                   H                                      H                                  9A                            299                           9A
                                                                                                                     T    29                           T                             29                                                                                                                                                         T   29                        /   T                             29
                                                                                                                N/                                N/                             T                                                                                                                                                       N/                                                                 T
                                                                                                                                             98                             N/                                                                                                                                                                                         9   8N                          N/
                                                                                                              98                           S2                             98                                                                                                                                                           98                           S2                               98
                                                                                                           S2                          6                                S2                                                                                                                                                           S2                         6                                  S2
                                                                                                       6                                                            6                                                                                                                                                            6                                                             6
                                                                                                    H6                            H6                                                                                                                                                                                        H6                               H6
                                                                                                                                                               H6                                                                                                                                                                                                                        H6
                                                                                 IFNy                                                                                                                                                                                                                    IL10
 900                                                                                                                                                                                                          300                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E>
 800
                                                                                                                                                                                                              250
 700
 600                                                                                                                                                                                                          200
 500
                                                                                                                                                                                                              150
 400
 300                                                                                                                                                                                                          100
 200
                                                                                                                                                                                                              50
 100
  0                                                                                                                                                                                                            0
                        d                       3                                      1                     1                                                             1                              1                           e   d                1            3                                      1                        1                                                            1                               1
                   te               31       KT                    10              B                      0.                               10                         0                                0.                                              3           KT                      10              B                         0.                             10                                                            0.
                 ea              A0      O                     B                                      B                             00                              30                                                             at               A0         O                       B                                      B                                00                         3     00
             r                                               dA                  dA                                                                                                               00                          re                                                     dA                  dA                                                                                                                  00
           nt               BM                           6                   6                      dA                        /   Y3                           /Y                              Y3                           nt                BM                                 6                   6                      dA                           /   Y3                        /Y                                 Y3
       U                                                                H6                      6                                                            9A                           A/                            U                                                                       H6                      6                                                            9A                              A/
                                                    H6                                     H6                               9A                             29                                                                                                               H6                                     H6                                  9A                          29
                                                                                                                          29                         T                             2   99                                                                                                                                                            29                        T                              2   99
                                                                                                                      T                           N/                            /T                                                                                                                                                               T                          N/                             /T
                                                                                                                   N/                        98                             N                                                                                                                                                                 N/                      98                               N
                                                                                                                 98                        S2                             98                                                                                                                                                                98                      S2                               98
                                                                                                           S2                        6                                  S2                                                                                                                                                            S2                        6                                  S2
                                                                                                       6                                                            6                                                                                                                                                           6                                                              6
                                                                                                    H6                            H6                                                                                                                                                                                         H6                              H6
                                                                                                                                                               H6                                                                                                                                                                                                                        H6
Figure 19

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                                                                          IL6                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     IL4
 700                                                                                                                                                                                                                           10
 600
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               8
 500
 400                                                                                                                                                                                                                           6
 300                                                                                                                                                                                                                           4
 200
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               2
 100
  0                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0
                    d                      3                                    1                            1                                                            1                               1                                                                          1                              3                                                  1                   1                                                           1                              1
                  te           31       KT                    10            B                             0.                            10                          0                                  0.                                        ed                              3                            KT                             10                    B                    0.                                 10                      0                             0.
              a              A0     O                     B                                           B                            0                                                                                                        at                                A0                          O                              B                                          B
          tr e                                          dA                dA                                                    30                               30                               00                                    tr e                                                                                           dA                        dA                                               3   00                        30                          00
                        BM                                            6                             dA                       /Y                         /Y                                                                                                               BM                                                                                  6                    dA                           /Y                          /Y
       Un                                          66              H6                           6                           A                         9A                                       Y3                                    Un                                                                                           66                      H6                  6                                                          9A                           /   Y3
                                               H                                           H6                             9                                                           9   A/                                                                                                                                  H                                            H6                                9A                                                     9A
                                                                                                                        29                      T   29                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   9                         T   29
                                                                                                                   /T                                                          T   29                                                                                                                                                                                                                  T2                                                         29
                                                                                                                                             N/                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   N/                            N/                           /T
                                                                                                                 8N                       98                                N/                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               98                            8N
                                                                                                             9                          S2                                98                                                                                                                                                                                                                    98                         S2                          9
                                                                                                           S2                       6                                S2                                                                                                                                                                                                                    S2                       6                               S2
                                                                                                       6                                                         6                                                                                                                                                                                                                     6                                                        6
                                                                                                    H6                           H6                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               H6                             H6
                                                                                                                                                         H6                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               H6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      IL2
                                                                                30
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     <U+2701><U+2702> <U+2704>
                                                                                25
                                                                                20
                                                                                15
                                                                                10
                                                                                    5
                                                                                    0
                                                                                                    ed                           1                           3                                                             1                        1                                                                   1                             1
                                                                                                                             3                          KT                                     10                      B                         0.                                      10                        0                             0.
                                                                                               at                         A0                        O                                  B                                                     B                                    0                                                          0
                                                                                           tr e                                                                                      dA                              dA                                                         30                              30
                                                                                                                    BM                                                           6                               6                         dA                              /Y                              /Y                              30
                                                                                        Un                                                                                                                    H6                       6                                                                 9A                           /Y
                                                                                                                                                                              H6                                                    H6                               9   9A                            29                           9A
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   T                            9
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               /   T2                           N/                            T2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            8N                             98                            N/
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        9                                S2                            98
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     S2                           6                                 S2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 6                                                              6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           H6                                  H6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          H6
Figure 20

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                                                                                    TNFa                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         IFNy
 400                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         600
 350
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             500
 300
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             400
 250
 200                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         300
 150
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             200
 100
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             100
 50
  0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0
                                                   3                                      1                        1                                                                           1                                         1                                         1            3                                      1                           1                                                                              1                                      1
                       ed             31        KT                    10              B                         0.                                       10                                                                                                       ed           3           KT                      10              B                          0.                                         10
                  at             A0         O                     B                                      B                                           0                                     0                                        0.                       at             A0         O                       B                                       B                                             0                                     0                                        0.
           tr e                                                 dA                  dA                                                           0                                    30                                 0   0                        tr e                                                   dA                  dA                                                              0                                    30                                        0
        Un                  BM                              6                  66                      dA                                     Y3                                 /Y                                                                Un                  BM                              6                    66                       dA                                       Y3                                 /Y                                        30
                                                                           H                     6                                        /                                                                       /   Y3                                                                                                H                      6                                          /                                                                           /Y
                                                         H6                                   H6                                        9A                                 9   9A                                                                                                                   H6                                      H6                                          9A                                 9   9A
                                                                                                                                   29                                                                           9A                                                                                                                                                                 29                                                                           9   9A
                                                                                                                                                                      T2                                   29                                                                                                                                                                                                         T2
                                                                                                                          N   /T                                 N/                                   /T                                                                                                                                                                  N   /T                                 N/                                        T2
                                                                                                                                                            98                                    N                                                                                                                                                                                                         98                                        N/
                                                                                                                       98                                S2                                    98                                                                                                                                                                      98                                S2                                  98
                                                                                                                S2                                 6                                      S2                                                                                                                                                                   S2                                  6                                      S2
                                                                                                            6                                                                        6                                                                                                                                                                    6                                                                          6
                                                                                                       H6                                     H6                                                                                                                                                                                                     H6                                       H6
                                                                                                                                                                                H6                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              H6
                                                                               GM-CSF                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            IL10
 90                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          160
 80                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          140
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        <U+2701><U+2702> <U+2704>
 70
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             120
 60
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             100
 50
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              80
 40
 30                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           60
 20                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           40
 10                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           20
  0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            0
                    e   d               1            3                                    1                       1                                                                            1                                       1                                           1            3                                       1                           1
                                    3           KT                    10              B                      0.                                          10                                                                                                       ed           3           KT                      10                                          0.                                         10                                      1                                      1
                 at              A0         O                     B                                      B                                           0                                    00                                        0.                       at             A0         O                       B                   B                                                                 0                                        0                                     0.
          tr e                                                  dA                  dA                                                           0                                  3                                       0   0                     tr e                                                                       dA                    B                                                                                 30
                            BM                              6                                          dA                                     Y3                                 /Y                                                                                    BM                                    dA            6                         dA                                         30                                /Y                                      3   00
       Un                                                                  H   66                                                         /                                                                          /   Y3                        Un                                                                                                                                     /Y                                                                           /Y
                                                         H6                                   H   66                                    9A                                 9   9A                                                                                                                   H   66              H6                      66                                                                              9A
                                                                                                                                                                                                               9   9A                                                                                                                       H                                       9   9A                                 29                                        9A
                                                                                                                                   29                                 T2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              /T                                        29
                                                                                                                              /T                                 N/                                   /   T2                                                                                                                                                                   T2                                                                          /T
                                                                                                                          N                                 98                                                                                                                                                                                                            N/                                    8N                                   N
                                                                                                                       98                                                                    9     8N                                                                                                                                                             98                                        9
                                                                                                                S2                                       S2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              S2                                       98
                                                                                                            6                                      6                                      S2                                                                                                                                                                   S2                                    6                                    S2
                                                                                                                                              H6                                      6                                                                                                                                                                    6                                                                          6
                                                                                                       H6                                                                       H6                                                                                                                                                                   H6                                        H6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 H6
Figure 21

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                                                                          IL6                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        IL4
 500                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 10
 450
 400                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 8
 350
 300                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 6
 250
 200                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 4
 150
 100                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 2
  50
   0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0
                    d                      3                                     1                             1                                                                   1                            1                                       e   d                            1                             3                                                  1                     1                                                                1                          1
                 te            31                             10                                            0.                                    10                                                                                                                                 3                           KT                                   10              B                      0.                                     10                       0                           0.
                             A0         KT                B                  B                                                                0                               00                             0.                                      at                           A0                        O                                     B                                      B                                      0                                                    0
          tr   ea                   O                                     dA                            B                                 0                                                              0                                      re                                                                                              dA                  dA                                                     30                              30
                        BM                              dA            6                               dA                               Y3                             /    Y3                          30                                     nt                            BM                                                                                  6                      dA                             /Y                              /Y                          30
       Un                                          66                                         6                                    /                                                              /Y                                      U                                                                                                66                H6                   66                                                                9A                       /Y
                                               H                   H6                                                            9A                                 9A                                                                                                                                                                 H                                      H                                     9A                                                     9A
                                                                                           H6                                                                     29                            9A                                                                                                                                                                                                             29                                 29                   9
                                                                                                                            29                                T                               29                                                                                                                                                                                                           T                                 /T                      T2
                                                                                                                       /T                                N/                               T                                                                                                                                                                                                             N/                                 8N
                                                                                                                     8N                                98                            N/                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                9                        N/
                                                                                                                 9                                                                 98                                                                                                                                                                                                              98                               S2                        98
                                                                                                               S2                                 S2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            S2                              6                           S2
                                                                                                           6                               6                                  S2                                                                                                                                                                                                            6                                                           6
                                                                                                                                        H6                                6                                                                                                                                                                                                            H6                              H6
                                                                                                      H6                                                               H6                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            H6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            IL2
                                                                            10
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+2701> <U+2702>
                                                                                 8
                                                                                 6
                                                                                 4
                                                                                 2
                                                                                 0
                                                                                                 ed                               1                                    3                                                         1                        1                                                            1                                 1
                                                                                                                              3                                   KT                             10                          B                       0.                                 10                         0                                  0.
                                                                                            at                             A0                             O                                 B                                                   B                                   0                                                             0
                                                                                        tr e                                                                                              dA                               dA                                                    30                             30
                                                                                                                      BM                                                              6                                6                     dA                             /Y                             /Y                                   30
                                                                                     Un                                                                                                                             H6                   6                                                               9A                               /Y
                                                                                                                                                                                   H6                                                 H6                                  9A                        29                                  9A
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     29                         T                                     29
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            N   /T                           N/                               /   T
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         98                               98                               8N
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        S2                           9
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       S2                          6                              S2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   6                                                         6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              H6                             H6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          H6
Figure 22

                   <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                                              <U+2701><U+2702> <U+2704>
FoFi   Figure 23

            <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                                       <U+2701><U+2702> <U+2704>
Figure 24

            <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                                       <U+2701><U+2702> <U+2704>
Figure 25

                                                                                                            <U+2701><U+2702> <U+2701>
<removed-date>
<removed-apn>
                          A.
                                                                                              CD52 Peptide Binding
                                                                120
                               Relative Response (RU)
                                                                100
                                                                          80                                             WT
                                                                          60                                             S298N/Y300S
                                                                          40
                                                                          20
                                                                           0
                                                                            -50 0 50 100 150 200 250 300 350 400 450 500
                                                                                                         Time (sec)
                          B.
                                                                                               Fc<U+03B3><U+03B3> RIIIa-Val158 Binding
                                                                          120
                                                 Relative Response (RU)
                                                                                                Wild-type
                                                                          100
                                                                           80
                                                                           60
                                                                           40
                                                                           20                  S298N/Y300S
                                                                                0
                                                                                    -50       50   150     250     350   450   550
                                                                                                          Time (sec)
                           C.
                                                                                              Mouse FcRn Binding
                                              Relative Response (RU)
                                                                          800
                                                                          600
                                                                          400                                      WT
                                                                                                                   S298N/Y300S
                                                                          200
                                                                           0
                                                                            -50           0   50 100 150 200 250 300 350 400
                                                                                                   Time (sec)
              Figure 26

                                                    1
<removed-date>
<removed-apn>
              Sequence Listing
              SEQ ID NO: 1
              BMA031 Heavy chain variable domain:
              EVQLQQSGPELVKPGASVKMSCKASGYKFTSYVMHWVKQKPGQGLEWIGYINPYNDV
              TKYNEKFKGKATLTSDKSSSTAYMELSSLTSEDSAVHYCARGSYYDYDGFVYWGQGT
              LVTVSA
              SEQ ID NO: 2
              BMA031 Light chain variable domain:
              QIVLTQSPAIMSASPGEKVTMTCSATSSV.SYMHWYQQKSGTSPKRWIYDTSKLASGVP
              ARFSGSGSGTSYSLTISSMEAEDAATYYCQQWSSNPLTFGAGTKLELK
              SEQ ID NO: 3
              EuCIV3 Heavy chain variable domain:
              QVQLVQSGAEVKKPGSSVKVSCKASGYKFTSYVMHWVKQAPGQGLEWIGYINPYNDV
              TKYNEKFKGKATLTADESTNTAYMELSSLRSEDTAVHYCARGSYYDYDGFVYWGQGT
              LVTVSS
              SEQ ID NO: 4
              EuCIV3 Light chain variable domain:
              DIQMTQSPSTLSASVGDRVTMTCSATSSV.SYMHWYQQKPGKAPKRWIYDTSKLASGV
              PARFIGSGSGTEFTLTISSLQPDDFATYYCQQWSSNPLTFGGGTKVEIK (h)
              SEQ ID NO: 5
              HEBE1 Heavy chain variable domain:

                                                   2
<removed-date>
              EVQLLESGGGLVQPGGSLRLSCAASGYKFTSYVMHWVKQAPGKGLEWIGYINPYNDV
              TKYNEKFKGKATLSRDNSKNTLYLQMNSLRAEDTAVHYCARGSYYDYDGFVYWGQGT
<removed-apn>
              LVTVSS
              SEQ ID NO: 6
              HEBE1 Light chain variable domain:
              DIQMTQSPSTLSASVGDRVTMTCSATSSVSYMHWYQQKPGKAPKRWIYDTSKLASGV
              PARFIGSGSGTEFTLTISSLQPDDFATYYCQQWSSNPLTFGGGTKVEIK
              SEQ ID NO: 7
              HEBE1 H10 Heavy chain variable domain:
              EVQLQQSGPELVKPGASVKMSCKASGYKFTSYVMHWVKQAPGKGLEWIGYINPYNDV
              TKYNEKFKGKATLSRDNSKNTLYLQMNSLRAEDTAVHYCARGSYYDYDGFVYWGQGT
              LVTVSS
              SEQ ID NO: 8
              GL1BM Heavy chain variable domain:
              QVQLVQSGAEVKKPGASVKVSCKASGYKFTSYVMHWVRQAPGQRLEWMGYINPYND
              VTKYNEKFKGKATITRDTSANTAYMELSSLRSEDTAVYYCARGSYYDYDGFVYWGQGT
              LVTVSS
              SEQ ID NO: 9
              GL1BM Light chain variable domain:
              EIVLTQSPATLSLSPGERATLSCSATSSVSYMHWYQQKPGQAPRRWIYDTSKLASGVP
              ARFSGSGSGTDFTLTISSLEPEDFAVYYCQQWSSNPLTFGGGTKVEIK
              SEQ ID NO: 10
              HuIgG1 Fc delta ab:
              ASTKGPSVFPLAPSSKSTSGGTAALGCLVKDYFPEPVTVSWNSGALTSGVHTFPAVLQ
              SSGLYSLSSVVTVPSSSLGTQTYICNVNHKPSNTKVDKKVEPKSCDKTHTCPPCPAPPV

                                                  3
<removed-date>
              AGPSVFLFPPKPKDTLMISRTPEVTCVVVDVSHEDPEVKFNWYVDGVEVHNAKTKPRE
              EQYNSTYRVVSVLTVLHQDWLNGKEYKCKVSNKGLPSSIEKTISKAKGQPREPQVYTL
<removed-apn>
              PPSRDELTKNQVSLTCLVKGFYPSDIAVEWESNGQPENNYKTTPPVLDSDGSFFLYSKL
              TVDKSRWQQGNVFSCSVMHEALHNHYTQKSLSLSPGK
              SEQ ID NO: 11
              HuIgG4 agly Fc:
              ASTKGPSVFPLAPCSRSTSESTAALGCLVKDYFPEPVTVSWNSGALTSGVHTFPAVLQ
              SSGLYSLSSVVTVPSSSLGTKTYTCNVDHKPSNTKVDKRVESKYGPPCPPCPAPEFLG
              GPSVFLFPPKPKDTLMISRTPEVTCVVVDVSQEDPEVQFNWYVDGVEVHNAKTKPREE
              QFQSTYRVVSVLTVLHQDWLNGKEYKCKVSNKGLPSSIEKTISKAKGQPREPQVYTLP
              PSQEEMTKNQVSLTCLVKGFYPSDIAVEWESNGQPENNYKTTPPVLDSDGSFFLYSRL
              TVDKSRWQEGNVFSCSVMHEALHNHYTQKSLSLSLGK
              SEQ ID NO: 12
              HEBE1 H66 Heavy chain variable domain:
              EVQLLQSGGGLVQPGGSLRLSCAASGYKFTSYVMHWVRQAPGKGLEWVGYINPYND
              VTKYNEKFKGRFTLSRDNSKNTLYLQMNSLRAEDTAVYYCARGSYYDYDGFVYWGQG
              TLVTVSS
              SEQ ID NO: 13
              HEBE1 H71 Heavy chain variable domain:
              EVQLLESGGGLVQPGGSVRLSCAASGYKFTSYVMHWVRQAPGKGLEWVGYINPYND
              VTKYNEKFKGRFTLSRDNSKNTLYLQMNSLRAEDTAVYYCARGSYYDYDGFVYWGQG
              TLVTVSS
              SEQ ID NO: 14
              GL1BM VK43 Light chain variable domain:
              EIVLTQSPATLSLSPGERATLSCSATSSVSYMHWYQQKPGQAPRRLIYDTSKLASGVP
              ARFSGSGSGTSYTLTISSLEPEDFAVYYCQQWSSNPLTFGGGTKVEIK

                                                 4
<removed-date>
              SEQ ID NO: 15
              GL1BM VH28 Heavy chain variable domain:
<removed-apn>
              QVQLVQSGAEVKKPGASVKVSCKASGYKFTSYVMHWVKQAPGQGLEWIGYINPYNDV
              TKYNEKFKGRVTITRDTSASTAYMELSSLRSEDTAVYYCARGSYYDYDGFVYWGQGTL
              VTVSS
              SEQ ID NO: 16
              GL1BM VH31 Heavy chain variable domain:
              QVQLVQSGAEVKKPGASVKVSCKASGYKFTSYVMHWVRQAPGQGLEWIGYINPYNDV
              TKYNEKFKGRVTITRDTSASTAYMELSSLRSEDTAVYYCARGSYYDYDGFVYWGQGTL
              VTVSS
              SEQ ID NO: 17
              IGH3-23 HEAVY CHAIN
              EVQLLESGGGLVQPGGSLRLSCAASGFTFSSYAMSWVRQAPGKGLEWVSAISGSGGS
              TYYADSVKGRFTISRDNSKNTLYLQMNSLRAEDTAVYYCAK
              SEQ ID NO: 18
              IGHV1-3*01 HEAVY CHAIN
              QVQLVQSGAEVKKPGASVKVSCKASGYTFTSYAMHWVRQAPGQRLEWMGWINAGN
              GNTKYSQKFQGRVTITRDTSASTAYMELSSLRSEDTAVYYCAR
              SEQ ID NO: 19
              IGKV3-11*01 LIGHT CHAIN
              EIVLTQSPATLSLSPGERATLSCRASQSVSSYLAWYQQKPGQAPRLLIYDASNRATGIP
              ARFSGSGSGTDFTLTISSLEPEDFAVYYCQQRSNWP

                                          5
<removed-date>
              SEQ ID No. 20
<removed-apn>
              GL1BM VH S
              QVQLVQSGAEVKKPGASVKVSCKASGYKFTSYVMHWVRQAPGQRLEWMGYINPYND
              VTKYNEKFKGKATITRDTSASTAYMELSSLRSEDTAVYYCARGSYYDYDGFVYWGQGT
              LVTVSS
              SEQ ID No 21
              GL1BM VK1
              EIVLTQSPATLSLSPGERATLSCSATSSVSYMHWYQQKPGQAPRRWIYDTSKLASGVP
              ARFSGSGSGTDFTLTISSLEPEDFAVYYCQQWSSNPLTFGGGTKVEIK
              SEQ ID No 22
              GL1BM VK27
              EIVLTQSPATLSLSPGERATLSCSATSSVSYMHWYQQKPGQAPRRWIYDTSKLASGVP
              ARFSGSGSGTDFTLTISSMEPEDFAVYYCQQWSSNPLTFGGGTKVEIK
              SEQ ID No 23
              GL1BM VH S VH11
              QVQLVQSGAEVKKPGASVKVSCKASGYKFTSYVMHWVKQKPGQGLEWIGYINPYNDV
              TKYNEKFKGKATITRDTSASTAYMELSSLRSEDTAVYYCARGSYYDYDGFVYWGQGTL
              VTVSS

                                         6
<removed-date>
              SEQ ID No 24
<removed-apn>
              GL1BM VH S VH15
              QVQLVQSGAEVKKPGASVKVSCKASGYKFTSYVMHWVKQAPGQGLEWIGYINPYNDV
              TKYNEKFKGKATITRDTSASTAYMELSSLRSEDTAVYYCARGSYYDYDGFVYWGQGTL
              VTVSS

