  ABSTRACT
  Apparatus, systems, methods, and related computer program products for managing demand
  response programs and events. The systems disclosed include an energy management system
  in operation with an intelligent, network-connected thermostat located at a structure. The
5 thermostat acquires various information about the residence, such as a thermal retention
  characteristic of the residence, a capacity of an HV AC associated with the residence to cool
  or heat the residence, a likelihood of the residence being occupied, a forecasted weather, a real
  time weather, and a real-time occupancy. Such information is used to manage the energy
  consumption of the structure during a demand-response event.
                                                   121

   SYSTEMS, APPARATUS AND METHODS FOR MANAGING DEMAND
                          RESPONSE PROGRAMS AND EVENTS
                       CROSS-REFERENCES TO RELATED APPLICATIONS
 5 [0001]       This application is being filed as a PCT International Patent application in the
   name of Nest Labs, Inc., a US national corporation. This application claims the benefit of
   U.S. Application No. 13/842,213, filed 15 March 2013, which is incorporated by reference
   herein.
                                                  FIELD
10 [0002]     This patent specification relates to systems, apparatus, methods, and related
   computer program products for managing demand-response programs and events. More
   particularly, this patent specification relates to techniques for shifting energy consumption
   from a window of time during which the cost energy is relatively high to one or more
   windows of time during which the cost of energy is relatively low.
15                                          BACKGROUND
   [0003]     Utility companies face ongoing challenges with consistently satisfying the demand
   for electricity. Facilities for generating electricity are typically well-suited for supplying
   constant amounts of electricity. However, consumers' demand for electricity is often quite
   the opposite in that the aggregate electricity demand varies significantly over the course of
20 the delay. The daily variance results in one or more 'peak' demand times or periods in which
   demand on the utility company is greatest, and 'non-peak' demand times or periods in which
   demand on the utility company is reduced.
   [0004]     The variance in demand over the course of a day may be impacted by a number of
   factors such as weather and living patterns. For example, during the summertime, demand
25 generally tends to increase as the outside temperature increases to levels considered
   uncomfortable as consumers increase their usage of high consumption appliances such as air
   conditioning systems. Demand also generally tends to vary based on work habits, where
   demand peaks when people leave for work and again when people return from work. During
   some points in the year, such as during extremely hot days, demand may reach extreme
30 peaks.
   [0005]     Utility companies have a variety of options for dealing with the variable demand for
   energy. They may, for example, increase their ability to satisfy higher peak demands by
                                                      1

   building additional power plants. However, the costs of doing so are often prohibitive and
   building such plants is often inefficient as the added capacity is used for only short durations
   throughout the year. They may buy additional capacity from other utility company's or
   energy providers, but doing so is also costly as such company's may charge a premium and
 5 the energy transfer from those other companies is often less efficient. Instead of increasing
   supply, utility companies may also address peak demands by reducing the demand via load
   shedding.
   [0006]    Load shedding is a technique in which the utility company reduces the amount of
   energy demanded by its consumers during a period of peak demand. A variety of load
10 shedding techniques are in use today, most of which are based on the utility company directly
   controlling the cooling systems of its consumers. During such peak demand periods the
   utility company controls the cooling systems to reduce their energy demand. Such events,
   which most often take place on very hot days in the mid-to-late afternoon and have a duration
   in the general range of two to six hours, are referenced in the literature by a variety of
15 different names such as load shedding events, load shifting events, and demand response
   events. The goal of the utility company in carrying out such events is not necessarily to
   reduce the total amount of energy consumed over the whole day, but rather to reduce the peak
   demand during that particular two-to-six hour interval, i.e., during the load shedding interval
   or demand-response interval. Typically, the end result is that the energy that would have
20 been consumed during the load shedding interval is instead consumed in the hours
   subsequent to the load shedding interval, as the cooling systems of the participating homes
   work to regain their cooler normal setpoint temperature. Such control, of course, often
   creates an inconvenience to the consumers who sign up to participate in such a 'demand
   response program' as their cooling system may not cool their residence as expected.
25 However, in return for this inconvenience the consumer is often granted certain benefits, such
   as more favorable rates for energy consumed outside of the peak demand period.
   [0007]    One common load shedding technique, often referred to as direct load control,
   involves the periodic on-and-off cycling of power to the cooling system of each participating
   customer under the direct control of the utility during the load shedding period. In such a
30 method, a remotely controllable switch is installed on the cooling system of each customer
   and is operable to disconnect power to the cooling system under the direct control of the
   utility company. The power to the cooling system may then be directly controlled by the
   utility company such that it is turned off for regular, fixed time intervals during a peak
   demand period. Consumers may express some degree of animosity towards such a technique,
                                                    2

   however, as direct load control results in a lack of control by the consumer of their cooling
   system, and often results in inside temperatures that are found to be uncomfortable by the
   consumer. Deficiencies in the communication link between the utility company and the
   switch can worsen the problem, with lost commands from the utility company to the switch to
 5 reconnect power to the cooling system resulting in the cooling system undesirably remaining
   in a disconnected state. Such problems have resulted in some consumers attempting to
   obviate the control on their cooling system while still attaining the benefits of participating in
   the demand response program by bypassing the remotely controlled switch. As a result,
   while such "cheaters" may acquire their desired individual cooling system control, the
10 effectiveness of the overall demand response program can be undermined.
   [0008]    Another known load shedding technique involves remote control of the setpoint
   temperature of the thermostat of each participating customer by the utility, wherein the utility
   sends a common setback value to the thermostats of the participating customers. During the
   load shedding period, the participating thermostats will control the indoor temperature to a
15 temperature setpoint value that is higher than the normally scheduled temperature setpoint
   value by the setback amount. This control by the utility company will typically result in an
   ambient temperature that is less comfortable than what the consumers would have otherwise
   experienced, but provides the benefit of both energy and cost savings. While providing the
   potential for increased comfort and acceptance over direct on/off cycling of the power to the
20 cooling system by the utility, this technique can have disadvantages including lack of control
   by the consumer and the utility company's ability to set the setback value to any value the
   utility company deems suitable. Moreover, the use of a single setback value for all
   consumers fails to recognize differences in perceptions in comfort, differences in thermal
   characteristics of residences, differences in cooling capacities of the cooling systems, and
25 other differences among the base of participating customers.
   [0009]    U.S. Patent Publication No. 2012/0053745 to Howard Ng discusses a system and
   method for establishing load control during a load shedding event. Specifically, Ng discusses
   a technique that allows a customer or utility to control a maximum temperature rise under a
   direct load control program. The customer may set a comfort range on their thermostat that
30 indicates a range of temperatures from a desired temperature that the customer is comfortable
   with. During a load shedding event, in a hot weather example, a switch on a space
   conditioning load is activated so that the space conditioning load undergoes direct load
   control (i.e., fixed-width duty cycling). The space conditioning load undergoes direct load
   control until the indoor temperature exceeds the upper value of the comfort range, at which
                                                   3

   point control will be transferred from direct load control to temperature setback control. One
   or more issues arise in relation to each of the above-described load shedding methods that is
   at least partially addressed by one or more of the embodiments described herein. By way of
   example, although the above described methods of direct load control, temperature setback
 5 control, and direct load control followed by temperature setback control will generally result
   in some amount of reduced energy use during the load shedding event across the base of
   participating customers, such "one-size-fits-all" approaches to the customer base can result in
   substantial missed opportunities for more effective load shifting and reduced customer
   inconvenience. By way of example and not by way of limitation, such issues and/or missed
10 opportunities can arise with respect to one or more of: predicting with greater certainty the
   impact of a particular load shedding strategy for certain groups or subgroups of participating
   customers; increasing the tolerability and acceptance of load shedding programs such that
   more customers will be willing to participate; optimizing the load shedding strategy for
   particular groups or subgroups of customers in a manner that (i) reduces the amount of
15 customer discomfort per unit of shifted energy demand, and/or (ii) increases the amount of
   shifted energy demand per "unit" of customer discomfort for those groups or subgroups;
   more readily identifying the groups or subgroups of customers who would be the best
   candidates for participation in any particular load shedding event; and more readily assessing
   the effectiveness of preceding load shifting event strategies for particular groups or subgroups
20 of customers such that future load shifting events are better optimized. Other issues arise as
   would be apparent to one skilled in the art upon reading the present disclosure.
                                           BRIEF SUMMARY
   [0010]     Various techniques for managing demand-response programs and events are
   disclosed herein. The disclosed techniques include various methods for carrying out a
25 demand response event via intelligent, network-connected devices. In one particular method,
   an intelligent, network-connected thermostat performs a number of operations. These
   operations include controlling the operation of a cooling system associated with a structure
   for a characterization period according to an HVAC schedule for the thermostat. They also
   include receiving, for the characterization period, information for determining a plurality of
30 physical parameters associated with the structure that are at least partially determinative of a
   suitability of the structure for participation in a demand response event. The plurality of
   physical parameters may include a cooling capacity of the cooling system relative to a
   volume of the structure to be cooled by the cooling system, and a thermal retention
   characteristic of the structure. For one embodiment, these physical parameters are
35 determined automatically and according to one or more sensor readings acquired during
                                                      4

   normal thermostat operation. The method further includes receiving at least one user input
   characterizing a user amenability to demand response load shifting, receiving a notification of
   a demand response event interval defined by the demand response event, receiving a weather
   forecast indicating a predicted temperature at the location of the structure for the duration of
 5 the demand response interval, and determining an occupancy probability profile for the
   demand response event interval. The method also includes jointly processing information
   derived from the HVAC schedule, the cooling capacity of the cooling system, the thermal
   retention characteristic, the user amenability to demand response load shifting, the weather
   forecast, and the occupancy probability profile to (a) determine whether the structure is
10 qualified to participate in the demand response event, and (b) determine, if said structure is
   qualified to so participate, a demand response event implementation profile associated with
   participation in the demand response event. In the event that the structure is determined to be
   qualified to participate in the demand response event, the cooling system is controlled
   according to the demand response event implementation profile during the demand response
15 event interval.
   [0011]    A method for encouraging an energy consumer associated with a structure to
   participate in a demand response event is also disclosed. The method includes accessing a
   pre-existing HVAC schedule indicating a plurality of setpoint temperatures, the pre-existing
   HVAC schedule being operative to facilitate control of an HVAC system associated with the
20 structure in accordance with the setpoint temperatures. The method also includes one or
   more computer processors determining a demand-response implementation profile associated
   with a demand response event period defined by the demand response event. The demand
   response implementation profile comprises a modified HVAC schedule incorporating one or
   more changes to the setpoint temperatures indicated by the pre-existing HVAC schedule over
25 the demand response event period At least one physical parameter associated with the
   structure and that is at least partially determinative of an effectiveness of the structure in
   supporting a shift of energy consumption from one time interval to another time interval is
   determined. One or more metrics indicative of an amount of energy likely to be shifted from
   the demand response event period to another time period are calculated based on the pre
30 existing HVAC schedule, the demand-response implementation profile, and the at least one
   physical parameter associated with the structure. The one or more calculated metrics are then
   communicated to the energy consumer.
   [0012]     Disclosed is a method for carrying out demand response for a population of
   structures having environmental cooling systems controlled by a respective population of
                                                     5

   network-connected thermostats. The method includes enrolling a plurality of energy
   consumers to participate in a demand response program, each of the energy consumers being
   associated with one of the population of structures. The method also includes determining a
   demand response event profile defining at least one attribute of an upcoming demand
 5 response event included in the demand response program, the at least one attribute including
   one or more of a time at which the upcoming demand response event is to begin, a demand
   response event period, and a magnitude of the demand response event. The method further
   includes accessing, for each of the plurality of enrolled energy consumers, at least one
   qualification factor that is at least partially representative of their suitability for participation
10 in the upcoming demand response event. The method further includes identifying a subset of
   the plurality of enrolled energy consumers to be offered participation in the upcoming
   demand response event, the subset being identified by processing the qualification factors in
   conjunction with said demand response event profile, and causing an offer to participate in
   the upcoming demand response event be transmitted to each of the identified subset of
15 enrolled energy consumers.
   [0013]    In addition to various methods, embodiments are also directed to an intelligent,
   network-connected thermostat. The thermostat includes a user interface for displaying
   information to an energy consumer associated with a structure and receiving user inputs from
   the energy consumer, a connector for coupling the thermostat to a cooling system associated
20 with the structure, a communications component for communicating with a remote server, a
   memory for storing a demand response event implementation profile that defines a plurality
   of setpoint temperatures distributed over a demand response event period of a demand
   response event, and a processor coupled to the user interface, the connector, the
   communications component, and the memory. The processor is operable to perform a
25 number of operations. For example, the processor may control the cooling system to cool the
   structure in accordance with the setpoint temperatures defined by the demand response event
   implementation profile over the demand response event period, receive a requested change to
   one or more of the setpoint temperatures defined by the demand response event
   implementation profile, determine an impact on energy shifting that would result if the
30 requested change is incorporated into the demand response event implementation profile, and
   communicate to the energy consumer information indicative of the impact on energy shifting
   that would result if the requested change is incorporated into the demand response event
   implementation profile.
                                                       6

   [0014]     In another embodiment, another intelligent, network-connected thermostat
   associated with an energy consumer is disclosed. The thermostat includes a housing defining
   a shape of the network-connected thermostat and including a cavity for receiving one or more
   components, a connector coupled to the housing for electrically connecting the thermostat to
 5 a cooling system associated with the structure, a communications component for
   communicating with a remote server, and a processor coupled to the communications
   component and the connector. The processor is operable to perform a number of operations.
   For example, the processor is operable to control the cooling system to cool a structure
   associated with the thermostat in accordance with a plurality of setpoint temperatures defined
10 by a demand response event implementation profile over a demand response event period of a
   demand response event, monitor at least the electrical connection to the cooling system for
   tampering activity indicative of an attempt to obviate implementation of the demand response
   event implementation profile, and perform one or more responses in the event such tampering
   activity is detected as a result of monitoring at least the electrical connection to the cooling
15 system.
   [0015]     For a more complete understanding of the nature and advantages of embodiments of
   the present invention, reference should be made to the ensuing detailed description and
   accompanying drawings. Other aspects, objects and advantages of the invention will be
   apparent from the drawings and detailed description that follows. However, the scope of the
20 invention will be fully apparent from the recitations of the claims.
                             BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
   [0016]     FIG. 1 depicts a system for implementing demand-response programs and event
   management according to an embodiment.
   [0017]     FIG. 2 illustrates an example of a smart home environment within which a portion
25 of the system for implementing demand-response programs and event management may be
   implemented according to an embodiment.
   [0018]     FIG. 3A illustrates an example of general device components which can be included
   in an intelligent, network-connected device according to an embodiment.
   [0019]     Fig. 3B illustrates an intelligent, network-connected device having a replaceable
30 module and a docking station according to an embodiment.
   [0020]     Fig. 3C illustrates connection ports and wire insertion sensing circuitry of an
   intelligent, network-connected device according to an embodiment.
                                                      7

   [0021]    FIG. 4 illustrates a network-level view of an extensible devices and services
   platform with which a smart home environment and systems for implementing demand
   response programs and event management can be integrated according to an embodiment.
   [0022]    FIG. 5 illustrates an abstracted functional view of the extensible devices and
 5 services platform of FIG. 4.
   [0023]    FIG. 6 is a block diagram of a special-purpose computer system according to an
   embodiment.
   [0024]    FIG. 7 illustrates a process for implementing and managing a demand-response
   program according to an embodiment.
10 [0025]    FIG. 8 illustrates a process for enrolling energy consumers in a demand-response
   program according to an embodiment.
   [0026]    FIG. 9 illustrates a process for facilitating enrollment of an energy consumer in a
   demand-response program via an electronic device associated with the energy consumer
   according to an embodiment.
15 [0027]    FIG. 10 illustrates a process for generating one or more metrics indicative of an
   amount of energy likely be shifted by an energy consumer if the energy consumer enrolls and
   participates in a demand-response program according to an embodiment.
   [0028]    FIGS. 11 A through 1 IC depict a graphical user interface of an intelligent, network
   connected thermostat associated with an identified energy consumer receiving and
20 responding to an enrollment request according to an embodiment.
   [0029]    FIG. 12 illustrates process for analyzing a number of factors to determine whether
   an enrolled energy consumer is qualified for participation in a particular DR event according
   to an embodiment.
   [0030]    FIG. 13 illustrates a process for identifying enrolled energy consumers to participate
25 in a DR event according to an embodiment.
   [0031]    FIG. 14 illustrates a process for managing the energy consumption of energy
   consumers identified for participation in a DR event according to an embodiment.
   [0032]    FIG. 15 illustrates a process for managing a DR event based on a monitored
   aggregate energy shifting in accordance with an embodiment.
                                                      8

   [00331    FIG. 16 illustrates a process for generating a demand-response event
   implementation profile in accordance with an embodiment.
   [0034]    FIG. 17A is an illustration of a DR event and related periods according to an
   embodiment.
 5 [0035]    FIG. 17B is an illustration of an energy consumers originally scheduled setpoints as
   well as DR event-modified overlaying the time periods described with reference to FIG. 17A
   according to an embodiment.
   [0036]    FIG. 18A is an illustration depicting a setpoint change type of DR event interval
   energy reduction mechanism according to an embodiment.
10 [0037]    FIG. 18B is an illustration depicting a duty cycling change type of DR event interval
   energy reduction mechanism according to an embodiment.
   [0038]    FIG. 18C is an illustration depicting a combination setpoint/duty cycling change
   type of DR event interval energy reduction mechanism according to an embodiment.
   [0039]    FIG. 19 illustrates a process for determining whether pre-cooling is appropriate
15 according to an embodiment.
   [0040]    FIG. 20 illustrates a process for determining whether a setback-type DR event
   interval energy management mechanism is appropriate according to an embodiment.
   [0041]    FIG. 21 illustrates a process for determining whether a duty cycling DR event
   interval energy management mechanism is appropriate according to an embodiment.
20 [0042]    FIG. 22 illustrates a process for determining whether post-event energy
   management is appropriate according to an embodiment.
   [0043]    Specifically, FIG. 23 illustrates a process for generating one or more metrics
   indicative of an amount of energy likely be shifted by an enrolled energy consumer if the
   energy consumer participates in a demand-response event according to an embodiment.
25 [0044]    FIGS. 24A through 24C illustrate a simplified graphical user interface for
   presenting a DR event notification to an energy consumer according to an embodiment.
   [0045]    FIGS. 25A through 25F illustrate a simplified graphical user interface of a schedule
   of setpoints associated with an energy consumer that has agreed to participate in a DR event
   according to an embodiment.
                                                    9

   [0046]     FIGS. 26A through 26D illustrate a simplified graphical user interface for
   responding to immediate setpoint changes during a DR event according to an embodiment.
   [0047]     FIG. 27 illustrates a process for learning user preferences indicated during a DR
   event according to an embodiment.
 5 [0048]     FIG. 28 illustrates a particular process for modifying a DR implementation profile
   based on user preferences indicated during a prior DR event according to an embodiment.
   [0049]     FIG. 29A illustrates an I/O element including a utility portal summary according to
   an embodiment.
   [0050]     FIG. 29B illustrates an I/O element including a utility portal providing detailed
10 energy consumer information according to an embodiment.
   [0051]     FIG. 30A illustrates a process for determining whether an energy consumer has
   complied with participation in a DR event according to an embodiment.
   [0052]     FIG. 30B illustrates a process for determining whether tampering of an HVAC wire
   is indicative of an attempt to obviate DR programming according to an embodiment.
15 [0053]     FIG. 31A illustrates a process for an energy management to manage energy in
   accordance with a bilateral contract between an energy manager associated with the energy
   management system and a utility provider associated with a utility provider computing
   system according to an embodiment.
   [0054]     FIG. 31B illustrates a process for an energy management to manage energy in
20 accordance with a marked-based sale of energy reduction according to an embodiment.
   [0055]     FIG. 32 illustrates a process for passing and supplementing information from an
   energy consumption meter to a utility provider computing system via an energy management
   system according to an embodiment.
                                       DETAILED DESCRIPTION
25 [0056]     Embodiments of the present invention generally relate to techniques for managing
   demand-response programs and events. The entities in a system for managing demand
   response programs and events typically include a utility provider that provides electrical or
   other forms of energy from a power source (e.g., an electrical generator) to individual's
   homes or businesses. The individuals typically pay for the amount of energy they consume
30 on a periodic, e.g., monthly, basis. In many embodiments an energy management system is
   disposed between the utility provider and the individuals. The energy management system
                                                     10

   operates to intelligently and effectively shift energy consumption of the individuals from one
   particular time period to other time periods. Such energy shifting is usually performed so as
   to shift energy consumption from a high energy cost period to a low energy cost period. In
   the case of DR events, energy is shifted from the DR event period to time periods outside of
 5 the DR event period.
   [0057]     The energy management system according to many embodiments includes an
   intelligent, network-connected thermostat located at the individual's homes or businesses.
   Such a thermostat can acquire various information about the residence, such as a thermal
   retention characteristic of the residence, a capacity of an HVAC associated with the residence
10 to cool or heat the residence, a likelihood of the residence being occupied (via occupancy
   sensors that, over time, can build an occupancy probability profile), a forecasted weather, a
   real-time weather, a real-time occupancy, etc. Moreover, the thermostat can be programmed
   by its users or may learn, over time, the preferences and habits of its users to set scheduled
   setpoints. In exemplary embodiments, a population of such network-connected thermostats
15 associated with a respective population of individual homes and businesses are configured to
   communicate with one or more central servers managed by one or more cloud service
   providers. Each network-connected thermostat is associated with one or more accounts
   managed by the cloud service provider(s), and data is sent back and forth as needed between
   each network-connected thermostat and the central server(s) for providing a variety of
20 advantageous functionalities such as facilitating remote control, reporting weather data,
   reporting HVAC control data and status information, and providing the centralized and/or
   partially centralized controlling and data communications required to carry out the DR
   related, time-of-use (TOU)-related, and/or real-time pricing functionalities described herein.
   [0058]     It is to be appreciated that although some embodiments herein may be particularly
25 suitable and advantageous for commercial scenarios in which (i) the cloud service provider(s)
   associated with the population of network-connected thermostats is/are also the provider(s) of
   the described energy management system, (ii) the provider(s) of the energy management
   system are separate and distinct business entities from the utilities themselves, and (iii) the
   energy management system is provided as a value-added service to the utilities, the scope of
30 the present description is in no way limited to such scenarios. In other applicable scenarios,
   for example, all of the elements can be provided by the utility. In other applicable scenarios,
   some of the elements can be provided by the utility while other elements can be provided by
   a governmental entity or by miscellaneous combinations of disparate cooperating businesses
   or consortia. Prior to a DR event, based on a wealth of information the energy management
                                                     11

   system possesses regarding the residences it is managing, the energy management system can
   effectively predict how much energy a residence is likely to consume over an given period,
   such as over a DR event. Moreover, given the wealth of information regarding the
   residences, the energy management system may also generate variations to the residence's
 5 baseline thermostat setpoints that can be implemented during the DR event period. The
   variations can be made so that that the residence consumes less energy over the DR event
   period. Further yet, because of this wealth of information the energy management system has
   regarding the residences, the energy management system may also accurately predict the
   amount of energy likely to be reduced over the DR event period or, in other words, shifted
10 from the DR event period to one or more time periods outside (e.g., shouldering) the DR
   event period.
   [0059]     The described provisions for such energy consumption prediction and management
   brings about many advantages as described further hereinbelow. For example, not only does
   it allow the energy management system to effectively manage the energy consumption of a
15 number of connected residences, but it also allows the energy management system to
   intelligently select a subset of residences from a large pool for participation in DR programs
   or events. The physical characteristics of residences and habitual tendencies of occupants of
   those residents vary widely across regions, and thus the potential energy savings/shifting also
   varies widely. The energy management system disclosed herein may intelligently choose the
20 participants in an energy savings program to maximize efficiency and minimize costs.
   [0060]    As the energy management system disclosed herein provides advantageous insight
   into energy-related characteristics of various residences on both individual and aggregate
   levels, the energy management system may also provide portals so that other interested
   parties, such as utility companies, may similarly have access to such information. As it is
25 generally in the interests of the utility company to reduce energy consumption over a
   particular time period, the utility company similarly has interests in accessing such energy
   related characteristics of the various residences individually and in the aggregate so as to
   more efficiently and effectively generate and manage DR events. Accordingly, in some
   embodiments, a utility portal is disclosed that enables the utility provider access to consumer
30 level energy-related information at a variety of levels of detail and complexity, for facilitating
   both economically smart and environmentally responsible decision making on resource
   planning and utilization..
   [0061]     The specifics of these and other embodiments are further disclosed herein, and a
   further understanding of which can be appreciated with reference to the figures. Turning now
                                                   12

   then to the Figures, FIG. 1 depicts a system 100 for managing demand-response programs
   and events according to an embodiment. System 100 includes a plurality of electrical power
   generators 110 A - ION, a utility provider computing system 120, an energy management
   system 130, a communication network 140, a plurality of energy consumer residences 150A
 5 - 150N, and a power distribution network 160.
   [0062]     Electrical power generators 1 IGA - 1 ION are operable to generate electricity or
   other type of energy (e.g., gas) using one or more of a variety of techniques known in the art.
   For example, electrical power generators 1 IGA - 1 ION may include hydroelectric systems,
   nuclear power plants, fossil-fuel based power plants, solar plants, wind plants, gas processing
10 plants, etc. The amount of electricity that may be generated at any given time may limited to
   some maximum energy supplied that is determined by the generators 110 A - I1ON. Further,
   the electrical power generators 110 A - 1ION may be owned and managed by a utility
   provider implementing the utility provider computing system 120, or may be owned and/or
   managed by one or more third party entities that contract with the utility provider to provide
15 source energy to customers of the utility provider.
   [0063]     Utility provider computing system 120 is a computing system operable to
   communicate with one or more of the electrical power generators 110 A - ION, the energy
   management system 130, and in some embodiments electronic systems in one or more of the
   residences 150A - 150N. The utility provider associated with the utility provider company
20 system 120 typically manages the distribution of electricity from the electrical power
   generators 1 IGA - 1 ION to energy consumers at the residences 150A - 15 ON. This
   management includes ensuring the electricity is successfully communicated from the power
   generators 110 A - 1ION to the residences 150A - 15 ON, monitoring the amount of energy
   consumption at each of the residences 150A - 150N, and collecting fees from occupants of
25 the residences 150A - 15ON in accordance with the their respective monitored amount of
   energy consumption. The utility provider computing system 120 may perform one or more
   of the operations described herein, and may include a variety of computer processors, storage
   elements, communications mechanisms, etc. as further described herein and as necessary to
   facilitate the described operations.
30 [0064]     Energy management system 130 is a computing system operable to intelligently and
   efficiently manage the energy consumption at one or more of the residences 150A - 150N
   while optionally providing reporting and control mechanisms to the utility provider
   computing system 120. The energy management system 130 may be operable to engage in
   real-time two-way communications with electronic devices associated with the residences
                                                  13

    150A - 15ON via the network 140, as well as in engage in real-time two-way communications
   with the utility provider computing system 120. In one particular embodiment, the energy
   management system 130 may be operable to reduce the aggregate amount of energy
   consumed at the residences 150A - 15ON so that the aggregate energy demand does not
 5 exceed the maximum energy supply limits of the power generators 1 I0A - 1 ION. Such
   reductions may be achieved during any suitable time period through the day. For example,
   such reductions may be achieved during a demand-response (DR) event communicated by the
   utility provider computing system 120. The energy management system 130 may perform
   one or more of the operations described herein, and may include a variety of computer
10 processors, storage elements, communications mechanisms, etc. as further described herein
   and as necessary to facilitate the described operations.
   [0065]     Network 140 is any suitable network for enabling communications between various
   entities, such as between one or more components of the energy management system 130 and
   one or more electronic devices associated with one or more of the residences 150A - 150N.
15 Such a network may include, for example, a local area network, a wide-area network, a
   virtual private network, the Internet, an intranet, an extranet, a public switched telephone
   network, an infrared network, a wireless network, a wireless data network, a cellular network,
   or any other such wired or wireless network(s) or combination(s) thereof. The network 140
   may, furthermore, incorporate any suitable network topology. Network 140 may utilize any
20 suitable protocol, and communication over the network 140 may be enabled by wired or
   wireless connections, and combinations thereof.
   [0066]     Residences 150A - 150N are a variety of structures or enclosures that are associated
   with energy consumption. The structures may be span a variety of structure types, such as
   private residences, houses, apartments, condominiums, schools, commercial properties, single
25 or multi-level office buildings, and/or manufacturing facilities. A number of examples
   described herein refer to the structure as being a private residence in the form of a house, but
   embodiments are not so limited as one skilled in the art would understand that the techniques
   described herein could equally be applicable to other types of structures. It is to be
   appreciated that, while some embodiments may be particularly advantageous for residential
30 living scenarios, the scope of the present teachings is not so limited and may equally be
   advantageous for business environments, school environments, government building
   environments, sports or entertainment arenas, and so forth. Thus, while many of the
   descriptions below are set forth in residential living context, it is to be appreciated that this is
   for purposes of clarity of description and not by way of limitation.
                                                    14

   [0067]     The residences 150A - 150N typically include one or more energy consumption
   devices, which could be electrical energy consumption devices such as televisions,
   microwaves, home audio equipment, heating/cooling systems, laundry machines,
   dishwashers, etc. Similarly, energy consumption devices could include one or more other
 5 types of energy consumption devices such as gas consumption devices. For example, the
   residences 150A - 15ON may include a natural gas (air/water/etc.) heater, stove, fireplace,
   etc. The residences 150A - 150N in many embodiments include an intelligent, network
   connected thermostat that is operable to control the thermal environment of the residence.
   The thermostats may be considered to part of the energy management system 130, in that
10 much of the processing subsequently described herein may be performed by computing
   systems at the energy management system 130 or by the thermostats themselves.
   Alternatively, the thermostats may be considered separate from the energy management
   system 130 due to their remote geographical location with respect to other components of the
   energy management system 130. In either case, electronic devices associated with the
15 residences 150A - 150N may perform one or more of the operations described herein, and
   may include a variety of computer processors, storage elements, communications
   mechanisms, etc. as further described herein and as necessary to facilitate the described
   operations. While most embodiments are described in the context of situations where it is
   desired to reduce the temperature inside of the structure (e.g., during a hot summer), similar
20 principles apply (just applied in the opposite) in situations where it is desired to increase the
   temperature inside of the structure (e.g., during a cold winter). For some embodiments, some
   or all of the intelligent, network-connected thermostats may be the same as or similar in
   functionality to the NEST LEARNING THERMOSTAT@ available from Nest Labs, Inc. of
   Palo Alto, California.
25 [0068]     Power distribution network 160 is any suitable network for transferring energy from
   one or more of the electrical power generators 1 I0A - 1 ION to one or more of the residences
    150A - 150N. In an electrical distribution network, power distribution network 160 may
   include a variety of power lines, substations, pole-mounted transformers, and the like as
   known in the for carrying electricity from the electrical power generators 110 A - I1ON to the
30 residences 150A - 150N. In a gas distribution network, power distribution network 160 may
   include a variety of compressor stations, storage elements, pipes, and the like for transporting
   natural or other types of energy producing gas from the power generators II OA - I1ON (in
   this embodiment, gas wells and/or processing plants) to the residences 150A - 150N.
                                                   15

   [0069]     System 100 in certain embodiments is a distributed system for managing demand
   response programs and events utilizing several computer systems and components that are
   interconnected via communication links using one or more computer networks or direct
   connections. However, it will be appreciated by those skilled in the art that such a system
 5 could operate equally well in a system having fewer or a greater number of components than
   are illustrated in FIG. 1. Thus, the depiction of system 100 in FIG. 1 should be taken as
   being illustrative in nature, and not as limiting the scope of the present teachings.
   [0070]     FIG. 2 illustrates an example of a smart home environment 200 within which one or
   more of the devices, methods, systems, services, and/or computer program products
10 described further herein can be applicable. The depicted smart home environment includes a
   structure 250, which can include, e.g., a house, office building, garage, or mobile home. In
   some embodiments, the structure 250 may correspond to one of structures 150A - 150N
   described with reference to FIG. 1. In addition to the structure 250, the smart home
   environment 200 also includes a network 262 and remote server 264 which, in one
15 embodiment, respectively correspond to network 140 and energy management system 130
   (FIG. 1). While the structure 250 as depicted includes a variety of components and devices
   as further described herein, a number of components and devices, such as pool heater 214,
   irrigation system 216, and access device 266 may also be associated with (e.g., powered at)
   the structure 250 without being physically attached or disposed within or on the structure
20 250.
   [0071]     The smart home environment 200 includes a plurality of rooms 252, separated at
   least partly from each other via walls 254. The walls 254 can include interior walls or
   exterior walls. Each room can further include a floor 256 and a ceiling 258. Devices can be
   mounted on, integrated with and/or supported by a wall 254, floor 256 or ceiling 258. The
25 various devices that may be incorporated within the smart home environment 200 include
   intelligent, multi-sensing, network-connected devices that can integrate seamlessly with each
   other and/or with cloud-based server systems to provide any of a variety of useful smart
   home objectives. An intelligent, multi-sensing, network-connected thermostat 202 can detect
   ambient climate characteristics (e.g., temperature and/or humidity) and control a heating,
30 ventilation and air-conditioning (HVAC) system 203. One or more intelligent, network
   connected, multi-sensing hazard detection units 204 can detect the presence of a hazardous
   substance and/or a hazardous condition in the home environment (e.g., smoke, fire, or carbon
   monoxide). One or more intelligent, multi-sensing, network-connected entryway interface
   devices 206, which can be termed a "smart doorbell", can detect a person's approach to or
                                                    16

   departure from a location, control audible functionality, announce a person's approach or
   departure via audio or visual means, or control settings on a security system (e.g., to activate
   or deactivate the security system).
   [0072]    In some embodiments, the smart home may include at least one energy consumption
 5 meter 218 such as a smart meter. The energy consumption meter 218 monitors some or all
   energy (electricity, gas, etc.) consumed by the devices in and around the structure 250. The
   energy consumption meter 218 may display the amount of energy consumed over a given
   period of time on a surface of the meter 218. The given period may be, e.g., a second, a
   minute, an hour, a day, a month, a time span less than one second, a time span greater than a
10 month, or a time span between one second and one month. In some embodiments, the energy
   consumption meter 218 may include communication capabilities (wired or wireless) that
   enable the meter 218 to communicate various information, e.g., the amount of energy
   consumed over one or more given periods, the price of energy at any particular time or during
   any particular period of time, etc. The communication capabilities may also enable the meter
15 to receive various information. For example, the meter may receive instructions for
   controlling one or more devices in the smart home such as the HVAC system 203, the price
   of energy at any particular time or during any particular period of time, etc. To facilitate
   control of devices in and around the structure 250, the meter 218 may be wired or wirelessly
   connected to such devices.
20 [0073]    Each of a plurality of intelligent, multi-sensing, network-connected wall light
   switches 208 can detect ambient lighting conditions, detect room-occupancy states and
   control a power and/or dim state of one or more lights. In some instances, light switches 208
   can further or alternatively control a power state or speed of a fan, such as a ceiling fan. Each
   of a plurality of intelligent, multi-sensing, network-connected wall plug interfaces 210 can
25 detect occupancy of a room or enclosure and control supply of power to one or more wall
   plugs (e.g., such that power is not supplied to the plug if nobody is at home). The smart
   home may further include a plurality of intelligent, multi-sensing, network-connected
   appliances 212, such as refrigerators, stoves and/or ovens, televisions, washers, dryers, lights
   (inside and/or outside the structure 250), stereos, intercom systems, garage-door openers,
30 floor fans, ceiling fans, whole-house fans, wall air conditioners, pool heaters 214, irrigation
   systems 216, security systems, and so forth. While descriptions of FIG. 2 can identify
   specific sensors and functionalities associated with specific devices, it will be appreciated
   that any of a variety of sensors and functionalities (such as those described throughout the
   specification) can be integrated into the device.
                                                    17

   [0074]     In addition to containing processing and sensing capabilities, each of the devices
   within the smart home environment 200 can be capable of data communications and
   information sharing with any other devices within the smart home environment 200, as well
   as to any devices outside the smart home environment 240 such as the access device 266
 5 and/or remote server 264. The devices can send and receive communications via any of a
   variety of custom or standard wireless protocols (Wi-Fi, ZigBee, 6LoWPAN, IR, IEE 802.11,
   IEEE 802.15.4, etc.) and/or any of a variety of custom or standard wired protocols (CAT6
   Ethernet, HomePlug, etc.). The wall plug interfaces 210 can serve as wireless or wired
   repeaters, and/or can function as bridges between (i) devices plugged into AC outlets and
10 communicating using Homeplug or other power line protocol, and (ii) devices that are not
   plugged into AC outlets.
   [0075]     For example, a first device can communicate with a second device via a wireless
   router 260. A device can further communicate with remote devices via a connection to a
   network, such as the network 262. Through the network 262, the device can communicate
15 with a central (i.e., remote) server or a cloud-computing system 264. The remote server or
   cloud-computing system 264 can be associated with a manufacturer, support entity or service
   provider associated with the device. In one embodiment, a user may be able to contact
   customer support using a device itself rather than needing to use other communication means
   such as a telephone or Internet-connected computer.
20 [0076]     Devices' network connections can further allow a user to interact with the device
   even if the user is not proximate to the device. For example, a user can communicate with a
   device (e.g., thermostat 202) using a computer (e.g., a desktop computer, laptop computer, or
   tablet) or other portable electronic device (e.g., a smartphone) 266. A webpage or app can be
   configured to receive communications from the user and control the device based on the
25 communications and/or to present information about the device's operation to the user. For
   example, when the portable electronic device 266 is being used to interact with the thermostat
   202, the user can view a current setpoint temperature for a thermostat and adjust it using the
   portable electronic device 266. The user can be in the structure during this remote
   communication or outside the structure. The communications between the portable electronic
30 device 266 and the thermostat 202 may be routed via the remote server 264 (e.g., when the
   portable electronic device 266 is remote from structure 250) or, in some embodiments, may
   be routed exclusive of the remote server 264.
   [0077]     The smart home environment 200 also can include a variety of non-communicating
   legacy appliances 240, such as old conventional washer/dryers, refrigerators, and the like
                                                    18

   which can be controlled, albeit coarsely (ON/OFF), by virtue of the wall plug interfaces 210.
   The smart home can further include a variety of partially communicating legacy appliances
   242, such as IR-controlled wall air conditioners or other IR-controlled devices, which can be
   controlled by IR signals provided by the hazard detection units 204 or the light switches 208
 5 or, in some embodiments, by using socket-based communication protocol such as powerline
   to communicate via a wall plug interface 210.
   [0078]     It should be recognized that some or all of the components located inside and
   outside of structure 250 may be considered part of energy management system 130
   depending on the embodiment. In general, devices or components which facilitate control of
10 other energy consumption devices may be considered to be part of energy management
   system 130. For example, thermostat 202 and access device 266 may be part of energy
   management system 130 while HVAC 203, while high energy consuming components such
   as HVAC 203, pool heater 214, and legacy appliances 240 may be considered external to
   energy management system 130 as they comprise energy consuming elements that are
15 controllable by the thermostat 202 and access device 266. In other examples, however,
   additional or alternative components of smart home environment 200 may be considered part
   of energy management system 130, such as hazard detection units 204, entryway interface
   devices 206, light switches 208, plug interface 210, etc., as they may provide monitoring
   (and/or control) functionality for the energy management system 130 to assist the system 130
20 in making intelligent energy management decisions. In yet other examples, none of the
   devices of the smart home environment (except for remote server 264) may be part of energy
   management system 130, but rather one or more of the devices of the smart home
   environment 200 may be submissive devices that are remotely controlled by energy
   management system 130 to perform monitoring and/or energy consumption tasks.
25 [0079]     Smart home 200 in certain embodiments is an environment including a number of
   client devices and access devices all operable to communicate with one another as well as
   with devices or systems external to the smart home 200 such as remote server 264. However,
   it will be appreciated by those skilled in the art that such an environment could operate
   equally well having fewer or a greater number of components than are illustrated in FIG. 2.
30 One particular example of a smart-home environment including various elements having
   differing functionality is described in detail in U.S. Provisional Patent Application No.
   61/704,437, filed September 21, 2012, the entire contents of which are incorporated by
   refereince herein in their entirety for all purposes. Thus, the depiction of the smart home
                                                    19

   environment 200 in FIG. 2 should be taken as being illustrative in nature, and not limiting to
   the scope of the present teachings.
   [0080]     FIG. 3A illustrates an example of general device components which can be included
   in an intelligent, network-connected device 300 (i.e., "device"). Device 300 may be
 5 implemented as one or more of the various devices discussed with reference to FIG. 2, such
   as thermostat 202, hazard detection unit 204, entryway interface device 206, wall light switch
   208, wall plug interface 210, etc. Much of the following discussion presents the device 300
   as being a thermostat 202, but it should be recognized that embodiments are not so limited.
   Each of one, more or all devices 300 within a system of devices can include one or more
10 sensors 302, a user-interface component 304, a power supply (e.g., including a power
   connection 306 and/or battery 308), a communications component 310, a modularity unit
   (e.g., including a docking station 312 and replaceable module 314), intelligence components
   316, and tamper detection circuitry 318. Particular sensors 302, user-interface components
   304, power-supply configurations, communications components 310, modularity units,
15 intelligence components 316, and/or wire tamper detection circuitry 318 can be the same or
   similar across devices 300 or can vary depending on device type or model.
   [0081]     By way of example and not by way of limitation, one or more sensors 302 in a
   device 300 may be able to, e.g., detect acceleration, temperature, humidity, water, supplied
   power, proximity, external motion, device motion, sound signals, ultrasound signals, light
20 signals, fire, smoke, carbon monoxide, global-positioning-satellite (GPS) signals, or radio
   frequency (RF) or other electromagnetic signals or fields. Thus, for example, sensors 302
   can include temperature sensor(s), humidity sensor(s), hazard-related sensor(s) or other
   environmental sensor(s), accelerometer(s), microphone(s), optical sensors up to and including
   camera(s) (e.g., charged-coupled-device or video cameras), active or passive radiation
25 sensors, GPS receiver(s) or radio-frequency identification detector(s). While FIG. 3A
   illustrates an embodiment with a single sensor, many embodiments will include multiple
   sensors. In some instances, device 300 includes one or more primary sensors and one or
   more secondary sensors. The primary sensor(s) can sense data central to the core operation
   of the device (e.g., sensing a temperature in a thermostat or sensing smoke in a smoke
30 detector). The secondary sensor(s) can sense other types of data (e.g., motion, light or
   sound), which can be used for energy-efficiency objectives or smart-operation objectives. In
   some instances, an average user may even be unaware of an existence of a secondary sensor.
   [0082]     One or more user-interface components 304 in device 300 may be configured to
   present information to a user via a visual display (e.g., a thin-film-transistor display or
                                                   20

   organic light-emitting-diode display) and/or an audio speaker. User-interface component 304
   can also include one or more user-input components to receive information from a user, such
   as a touchscreen, buttons, scroll component (e.g., a movable or virtual ring component),
   microphone or camera (e.g., to detect gestures). In one embodiment, user-interface
 5 component 304 includes a click-and-rotate annular ring component, wherein a user can
   interact with the component by rotating the ring (e.g., to adjust a setting) and/or by clicking
   the ring inwards (e.g., to select an adjusted setting or to select an option). In another
   embodiment, user-input component 304 includes a camera, such that gestures can be detected
   (e.g., to indicate that a power or alarm state of a device is to be changed).
10 [0083]     A power-supply component in device 300 may include a power connection 306
   and/or local battery 308. For example, power connection 306 can connect device 300 to a
   power source such as a line voltage source. In some instances, connection 306 to an AC
   power source can be used to repeatedly charge a (e.g., rechargeable) local battery 308, such
   that battery 308 can later be used to supply power if needed in the event of an AC power
15 disconnection or other power deficiency scenario.
   [0084]     A communications component 310 in device 300 can include a component that
   enables device 300 to communicate with a central server, such as remote server 264, or a
   remote device, such as another device 300 described herein or a portable user device.
   Communications component 310 can allow device 300 to communicate using one or more
20 wired or wireless communication techniques, either simultaneously or sequentially, such as
   Wi-Fi, ZigBee, 3G/4G wireless, IEEE 802.11, IEEE 802.15.4, 6-LO-PAN, Bluetooth, CAT6
   wired Ethernet, HomePlug or other powerline communications method, telephone, or optical
   fiber, by way of non-limiting examples. Communications component 310 can include one or
   more wireless cards, Ethernet plugs, or other transceiver connections. In some embodiments,
25 the communications component 310 facilitates communication with a central server to
   synchronize information between device 300, the central server, and in some cases additional
   devices. Techniques for synchronization data between such devices are further described in
   the commonly assigned U.S. Patent Application No. 13/624,892 (client reference number
   NES023 1), filed September 22, 2012, the contents of which are incorporated by reference in
30 their entirety for all purposes.
   [0085]     A modularity unit in device 300 can include a static physical connection, and a
   replaceable module 314. Thus, the modularity unit can provide the capability to upgrade
   replaceable module 314 without completely reinstalling device 300 (e.g., to preserve wiring).
   The static physical connection can include a docking station 312 (which may also be termed
                                                    21

   an interface box) that can attach to a building structure. For example, docking station 312
   could be mounted to a wall via screws or stuck onto a ceiling via adhesive. Docking station
   312 can, in some instances, extend through part of the building structure. For example,
   docking station 312 can connect to wiring (e.g., to 120V line voltage wires) behind the wall
 5 via a hole made through a wall's sheetrock. Docking station 312 can include circuitry such
   as power-connection circuitry 306 and/or AC-to-DC powering circuitry and can prevent the
   user from being exposed to high-voltage wires. Docking station 312 may also or
   alternatively include control circuitry for actuating (i.e., turning on and off) elements of an
   HVAC system, such as a heating unit (for heating the building structure), an air-condition
10 unit (for cooling the building structure), and/or a ventilation unit (for circulating air
   throughout the building structure). In some instances, docking stations 312 are specific to a
   type or model of device, such that, e.g., a thermostat device includes a different docking
   station than a smoke detector device. In some instances, docking stations 312 can be shared
   across multiple types and/or models of devices 300.
15 [0086]     Replaceable module 314 of the modularity unit can include some or all sensors 302,
   processors, user-interface components 304, batteries 308, communications components 310,
   intelligence components 316 and so forth of the device. Replaceable module 314 can be
   configured to attach to (e.g., plug into or connect to) docking station 312. In some instances,
   a set of replaceable modules 314 are produced with the capabilities, hardware and/or
20 software, varying across the replaceable modules 314. Users can therefore easily upgrade or
   replace their replaceable module 314 without having to replace all device components or to
   completely reinstall device 300. For example, a user can begin with an inexpensive device
   including a first replaceable module with limited intelligence and software capabilities. The
   user can then easily upgrade the device to include a more capable replaceable module. As
25 another example, if a user has a Model #1 device in their basement, a Model #2 device in
   their living room, and upgrades their living-room device to include a Model #3 replaceable
   module, the user can move the Model #2 replaceable module into the basement to connect to
   the existing docking station. The Model #2 replaceable module may then, e.g., begin an
   initiation process in order to identify its new location (e.g., by requesting information from a
30 user via a user interface).
   [0087]     Intelligence components 316 of the device can support one or more of a variety of
   different device functionalities. Intelligence components 316 generally include one or more
   processors configured and programmed to carry out and/or cause to be carried out one or
   more of the advantageous functionalities described herein. The intelligence components 316
                                                    22

   can be implemented in the form of general-purpose processors carrying out computer code
   stored in local memory (e.g., flash memory, hard drive, random access memory), special
   purpose processors or application-specific integrated circuits, combinations thereof, and/or
   using other types of hardware/firmware/software processing platforms. The intelligence
 5 components 316 can furthermore be implemented as localized versions or counterparts of
   algorithms carried out or governed remotely by central servers or cloud-based systems, such
   as by virtue of running a Java virtual machine (JVM) that executes instructions provided from
   a cloud server using Asynchronous Javascript and XML (AJAX) or similar protocols. By
   way of example, intelligence components 316 can be intelligence components 316 configured
10 to detect when a location (e.g., a house or room) is occupied, up to and including whether it is
   occupied by a specific person or is occupied by a specific number and/or set of people (e.g.,
   relative to one or more thresholds). Such detection can occur, e.g., by analyzing microphone
   signals, detecting user movements (e.g., in front of a device), detecting openings and closings
   of doors or garage doors, detecting wireless signals, detecting an IP address of a received
15 signal, or detecting operation of one or more devices within a time window. Intelligence
   components 316 may include image-recognition technology to identify particular occupants
   or objects.
   [0088]     In some instances, intelligence components 316 can be configured to predict
   desirable settings and/or to implement those settings. For example, based on the presence
20 detection, intelligence components 316 can adjust device settings to, e.g., conserve power
   when nobody is home or in a particular room or to accord with user preferences (e.g., general
   at-home preferences or user-specific preferences). As another example, based on the
   detection of a particular person, animal or object (e.g., a child, pet or lost object), intelligence
   components 316 can initiate an audio or visual indicator of where the person, animal or object
25 is or can initiate an alarm or security feature if an unrecognized person is detected under
   certain conditions (e.g., at night or when lights are out). As yet another example, intelligence
   components 316 can detect hourly, weekly or even seasonal trends in user settings and adjust
   settings accordingly. For example, intelligence components 316 can detect that a particular
   device is turned on every week day at 6:30am, or that a device setting is gradually adjusted
30 from a high setting to lower settings over the last three hours. Intelligence components 316
   can then predict that the device is to be turned on every week day at 6:30am or that the
   setting should continue to gradually lower its setting over a longer time period.
   [0089]     In some instances, devices can interact with each other such that events detected by
   a first device influences actions of a second device. For example, a first device can detect
                                                     23

   that a user has pulled into a garage (e.g., by detecting motion in the garage, detecting a
   change in light in the garage or detecting opening of the garage door). The first device can
   transmit this information to a second device, such that the second device can, e.g., adjust a
   home temperature setting, a light setting, a music setting, and/or a security-alarm setting. As
 5 another example, a first device can detect a user approaching a front door (e.g., by detecting
   motion or sudden light-pattern changes). The first device can, e.g., cause a general audio or
   visual signal to be presented (e.g., such as sounding of a doorbell) or cause a location-specific
   audio or visual signal to be presented (e.g., to announce the visitor's presence within a room
   that a user is occupying).
10 [0090]     Tamper detection circuitry 318 may be part or separate from intelligence
   components 316. Tamper detection circuitry 318 may include software and/or hardware
   operable to detect tampering of the device 300. Tampering may include, e.g., a disconnect
   between the device 300 and the HVAC indicative of a user attempt to obviate HVAC control
   by the remote server during a DR event, a change in impedance or power consumption by the
15 HVAC indicative of a user attempt to obviate HVAC control by the remote server during a
   DR event, etc.
   [0091]     Fig. 3B illustrates an intelligent, network-connected device 300 having a
   replaceable module 314 (e.g., a head unit) and a docking station 312 (e.g., a back plate) for
   ease of installation, configuration, and upgrading according to some embodiments. As
20 described hereinabove, device 300 may be wall mounted, have a circular shape, and have an
   outer rotatable ring 320 (that may be, e.g., part of user interface 304) for receiving user input.
   Outer rotatable ring 320 allows the user to make adjustments, such as selecting a new target
   temperature. For example, by rotating outer ring 320 clockwise, a target setpoint temperature
   can be increased, and by rotating the outer ring 320 counter-clockwise, the target setpoint
25 temperature can be decreased. Changes to an existing setpoint temperature that reflect a
   desire for the temperature in the structure to be immediately changed to that setpoint
   temperature may herein be referred to as "immediate setpoint temperature". This is in
   contrast to setpoint temperatures that may be provided in a hourly, daily, weekly, monthly, or
   other schedule in which setpoint temperatures may reflect desire for future temperatures in
30 the structure. Such setpoint temperatures may herein be referred as "scheduled setpoint
   temperature".
   [0092]     Device 300 has a cover 322 that includes a display 324 (that may be, e.g., part of
   user interface 304). Head unit 314 slides onto back plate 312. Display 324 may display a
   variety of information depending on, e.g., a current operational state of the device 300, direct
                                                     24

   user interaction with the device via ring 320, sensed presence of the user via, e.g., a proximity
   sensor 302 (such as a passive infrared motion sensor), remote user interaction with the device
   via a remote access device, etc. For example, display 324 may display central numerals that
   are representative of a current setpoint temperature.
 5 [0093]    According to some embodiments the connection of the head unit 314 to back plate
   312 can be accomplished using magnets, bayonet, latches and catches, tabs or ribs with
   matching indentations, or simply friction on mating portions of the head unit 314 and back
   plate 312. According to some embodiments, the head unit 314 includes battery 308,
   communications component 310, intelligence components 316, and a display driver 326 (that
10 may be, e.g., part of user interface 304). Battery 308 may be recharged using recharging
   circuitry (that may be, e.g., part of intelligence components 316 and/or may be included in
   the back plate 312) that uses power from the back plate 312 that is either obtained via power
   harvesting (also referred to as power stealing and/or power sharing) from the HVAC system
   control circuit(s) or from a common wire, if available, as described in further detail in
15 commonly assigned co-pending U.S. Patent App. Nos. 13/034,674 (client reference number
   NES0006) and 13/034,678 (client reference number NES0007), both filed February 24, 2011,
   and U.S. Patent App. No. 13/267,871 (client reference number NESO158), filed October 6,
   2011, all of which are incorporated by reference herein in their entirety for all purposes.
   According to some embodiments, battery 308 is a rechargeable single cell lithium-ion, or a
20 lithium-polymer battery.
   [0094]     Back plate 312 includes electronics 330 and a temperature sensor 332 (that may be,
   e.g., one of sensors 302) in housing 334, which are ventilated via vents 336. Temperature
   sensor 332 allows the back plate 312 to operate as a fully functional thermostat even when
   not connected to the head unit 314. Wire connectors 338 are provided to allow for
25 connection to HVAC system wires, such as connection to wires for actuating components of
   the HVAC system, wires for receiving power from the HVAC system, etc. Connection
   terminal 340 is a male or female plug connector that provides electrical connections between
   the head unit 314 and back plate 312. Various arrangements for connecting to and
   controlling an HVAC system are further described in U.S. Patent App. Nos. 13/034,674 and
30  13/034,678, supra.
   [0095]     In some embodiments, the back plate electronics 330 includes an MCU processor,
   and driver circuitry for opening and closing the HVAC control circuits, thereby turning on
   and turning off the one or more HVAC functions such as heating and cooling. The
   electronics 330 also includes flash memory which is used to store a series of programmed
                                                     25

   settings that take effect at different times of the day, such that programmed setpoint (i.e.,
   desired temperature) changes can be carried out even when the head unit 314 is not attached
   to the back plate 312. According to some embodiments, the electronics 330 also includes
   power harvesting circuitry (that may be in addition or alternatively to that provided in head
 5 unit 314) to obtain power from the HVAC control circuit(s) even when an HVAC common
   power wire is not available. In various embodiments, tamper detection circuitry 318 (FIG.
   3A) may also be incorporated in one or more of the head unit 314 and back plate 312 such
   that tampering may be detected regardless of whether the head unit 314 is coupled to the back
   plate 312.
10 [0096]    FIG. 3C illustrates a conceptual diagram of the device 300 with particular reference
   to the wire connectors 338 and tamper detection circuitry 318. It is to be appreciated that the
   wire connectors 338 and tamper detection circuitry 318 can, in whole or in part, be separably
   or inseparably integral with the main body of the device 300 without departing from the
   scope of the present teachings. Thus, for example, for one embodiment the wire connectors
15 338 and tamper detection circuitry 318 can be inseparably integral with the main body of the
   device 300, with the HVAC wires being inserted directly into the back before placement on
   the wall as a single monolithic unit. In another embodiment, the wire connectors 338 and
   tamper detection circuitry 318 can be located in a wall plate unit to which the main body of
   the thermostat attaches, it being understood that references herein to the insertion of wires
20 into the thermostat encompass embodiments in which the wires are inserted into the wall
   plate and the main body is attached to the wall plate to form the completed device 300.
   [0097]    As illustrated in FIG. 3C, each wire connector 338 is associated with a
   predetermined HVAC signal type. For one embodiment that has been found to provide an
   optimal balance between simplicity of installation for do-it-yourselfers and a reasonably
25 broad retrofit applicability for a large number of homes, there are eight (8) wire connectors
   338 provided, which are dedicated respectively to a selected group of HVAC signal types
   consisting of heating call power (Rh), heating call (WI), cooling call (Yl), fan call (G),
   common (C), heat pump (0/B), auxiliary (AUX), and heating call power (Rh). Preferably,
   the device 300 is of a "jumperless" type according to the commonly assigned U.S. Ser. No.
30  13/034,674, supra, such that (i) the Rh and Re connection ports automatically remain shunted
   together for cases in which there is a single call power wire provided by the HVAC system,
   one or the other connection port receiving a single call power wire (which might be labeled
   R, V, Rh, or Re depending on the particular HVAC installation), and (ii) the Rh and Rc
                                                     26

   connection ports are automatically electrically segregated for cases in which there are dual
   call power wires provided by the HVAC system that are inserted.
   [0098]     According to one embodiment, tamper detection circuitry 318 includes, for each
   wire connector 338, a port sensing circuit 342 that communicates with the back plate
 5 electronics 330 over a pair of electrical leads 344. Although the port sensing circuit 342 can
   operate in a variety of different ways without departing from the scope of the present
   teachings, in one embodiment the control port sensing circuit 342 comprises a two-position
   switch (not shown) coupled to the electrical leads 344, the two-position switch being closed
   to short the electrical leads 344 together when no wire has been inserted into the associated
10 wire connector 338, the two-position switch being mechanically urged into an open position
   to electrically segregate the electrical leads 344 when a wire is inserted into the associated
   wire connector 338. The back plate electronics 330 thereby is able to readily sense when a
   wire is inserted into the connection port by virtue of the shorted or open state of the electrical
   leads 344. One particularly advantageous configuration that implements the combined
15 functionality of the wire connector 338 and the port sensing circuit 342 is described in the
   commonly assigned U.S. Patent Application No. 13/034,666 (client reference number
   NES0035), filed February 24, 2011, the contents of which are incorporated by reference in
   their entirety for all purposes.
   [0099]     Device 300 in certain embodiments is an intelligent, network-connected learning
20 thermostat that includes various components such as a head unit, a back plate, a user
   interface, communications components, intelligent components, etc. However, it will be
   appreciated by those skilled in the art that devices that perform the various operations
   described herein could operate equally well with fewer or a greater number of components
   than are illustrated in FIGS. 3A through 3C. For example, the device 300 may be be formed
25 as a single unit rather than multiple modules, may include more or fewer components than
   described with reference to FIG. 3A, and may include more or fewer components than
   described with reference to FIG. 3C. For example, the device 300 may be formed as
   described in U.S. Patent Application No. 13/624,878, filed September 21, 2012, and/or as
   described in U.S. Patent Application No. 13/632,148, filed September 30, 2012, both of
30 which are incorporated herein by reference in their entirety for all purposes.
   [0100]     Thus, the depiction of device 300 in FIGS. 3A through 3C should be taken as being
   illustrative in nature, and not limiting to the scope of the present teachings.
                                                     27

   [0101]     FIG. 4 illustrates a network-level view of an extensible devices and services
   platform with which the smart home of FIGS. 1 and/or 2 and/or the device of FIGS 3A
   through 3C can be integrated. Each of the intelligent, network-connected devices discussed
   previously with reference to structure 250 can communicate with one or more remote servers
 5 or cloud computing systems 264. The communication can be enabled by establishing
   connection to the network 262 either directly (for example, using 3G/4G connectivity to a
   wireless carrier), though a hubbed network (which can be a scheme ranging from a simple
   wireless router, for example, up to and including an intelligent, dedicated whole-home
   control node), or through any combination thereof.
10 [0102]     The remote server or cloud-computing system 264 can collect operation data 302
   from the smart home devices. For example, the devices can routinely transmit operation data
   or can transmit operation data in specific instances (e.g., when requesting customer support).
   The remote server or cloud-computing architecture 264 can further provide one or more
   services 404. The services 404 can include, e.g., software updates, customer support, sensor
15 data collection/logging, remote access, remote or distributed control, or use suggestions (e.g.,
   based on collected operation data 404 to improve performance, reduce utility cost, etc.). Data
   associated with the services 304 can be stored at the remote server or cloud-computing
   system 264 and the remote server or cloud-computing system 264 can retrieve and transmit
   the data at an appropriate time (e.g., at regular intervals, upon receiving request from a user,
20 etc.).
   [0103]     One salient feature of the described extensible devices and services platform, as
   illustrated in FIG. 4, is a processing engine 406, which can be concentrated at a single data
   processing server 407 (which may be included in or separate from remote server 264) or
   distributed among several different computing entities without limitation. Processing engine
25 406 can include engines configured to receive data from a set of devices (e.g., via the Internet
   or a hubbed network), to index the data, to analyze the data and/or to generate statistics based
   on the analysis or as part of the analysis. The analyzed data can be stored as derived data
   408. Results of the analysis or statistics can thereafter be transmitted back to a device
   providing ops data used to derive the results, to other devices, to a server providing a
30 webpage to a user of the device, or to other non-device entities. For example, use statistics,
   use statistics relative to use of other devices, use patterns, and/or statistics summarizing
   sensor readings can be transmitted. The results or statistics can be provided via the network
   262. In this manner, processing engine 406 can be configured and programmed to derive a
                                                     28

   variety of useful information from the operational data obtained from the smart home. A
   single server can include one or more engines.
   [0104]     The derived data can be highly beneficial at a variety of different granularities for a
   variety of useful purposes, ranging from explicit programmed control of the devices on a per
 5 home, per-neighborhood, or per-region basis (for example, demand-response programs for
   electrical utilities), to the generation of inferential abstractions that can assist on a per-home
   basis (for example, an inference can be drawn that the homeowner has left for vacation and
   so security detection equipment can be put on heightened sensitivity), to the generation of
   statistics and associated inferential abstractions that can be used for government or charitable
10 purposes. For example, the processing engine 406 can generate statistics about device usage
   across a population of devices and send the statistics to device users, service providers or
   other entities (e.g., that have requested or may have provided monetary compensation for the
   statistics). As specific illustrations, statistics can be transmitted to charities 422,
   governmental entities 424 (e.g., the Food and Drug Administration or the Environmental
15 Protection Agency), academic institutions 426 (e.g., university researchers), businesses 428
   (e.g., providing device warranties or service to related equipment), or utility companies 430.
   These entities can use the data to form programs to reduce energy usage, to preemptively
   service faulty equipment, to prepare for high service demands, to track past service
   performance, etc., or to perform any of a variety of beneficial functions or tasks now known
20 or hereinafter developed.
   [0105]     FIG. 5 illustrates an abstracted functional view of the extensible devices and
   services platform of FIG. 4, with particular reference to the processing engine 406 as well as
   the devices of the smart home. Even though the devices situated in the smart home will have
   an endless variety of different individual capabilities and limitations, they can all be thought
25 of as sharing common characteristics in that each of them is a data consumer 502 (DC), a data
   source 504 (DS), a services consumer 506 (SC), and a services source 508 (SS).
   Advantageously, in addition to providing the essential control information needed for the
   devices to achieve their local and immediate objectives, the extensible devices and services
   platform can also be configured to harness the large amount of data that is flowing out of
30 these devices. In addition to enhancing or optimizing the actual operation of the devices
   themselves with respect to their immediate functions, the extensible devices and services
   platform can also be directed to "repurposing" that data in a variety of automated, extensible,
   flexible, and/or scalable ways to achieve a variety of useful objectives. These objectives may
                                                       29

   be predefined or adaptively identified based on, e.g., usage patterns, device efficiency, and/or
   user input (e.g., requesting specific functionality).
   [0106]     For example, FIG. 5 shows processing engine 406 as including a number of
   paradigms 510. Processing engine 406 can include a managed services paradigm 510a that
 5 monitors and manages primary or secondary device functions. The device functions can
   include ensuring proper operation of a device given user inputs, estimating that (e.g., and
   responding to) an intruder is or is attempting to be in a dwelling, detecting a failure of
   equipment coupled to the device (e.g., a light bulb having burned out), implementing or
   otherwise responding to energy demand response events, or alerting a user of a current or
10 predicted future event or characteristic. Processing engine 406 can further include an
   advertising/communication paradigm 510b that estimates characteristics (e.g., demographic
   information), desires and/or products of interest of a user based on device usage. Services,
   promotions, products or upgrades can then be offered or automatically provided to the user.
   Processing engine 406 can further include a social paradigm 51 Oc that uses information from
15 a social network, provides information to a social network (for example, based on device
   usage), and/or processes data associated with user and/or device interactions with the social
   network platform. For example, a user's status as reported to their trusted contacts on the
   social network could be updated to indicate when they are home based on light detection,
   security system inactivation or device usage detectors. As another example, a user may be
20 able to share device-usage statistics with other users. Processing engine 406 can include a
   challenges/rules/compliance/rewards paradigm 51 Gd that informs a user of challenges, rules,
   compliance regulations and/or rewards and/or that uses operation data to determine whether a
   challenge has been met, a rule or regulation has been complied with and/or a reward has been
   earned. The challenges, rules or regulations can relate to efforts to conserve energy, to live
25 safely (e.g., reducing exposure to toxins or carcinogens), to conserve money and/or
   equipment life, to improve health, etc.
   [0107]     Processing engine 406 can integrate or otherwise utilize extrinsic information 516
   from extrinsic sources to improve the functioning of one or more processing paradigms.
   Extrinsic information 516 can be used to interpret operational data received from a device, to
30 determine a characteristic of the environment near the device (e.g., outside a structure that the
   device is enclosed in), to determine services or products available to the user, to identify a
   social network or social-network information, to determine contact information of entities
   (e.g., public-service entities such as an emergency-response team, the police or a hospital)
                                                   30

   near the device, etc., to identify statistical or environmental conditions, trends or other
   information associated with a home or neighborhood, and so forth.
   [0108]     An extraordinary range and variety of benefits can be brought about by, and fit
   within the scope of, the described extensible devices and services platform, ranging from the
 5 ordinary to the profound. Thus, in one "ordinary" example, each bedroom of the smart home
   can be provided with a smoke/fire/CO alarm that includes an occupancy sensor, wherein the
   occupancy sensor is also capable of inferring (e.g., by virtue of motion detection, facial
   recognition, audible sound patterns, etc.) whether the occupant is asleep or awake. If a
   serious fire event is sensed, the remote security/monitoring service or fire department is
10 advised of how many occupants there are in each bedroom, and whether those occupants are
   still asleep (or immobile) or whether they have properly evacuated the bedroom. While this
   is, of course, a very advantageous capability accommodated by the described extensible
   devices and services platform, there can be substantially more "profound" examples that can
   truly illustrate the potential of a larger "intelligence" that can be made available. By way of
15 perhaps a more "profound" example, the same data bedroom occupancy data that is being
   used for fire safety can also be "repurposed" by the processing engine 406 in the context of a
   social paradigm of neighborhood child development and education. Thus, for example, the
   same bedroom occupancy and motion data discussed in the "ordinary" example can be
   collected and made available for processing (properly anonymized) in which the sleep
20 patterns of schoolchildren in a particular ZIP code can be identified and tracked. Localized
   variations in the sleeping patterns of the schoolchildren may be identified and correlated, for
   example, to different nutrition programs in local schools.
   [0109]     FIG. 6 is a block diagram of a special-purpose computer system 600 according to an
   embodiment. For example, one or more of a utility provider computing system 120, energy
25 management system 130, elements of smart home environment 200, remote server 264, client
   device 300, processing engine 406, data processing server 407, or other electronic
   components described herein may be implemented as a special-purpose computer system
   600. The methods and processes described herein may similarly be implemented by
   computer-program products that direct a computer system to perform the actions of the
30 methods and processes described herein. Each such computer-program product may
   comprise sets of instructions (codes) embodied on a computer-readable medium that directs
   the processor of a computer system to perform corresponding actions. The instructions may
   be configured to run in sequential order, or in parallel (such as under different processing
   threads), or in a combination thereof.
                                                      31

   [0110]    Special-purpose computer system 600 comprises a computer 602, a monitor 604
   coupled to computer 602, one or more additional user output devices 606 (optional) coupled
   to computer 602, one or more user input devices 608 (e.g., keyboard, mouse, track ball, touch
   screen) coupled to computer 602, an optional communications interface 610 coupled to
 5 computer 602, and a computer-program product 612 stored in a tangible computer-readable
   memory in computer 602. Computer-program product 612 directs system 600 to perform the
   methods and processes described herein. Computer 602 may include one or more processors
   614 that communicate with a number of peripheral devices via a bus subsystem 616. These
   peripheral devices may include user output device(s) 606, user input device(s) 608,
10 communications interface 610, and a storage subsystem, such as random access memory
   (RAM) 618 and non-volatile storage drive 620 (e.g., disk drive, optical drive, solid state
   drive), which are forms of tangible computer-readable memory.
   [0111]    Computer-program product 612 may be stored in non-volatile storage drive 620 or
   another computer-readable medium accessible to computer 602 and loaded into memory 618.
15 Each processor 614 may comprise a microprocessor, such as a microprocessor from Intel or
   Advanced Micro Devices, Inc.*, or the like. To support computer-program product 612, the
   computer 602 runs an operating system that handles the communications of product 612 with
   the above-noted components, as well as the communications between the above-noted
   components in support of the computer-program product 612. Exemplary operating systems
20 include Windows or the like from Microsoft Corporation, Solaris from Sun Microsystems,
   LINUX, UNIX, and the like.
   [0112]    User input devices 608 include all possible types of devices and mechanisms to
   input information to computer system 602. These may include a keyboard, a keypad, a
   mouse, a scanner, a digital drawing pad, a touch screen incorporated into the display, audio
25 input devices such as voice recognition systems, microphones, and other types of input
   devices. In various embodiments, user input devices 608 are typically embodied as a
   computer mouse, a trackball, a track pad, a joystick, wireless remote, a drawing tablet, a
   voice command system. User input devices 608 typically allow a user to select objects,
   icons, text and the like that appear on the monitor 604 via a command such as a click of a
30 button or the like. User output devices 606 include all possible types of devices and
   mechanisms to output information from computer 602. These may include a display (e.g.,
   monitor 604), printers, non-visual displays such as audio output devices, etc.
   [0113]    Communications interface 610 provides an interface to other communication
   networks and devices and may serve as an interface to receive data from and transmit data to
                                                  32

   other systems, WANs and/or the Internet, via a wired or wireless communication network
   622. Embodiments of communications interface 610 typically include an Ethernet card, a
   modem (telephone, satellite, cable, ISDN), a (asynchronous) digital subscriber line (DSL)
   unit, a FireWire interface, a USB* interface, a wireless network adapter, and the like. For
 5 example, communications interface 610 may be coupled to a computer network, to a
   FireWire bus, or the like. In other embodiments, communications interface 610 may be
   physically integrated on the motherboard of computer 602, and/or may be a software
   program, or the like.
   [0114]     RAM 618 and non-volatile storage drive 620 are examples of tangible computer
10 readable media configured to store data such as computer-program product embodiments of
   the present invention, including executable computer code, human-readable code, or the like.
   Other types of tangible computer-readable media include floppy disks, removable hard disks,
   optical storage media such as CD-ROMs, DVDs, bar codes, semiconductor memories such as
   flash memories, read-only-memories (ROMs), battery-backed volatile memories, networked
15 storage devices, and the like. RAM 618 and non-volatile storage drive 620 may be
   configured to store the basic programming and data constructs that provide the functionality
   of various embodiments of the present invention, as described above.
   [0115]     Software instruction sets that provide the functionality of the present invention may
   be stored in RAM 618 and non-volatile storage drive 620. These instruction sets or code may
20 be executed by the processor(s) 614. RAM 618 and non-volatile storage drive 620 may also
   provide a repository to store data and data structures used in accordance with the present
   invention. RAM 618 and non-volatile storage drive 620 may include a number of memories
   including a main random access memory (RAM) to store of instructions and data during
   program execution and a read-only memory (ROM) in which fixed instructions are stored.
25 RAM 618 and non-volatile storage drive 620 may include a file storage subsystem providing
   persistent (non-volatile) storage of program and/or data files. RAM 618 and non-volatile
   storage drive 620 may also include removable storage systems, such as removable flash
   memory.
   [0116]     Bus subsystem 616 provides a mechanism to allow the various components and
30 subsystems of computer 602 communicate with each other as intended. Although bus
   subsystem 616 is shown schematically as a single bus, alternative embodiments of the bus
   subsystem may utilize multiple busses or communication paths within the computer 602.
                                                   33

   [0117]     For a firmware and/or software implementation, the methodologies may be
   implemented with modules (e.g., procedures, functions, and so on) that perform the functions
   described herein. Any machine-readable medium tangibly embodying instructions may be
   used in implementing the methodologies described herein. For example, software codes may
 5 be stored in a memory. Memory may be implemented within the processor or external to the
   processor. As used herein the term "memory" refers to any type of long term, short term,
   volatile, nonvolatile, or other storage medium and is not to be limited to any particular type of
   memory or number of memories, or type of media upon which memory is stored.
   [0118]     Moreover, as disclosed herein, the term "storage medium" may represent one or
10 more memories for storing data, including read only memory (ROM), random access memory
   (RAM), magnetic RAM, core memory, magnetic disk storage mediums, optical storage
   mediums, flash memory devices and/or other machine readable mediums for storing
   information. The term "machine-readable medium" includes, but is not limited to portable or
   fixed storage devices, optical storage devices, wireless channels, and/or various other storage
15 mediums capable of storing that contain or carry instruction(s) and/or data.
   [0119]     FIG. 7 illustrates a process 700 for implementing and managing a demand-response
   program according to an embodiment. To facilitate understanding, the process 300 is
   described with reference to FIG. 1 and FIG. 2, although it should be understood that
   embodiments of the process 700 are not limited to the exemplary systems and apparatus
20 described with reference to FIG. 1 and FIG. 2.
   [0120]     In operation 702, energy consumers are enrolled in a demand-response program that
   defines one or more demand-response events. The energy consumers may be residents of or
   otherwise associated with the energy consumption at one or more of energy consumer
   residences 150A - 150N. The demand-response program is a program that attempts to reduce
25 load on the electrical grid supplying the energy consumer residences 150A - 15ON during
   certain critical times which are generally times when demand gets close to or is expected to
   exceed supply. The DR program often allows for participation in the program by the energy
   consumers to be voluntary, although in some embodiments participation may be mandatory.
   In exchange for participation, the energy consumers are often rewarded monetary incentives,
30 reward-based incentives, or other types of incentives to garner increased participation, but in
   some embodiments the energy consumers may not be provided such incentives.
   [0121]     A DR program may run for set periods, such as for a certain number of months,
   days, years, may be seasonal (e.g., implemented in seasons such as summer when energy
                                                    34

   demand is expected to increase substantially), may be perpetual, and/or may be executed over
   any suitable period of time. In its efforts to reduce energy consumption over specifically
   defined periods, the DR program defines one or more DR events. A DR event is a time
   period over which energy reduction mechanisms are to be actively engaged. The DR event is
 5 defined by a DR event profile which includes information identifying a DR event period
   which defines the time period over which energy reduction mechanisms are to be actively
   engaged. The time period may be on the order of minutes, tens of minutes, hours, tens of
   hours, or other sutiable time period for which energy shifting is desired. In at least one
   embodiment, a DR event period may be on the order of a few minutes and refererd to as an
10 'instantaneous DR event', which is an event narrowly tailored to an expected peak in
   aggregate energy demand. In such instances the peak in energy demand may be identified a
   few minutes (or a few hours) prior to the the expected peak time, and in some embodiments
   the duration of the peak energy demand (i.e., the duration during which expected demand
   exceeds supply) may last a few minutes.
15 [0122]     The DR event may also include other information suitable for effectively managing
   energy consumption over the DR event period. For example, the DR event may also include
   information identifying a DR event magnitude which defines a magnitude of the desired
   energy reduction (either on a per-consumer basis, a group basis, an aggregate basis, or other
   basis). For another example, the DR event may include information identifying a
20 geographical scope of the DR event, where the geographical scope may describe a region that
   relates to one or more electrical grids from which load shedding is desired. The region may
   be defined using any suitable parameters such as state, county, zip code, address, or the like,
   or may identify one or more particular electrical grids from which such addresses of
   residences may subsequently be inferred. In some embodiments, the DR program may also
25 identify costs per unit of energy over the course of the DR program, DR events, etc. In other
   embodiments, consumers may be grouped according to characteristics other than
   geographical characteristics. For example, consumers may be grouped based on similar (or
   different) characteristics regarding their structures (e.g., thermal retention), their affluency
   (e.g., absolute wealth, annual income, etc.), their tendency to participate in DR events and/or
30 programs, the amount of energy shifting likely achieved by their participation in a DR event
   and/or program, etc.
   [0123]     As further described herein, various aspects of the DR program may be managed
   and executed by the utility provider computing system 120 and/or the energy management
   system 130 either separately or in combination with one another. Accordingly, the energy
                                                    35

   consumers may enroll in one or more DR programs offered by one or more of the utility
   provider associated with the utility provider computing system 120 and an energy manager
   associated with the energy management system 130. In one particular embodiment, the
   energy consumer enrolls with the energy manager of the energy management system 130 as
 5 further described with reference to FIG. 8 through FIG. 1 IC. In any event, as a result of
   executing operation 702, one or more energy consumers will be enrolled a DR program.
   [0124]     In operation 704, the time and duration of a demand-response event are determined.
   As should be recognized, some or all aspects of the DR program may be defined by a utility
   provider associated with the utility provider computing system, an energy manager associated
10 with energy management system 130, or other suitable entity. For example, in one aspect of
   the DR program the utility provider computing system 120 may notify the energy
   management system 130 of a particular period during which the utility provider would like to
   reduce aggregate energy consumption. The utility provider computing system 120 may also
   notify the energy management system 130 of the energy reduction it desires during the
15 period. The energy management system 130 may then determine the time and duration of a
   demand-response event based on these notifications from the energy management system
    130, and use such information to subsequently generate a DR event. In other embodiments,
   however, the utility provider computing system 120 may determine the time and duration of a
   demand-response event and communicate that information to the energy management system
20  130. As mentioned, the duration of the DR event may be on the order of minutes (e.g., 5, 10,
    15, 30, 45, 60 minutes, less than 5 or greater than 60 minutes, or in any range therebetween),
   or on the order of hours (e.g., 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, more than 5, or in any range therebetween, etc.).
   [0125]     The energy management system 130 does not necessarily have to rely on the utility
   provider to determine the time and duration of a demand-response event. In some
25 embodiments, the energy management system 130 may determine the time and duration of a
   demand-response event using information acquired from sources other than the utility
   provider. For example, energy management system 130 may monitor one or more of the
   conditions of the electrical grid (e.g., power distribution network 160), weather conditions
   (e.g., temperature, humidity, etc.) at the residences 150A - 150N, the cost of energy (e.g., the
30 real-time cost of a unit of electricity at a residence 150A - 150N), etc. to identify trends
   indicative of a situation in which active energy management and consumption reduction may
   be beneficial. The energy management system 130 may then use one or more of these factors
   to define a time and duration of an upcoming demand-response event, where the time and
                                                     36

   duration may be fixed or variable depending on a continued monitoring of the
   aforementioned conditions.
   [0126]     In operation 706 one or more of the enrolled energy consumers is identified for
   participation in the demand-response event. For example, one or more of the energy
 5 consumers associated with the residences 150A - 150N that enrolled in the DR program may
   be identified for participation in the demand-response event determined in operation 704. It
   should be recognized that not all energy consumers who enrolled in the demand response
   program are equally situated to reduce energy demand for a given DR event, and accordingly
   it may be desirable to invite some enrolled energy consumers to participate in a particular DR
10 event over other enrolled energy consumers. For example, some energy consumers within
   the geographical scope of the DR event may be better situated or more likely to provide
   increased energy reductions over the DR event period as compared to other energy
   consumers. The differences in energy consumption may result from any number of a variety
   of factors, such as variations among thermal retention characteristics of the residences,
15 HVAC capacities, outside temperatures, etc. Particular techniques for using these and other
   factors to identify suitable candidates for participation in a particular DR event are further
   described herein, for example with reference to FIGS. 12 and 13.
   [0127]     In operation 708 energy consumption of the energy consumers identified in
   operation 706 is managed during the demand-response event. For example, the energy
20 consumed at each of the residences 150A - 15ON that enrolled in the DR program and were
   identified for participation in a DR event may be managed by the energy management system
    130. In managing the energy consumption of the identified energy consumers, the energy
   management system 130 may attempt to reduce the aggregate amount of energy consumed by
   the identified energy consumers over a certain period. For example, the energy management
25 system 130 may attempt to reduce the aggregate amount of energy consumed by the DR
   event magnitude defined by the DR event over the course of the DR event period. To achieve
   a reduction in energy consumption, the energy management system 130 may determine a
   'baseline' energy consumption for each energy consumer which defines an amount of energy
   the energy consumer would have consumed during the course of the DR event but-for their
30 active participation in the DR program and the DR event. The energy management system
    130 then utilizes a number of factors to determine techniques for reducing the energy
   consumption of the consumer to an amount less than the baseline. Some particular
   techniques for managing the energy consumption of identified energy consumers are further
   described with reference to FIG. 14 through FIG. 28.
                                                    37

   [0128]    In operation 710 a determination is made as to whether the demand-response event
   is complete. For example, the energy management system 130 may determine whether the
   end of the DR event period has been reached. If so, then processing may continue to
   operation 712, otherwise processing returns to operation 708.
 5 [0129]    It should be recognized that not all DR events complete at the end of the originally
   defined DR event period. Rather, DR events may end before or after the end of the originally
   defined DR event period. This may be due to any one or more of a variety of reasons. For
   example, the desired aggregate energy reduction may be achieved prior to the end of the
   originally defined DR event period, in which case the DR event may end early. Conversely,
10 the desired aggregate energy reduction may not be achieved until after the end of the
   originally defined DR event period, in which case the DR event may end late.
   [0130]    In one embodiment, the energy management system 130 and/or utility provider
   computing system 120 may monitor the load on the power distribution network to determine
   whether the aggregate load has achieved a desired magnitude during the course of the DR
15 event period and at the end of the originally defined DR event period. If the monitoring
   indicates that the load is at an acceptable level, then the DR event may be completed early,
   whereas if the monitoring indicates that the load continues to persist at an unacceptable level,
   then the DR event period may be extended.
   [0131]    Instead of or in addition to monitoring load, the actual amount of energy reduction
20 achieved by way of the energy management in operation 708 may be monitored, and the DR
   event may be deemed complete only once the amount of energy reduction actually achieved
   is substantially equal to or exceeds the desired amount of energy reduction. The monitored
   energy reduction may be the aggregate energy reduction achieved by managing the energy
   consumption of all of the identified energy consumers, where such an aggregate energy
25 reduction may, for example, be compared to the desired aggregate energy reduction (e.g., the
   DR event magnitude defined on an aggregate basis by the DR event). In such an
   embodiment, the DR event may be completed for all of the identified energy consumers even
   if some of the energy consumers provide less energy reduction than expected as long as the
   energy consumers as a whole provide the desired amount of energy reduction. Additionally
30 or alternatively, the DR event for a particular energy consumer may be deemed complete
   once the amount of energy reduction actually achieved by that energy consumer is
   substantially equal to or exceeds the amount of energy reduction expected of that energy
   consumer. The actual energy reduction achieved by the energy consumer may, for example,
                                                    38

   be compared to the desired or otherwise expected energy reduction from the energy consumer
   (e.g., the DR event magnitude defined on a per-customer basis by the DR event).
   [0132]     Once the DR event is complete, then processing performs to operation 712 where
   one or more post-event processing operations may be performed. For example, energy
 5 management system 130 may determine actual amounts of energy reduction achieved on a
   per-customer and/or aggregate basis, determine the value of the energy reductions, determine
   types and/or magnitudes of rewards to provide to each of the DR event participants, etc.
   Such information may be compiled, aggregated, and selectively communicated to other
   entities such as the utility provider computing system 120 for further analysis and/or
10 processing. In some embodiments, such information may be used for increasing the
   effectiveness of managing energy during subsequent DR events or for DR events in other DR
   programs.
   [0133]      In operation 714 it is determined whether the demand-response program is
   complete. As described, a demand-response program may prolong for any suitable duration
15 and include one or more demand response events. If the end of the DR program has not yet
   been reached, then processing returns to operation 704 where the time and duration of a
   subsequent DR event are determined. Otherwise, processing continues to operation 716
   where post-program processing may be performed. Post-program processing 716 may
   encompass a variety of information compilation, aggregation, or other processing suitable for
20 determining the value, effectiveness, or other characteristics of the completed DR program.
   Such information may be used for a variety of purposes, such as for increasing the
   effectiveness of managing energy during subsequent DR or other DR programs.
   [0134]     It should be appreciated that the specific operations illustrated in FIG. 7 provide a
   particular process for implementing and managing a demand-response program according to
25 an embodiment. The various operations described with reference to FIG. 7 may be
   implemented at and performed by one or more of a variety of electronic devices or
   components described herein. For example, they may be implemented at and performed by
   the energy management system 130, one or more residences 150A - 150N, the utility
   provider computing system 120, etc. Other sequences of operations may also be performed
30 according to alternative embodiments. For example, alternative embodiments of the present
   invention may perform the operations outlined above in a different order. Moreover, the
   individual operations illustrated in FIG. 7 may include multiple sub-operations that may be
   performed in various sequences as appropriate to the individual operations. Furthermore,
   additional operations may be added or existing operations removed depending on the
                                                    39

   particular applications. One of ordinary skill in the art would recognize and appreciate many
   variations, modifications, and alternatives.
   [0135]     FIG. 8 illustrates a process 800 for enrolling energy consumers in a demand
   response program according to an embodiment. To facilitate understanding, the process 800
 5 is described with reference to FIG. 1 and FIG. 2, although it should be understood that
   embodiments of the process 800 are not limited to the exemplary systems and apparatus
   described with reference to FIG. 1 and FIG. 2. In one particular embodiment, process 800
   represents a particular example of operation 702 described with reference to FIG. 7.
   However, in other embodiments the scope of process 800 is not so limited.
10 [0136]    As discussed with reference to operation 706 of FIG. 7, not all energy consumers
   that are enrolled in a DR program may be best suited for a particular DR event. Similarly,
   not all energy consumers may be suitable for participation in a DR program at all. For
   example, some energy consumers may be associated with residences that have thermal
   retention characteristics so poor that attempts to manage their energy consumption is largely
15 ineffective. Some energy consumers on a grid may be known to never participate in DR
   events although they enroll a DR program. Some energy consumers may have illustrated
   undesirable past behavior, such as tampering with or attempting to tamper with their
   electronic devices so as to obviate the energy shifting impact of a successful implementation
   of a DR event. In summary, there are numerous reasons to exclude energy consumers from
20 enrollment in a DR program. One particular method for identifying energy consumers for
   enrollment, thus effectively excluding others, is hereby described.
   [0137]     In operation 802 one or more energy consumers are identified for possible
   enrollment in a demand-response program. For example, energy management system 130
   may identify one or more energy consumers associated with residences 150A - 150N for
25 enrollment in a DR program. The initially identified energy consumers may include all or
   only a subset of the energy consumers associated with residences 150A - 150N. The initial
   identification may be based on any one or more of a number of different factors, such as past
   behavior, whether the residence includes an HVAC, whether the residence has a structural
   thermal retention exceeding some value, etc. Turning briefly to FIG. 12, FIG. 12 describes a
30 number of factors that may be used to determine whether an energy consumer qualifies to
   participate in a particular DR event. While the subsequent discussion regarding these factors
   is specifically directed to qualification for participation in a particular DR event, it should be
   recognized that some or all of these factors can similarly be used at the initial stages of
   determining whether or not a particular energy consumer is even suitable to be offered
                                                    40

   enrollment in the DR program as a whole. If these factors, either individually or in the
   aggregate, indicate that the energy user is likely to contribute to the DR program by reducing
   their energy consumption during DR events, then the energy consumer may be identified for
   possible in enrollment in the DR program. Otherwise, the energy consumer may be excluded
 5 from enrollment and, as a result, subsequent participation in DR events.
   [0138]     Once one or more energy consumers have been identified for possible enrollment in
   the DR program, processing continues to operation 804 where the aggregate energy shifting
   resulting from successful implementation of the DR program is estimated. For example, the
   energy management system 130 may estimate the aggregate energy shifting. The aggregate
10 energy shifting may be estimated on the presumption that there is 100% acceptance of offers
   to enroll in the DR program and subsequent participation in all DR events. Alternatively, the
   aggregate energy shifting may be estimated based on expectations of enrollment and DR
   event participation. For example, various data such as prior participation levels in the same
   or similar DR programs, participation levels for prior DR events, the geographical location of
15 the identified energy consumers, the affluence of the energy consumers, one or more of the
   various factors described with reference to FIG. 12, etc. may be used to determine the
   likelihood of a particular energy consumer to accept an offer to enroll in a particular DR
   program. Such information may similarly be used to determine a likely rate of participation
   in the DR events and likely level of participation in each DR event.
20 [0139]     Once the likelihood of participation in the DR program and DR events is determined
   for each identified energy consumer, these may be used to assist in determining the energy
   shifting likely to result from the identified energy consumer's participation in a DR program.
   Once the energy shifting likely to result from each energy consumer's participation in the DR
   program is determined, these individual amounts of energy shifting may then be aggregated
25 to determine the total amount of energy shifting expected from the successful implementation
   of the DR program.
   [0140]     As mentioned, the likelihood of participation in the DR program and DR events
   determined for each identified energy consumer may be used to assist in determining the
   energy shifting likely to result from the identified energy consumer's participation in a DR
30 program. For example, the probability of participating in a DR event may be multiplied by a
   metric indicative of the amount of energy likely to be shifted as a result of participating in the
   DR event, and that result may be multiplied by the probability of the identified energy
   consumer participating in the DR program to determine an estimated amount of energy
   shifting attributed to the identified energy consumer likely to occur if an offer of enrollment
                                                    41

   is extended to the identified energy consumer. In generating the metric indicative of the
   amount of energy likely to be shifted as a result of participating in the DR event, a number of
   different factors may be taken into consideration, such as the likely characteristics of the DR
   program, the likely characteristics of each DR event, the likely HVAC schedule of the energy
 5 consumer over the each DR event period, the likely DR implementation profile for each DR
   event, the structural ability of the energy consumer's residence to shift energy loads, etc. The
   use of such factors for estimating the savings that an energy consumer may realize upon
   participation in and successful completion of a DR program are further described with
   reference to FIG. 10. It should be recognized that these factors can similarly be used to
10 determine the amount of energy likely to be shifted as a result of a particular energy
   consumer participating in a DR program, as described with reference to operation 1012 in
   FIG. 10.
   [0141]     In operation 806, the estimated aggregate energy shifting determined in operation
   804 is compared to a desired amount of aggregate energy shifting for implementation of the
15 DR program. For example, the energy management system 130 may compare the estimated
   shifting determined in operation 804 with a desired amount of aggregate energy shifting.
   Like DR events, each DR program may define magnitude of desired energy reduction that
   should result from successful implementation of the DR program. The desired energy
   reduction may, similar those defined for DR events, may be on a per-consumer basis, a group
20 basis, an aggregate basis, or some other basis. By comparing the estimated aggregate shifting
   likely to result from implementation of the DR program with a select subset of the energy
   consumers 150A - 150N, it can be determined whether the DR program is being offered to
   too few energy consumers, too many energy consumers, or just the right number of energy
   consumers.
25 [0142]     If the comparison indicates that the estimated shifting is less than or greater than the
   desired amount of energy shifting, then scope of enrollment may be altered as described with
   reference to operation 808 so that enrollment is offered to the optimal number of energy
   consumers. In operation 808 the number of identified energy consumers for possible
   enrollment in the DR program is either increased or decreased. For example, if the
30 comparison indicates that the estimated shifting is less than the desired amount of energy
   shifting, then the number of identified energy consumers may be increased. In contrast, if the
   comparison indicates that the estimated shifting is greater than the desired amount of energy
   shifting, then the number of identified energy consumers may be decreased. In increasing or
   decreasing the number of identified energy consumers, the factors used for the identification
                                                   42

   as described with reference to operation 802 may respectively be relaxed or tightened. Once
   the scope of identified energy consumers is altered, processing then returns to operation 804
   whereby a new aggregate energy shifting is estimated resulting from successful
   implementation of the DR program by the revised group of identified energy consumers.
 5 [0143]     If, in contrast, the comparison of operation 806 indicates that the estimated shifting
   is approximately equal to that desired, then processing may continue to operation 810. In
   operation 810 enrollment requests are communicated to the identified energy consumers. For
   example, energy management system 130 may communicate enrollment requests to one or
   more electronic devices of residences 150A - 15ON associated with the identified energy
10 consumers, including one or more of an intelligent, multi-sensing, network-connected
   thermostat 202 and an access device 266 associated with the identified energy consumers.
   One particular example of communicating such an enrollment request is described with
   reference to FIG. 11 A through 1 IC, which depict a graphical user interface of an intelligent,
   network-connected thermostat associated with an identified energy consumer receiving and
15 responding to an enrollment request.
   [0144]     In operation 812, one or more metrics indicative of the amount of energy likely to
   be shifted as a result of the identified energy consumer participating in the DR program may
   also be communicated to the identified energy consumer. For example, the number of kWh
   of energy likely to be shifted, the monetary value of the energy likely to be shifted, etc. can
20 be communicated to the identified energy consumer to inform the identified energy consumer
   as to the value of their participation. Such information may be communicated together with,
   before, or after communicating the enrollment request. In one particular embodiment, such
   information is communicated simultaneously with the enrollment request so as to enable the
   identified energy consumer to make an informed decision when responding to the request.
25 One particular process for generating such metrics is further described with reference to FIG.
    10.
   [0145]     In some embodiments, the quality of the estimated aggregate energy shifting may be
   increased by determining the actual number of identified energy consumers who accept or
   reject enrollment offers and an increased likelihood as to their expected level of participation
30 in each DR event. The following operations describe one particular embodiment for
   increasing the quality of the estimated aggregate energy shifting.
   [0146]     In operation 814 information indicative of an acceptance or rejection of the
   enrollment request may be received from each identified energy consumer. For example,
                                                    43

   such information may be received by the energy management system 130 from one or more
   electronic devices associated with the identified energy consumers for which enrollment
   requests were communicated to in operation 810, such as one or more of an intelligent, multi
   sensing, network-connected thermostat 202 and an access device 266. The information may
 5 be received from the same electronic device which the enrollment requests was
   communicated to, or from a different electronic devices.
   [0147]     In operation 816 information indicative of the identified energy consumers'
   amenability to demand response load shifting is received for each identified energy
   consumer. In being amenable to demand response load shifting, a consumer's preference
10 may range from a 'minimum' amenability (or participation) to a 'maximum' amenability (or
   participation). An indication of a 'minimum' participation indicates that the energy
   consumer prefers a minimum amount of load shifting to participate in the DR program or
   event. Conversely, a 'maximum' participation indicates that the energy consumer prefers a
   maximum amount of load shifting that is capable under the DR program or event. The
15 energy consumer may select the minimum, maximum, or anywhere in a range between a
   minimum and maximum participation, where a minimum participation will result in the least
   change to the energy consumer's energy consumption habits but-for participation in the DR
   program whereas the maximum participation will result in the maximum change to the
   energy consumer's energy consumption habits but-for participation in the DR program. In
20 many situations, a minimum participation will result in the least amount of discomfort
   resulting from participation in a DR event whereas a maximum participation will result in the
   maximum amount of discomfort resulting from participation in a DR event. Like the
   information indicative of an acceptance or rejection of the enrollment request, the
   information indicative of the identified energy consumers' amenability to demand response
25 load shifting may be received by the energy management system 130 from one or more
   electronic devices associated with the identified energy consumers for which enrollment
   requests were communicated to in operation 810, such as one or more of an intelligent, multi
   sensing, network-connected thermostat 202 and an access device 266.
   [0148]     In operation 818 the aggregate energy shifting estimate is revised based on the
30 information received in one or more of operations 814 and 816. For example, the energy
   management system 130 may review the estimate generated in operation 804. The aggregate
   energy shifting estimate may then be revised in one or more of a variety of ways. For
   example, where the received information indicates acceptance of the enrollment request,
   when using the probability of DR program participation to determine to determine an
                                                  44

   estimated amount of energy shifting attributed to an identified energy consumer, the
   probability can be set to 100%. Then, the information indicating the energy consumer's
   amenability to DR load shifting can then be used to more accurately generate the DR
   implementation profile discussed with reference to operation 1008 in FIG. 10. In cases where
 5 the received information indicates rejection of the enrollment request, the identified energy
   consumer can be removed entirely from the calculation in estimating the aggregate energy
   shifting.
   [0149]     In operation 820 the revised estimate of aggregate energy shifting is again compared
   to the desired amount of shifting. If they are not approximately equal, processing may return
10 to operation 808 where the subset of identified energy consumers is increased or decreased as
   previously described. Otherwise, enrollment may conclude where the energy consumers who
   accepted the enrollment requests are determined to be enrolled in the program. In some
   embodiments, the enrollment 'request' may not be a request at all, but rather a notification
   that the recipient will be subject to participation a demand response program. In such cases,
15 reception of an acceptance/rejection is unnecessary, and a more accurate estimate can initially
   be generated in operation 804 in contrast to the embodiments where the enrollment is a
   request for participation.
   [0150]     It should be appreciated that the specific operations illustrated in FIG. 8 provide a
   particular process for enrolling energy consumers in a demand-response program according
20 to an embodiment. The various operations described with reference to FIG. 8 may be
   implemented at and performed by one or more of a variety of electronic devices or
   components described herein. For example, they may be implemented at and performed by
   the energy management system 130, one or more residences 150A - 150N, the utility
   provider computing system 120, etc. Other sequences of operations may also be performed
25 according to alternative embodiments. For example, alternative embodiments of the present
   invention may perform the operations outlined above in a different order. Moreover, the
   individual operations illustrated in FIG. 8 may include multiple sub-operations that may be
   performed in various sequences as appropriate to the individual operations. Furthermore,
   additional operations may be added or existing operations removed depending on the
30 particular applications. For example, as described, operations 812 through 820 may be
   optional. One of ordinary skill in the art would recognize and appreciate many variations,
   modifications, and alternatives.
   [0151]     FIG. 9 illustrates a process 900 for facilitating enrollment of an energy consumer in
   a demand-response program via an electronic device associated with the energy consumer
                                                     45

   according to an embodiment. To facilitate understanding, the process 900 is described with
   reference to FIG. 1 and FIG. 2, although it should be understood that embodiments of the
   process 900 are not limited to the exemplary systems and apparatus described with reference
   to FIG. 1 and FIG. 2.
 5 [0152]    As discussed with reference to FIG. 8, enrollment requests and information
   indicating an energy consumer's amenability to demand response load shifting may be
   communicated to identifier energy consumers. Each identified energy consumer may be
   associated with one or more electronic devices, such as intelligent, multi-sensing, network
   connected thermostat 202, access device 266, etc. The requests for information may be
10 communicated to one or more of these devices and thus one or more of these devices may be
   used to process and respond to the requests as described herein.
   [0153]    In operation 902, an offer to enroll in a DR program is received. For example, the
   offer may be received at an electronic device associated with the identified energy consumer,
   such as intelligent, multi-sensing, network-connected thermostat 202, access device 266, or
15 other device, from remote server 264 via network 262. The offer to enroll may include a
   variety of information regarding the DR program, such as the duration, magnitude,
   expectations, terms, etc. of the DR program, expected number of DR events, and/or expected
   duration, magnitude, expectations, terms, etc. of the DR events. The details of the
   information may be communicated together with the offer, or may be provided to the
20 identified energy consumer via a separate communication mechanism.
   [0154]    In operation 904, the received offer is communicated to the energy consumer. The
   offer may be communicated using one or more of a variety of techniques. For example, the
   offer may be displayed to the user, communicated to the user via audio, etc. Further, the
   offer may be received using one or more of a variety of techniques, e.g., via email, a message
25 on or communicated by the thermostat, a telephone call, etc. In one embodiment, the offer
   may be displayed on one or more of thermostat 202 and access device 266.
   [0155]    In operation 906 it is determined whether the energy consumer accepts the offer.
   The energy consumer may indicate acceptance or rejection of the offer using one or more of a
   variety of techniques. For example, the energy consumer may engage an input interface of
30 one of the thermostat 202 and access device 266 to provide their response, where the input
   interface may be, as previously described, a touchscreen, a rotatable ring, a voice input, or
   other input mechanism.
                                                   46

   [0156]     If the energy consumer rejects the offer, processing may continue to operation 908
   where information indicative of the rejection is communicated. The rejection is typically
   communicated to the entity that communicated the enrollment request to the energy
   consumer; however, in some embodiments the rejection may be communicated to one or
 5 more other recipients. In one particular embodiment, information indicative of the rejection
   is communicated from the thermostat 202 or access device 266 to the energy management
   system 130 via network 262.
   [0157]    Alternatively, if the energy consumer accepts the offer, processing may continue to
   operation 910 where information indicative of the acceptance is communicated. The
10 acceptance is typically communicated to the entity that communicated the enrollment request
   to the energy consumer; however, in some embodiments the acceptance may be
   communicated to one or more other recipients. In one particular embodiment, information
   indicative of the acceptance is communicated from the thermostat 202 or access device 266 to
   the energy management system 130 via network 262.
15 [0158]     Processing may then continue to operation 912 where the energy consumer's
   amenability to DR load shifting is requested. The request may be communicated to the
   energy consumer using one or more of a variety of techniques. For example, the request may
   be displayed to the user, communicated to the user via audio, etc. In one embodiment, the
   request may be displayed on one or more of thermostat 202 and access device 266.
20 [0159]     In operation 914 it is determined whether a response to the request is received. The
   energy consumer provide a response indicating their amenability to DR load shifting using
   one or more of a variety of techniques. For example, the energy consumer may engage an
   input interface of one of the thermostat 202 and access device 266 to provide their response,
   where the input interface may be, as previously described, a touchscreen, a rotatable ring, a
25 voice input, or other input mechanism.
   [0160]     If a response is received, processing may continue to operation 916 where the
   received information indicating the energy consumer's amenability to DR load shifting is
   communicated. The information indicating the energy consumer's amenability to DR load
   shifting is typically communicated to the entity that communicated the enrollment request to
30 the energy consumer; however, in some embodiments the information indicating the energy
   consumer's amenability to DR load shifting may be communicated to one or more other
   recipients. In one particular embodiment, information indicating the energy consumer's
                                                    47

   amenability to DR load shifting is communicated from the thermostat 202 or access device
   266 to the energy management system 130 via network 262.
   [0161]     In contrast, if a response is not received, processing may continue to operation 918
   where 'no-response' processing is performed. No-response processing may encompass one
 5 or more of a variety of processes that may be performed in the absence of receiving a
   response to an initial request for the energy consumer's amenability to DR load shifting. In
   one embodiment, if no response is received, processing may return to operation 912 where
   the energy consumer is again requested for such information. This may be performed any
   number of times until a response is received. In another embodiment, if no response is
10 received, processing may continue to operation 916, where 'default' amenability to DR load
   shifting may be communicated. The default value may range anywhere from minimum to
   maximum amenability to load shifting, and in some embodiments may be displayed to the
   energy consumer prior to communicating such information to the energy management system
    130. In other embodiments, no-response processing may include communicating information
15 indicating a lack of a response to the request for load shifting amenability, in which case the
   energy management system 130 may use a default value or wait until a specific DR event to
   again request the energy consumer's amenability to load shifting.
   [0162]     It should be appreciated that the specific operations illustrated in FIG. 9 provide a
   particular process for facilitating enrollment of an energy consumer in a demand-response
20 program via an electronic device associated with the energy consumer. The various
   operations described with reference to FIG. 9 may be implemented at and performed by one
   or more of a variety of electronic devices or components described herein. For example, they
   may be implemented at and performed by a thermostat 202, an access device 266, or other
   electronic device described in accordance with the smart home environment 200. Other
25 sequences of operations may also be performed according to alternative embodiments. For
   example, alternative embodiments of the present invention may perform the operations
   outlined above in a different order. Moreover, the individual operations illustrated in FIG. 14
   may include multiple sub-operations that may be performed in various sequences as
   appropriate to the individual operations. Furthermore, additional operations may be added or
30 existing operations removed depending on the particular applications. One of ordinary skill
   in the art would recognize and appreciate many variations, modifications, and alternatives.
   [0163]     FIG. 10 illustrates a process 1000 for generating one or more metrics indicative of
   an amount of energy likely be shifted by an energy consumer if the energy consumer enrolls
   and participates in a demand-response program according to an embodiment. To facilitate
                                                     48

   understanding, the process 1000 is described with reference to FIG. 1 and FIG. 2, although it
   should be understood that embodiments of the process 1000 are not limited to the exemplary
   systems and apparatus described with reference to FIG. 1 and FIG. 2.
   [0164]     As discussed with reference to operation 812 of FIG. 8, one or more metrics
 5 indicative of an amount of energy likely be shifted by an energy consumer if the energy
   consumer enrolls and participates in a DR program may be generated for and communicated
   to each identified energy consumer. In one particular embodiment as described herein, such
   metrics may be generated using various information such as the characteristics of the DR
   program, the likely HVAC schedule of the identified energy consumer, the likely DR
10 implementation profile for the identified energy consumer, and the structural ability of the
   energy consumer's residence to load shift.
   [0165]     Turning now to FIG. 10, in operation 1002 the characteristics of the DR program
   are determined. As previously described, the DR program may be defined prior to requesting
   energy consumers to enroll in the program, where the DR program may define the expected
15 number of DR events, the expected magnitude of each DR event, etc. Accordingly, such
   characteristic information may be received by the utility provider computing system 120,
   generated by the energy management system 130, or received or generated in part or in whole
   by other suitable entity. In some cases, a DR program communicated from the utility
   provider computing system 120 may neglect to include various details such as the number of
20 DR events, period of each DR event, magnitude of each DR event, etc. The energy
   management system 130 can estimate the value of such details. For example, the energy
   management system 130 may identify various factors, such as the history of weather patterns
   for a particular region, the expected weather (i.e., weather forecast), the history of DR events
   for a DR program having particular attributes, etc. to generate such an estimate.
25 [0166]     In operation 1004, the expected HVAC schedule of the energy consumer over each
   DR event period is determined. In determining the expected HVAC schedule of a particular
   energy consumer over a particular DR event period, a number of different factors may be
   taken into consideration. These may include, for example, any current scheduled setpoints
   for the DR event period, the occupancy probability profile as applicable to the DR event
30 period, a history of the energy consumer's scheduled and/or immediate setpoints, etc. In
   some embodiments, the energy consumer's historical setpoints may be correlated with
   historical weather patterns to determine setpoints for different weather tendencies, which may
   then be extrapolated to likely setpoints for future weather patterns expected for the future DR
   events. Information from other energy consumers may also be used. For example, historical
                                                   49

   setpoints of similarly situated energy consumers (e.g., as correlated to various weather
   patterns) may be used. Similarly situated energy consumers may be other energy consumers
   in the same geographical region as the identified energy consumer, energy consumers being
   associated with structures having the same thermal retention characteristics and/or HVAC
 5 capacity as the identified energy consumer, etc.
   [0167]    Once the expected HVAC schedule is determined, processing may continue to
   operation 1006 where the likely DR implementation profile for each DR event is determined.
   The likely DR implementation profile indicates the setpoints likely to be implemented for the
   energy consumer during a DR event instead of their scheduled setpoints. In determining the
10 likely DR implementation profile for each event, a number of factors may be taken into
   consideration. These factors may include, for example, the likely HVAC schedule
   determined in operation 1004, the expected occupancy probability profile, the thermal
   retention characteristic of the structure associated with the energy consumer, the HVAC
   capacity of the structure associated with the energy consumer, the expected DR event profile,
15 any indication as to the energy consumer's amenability to load shifting, past DR event
   behavior, weather forecast, etc. Some particular methods for generating a DR
   implementation profile is described with reference to FIG. 16 through FIG. 22. While the
   methods described with reference to FIG. 16 through FIG. 22 are described in the context of
   generating a DR implementation profile during a DR program and immediately prior to a DR
20 event, such a process may similarly be used to generate an expected DR implementation
   profile for one or more future DR events. In the case of generating the expected DR
   implementation profile, however, as mentioned, some factors may be expected value rather
   than actual values.
   [0168]    In operation 1008 the ability of the structure associated with the energy consumer to
25 load shift, for example one of residences 150A - 150N, is determined. The ability of a
   structure to load shift indicates the ability of the structure to reduce energy consumption
   during one period (most commonly in favor of increasing energy consumption during other
   periods) while maintaining substantially constant internal temperature. The ability of a
   structure to load shift may be calculated based on a number of factors, such as the capacity of
30 an environmental management system of the structure relative to a volume of the structure to
   be environmentally managed. The environmental management system may be, e.g., an
   HVAC system, a cooling system, a heating system, a humidifier, etc. The ability to load shift
   may also or alternatively be based on the environmental retention characteristics of the
   structure. Environmental retention characteristics refer to a structure's ability to retain heat,
                                                     50

   retain cold, retain humidity, retain dryness, etc. Different structures have different abilities to
   retain heat, humidity, and the like, depending on a variety of characteristics of the structure,
   such as the materials used to the construct the structure, the number, size, and types of
   windows used in the structure, cavities in the structure for devices such as fireplaces,
 5 ventilation units, etc. Various techniques for determining the environmental retention
   characteristics of a structure may be used. Some particular techniques are described in
   commonly assigned U.S. Patent Application No. 12/881,463, filed September 14, 2010
   (client reference number NES0003) and U.S. Patent Application No. 13/632,152 (client
   reference number NES0259), filed September 30, 2012, both of which are incorporated
10 herein in their entirety for all purposes. For one preferred embodiment, the step 1008 is
   carried out automatically based exclusively on historical sensor readings of, and control
   commands carried out by, the intelligent, network-connected thermostat for that residence.
   This automatic processing can be carried out exclusively at the thermostat itself, or as
   facilitated by the central server(s) of the cloud-based service provider(s) for the thermostat
15 using data uploaded thereto by the thermostat. For such an embodiment, there is a distinct
   advantage in that the homeowner is not required to perform any background data entry, hire
   any outside consultants to perform a thermal analysis of the home, place any special sensing
   equipment in any special location, etc. Rather, simply by virtue of buying and installing the
   intelligent, network-connected thermostat, there has been an intelligent pre-qualification of
20 that customer's premises for predicted demand-response suitability and efficacy. However,
   the scope of the present teachings is not so limited, and in other preferred embodiments there
   can be data used that is input by the homeowner, by an external sensing/logging system, or
   data obtained from other sources to carry out the step 1008. For some embodiments, if it is
   determined that the premises is highly unsuitable for demand response efficacy, there is
25 provided the possible scenario, as may be actualized according to the desires of that particular
   demand-response program, that the homeowner not be bothered at all with the demand
   response participation offer. It should be recognized that while thermal retention is
   described in numerous places herein, embodiments are not so limited. Rather, other types of
   environmental retention may be considered and/or used depending on the particular
30 environmental conditions at the structure and type of energy management being performed
   during a DR event.
   [0169]     In operation 1010, for each likely DR event identified by the DR program, the
   amount of energy likely to be shifted from the DR event period to another time period is
   calculated. Such a calculation may use some or all of the aforementioned factors, such as the
35 likely HVAC schedule, the likely DR implementation profile, and the ability of the structure
                                                    51

   to load shift. In one particular embodiment, a 'baseline' energy consumption for the DR
   event may first be determined using the expected HVAC schedule for the DR event, the
   structure's ability to load shift, the forecasted weather, and the occupancy probability profile.
   In some embodiments, the baseline energy consumption for the DR event may be predicted
 5 using a home thermal model that is created based on a number of factors such as the
   structure's ability to load shift, the forecasted weather, the occupancy probability profile, the
   indoor temperature history, the outdoor temperature history, and the history of HVAC usage.
   The likely energy consumption as a result of participating in the DR event may then be
   determined using the DR implementation profile and the structures ability to load shift. The
10 difference of these values may then be taken as the amount of energy likely to be shifted from
   the DR event period to another time period.
   [0170]     In operation 1012, for each DR event, the likely value per unit of energy over the
   DR event period may be determined. The likely value per unit may be, for example, an
   expected cost per unit of energy. In the context of electrical energy, this may be a cost per
15 kWh or other suitable unit. The expected cost per unit of energy may be determined using
   one or more of a variety of sources, such as contracted energy costs (i.e., a cost of energy as
   defined by the DR program), historical energy costs (i.e., energy costs from prior similar DR
   events, energy costs during prior similar weather patterns as expected for the DR event, etc.
   [0171]     In operation 1014, for each DR event, the value of energy likely to be shifted from
20 the DR event period to another time period is determined. This value of energy may be
   determined by multiplying the likely value per unit of energy determined in operation 1012
   with the amount of energy likely to be shifted calculated in operation 1010.
   [0172]     In one particular embodiment, the value of energy likely to be shifted represents
   only the energy reduction that is likely to occur during the DR event period as a result of
25 energy management and control by one or more elements of the system (e.g., implementation
   of a DR implementation profile by a thermostat). In other embodiments, however, the value
   of energy likely to be shifted may also incorporate increased energy consumption outside of
   the DR event period. That is, in energy shifting energy is shifted from a high cost period
   (i.e., the DR event period) to a low cost period (i.e., periods shouldering the DR event
30 period). While the reduction in energy during the high cost period (and associated value
   thereof) provides a good estimate of the value of energy savings, a more accurate estimate
   may be obtained if the increased energy consumption during the low cost periods is also
   taken into consideration. This may be done by, e.g., in operation 1012 determining the likely
   value per unit of energy not only over the DR event period, but also during the time periods
                                                     52

   (e.g., shoulder periods) over which the energy is likely to be shifted. Then, in operation
    1014, the value of the energy shifted to time periods outside the DR event period may be
   deducted from the value of the energy shifted from the actual DR event period.
   [0173]     In operation 1016, the values of energy calculated for each DR event are summed.
 5 This summed value is the likely value for the energy consumer to particulate in the DR
   program.
   [0174]     In operation 1018, one or more metrics indicative of the amount of energy likely to
   be shifted as a result of enrolling and participating in the DR program are communicated to
   the energy consumer. The metrics may include the amount of energy likely to be shifted as
10 described with reference to operation 1010 (i.e., amount of likely energy shift on a per-event
   basis) or a sum of these amounts for all expected DR events (i.e., a total amount of likely
   energy shift resulting from enrolling and participating in the DR program). The metrics may
   also or alternatively include the value of energy likely to be shifted on a per-event basis (e.g.,
   as described with respect to operation 1014) or on an all-event basis (e.g., as described with
15 reference to operation 1016). In one particular embodiment, energy management system 130
   may communicate the one or more metrics to one or more electronic devices of residences
    150A - 15 ON associated with the identified energy consumer, including one or more of an
   intelligent, multi-sensing, network-connected thermostat 202 and an access device 266
   associated with the identified energy consumer.
20 [0175]     It should be appreciated that the specific operations illustrated in FIG. 10 provide a
   particular process for generating one or more metrics indicative of an amount of energy likely
   be shifted by an energy consumer if the energy consumer enrolls and participates in a
   demand-response program according to an embodiment. The various operations described
   with reference to FIG. 10 may be implemented at and performed by one or more of a variety
25 of electronic devices or components described herein. For example, they may be
   implemented at and performed by the energy management system 130, one or more
   residences 150A - 150N, the utility provider computing system 120, etc. Other sequences of
   operations may also be performed according to alternative embodiments. For example,
   alternative embodiments of the present invention may perform the operations outlined above
30 in a different order. Moreover, the individual operations illustrated in FIG. 10 may include
   multiple sub-operations that may be performed in various sequences as appropriate to the
   individual operations. Furthermore, additional operations may be added or existing
   operations removed depending on the particular applications. For example, where only
   energy estimates (i.e., no value estimates) are needed, operations 1012 to 1016 may be
                                                    53

   omitted. One of ordinary skill in the art would recognize and appreciate many variations,
   modifications, and alternatives.
   [0176]     FIGS. 11 A through 1 IC illustrate a simplified graphical user interface for
   presenting an offer to enroll in a demand response program to an energy consumer. While
 5 the graphical user interface (GUI) is presented in the form of an interface that may be
   displayed on a circular-shaped device such as the device 300 discussed with reference to
   FIGS. 3A through 3C, embodiments are not so limited as similar GUI's could be presented
   on other devices of other shapes.
   [0177]     Turning to the figures, FIG. 11 A illustrates an input/output (1/0) element 1100
10 which may be, e.g., user interface 304 (FIG. 3A), output device 606 and/or input device 608
   (FIG. 6), or other suitable I/O element 1100 of an electronic device associated with an
   identified energy consumer which is offered enrollment in a DR program. The I/O element
    1100 includes a request message 1102 displaying the offer of enrollment to the identified
   energy consumer. The I/O element 1100 also includes a selectable input mechanism 1104
15 whereby the user can either accept or reject the offer. In one specific example, ring 320
   could be rotated and/or depressed to either accept or reject the offer.
   [0178]     FIG. 11 B illustrates the I/O element 1100 in the event the user accepts the offer of
   enrollment. The I/O element 1100 includes a participation level request message 1110
   displaying a request for the identified energy consumer to select their desired level of
20 participation in the DR program. This may range from a minimum level of participation to a
   maximum level of participation in the program. The 1/0 element 1100 may include a
   controllable slider 1112 that enables the identified energy consumer to select any level of
   participation on a gradient ranging from minimum to maximum participation. In one specific
   example, ring 320 could be rotated and/or depressed to select the level of participation. The
25 I/O element 1100 may also include an estimated savings 1114 the identified energy consumer
   may realize if they enroll in the program and participate at the level of participation indicated
   by the slider 1112. The estimated savings in this particular example is illustrated as a dollar
   savings, but in other examples may also or alternatively be illustrated as a magnitude of
   energy savings (e.g., kWh). The estimated savings may also be recalculated and re-displayed
30 in real-time in response to the energy consumer changing their level of participation. Further,
   in some embodiments, the estimated savings may also or alternatively be displayed together
   with the request message 1102 displaying the offer of enrollment. In such a case, the
   estimated savings may be calculated based on a default or expected level of participation.
                                                    54

   [0179]     FIG. 1 IC illustrates the I/O element 1100 in the event the identified energy
   consumer accepts the offer of enrollment and, in some embodiments, in the event the
   identified energy consumer selects their desired level of participation. The I/O element 1100
   includes a thank you message 1120 thanking the identified energy consumer for enrolling in
 5 the program and an instruction message 1122 indicating that the identified energy consumer
   will subsequently be notified of upcoming DR events.
   [0180]     It should be appreciated that the specific 1/0 elements illustrated in FIGS. 11 A
   through 1 IC describe particular I/O elements according to certain embodiments. The I/O
   elements described with reference to FIGS. 11 A through 1 IC may be implemented at and
10 performed by one or more of a variety of electronic devices associated with the identified
   energy consumer. For example, they may be implemented at and performed by one or more
   of the a thermostat 202, hazard detection unit 204, entryway interface device 206, wall light
   switch 208, wall plug interface 210, appliance 212, access device 266, or other electronic
   device associated with the identified energy consumer. The various messages and input
15 elements may not necessarily be displayed at different times, but rather some messages could
   be presented simultaneously on the same display. Some messages could be communicated
   using other communication mechanisms, and responses could similarly be received using
   other communication mechanisms. For example, audible, touch, or other input/output
   mechanisms could be used. Further, it should be recognized that additional or alternative
20 information could be presented to request enrollment and a participation level, and all of the
   information illustrated in FIGS. 11 A through 1 IC need not be presented. One of ordinary
   skill in the art would recognize and appreciate many variations, modifications, and
   alternatives.
   [0181]     Returning briefly to FIG. 7, as described with reference to operation 706, after
25 enrollment, one or more of the enrolled energy consumers is identified for participation in a
   particular DR event. As mentioned, not all energy consumers who enrolled in the demand
   response program are equally situated to reduce energy demand for a given DR event, and
   accordingly it may be desirable to invite some enrolled energy consumers to participate in a
   particular DR event over other enrolled energy consumers. A number of different factors
30 may be taken into consideration for determining whether or not a particular enrolled energy
   consumer is suitable (i.e., qualified) for participation in a particular DR event. One particular
   set of factors is described with reference to FIG. 12.
   [0182]     Specifically, FIG. 12 illustrates process 1200 for analyzing a number of factors to
   determine whether an enrolled energy consumer is qualified for participation in a particular
                                                    55

   DR event according to an embodiment. Some of the factors may be determinative on their
   own, while other factors may be weighed to present an overall qualification level. The
   qualification level may range anywhere from not qualified (e.g., 0) to very qualified (e.g.,
    100). Whether a particular energy consumer is identified for participation in a DR event may
 5 thus depend on whether their qualification level meets a required qualification level. To
   facilitate further understanding, the process 1200 is described with reference to FIG. 1 and
   FIG. 2, although it should be understood that embodiments of the process 1200 are not
   limited to the exemplary systems and apparatus described with reference to FIG. 1 and FIG.
   2.
10 [0183]     Turning to FIG. 12, in operation 1202 it is determined whether the energy consumer
   has displayed a history of positive behavior. Positive behavior may be, e.g., productive (i.e.,
   energy saving) contributions to past DR programs or DR events; positive encouragement for
   others to participate in past DR programs or DR events; timely payment of utility or other
   bills; etc. In contrast, negative behavior may be, e.g., non-productive contributions to past
15 DR programs, negative encouragement for others to participate in past DR programs,
   untimely payment of utility or other bills, tampering of one or more electronic devices
   indicative of an attempt to obviate past DR programming, etc. When there is a history of
   positive behavior, such a history weighs in favor of qualification. In contrast, when there is a
   history of negative behavior, such a history weighs against qualification.
20 [0184]     In operation 1204, it is determined whether the structure associated with the energy
   consumer is likely to be occupied during the DR event. In determining whether the structure
   is likely to be occupied during the DR event, an occupancy probability profile may be
   generated or otherwise acquired. The occupancy probability profile indicates a probability
   that the structure will be occupied at various times. The occupancy probability profile may
25 be generated using one or more occupancy sensors incorporated in one or more electronic
   devices associated with the structure, such as in a thermostat 202, hazard detection unit 204,
   entryway interface device 206, wall light switch 208, wall plug interface 210, appliance 212,
   access device 266, or other electronic device associated with the identified energy consumer.
   A historical record of the occupancy detected by one or more of these devices may be
30 maintained and used to develop the probability profile. In one particular embodiment, a
   technique for developing an occupancy probability profile as described in commonly
   assigned U.S. Patent Application No. 13/632,070 (client reference number NES0234), which
   is incorporated by reference in its entirety for all purposes, may be used. When the
   occupancy probability profile indicates that the structure is likely to be unoccupied, such a
                                                    56

   likelihood weighs in favor of qualification. In contrast, when the occupancy probability
   profile indicates that the structure is unlikely to be occupied, such a likelihood weighs against
   qualification.
   [0185]      In operation 1206 it is determined whether an environmental management system
 5 (e.g., an HVAC system, cooling system, heating system, etc.) is installed, operable, and
   controllable at the structure. For example, device 300 may detect installation of a particular
   type of environmental management system via connections to wire connectors 338. One
   particular technique for detecting installation of a particular type of environmental
   management system is disclosed in commonly assigned U.S. Patent Application No.
10  13/038,191 (client reference number NES0009), filed March 1, 2011, which is incorporated
   by reference in its entirety for all purposes. Further, device 300 may similarly be used to
   determine whether the attached environmental management system is operable and
   controllable by, e.g., the device 300. For example, device 300 may attempt to control an
   attached cooling system to cool the structure. If temperature sensors of the device 300
15 subsequently measure a reduction in inside temperature that is not likely a result of factors
   such as declining outside temperature, the device 300 may deduce that the attached cooling
   system is operable and controllable. Other techniques for determining whether an attached
   environmental management system is operable and controllable are disclosed in U.S. Patent
   Application No. 13/038,191, supra,         , which is incorporated by reference for all purposes.
20 If it is determined that an environmental management system is installed, operable, and
   controllable, then this may weigh in favor of qualification. In contrast, if it is determined that
   an environmental management system is not installed, operable, or controllable, then this way
   weigh against qualification.
   [0186]      In operation 1208 it is determined whether the capacity of the environmental
25 management system relative to the volume of the structure to be environmentally managed
   exceeds a threshold. For example, it may be determined whether the cooling capacity of a
   cooling system relative to the volume of the structure to be cooled by the cooling system
   exceeds a threshold. When the capacity of the environmental management system is too
   small, in some instances the environmental management system may not assist in any DR
30 event energy reduction. Accordingly, when the capacity of the environmental management
   system does not meet or exceed the threshold, this may weigh against qualification. In
   contrast, when the capacity exceeds the threshold, this may weigh in favor of qualification.
   [0187]      In operation 1210 it is determined whether an environmental retention characteristic
   of the structure exceeds a threshold. As mentioned, environmental retention characteristics
                                                     57

   refer to a structures ability to retain heat, retain cold, retain humidity, retain dryness, etc., and
   different structures have different abilities to retain heat, humidity, and the like. When the
   environmental retention characteristic is so low for the type of DR event being managed,
   there may be little or no energy shifting. For example, where there is a very hot outside
 5 temperature and the thermal retention of a structure is very low, the energy consumer
   associated with the structure may be a poor choice for participation in a DR even as pre
   cooling (described in detail further herein) may become largely ineffective. Accordingly,
   when the environmental retention characteristic is equal to or below a threshold value, this
   weighs against qualification. In contrast, when the environmental retention characteristic
10 exceeds the threshold value, this weighs in favor of qualification.
   [0188]     In operation 1212 it is determined whether the amount of energy shifting likely to
   occur as a result of the identified energy consumer participating in the particular DR event
   exceeds a threshold value. Even though a particular energy consumer has enrolled in a DR
   program and, in some embodiments, determined to likely provide at least some amount of
15 energy shifting as a result of their participation in the DR program, that same energy
   consumer may not be well-suited to provide energy shifting for a particular DR event. This
   may be due to any one of a number of reasons, such as the person likely being home for the
   entire duration of the DR event (and unlikely to be home for most other DR events), the
   weather at the energy consumer's structure likely to be significantly different (less energy
20 demanding) than the weather at other identified energy consumer's structures (but more
   similar during other DR events), etc. Moreover, although a number of energy consumers are
   enrolled to participate in a DR program, there may be instances where it is desirable to use
   only a select subset of those consumers for a particular DR event as further described with
   reference to FIG. 13.
25 [0189]     Regardless of the case, at operation 1212 it is determined whether the amount of
   energy shifting likely to occur as a result of the identified energy consumer participating in
   the particular DR event exceeds a threshold value. The amount of energy shifting likely to
   occur may be determined using a number of factors such as the energy consumer's HVAC
   schedule, the DR implementation profile, and the ability of the structure to load shift. In one
30 particular embodiment, a 'baseline' energy shifting for the DR event may first be determined
   using the HVAC schedule for the DR event, the structures ability to load shift, the weather
   forecast, and occupancy probability profile.       The likely energy shifting to occur as a result of
   participating in the DR event may then be determined using the DR implementation profile
   and the structures ability to load shift. The difference of these values may then be taken as
                                                      58

   the amount of energy likely to be shifted from the DR event period to another time period.
   One particular process for determining the amount of energy likely to be shifted is discussed
   with reference to operation 2310 of FIG. 23 in the context of estimating savings and is
   equally applicable here. Accordingly, when the amount of energy shifting likely to occur as a
 5 result of the identified energy consumer participating in the particular DR event exceeds a
   threshold value, this weighs in favor of qualification. In contrast, when the amount of energy
   shifting likely to occur as a result of the identified energy consumer participating in the
   particular DR event is equal to or less than the threshold value, this weighs against
   qualification.
10 [0190]     In operation 1214 it is determined whether the device controlling the environmental
   management system (e.g., an HVAC) at the structure has wireless communication
   capabilities. For example, it may be determined whether device 300 is capable of
   communicating wirelessly with remote server 264 and/or energy management system 130. If
   so, this may weigh in favor of qualification; otherwise, this may weigh against qualification.
15 [0191]     In operation 1216 it is determined whether one or more devices associated with the
   structure of the identified energy consumer has access to weather forecast information. For
   example, it may be determined whether device 300 is operable to receive a weather forecast
   for the weather in the vicinity of the structure. In other embodiments, the devices associated
   with the structure need not have access to weather forecast information, but rather such
20 information may be acquired by other entities such as energy management system 130. If,
   however, it is determined that one or more devices associated with the structure of the
   identified energy consumer has access to weather forecast information, then his may weigh in
   favor of qualification; otherwise, this may weigh against qualification.
   [0192]     In operation 1218 it is determined whether the device (e.g., device 300) controlling
25 the environmental management system (e.g., an HVAC) at the structure is in a particular
   learning mode, e.g., an 'aggressive' learning mode. For example, an intelligent, multi
   sensing, network-connected thermostat 202 may implement one or more learning algorithms
   whereby the thermostat 202 learns the tendencies and preferences of the occupants of the
   structure associated with the thermostat 202. The thermostat 202 may learn preferred
30 temperatures, humidity's, etc. for different times of the day, for different occupants, etc. The
   thermostat 202 may implement multiple modes of learning, wherein an initial learning mode
   aggressively responds to user selections. That is, the learning mode provides significant
   weight to temperature settings and changes instigated by the occupants. The initial learning
                                                     59

   mode may last for a certain duration, for example a week, two weeks, three weeks, etc., or
   until a certain amount of temperature settings and adjustments have been recorded.
   [0193]    At the end of the initial learning mode, the substantive preferences and tendencies
   of the occupants should be recognized. The thermostat 202 may then enter a second learning
 5 mode such as a refining mode of learning. The refining mode may be much less aggressive
   compared to the initial learning mode, in that changes made by occupants are given much less
   weight in comparison to changes made during the initial learning mode. Various specific
   learning algorithms are further described in commonly assigned U.S. Provisional Application
   No. 61/550,346 (client reference number NES0162-PROV), filed October 21, 2011, the
10 contents of which are incorporated by reference herein in their entirety for all purposes.
   [0194]    It should be recognized that embodiments are not necessarily limited to the
   thermostat 202 learning tendencies and preferences of the occupants of the structure, but
   rather the learning algorithms may be incorporated in any one or more of the electronic
   devices described with reference to the smart home environment 200 and/or the energy
15 management system 130. In any event, when such devices are still in an aggressive learning
   mode they may not be suitable for participation in a DR event, and thus this may weigh
   against qualification. In contrast, when such devices are out of the aggressive learning mode,
   this may weigh in favor of qualification.
   [0195]    In operation 1220 it is determined whether the device controlling the environmental
20 management system (e.g., an HVAC) at the structure is paired with a user account. By being
   paired with a user account, the device is uniquely associated with a user account managed by
   the energy management system 130. In many cases, the device is paired with an account
   created by the energy consumer associated with the structure. The account may be managed
   by the energy management system 130 and provide the energy consumer access to control
25 and monitoring of the device (e.g., thermostat 202) using one or more remote electronic
   device (e.g., access device 266). Various techniques for pairing a device to a user account are
   further described in commonly assigned U.S. Patent Application No. 13/275,311 (client
   reference number NESO129), filed October 17, 2011, the contents of which are incorporated
   by reference herein in their entirety for all purposes. If the device controlling the
30 environmental management system at the structure is paired with a user account, this may
   weigh in favor of qualification. In contrast, if the device controlling the environmental
   management system at the structure is not paired with a user account, this may weigh against
   qualification.
                                                    60

   [0196]      In operation 1222 it is determined whether the identified energy consumer is likely
   to participate in the DR event. The likelihood of the energy consumer participating in the DR
   event may be determined based on a number of factors, such as the prior participation levels
   by the energy consumer in past DR events, the HVAC schedule of the energy consumer, the
 5 likelihood of the structure being occupied during the DR event, the geographical location of
   the energy consumer, the affluence of the energy consumer, etc. If the energy consumer is
   likely to participate in the DR event, then this may favor qualification. Otherwise, this may
   weigh against qualification.
   [0197]      It should be appreciated that the specific operations illustrated in FIG. 12 provide a
10 particular process for analyzing a number of factors to determine whether an enrolled energy
   consumer is qualified for participation in a particular DR event. The various operations
   described with reference to FIG. 12 may be implemented at and performed by one or more of
   a variety of electronic devices or components described herein. For example, they may be
   implemented at and performed by one or more electronic devices in the smart home
15 environment 200, the energy management system 130, etc. Other sequences of operations
   may also be performed according to alternative embodiments. For example, alternative
   embodiments of the present invention may perform the operations outlined above in a
   different order. Moreover, the individual operations illustrated in FIG. 12 may include
   multiple sub-operations that may be performed in various sequences as appropriate to the
20 individual operations. Furthermore, additional operations may be added or existing
   operations removed depending on the particular applications. One of ordinary skill in the art
   would recognize and appreciate many variations, modifications, and alternatives.
   [0198]      FIG. 13 illustrates a process 1300 for identifying energy enrolled energy consumers
   to participate in a DR event according to an embodiment. Any particular DR event may have
25 the goal of reducing energy consumption by a certain amount during the DR event period
   (i.e., shifting a certain amount of energy consumption from the DR event period to one or
   more other time periods). The magnitude of this reduction or shifting may be defined, e.g.,
   by the DR event magnitude. In some embodiments it may not be necessary to have all
   enrolled energy consumers participate in a particular DR event to achieve the desired shifting
30 in energy consumption. Accordingly, a particular process for determining the minimum
   number of enrolled energy consumers necessary to achieve a particular amount of energy
   shifting is described herein. To facilitate further understanding, the process 1300 is described
   with reference to FIG. 1 and FIG. 2, although it should be understood that embodiments of
                                                     61

   the process 1300 are not limited to the exemplary systems and apparatus described with
   reference to FIG. 1 and FIG. 2.
   [0199]     In operation 1302, a subset of the enrolled energy consumers is qualified for
   participation in a DR event. A number of factors such as those described with reference to
 5 FIG. 12 may be used to determine which energy consumers are qualified to participate in a
   particular DR event. Initially, the qualification factors may be applied stringently such that a
   fairly limited number of energy consumers are considered to be qualified.
   [0200]     Once the initial subset of enrolled energy consumers is qualified, processing
   continues to operation 1304. In operation 1304 an estimate of the aggregate energy shifting
10 likely to result from participation of the qualified subset of energy consumers is determined.
   The estimated energy shifting likely to result from participation of each energy consumer
   may initially be determined as described with reference to operation 1212. These estimates
   may then be aggregated for all of the initially qualified energy consumers.
   [0201]     In operation 1306, the estimated aggregate energy shifting is then compared with
15 the desired energy shifting. For example, the estimated aggregate energy shifting may be
   compared to a desired energy shifting defined by the DR event. If the estimated aggregate
   energy shifting is not approximately equal to the desired energy shifting, then processing may
   continue to operation 1308.
   [0202]     In operation 1308, the size of the qualified subset of enrolled energy consumers for
20 participation in the DR event is either increased or decreased. If the estimated energy shifting
   is less than the desired energy shifting, then the size of the qualified subset is increased. In
   contrast, if the estimated energy shifting is greater than the desired energy shifting, then the
   size of the qualified subset is decreased. In one particular embodiment, the size of the
   qualified subset may be decreased by making one or more of the factors used to the qualify
25 the subset more stringent. For example, with reference to FIG. 12, the HVAC capacity
   threshold may be increased, the structural thermal retention threshold may be increased, the
   amount of likely energy shifting may be increased, etc. In contrast, the size of the qualified
   subset may be increased by making one or more of the factors used to qualify the subset less
   stringent. For example, with reference to FIG. 12, the HVAC capacity threshold may be
30 decreased, the structural thermal retention threshold may be decreased, the amount of likely
   energy shifting may be decreased, etc. Once the size of the qualified subset is changed,
   processing may return to operation 1304 where an aggregate energy shifting is again
   estimated but this time for the modified subset.
                                                    62

   [0203]     Returning to operation 1310, if the estimated aggregate energy shifting is
   approximately equal to the desired energy shifting, then processing may continue to operation
    1310. In operation 1310 the energy consumers that are included in the qualified subset are
   determined to be the identified energy consumers for participation in the DR event. For
 5 example, with reference to operation 706, the energy consumers that are included in the
   qualified subset may be considered to be those identified in operation 706.
   [0204]     It should be appreciated that the specific operations illustrated in FIG. 13 provide a
   particular process for identifying energy enrolled energy consumers to participate in a DR
   event. The various operations described with reference to FIG. 13 may be implemented at
10 and performed by one or more of a variety of electronic devices or components described
   herein. For example, they may be implemented at and performed by the energy management
   system 130, one or more residences 150A - 150N, the utility provider computing system 120,
   etc. Other sequences of operations may also be performed according to alternative
   embodiments. For example, alternative embodiments of the present invention may perform
15 the operations outlined above in a different order. For example, in some embodiments, if the
   estimated shifting is greater than the desired shifting, processing may continue to operation
    1310 rather than 1308. In such a case it may be recognized that greater shifting than defined
   by a DR event profile may be desired. Moreover, the individual operations illustrated in FIG.
    13 may include multiple sub-operations that may be performed in various sequences as
20 appropriate to the individual operations. Furthermore, additional operations may be added or
   existing operations removed depending on the particular applications. One of ordinary skill
   in the art would recognize and appreciate many variations, modifications, and alternatives.
   [0205]     Returning briefly to FIG. 7, once the specific enrolled energy consumers are
   identified for participation in a DR event as described with reference to operation 706, the
25 energy consumption of those energy consumers is then managed during a DR event.
   Managing energy consumption for an energy consumer may include a variety of aspects, such
   as notifying the energy consumer of the DR event, intelligently reducing energy consumption
   for the energy consumer, responding to changes in the DR event instigated by the utility
   provider or energy management system, responding to feedback of the energy consumer, and
30 the like. One particular process for managing energy consumption of the identified energy
   consumers is herein described with reference to FIG. 14.
   [0206]     Specifically, FIG. 14 illustrates a process 1400 for managing the energy
   consumption of energy consumers identified for participation in a DR event according to an
   embodiment. To facilitate further understanding, the process 1400 is described with
                                                     63

   reference to FIG. 1 and FIG. 2, although it should be understood that embodiments of the
   process 1400 are not limited to the exemplary systems and apparatus described with reference
   to FIG. 1 and FIG. 2.
   [0207]     In operation 1402 each identified energy consumer may be notified of an upcoming
 5 demand-response event. For example, energy management system 130 may communicate
   such a notification to one or more electronic devices of residences 150A - 150N associated
   with the identified energy consumers, including one or more of an intelligent, multi-sensing,
   network-connected thermostat 202 and an access device 266 associated with the identified
   energy consumers. The notification may be communicated to each device associated with an
10 energy consumer or, in some embodiments, may be communicated to only one or a subset of
   devices associated with the energy consumer. The notification may be communicated at any
   suitable time period to the DR event period, such as 1 hour before, 6 hours before, 12 hours
   before, 24 hours before, etc. In some embodiment, the notification may be communicated on
   the order of minutes prior to the DR event period, such as 5 minutes, 15 minutes, 30 minutes,
15 etc. Such may be the case for instantaneous DR where the utility company (or other entity)
   determines that a peak in aggregate energy demand is likely within an hour (or other nearby
   time) and would like to cause a reduction in aggregate energy demand in the near term.
   Multiple notifications may be communicated at the DR event period approaches. In many
   embodiments, the notification is communicated prior to any expected pre-event management
20 period. In some cases, however, such as when the number of participants needs to be
   increased partway through the DR event, a notification could be sent during the DR event
   period. One particular example of communicating such a notification is described with
   reference to FIG. 24A through 24C, which depict a graphical user interface of an intelligent,
   network-connected thermostat associated with an identified energy consumer receiving and
25 responding to such a notification. The notification may include a variety of information to
   the DR event, such as the DR event period, DR event magnitude, etc.
   [0208]     It should be recognized that the intelligent, network-connected thermostat need not
   receive notification of a DR event at any certain time prior to the DR event period beginning.
   In some embodiments, the thermostat may receive notification of the DR event prior to the
30 DR event period beginning. In other embodiments, however, the thermostat may receive
   notification of the DR event period during the DR event. In such cases, the thermostat may
   still implement a DR implementation profile. In at least one embodiment, additional
   processing may be performed to determine whether a thermostat should implement a DR
   implementation profile based on the time the notification is received. For example, the
                                                    64

   thermostat may implement a DR implementation profile only if some shift in energy
   consumption is likely. That is, at the time of receiving the notification, the thermostat (or
   remote server) may determine whether a shift in energy consumption is likely (e.g., using the
   processing described with reference to operation 1408), based on the time remaining for the
 5 DR event, the DR implementation profile applicable to the remaining DR event period, etc.
   If a shift in energy consumption is not likely because, e.g., the thermostat received the
   notification too late (e.g., partway through a pre-cooling period, or partway through a set
   back period), then the thermostat may not generate or implement a DR implementation
   profile. In contrast, if an energy shift is likely, the thermostat may implement the DR
10 implementation profile such that it participates in at least a portion of the DR event. It should
   further be recognized that, to participate in the DR event, the thermostat need not maintain a
   network connection after receiving the DR event notification. That is, once the thermostat
   receives the DR event notification, the network connection to the remote server may be lost,
   but the thermostat may nevertheless implement a DR implementation profile.
15 [0209]      In operation 1404 information indicating the energy consumer's amenability to load
   shifting is received. This operation is similar to that described with reference to operation
   804. However, in this case, this information indicates the energy consumer's amenability to
   load shifting with respect to a specific DR event, rather than the DR program as a whole. In
   many embodiments, this operation may be excluded in favor of operation 804 (where the
20 amenability to load shifting indicated for the DR program is subsequently used as the
   amenability to load shifting for some or all DR events in the program), or vice versa,
   operation 804 may be excluded in favor of operation 1404 (where amenability to load shifting
   is asked for each DR event, or for only the first DR event or a subset of DR events where the
   amenability may effectively be learned over the course of the DR program). In some
25 embodiments, the energy consumer may be requested for their amenability to load shifting
   both at the time of enrolling in the DR program and at the time of participating in a DR event,
   where the information received for the specific DR event may take precedence over that
   received for the DR program as a whole. In at least one embodiment, where the energy
   consumer initially indicated a preferred amenability for the DR program, that preference may
30 be indicated as a default level of amenability for each particular DR event, where the energy
   consumer has the option to tweak their desired amenability at the time of each specific DR
   event.
   [0210]      In operation 1406, a DR event implementation profile is generated for the energy
   consumer. The DR event implementation profile defines a plurality of setpoint temperatures
                                                     65

   distributed over the DR event period of the DR event. These setpoint temperatures
   temporarily replace the scheduled setpoint temperatures that the energy consumer had in
   place prior to the DR event. The setpoint temperatures are temporary in that they are applied
   and implemented only for the DR event period (and, in some cases, pre-event and/or post
 5 event periods such as pre-cooling and snapback periods). In cases where the energy
   consumer did not have any scheduled setpoint temperatures during the DR event period, the
   setpoint temperatures defined by the DR event implementation profile may be created as new
   (yet temporary) setpoint temperatures for the energy consumer. One particular technique for
   generating a DR event implementation profile is described herein with reference to FIG. 16
10 through FIG. 22, although other techniques for generating a DR event implementation profile
   may be implemented. In at least one embodiment, the information indicating the energy
   consumer's amenability to load shifting as described in operation 1404 may be used to
   generate the DR event implementation profile. An increased amenability will result in a
   more aggressive DR event implementation profile (i.e., one that more aggressively shifts
15 energy) whereas a decreased amenability will result in a less aggressive DR event
   implementation profile.
   [0211]    In operation 1408, one or more metrics indicative of the amount of energy likely to
   be shifted as a result of the energy consumer participating in the DR event is calculated. This
   operation is similar to the process 1000 described with reference to FIG. 10, however in this
20 case the accuracy of the metrics in indicating the amount of energy like to be shifted may be
   increased as compared to those calculated in operation 1018 due to the more concrete nature
   of the factors used to generate the metrics. For example, in determining the metrics in
   accordance with operation 1408, the HVAC schedule for the DR event period is likely known
   and can be identified and the DR event implementation profile has been generated. These
25 may be used in combination with the ability of the structure to load shift to calculate the
   amount of energy likely to be shifted from the DR event period to another event period. In
   some embodiments, the per unit value of energy over the DR event period may also be
   determined in order to calculate the value of energy likely to be shifted. Accordingly, such
   metrics may include one or more of a magnitude (e.g., kWh) of energy likely to be shifted, a
30 value (e.g., dollars) of the energy likely to be shifted, etc. One particular technique for
   determining such metrics is described with reference to FIG. 23 and may be used herein.
   [0212]    In operation 1410 one or more of the metrics calculated in operation 1408 are
   communicated to the energy consumer. In one particular embodiment, energy management
   system 130 may communicate the one or more metrics to one or more electronic devices of
                                                    66

   residences 150A - 150N associated with the identified energy consumer, including one or
   more of an intelligent, multi-sensing, network-connected thermostat 202 and an access device
   266 associated with the identified energy consumer.
   [0213]     In operation 1412 it is determined whether the energy consumer opts-out of
 5 participation in the DR event. The energy consumer may opt-out in one or more of a variety
   of ways. For example, the energy consumer may respond to the notification described in
   operation 1402 with a response indicating a desire to opt-out of participation in the DR event.
   For another example, the energy consumer may change their scheduled setpoints for the DR
   event period that were set by the DR implementation profile, and/or may change an
10 immediate setpoint on their thermostat. In some embodiments, any setpoint change may
   result in an opt-out, whereas in other embodiments, only scheduled setpoint changes that
   result in a reduction of the amount of energy shifting expected by the energy consumer result
   in an opt-out. In some cases, the reduction must be great enough such that the energy
   consumer no longer shifts energy from the DR event period. It should be recognized that a
15 variety of techniques to opt-out may be incorporated, such as the energy consumer emailing,
   telephoning, messaging, or other communicating an opt-out request to the energy
   management system 130 either before or during the DR event. It should also be recognized,
   however, than in other embodiments the energy consumer may not be given an opportunity
   opt-out of participating in a particular DR event. In such cases, for example, the processing
20 may continue to operation 1416.
   [0214]     If the energy consumer opts-out, then processing may continue to operation 1414
   where the DR event is canceled for that energy consumer. In canceling the DR event, no DR
   implementation profile will be communicated to the energy consumer, thus the energy
   consumer's scheduled setpoints will remain as originally configured by the energy consumer.
25 If a DR implementation profile had already been communicated to the energy consumer, then
   any changes made to the energy consumers setpoints by incorporation of the DR
   implementation profile may be reversed. If on the other hand the energy consumer does not
   opt-out, then processing may continue to operation 1416.
   [0215]     In operation 1416 the DR event implementation profile is sent to the energy
30 consumer. For example, energy management system 130 may send the DR event
   implementation profile to one or more electronic devices of residences 150A - 150N
   associated with the identified energy consumers, including one or more of an intelligent,
   multi-sensing, network-connected thermostat 202 and an access device 266 associated with
   the identified energy consumers. As a result, the receiving device, such as thermostat 202,
                                                  67

   may temporarily replace any existing scheduled setpoints with those indicated in the DR
   event implementation profile.
   [0216]     In operation 1418 the DR event begins. For example, the DR event period defined
   by the DR event may start.
 5 [0217]     In operation 1420 it is determined whether a change is basis for the DR event
   implementation profile is received from the consumer. As described with reference to
   operation 1406 and FIG. 16 through FIG. 22, a number of factors may be used to generate the
   DR event implementation profile, such as the HVAC schedule, an occupancy probability
   profile, an amenability to load shifting, a weather forecast, etc. One or more of these basis
10 may change during the DR event. For example, the energy consumer may adjust their
   immediate setpoint or scheduled setpoints on the HVAC schedule for the DR event period. A
   real-time occupancy sensor may indicate an occupancy where the occupancy probability
   profile indicated a non-occupancy. A real-time outside weather (e.g., temperature, humidity,
   etc.) measurement may be different than that indicated in the weather forecast. If such a
15 change in the basis is received or otherwise detected, then processing may continue to
   operation 1422.
   [0218]     In operation 1422 it is determined whether the change in basis is fatal to the DR
   event for the energy consumer. The change in basis may be fatal, e.g., if it results in less
   energy shifting than initially predicted. Alternatively, there may be more leniency, whereby
20 the change in basis is fatal only if it results in no energy shifting at all for the DR event. In
   one particular embodiment, to determine whether the change is fatal, the amount of energy
   shifting likely to result from continued participation in the DR event subject to the altered
   basis may be recalculated. This recalculated energy shift may then be compared to the
   energy shifting initially calculated in, e.g., operation 1408, or may be compared to a threshold
25 amount such as zero shifting. If the change is not fatal, then processing may continue to
   operation 1424.
   [0219]     In operation 1424 the DR event implementation profile is modified in accordance
   with the changed basis. The DR event implementation profile at this point may be generated
   similar to that described above with reference to operation 1406, but in this case the modified
30 basis are used to generate the profile. Once the modified DR event implementation profile is
   generated, processing may continue to operation 1416 where the modified profile is sent to
   the energy consumer. If, on the other hand, it is determined in operation 1422 that the change
                                                      68

   is fatal, then processing may return to operation 1414 where the DR event is canceled for the
   energy consumer.
   [0220]      Returning to operation 1420, if it is determined no change in basis is received from
   the energy consumer, then processing may continue to operation 1426. In operation 1426 it
 5 is determined whether a change in basis for the DR event profile is received from the utility
   provider computing system 120 or other entity of system 100, or is generated by energy
   management system 130. As described with reference to operation 702, a DR event is a time
   period over which energy reduction mechanisms are actively engaged in an effort to reduce
   energy consumption over a specifically defined period. The efforts to reduce energy
10 consumption may be in response to a determination that demand on the grid is likely to
   exceed supply during the defined period. This may be due to a variety of factors, such as
   expected temperature, humidity, temporary drops in supply (e.g., scheduled maintenance of
   electrical power generators), etc. During the course of the DR event one or more of these
   basis for generating the DR event may change. As a result, the necessity of the DR event
15 may also decrease. In another example, the actual amount of aggregate energy reduction may
   exceed that expected, or an additional supply of energy may be incorporated, in which case
   the necessity of the DR event may also decrease. In some embodiments, the basis may
   change prior to the DR event period beginning. Accordingly, a notification may be sent to
   the energy consumer, energy management system, or the like prior to the beginning of the
20 DR event period effectively canceling the DR event. Regardless of the reason, if such a
   change in the DR event profile is received, processing may continue to operation 1422.
   [0221]      In operation 1422 during this instance, it is determined whether the change in the
   DR event profile is fatal to the energy consumer. This may be determined as previously
   discussed for operation 1422, except in this case likely energy shifting is recalculated based
25 on the change in the DR event profile. In contrast, if there is no change in the DR event
   profile, then processing may continue to operation 1428 where the DR event is finished.
   [0222]      It should be appreciated that the specific operations illustrated in FIG. 14 provide a
   particular process for managing the energy consumption of energy consumers identified for
   participation in a DR event. The various operations described with reference to FIG. 14 may
30 be implemented at and performed by one or more of a variety of electronic devices or
   components described herein. For example, they may be implemented at and performed by
   the energy management system 130, one or more residences 150A - 150N, the utility
   provider computing system 120, etc. Other sequences of operations may also be performed
   according to alternative embodiments. For example, alternative embodiments of the present
                                                     69

   invention may perform the operations outlined above in a different order. For example, while
   operations 1420 through 1426 are described as being performed during a DR event, they may
   similarly be performed prior to a DR event beginning. That is, changes to the DR event
   implementation profile and/or DR event profile may be received and processed prior to the
 5 DR event beginning. Moreover, the individual operations illustrated in FIG. 14 may include
   multiple sub-operations that may be performed in various sequences as appropriate to the
   individual operations. Furthermore, additional operations may be added or existing
   operations removed depending on the particular applications. One of ordinary skill in the art
   would recognize and appreciate many variations, modifications, and alternatives.
10 [0223]    In the process described with reference to FIG. 14, once the energy consumers are
   identified for participation in the DR event, the size of this set of energy consumers may
   decrease (e.g., as a result of opting out) but may not increase. In some embodiments it may
   be desirable to increase the number of energy consumers that are eligible to participate in a
   DR event during the course of the DR event. For example, in some cases the pre-event
15 estimate for the aggregate amount of energy to be shifted by the identified energy consumers
   may be inaccurate, resulting in less energy shifting than is desired. Conversely, if the actual
   energy shifting being achieved during the course of a DR event is greater than that expected
   or needed, then the number of participants in the event may be diminished. Accordingly, in
   some embodiments the number of energy consumers participating in a particular DR event
20 may increase, decrease, or the specific energy consumers may change, during the course of
   the DR event. One particular technique for actively managing the DR event based on the
   monitored aggregate energy shifting is described with reference to FIG. 15. Such techniques
   may, e.g., be implemented simultaneously with operations 1420 through 1426 described with
   reference to FIG. 14.
25 [0224]    Specifically, FIG. 15 illustrates a process 1500 for managing a DR event based on a
   monitored aggregate energy shifting in accordance with an embodiment. To facilitate further
   understanding, the process 1500 is described with reference to FIG. 1 and FIG. 2, although it
   should be understood that embodiments of the process 1500 are not limited to the exemplary
   systems and apparatus described with reference to FIG. 1 and FIG. 2.
30 [0225]    In operation 1502, a DR event begins. This operation is similar to operation 1418,
   thus further description is omitted.
   [0226]    In operation 1510, the actual aggregate energy shifting during the course of the DR
   event is monitored. For example, energy management system 130 may determine the actual
                                                    70

   amount of energy shifting caused by each of the energy consumers participating in the DR
   event, and aggregate this data to determine the aggregate energy shifting. The actual amount
   of energy shifting may be determined using a variety of techniques. For example, a current
   (real-time) amount of energy consumption may be determined. This may be calculated using
 5 a number of factors such an HVAC status (on, off, % of capacity being used, etc.), a status of
   other electronic devices associated with the structure, etc. Additionally or alternatively, this
   may be determined from a meter that monitors energy consumption such as energy
   consumption meter 218. A history of the actual amount of energy being consumed may be
   kept at least for the duration of the DR event so that an aggregate amount of actual energy
10 consumed over the course of the DR event may be determined. Further, the 'baseline' energy
   consumption for the consumer may be determined as described with reference to operation
   708, except in this case the baseline energy consumption is determined only for the portion of
   the event period that has passed, instead of for the entire event period. The difference
   between the aggregate actual amount of energy consumed up to a given time and the
15 aggregate amount of energy defined in the baseline results in an indication as to the actual
   aggregate energy that has been shifted at any particular time during the DR event.
   [0227]    As the aggregate energy shift is being monitored, processing may continue to
   operation 1506 where it is determined whether the DR event has finished. If so, then
   processing may continue to operation 1508 where the DR event is ended. Otherwise,
20 processing may continue to operation 1510.
   [0228]    In operation 1510 it is determined whether the actual real-time aggregate amount of
   energy shifting is approximately equal to that expected. For example, the amount determined
   in operation 1504 may be compared with the energy shifting expected by this particular time
   in the DR event. The expected energy shifting may be calculated using techniques similar to
25 those that will be described with reference to operation 2310. However, in contrast to the
   expected energy shifting calculated in operation 2310, which is for the entire DR event
   period, the expected energy shifting in this case is only for the portion of the event period that
   has passed. If it is determined that the actual aggregate energy shifting at a given point in
   time during the DR event is approximately equal to that expected, then processing may return
30 to operation 1504. If, however, it is determined that the actual aggregate energy shifting at
   the given point in time is not approximately equal to that expected, then this is indicative of
   the energy consumer either shifting too much or not enough energy, and thus processing may
   continue to operation 1512.
                                                   71

   [0229]     In operation 1512 one or more techniques may be implemented to respond to the
   difference in actual and estimated aggregate shifting for a particular energy consumer. In one
   embodiment, the number of consumers identified to participate in the DR event may be
   altered. For example, if the actual aggregate shifting is less than that expected, then the
 5 number of energy consumers identified to participate in the DR event may be increased. In
   such a case, an identification process as described with reference to operation 706 may be
   carried out, one or more new energy consumers identified, and event notifications
   immediately sent to those energy consumers. If, on the other hand, the actual aggregate
   shifting is greater than that expected, then in one embodiment the number of energy
10 consumers identified to participate in the DR event may be decreased. For example, the DR
   event may be canceled for the energy consumer being monitored. Additionally or
   alternatively, the DR event may be canceled for other energy consumers participating in the
   DR event.
   [0230]     In another embodiment, instead of (or in addition to) increasing or decreasing the
15 number of energy consumers participating in the DR event, the DR implementation profiles
   associated with one or more energy consumers may be modified. For example, if the actual
   aggregate shifting is less than that expected, then the DR implementation profiles for one or
   more energy consumers participating in the DR event (including or excluding the energy
   consumer being monitored) may be modified to more aggressively shift energy. If, on the
20 other hand, the actual aggregate shifting is greater than that expected, then the DR
   implementation profiles for one or more energy consumers participating in the DR event
   (including or excluding the energy consumer being monitored) may be modified to shift
   energy less aggressively.
   [0231]     It should be appreciated that the specific operations illustrated in FIG. 15 provide a
25 particular process for managing a DR event based on a monitored aggregate energy shifting
   in accordance with an embodiment. The various operations described with reference to FIG.
    15 may be implemented at and performed by one or more of a variety of electronic devices or
   components described herein. For example, they may be implemented at and performed by
   the energy management system 130, one or more residences 150A - 150N, the utility
30 provider computing system 120, etc. Other sequences of operations may also be performed
   according to alternative embodiments. For example, alternative embodiments of the present
   invention may perform the operations outlined above in a different order. Moreover, the
   individual operations illustrated in FIG. 15 may include multiple sub-operations that may be
   performed in various sequences as appropriate to the individual operations. Furthermore,
                                                    72

   additional operations may be added or existing operations removed depending on the
   particular applications. One of ordinary skill in the art would recognize and appreciate many
   variations, modifications, and alternatives.
   [0232]     As described with reference to operation 1406, a DR event implementation profile
 5 may be generated for each energy consumer identified to participate in a DR event. The DR
   event implementation profile defines a plurality of setpoint temperatures distributed over the
   DR event period of the DR event. A process for generating such a DR event implementation
   profile according to some embodiments is further described with reference to FIG. 16.
   [0233]     Specifically, FIG. 16 illustrates a process 1600 for generating a demand-response
10 event implementation profile in accordance with an embodiment. To facilitate further
   understanding, the process 1600 is described with reference to FIG. 1 and FIG. 2, although it
   should be understood that embodiments of the process 1600 are not limited to the exemplary
   systems and apparatus described with reference to FIG. 1 and FIG. 2.
   [0234]     In operation 1602 one or more basis for creating the DR event implementation
15 profile are identified. The basis used may be equally weighted, unequally weighted, or used
   for generating different aspects of the DR event implementation profile as further described
   herein. The basis may include one or more of the following: the HVAC schedule of the
   energy consumer (e.g., one or more scheduled setpoints set by the energy consumer,
   including those set over the course of the DR event period); an occupancy probability profile
20 for the structure associated with the energy consumer; an environmental (e.g., thermal)
   retention characteristic of the structure; a capacity of the environmental management system
   (e.g., HVAC) relative to the volume of the structure being environmentally managed; a real
   time occupancy of the structure; a DR event profile; an amenability of the energy consumer
   to load shifting; past behavior of the energy consumer during DR events (e.g., changing the
25 setpoints defined by previous DR implementation profiles for previous DR events); and a
   weather forecast (e.g., the forecast weather at the structure associated with the energy
   consumer).
   [0235]     Once one or more of these basis have been identified, processing may continue to
   operation 1604. In operation 1604 it is determined whether pre-event energy management is
30 appropriate. To gain a further appreciation for pre-event energy management and the DR
   event implementation profile in general, we turn briefly to FIGS. 17A and 17B.
   [0236]     FIG. 17A is an illustration 1700 of a DR event and related periods according to an
   embodiment. As depicted in the illustration 1700, a DR event period 1702 extends from 2pm
                                                     73

   to 7pm. This DR event period may, e.g., be defined by a utility provider in a DR event
   profile, and as previously described is a period of desired energy reduction. Shouldering the
   DR event period 1702 is a pre-event period 1704 (e.g., a pre-cooling period) and a post-event
   period 1706 (e.g., a snapback period). The pre-cooling period 1704 is illustrated as extending
 5 from 1pm to 2pm and the post-event period is illustrated as extending from 7pm to 8pm.
   However it should be recognized that pre-cooling periods, DR event periods, and snapback
   periods may have time frames different than those depicted in FIG. 17A, and may be
   dyanamically calculated per user so that each user has a unique DR implementation profile
   that is customized to their particular structure, occupancy probability profile, weather
10 forecast, amenability to load shifting, etc.
   [0237]    The pre-event period 1704 in this example is referred to as a pre-cooling period. In
   situations where a DR event is implemented to respond to hot weather conditions, the pre
   event period 1704 is referred to as a pre-cooling period as this is a period during which a
   structure may be aggressively cooled in preparing for the DR event period. In other
15 situations, however, this may be referred to as a pre-heating period, or pre-humidifying
   period, pre-dehumidifying period, depending on the goals of the DR event. Most of the
   examples described herein are in the context of a DR event being disseminated to respond to
   hot weather conditions, however it should be recognized that embodiments are not so limited.
   [0238]    The snapback period 1706 is a period during which energy consumption may
20 substantially increase (i.e., spike) as a result of one or more energy consumers offsetting
   energy reductions instigated during the DR event period. For example, by the end of the DR
   event period, many energy consumers may experience inside temperatures higher than
   desirable as a result of their energy consumption being managed. Once the DR event period
   completes, however, they may increase their energy consumption (to reduce their inside
25 temperature to something more comfortable) without penalty, and thus they may increase
   their energy consumption significantly. In the aggregate, this may result in a new peak in
   energy demand and, in some cases, pressures on the grid similar to those expected during the
   DR event period.
   [0239]    FIG. 17B is an illustration 1750 of an energy consumers originally scheduled
30 setpoints as well as DR event-modified setpoints (resulting from application of the DR event
   implementation profile) overlaying the time periods described with reference to FIG. 17A
   according to an embodiment. Specifically, illustration 1750 shows a set of originally
   scheduled setpoints 1752 and DR event-modified setpoints 1754. The originally scheduled
   setpoints 1752 indicate a desired temperature consistently at or around 74F. The DR event
                                                     74

   modified setpoints 1754 illustrate a change to those originally scheduled setpoints 1752 that,
   in some examples, reduces energy consumption by the energy consumer during the DR event
   period.
   [0240]      The DR event-modified setpoints 1754 show setpoints identical to the original
 5 setpoints up until 1pm and after 7:30pm. Between 1pm and 2pm, however, i.e., during the
   pre-cooling period, the DR event-modified setpoints 1754 are set to 71 'F rather than 74F. In
   this case, the structure is cooled to an amount less than that originally desired by the energy
   consumer. From 2pm to 7:20pm, however, the DR event-modified setpoints 1754 are set to
   76'F rather than 74F. In this case, the structure is allowed to heat to an amount greater than
10 that originally desired by the energy consumer. At about 7:20pm, the DR event-modified
   setpoints 154 are reduced to 75'F for about 20 minutes and then returned to 74F.
   [0241]      As a result of increasing the allowing the internal temperature to rise to 76'F rather
   than maintain it at 74'F for the duration of the DR event, the amount of energy consumed at
   the structure is likely reduced over the duration of the DR event. Further, by staggering the
15 return to 76'F, a spike in energy consumption at or around 7pm (the end of the DR event
   period) may also be reduced. However, it should be recognized that energy consumption on
   a whole is not necessarily reduced. That is, in contrast to the originally scheduled setpoints,
   the DR event-modified setpoints result in additional energy consumption during the pre
   cooling period. As a result, even though energy consumption during the DR event period
20  1702 is reduced, this energy consumption is actually shifted to one or more time periods
   outside of the DR event period (e.g., to the pre-cooling period and/or the snapback period
    1706).
   [0242]      Returning now to FIG. 16, in operation 1604 it is determined whether pre-event
   energy management is appropriate. For example, it may be determined whether it is
25 appropriate to perform any energy management (such a pre-cooling or pre-heating) during the
   pre-event period 1704. It may be appropriate to perform such energy management if it is
   determined that such energy management will result in a reduction of energy during the DR
   event period. One particular example of a process that may be used to determine whether it is
   appropriate to apply pre-cooling is described with reference to FIG. 19. If it is determined
30 that it is not appropriate to perform such energy management, then processing may continue
   to operation 1608. If, however, it is determined that such energy management is appropriate,
   then processing may continue to operation 1606.
                                                    75

   [0243]    In operation 1606 the magnitude and duration of the pre-event energy management
   is determined. As mentioned, pre-event energy management may include pre-cooling, pre
   heating, pre-humidifying, pre-dehumidifying, or other type of energy management. The
   magnitude of the pre-event energy management (e.g., +2'F, +4'F, etc.) may be determined as
 5 well as the duration (e.g., 30 minutes, 60 minutes, 90 minutes, etc.). The magnitude and
   duration may be determined using one or more of the basis previously described for
   generating the DR implementation profile.
   [0244]    In operation 1608 it is determined whether DR event interval energy management is
   appropriate. For example, it may be determined whether it is appropriate to perform any
10 energy management (such as setpoint changes, duty cycling, etc.) during the DR event period
    1702. It may be appropriate to perform such energy management if it is determined that such
   energy management will result in a reduction of energy during the DR event period. In
   determining whether it is appropriate to perform any DR event interval energy management,
   a number of different DR event energy reduction mechanisms may be considered. These
15 include a setpoint change mechanism, a duty cycling mechanism, or a combination of the
   setpoint change and duty cycling mechanisms, as described herein. To gain a further
   appreciation for the various types of DR event interval energy management, we turn briefly
   to FIGS. 18A through 18C.
   [0245]    FIG. 18A is an illustration 1800 depicting a setpoint change type of DR event
20 interval energy reduction mechanism according to an embodiment. Illustration 1800 depicts
   the originally scheduled setpoints 1752 and DR event-modified setpoints 1754 over the pre
   event period, DR event period, and post-event period as previously described with reference
   to FIGS. 17A and 17B. Further, an internal temperature 1802 of the structure associated with
   the energy consumer, and HVAC ON periods 1804 that are periods during which a cooling
25 system is actively attempting to cool the structure, are also depicted. In this particular
   example, the DR event interval energy reduction mechanism is a 'setpoint change'
   mechanism, in which the cooling system is activated and deactivated during the DR event
   period as necessary to maintain the internal temperature 1802 as close to the setpoints (e.g.,
   DR event-modified setpoints 1754) as possible (e.g., within a range of+ 1F,        2F, etc.).
30 [0246]    Specifically, the HVAC is in an ON state 1804A during the pre-cooling period to
   reduce the internal temperature 1802 prior to the DR event period. During the DR event
   period, the HVAC enters into and stays in an ON state 1804B for various durations and at
   various times in an attempt to maintain the internal temperature 1802 at the DR event
   modified setpoints 1754. During the post-event period the HVAC is in an ON state 1804C as
                                                  76

   necessary to maintain the internal temperature 1802 at the DR event-modified setpoints 1754,
   where the temperature of the DR event-modified setpoints 1754 is reduced in stages to
   eventually reach the originally scheduled setpoints 1752 and the reductions are offset from
   the end of the DR event period.
 5 [0247]     FIG. 18B is an illustration 1820 depicting a duty cycling change type of DR event
   interval energy reduction mechanism according to an embodiment. Illustration 1820 is
   similar to that described with reference to FIG. 18A, but in this case illustrates HVAC ON
   states 1824A, 1824B, and 1824C. HVAC ON states 1824A and 1824C are the same as
    1804A and 1804C, thus further description is omitted. HVAC ON state 1824B, however,
10 illustrates a 'duty cycling' DR event interval energy reduction mechanism, in which the
   cooling system is activated for fixed durations over regular intervals. In this particular case,
   the cooling system is activated for 15 minute durations every 1 hour for the duration of the
   DR event interval regardless of the magnitude of the internal temperature 1822. It should be
   recognized that in some embodiments direct load control (i.e., actively controlling the duty
15 cycle of an HVAC) may be controlled by setting setpoint temperatures very high (i.e., higher
   than typical inside temperatures), to turn the HVAC ON, or very low (i.e., lower than typical
   inside temperatures), to turn the HVAC OFF. Such setpoint temperatures may or may not be
   displayed to the user.
   [0248]     FIG. 18C is an illustration 1840 depicting a combination setpoint/duty cycling
20 change type of DR event interval energy reduction mechanism according to an embodiment.
   Illustration 1840 is similar to that described with reference to FIG. 18A, but in this case
   illustrates HVAC ON states 1844A, 1844B, and 1844C. HVAC ON states 1844A and 1844C
   are the same as 1804A and 1804C, thus further description is omitted. HVAC ON state
    1844B, however, illustrates a combination of the aforementioned setpoint and duty cycling
25 type DR event interval energy reduction mechanisms. In this particular combination the
   cooling system is activated at regular time intervals for minimum durations. For example, the
   cooling system is activated every hour for at least 10 minutes. If the minimum activation
   interval (e.g., 10 minutes) is sufficient to reduce the internal temperature 1842 to the
   temperature defined by the DR event-modified setpoints 1754, then the cooling system will
30 deactivate after the minimum activation interval. If, however, the minimum activation
   interval (e.g., 10 minutes) is insufficient to reduce the internal temperature 1842 to the
   temperature defined by the DR event-modified setpoints 1754, then the cooling system may
   extend its activation interval past the minimum activation interval (e.g., it may extend to 15
   or 20 minutes). In some embodiments the cooling system may extend its activation interval
                                                     77

   until the internal temperature 1842 is reduced to the temperature defined by the DR event
   modified setpoints 1754. In other embodiments, the length of the extension may be limited in
   duration to prevent the cooling system from being constantly activated. In this particular
   example, the first, third, and fourth cooling system activations are for the minimum activation
 5 interval, whereas the second activation is extended.
   [0249]     It should be recognized that embodiments are not limited to the various examples
   illustrated in and described with reference to FIGS. 18A through 18C. Rather, one skilled in
   the art would recognize numerous variations in setpoint temperatures, setpoint intervals,
   setpoint times, DR event period times and intervals, energy management system (e.g.,
10 cooling system) activation times and periods, etc. These examples are presented to articulate
   different types of DR event interval energy reduction mechanisms as further described herein
   and, while presented in the context of reducing internal temperatures, are similarly applicable
   to varying other types of environmental conditions within the structure.
   [0250]     Returning to operation 1608 of FIG. 16, it is determined whether DR event interval
15 energy reduction is appropriate. As described, various types of DR event interval energy
   reduction mechanisms include a setpoint change, duty cycling, or a combination of a setpoint
   change and duty cycling. Some specific processes that may be used to determine whether
   any or all of these energy reduction mechanisms are appropriate are described with reference
   to FIGS. 20 and 21. If it is determined that it is not appropriate to perform such energy
20 management, then processing may continue to operation 1612. If, however, it is determined
   that such energy management is appropriate, then processing may continue to operation 1610.
   [0251]     In operation 1610 the magnitude and duration of the DR event interval energy
   management is determined. As mentioned, DR event interval energy management may
   include setpoint control, duty cycling control, or a combination of setpoint and duty cycling
25 control. The magnitude for each type of energy control mechanism (e.g., difference in DR
   event-modified setpoints and originally scheduled setpoints, duty cycling periods, maximum
   extensions to duty cycling periods, etc.) may be determined using one or more of the basis
   previously described for generating the DR implementation profile, while the duration of the
   energy reduction mechanism may be defined as the DR event period.
30 [0252]     In operation 1612 it is determined whether post-event energy management is
   appropriate. For example, it may be determined whether it is appropriate to perform any
   energy management (such a delaying a return to the originally scheduled setpoints, gradually
   returning to originally scheduled setpoints, etc.) during the post-event period 1706. It may be
                                                   78

   appropriate to perform such energy management if it is determined that such energy
   management will result in a reduction of energy during the DR event period and, in some
   cases, reduce the impact of numerous energy consumers placing high demands on the electric
   grid as soon as the DR event period 1702 comes to an end. One particular example of a
 5 process that may be used to determine whether it is appropriate to apply post-event energy
   management is described with reference to FIG. 22. If it is determined that it is appropriate
   to perform such energy management, then processing may continue to operation 1614.
   [0253]    In operation 1614 the magnitude and duration of the post-event energy management
   is determined. As mentioned, post-event energy management may include one or more of
10 delaying setpoint return, staggering setpoint return, or other type of energy management. The
   magnitude of the post-event energy management (e.g., size of the stagger and/or delay) may
   be determined as well as the duration (e.g., 30 minutes, 60 minutes, 90 minutes, etc.). The
   magnitude and duration may be determined using one or more of the basis previously
   described for generating the DR implementation profile. It should be recognized that a
15 variety of types of techniques may be used to return the DR event-modified setpoints 1754 to
   the originally scheduled setpoints 1752 during the post-event period. For example, the
   magnitude may be reduced incrementally in increments having the same or different sizes,
   where one or more than one increment may be used. Similarly, the durations at which the
   setpoint is held at each midpoint may be the same or different from one another. The setpoint
20 return may be linear, exponential, or other curve shape. In at least one embodiment, the time
   at which the DR event-modified setpoints 1754 return to the originally scheduled setpoints
    1752 may be random for some or all of the participating energy consumers such that, as a
   whole, the post-event aggregate energy consumption is equally distributed over the post
   event period.
25 [0254]    It should be appreciated that the specific operations illustrated in FIG. 16 provide a
   particular process for generating a demand-response event implementation profile in
   accordance with an embodiment. The various operations described with reference to FIG. 16
   may be implemented at and performed by one or more of a variety of electronic devices or
   components described herein. For example, they may be implemented at and performed by
30 the energy management system 130, one or more residences 150A - 150N, the utility
   provider computing system 120, etc. Other sequences of operations may also be performed
   according to alternative embodiments. For example, alternative embodiments of the present
   invention may perform the operations outlined above in a different order. Moreover, the
   individual operations illustrated in FIG. 16 may include multiple sub-operations that may be
                                                   79

   performed in various sequences as appropriate to the individual operations. Furthermore,
   additional operations may be added or existing operations removed depending on the
   particular applications. One of ordinary skill in the art would recognize and appreciate many
   variations, modifications, and alternatives.
 5 [0255]    As described with reference to FIG. 16, a specific process for determining whether
   pre-event energy management (e.g., pre-cooling) is appropriate is described with reference to
   FIG. 19, a specific process for determining whether a setback-type DR event interval energy
   reduction is appropriate is described with reference to FIG. 20, a specific process for
   determining whether a duty-cycling type DR event interval energy reduction is appropriate is
10 described with reference to FIG. 21, and a specific process for determining whether post
   event energy management is appropriate is described with reference to FIG. 22. Each of
   these particular processes is described in turn.
   [0256]     Turning to FIG. 19, FIG. 19 illustrates a process 1900 for determining whether pre
   cooling is appropriate according to an embodiment. In operation 1902 it is determined
15 whether the temperature outside of the structure is mild to moderate. For example, it may be
   determined whether the temperature is in a particular range. If the temperature is not within
   this particular range, then processing may continue to operation 1904 where it is determined
   not to apply pre-cooling. If the temperature is within this range, however, then processing
   may continue to operation 1906.
20 [0257]     In operation 1906 it is determined whether the structure has a thermal retention
   characteristic indicating that the structure is moderately sealed to well-sealed. For example,
   it may be determined whether the retention characteristic of the structure is in a particular
   range. If the thermal retention characteristic is not within this particular range, then
   processing may continue to operation 1904 where it is determined not to apply pre-cooling.
25 If the thermal retention characteristic is within this range, however, then processing may
   continue to operation 1908 where it is determined to apply pre-cooling.
   [0258]     It should be recognized that the process 1900 is a simplified process for determining
   whether to apply pre-cooling. In many embodiments not one factor is determinative as to
   whether pre-cooling should be applied or not, but rather a number of factors (such as those
30 discussed with respect to the basis used for the DR event implementation profile) are
   combined to determine whether pre-cooling (or more generally, pre-event energy
   management) results in energy shifting. In this particular example it is being illustrated that,
   in a pre-cooling environment, extremely hot weather or very poor thermal retention
                                                    80

   characteristics may be strong (in some cases, determinative) indicators that pre-cooling will
   not be effective at shifting energy from the DR event period to periods outside of the DR
   event period.
   [0259]     Turning to FIG. 20, FIG. 20 illustrates a process 2000 for determining whether a
 5 setback-type DR event interval energy management mechanism is appropriate according to
   an embodiment. In operation 2002 it is determined whether the temperature outside of the
   structure is mild to moderate. For example, it may be determined whether the temperature is
   in a particular range. If the temperature is not within this particular range, then processing
   may continue to operation 2012 where it is determined not to use setback-type energy
10 management during the DR event interval. If the temperature is within this range, however,
   then processing may continue to operation 2004.
   [0260]     In operation 2004 it is determined whether the capacity of the cooling system (e.g.,
   HVAC) relative to the volume to be cooled is medium to oversized. For example, it may be
   determined whether the capacity of the cooling system is in a particular range. If the capacity
15 of the cooling system is not within this particular range, then processing may continue to
   operation 2012 where it is determined not to use setback-type energy management during the
   DR event interval. If the capacity of the cooling system is within this range, however, then
   processing may continue to operation 2006.
   [0261]     In operation 2006 it is determined whether the structure has a thermal retention
20 characteristic indicating that the structure is moderately sealed to well-sealed. For example,
   it may be determined whether the structure has a thermal retention characteristic in a
   particular range. If the thermal retention characteristic is not within this range, then
   processing may continue to operation 2012 where it is determined not to use setback-type
   energy management during the DR event interval. If the thermal retention characteristic is
25 within this range, however, then processing may continue to operation 2008.
   [0262]     In operation 2008 it is determined whether the humidity outside of the structure is
   low to moderate. For example, it may be determined whether the humidity is in a particular
   range. If the humidity is not within this range, then processing may continue to operation
   2012 where it is determined not to use setback-type energy management during the DR event
30 interval. If the humidity is within this range, however, then processing may continue to
   operation 2010 where it is determined to use setback-type energy management during the DR
   event interval.
                                                    81

   [0263]    It should be recognized that the process 2000 is a simplified process for determining
   whether to use setback-type energy management during the DR event interval. In many
   embodiments not one factor is determinative as to whether setback-type energy management
   should be applied or not, but rather a number of factors (such as those discussed with respect
 5 to the basis used for the DR event implementation profile) are combined to determine
   whether using setback-type energy management would result in energy shifting. In this
   particular example it is being illustrated that, during a DR event period, extremely hot
   weather or humid weather, very low HVAC capacity, or very poor thermal retention
   characteristics may be strong (in some cases, determinative) indicators that a setback-type
10 energy management mechanism will not be effective at shifting energy from the DR event
   period to periods outside of the DR event period.
   [0264]    Turning to FIG. 21, FIG. 21 illustrates a process 2100 for determining whether a
   duty cycling DR event interval energy management mechanism is appropriate according to an
   embodiment. In operation 2102 it is determined whether the temperature outside of the
15 structure is hot. For example, it may be determined whether the temperature exceeds a
   particular temperature. If it is determined that the temperature is not hot, i.e., does not exceed
   a particular temperature, then processing may continue to operation 2110 where it is
   determined not to use a duty cycling energy management mechanism during the DR event
   interval. If the temperature does exceed the particular temperature, however, then processing
20 may continue to operation 2104.
   [0265]    In operation 2104 it is determined whether the capacity of the cooling system (e.g.,
   HVAC) relative to the volume to be cooled is undersized. For example, it may be determined
   whether the capacity of the cooling system is less than a particular amount. If the capacity of
   the cooling system is not less than the particular amount, then processing may continue to
25 operation 2110 where it is determined not to use a duty cycling energy management
   mechanism during the DR event interval. If the capacity of the cooling system is less than
   the particular amount, however, then processing may continue to operation 2106.
   [0266]    In operation 2106 it is determined whether the humidity outside of the structure is
   high. For example, it may be determined whether the humidity exceeds a particular amount.
30 If the humidity does not exceed the particular amount, then processing may continue to
   operation 2110 where it is determined not to use a duty cycling energy management
   mechanism during the DR event interval. If the humidity does exceed the particular amount,
   however, then processing may continue to operation 2108 where it is determined to use a
   duty cycling energy management mechanism during the DR event interval.
                                                     82

   [0267]     It should be recognized that the process 2100 is a simplified process for determining
   whether to use a duty cycling energy management mechanism during the DR event interval.
   In many embodiments not one factor is determinative as to whether a duty cycling energy
   management mechanism should be applied or not, but rather a number of factors (such as
 5 those discussed with respect to the basis used for the DR event implementation profile) are
   combined to determine whether a duty cycling energy management mechanism would result
   in energy shifting. In this particular example it is being illustrated that, during a DR event
   period, extremely hot weather, extremely high humidity, or a very low HVAC capacity may
   be strong (in some cases, determinative) indicators that a duty cycling energy management
10 mechanism will be effective at shifting energy from the DR event period to periods outside of
   the DR event period.
   [0268]     Turning to FIG. 22, FIG. 22 illustrates a process 2200 for determining whether post
   event (i.e., snapback) energy management is appropriate according to an embodiment. In
   operation 2202 it is determined a request to implement post-DR event energy management is
15 received. For example, in some cases an entity (such as utility provider computing system
    120) may communicate a request to the energy management 130 to perform post-DR event
   energy management. If such a request is received, then processing may continue to operation
   2204 where post-event energy management is applied. Otherwise, processing may continue
   to operation 2206.
20 [0269]     In operation 2206 it is determined whether a post DR-event grid load is likely to
   exceed a particular threshold. For example, it may be determined whether the aggregate
   energy consumption of residences 150A - 150N may exceed a particular threshold, and/or it
   may be determined whether an aggregate load on power distribution network 160 exceeds a
   threshold. The expected load may be calculated prior to the end of the DR event period, and
25 may be calculated using one or more of a variety of information that energy management
   system 130 has at its disposal, such as the scheduled setpoints for residences 150A - 150N,
   the thermal retention characteristics for those residences, the HVAC capacities of those
   residences, the occupancy probability profiles for those residences, expected weather
   forecast, etc. The threshold may be set by utility provider computing system 120 or some
30 other suitable entity. If it is determined that the aggregate post-DR event grid load is likely to
   exceed the threshold, then processing may continue to operation 2204 where post-event
   energy management is applied. Otherwise, processing may continue to operation 2208.
   [0270]     In operation 2208 it is determined whether the monitored (i.e., actual) post DR
   event grid load actually exceeds the threshold. For example, after the DR event is complete,
                                                     83

   the load on the power distribution network 160 and/or the actual real-time energy
   consumption of residences 150A - 150N may be monitored. If it is determined that the
   monitored energy consumption exceeds the threshold, then processing may continue to
   operation 2204 where post-event energy management is applied. Otherwise, processing may
 5 continue to operation 2210.
   [0271]     In operation 2210 it is determined whether post DR-event energy management is
   likely to reduce energy consumption during the DR event period. For example, the estimated
   post-DR event energy consumption may be compared to a baseline post-DR event energy
   consumption. If the estimated energy consumption is likely to be greater than the baseline
10 post-DR event energy consumption, then processing may continue to operation 2204 where
   post-event energy management is applied. Otherwise, processing may continue to operation
   2212 where post DR-event energy management is not applied.
   [0272]     It should be recognized that the process 2200 is a simplified process for determining
   whether to perform post DR-event energy management. In many embodiments not one factor
15 is determinative as to whether post DR-event energy management should be applied or not,
   but rather a number of factors are combined to determine whether post DR-event energy
   management would assist in energy shifting. It should further be recognized that a process
   similar that described with reference to FIG. 22 may alternatively or additionally be applied
   to determining whether to apply pre DR-event energy management (e.g., pre-cooling). In
20 such a case, the operations may be modified to refer to a "pre DR-event" rather than a "post
   DR-event". For example, operation 2202 may be modified to receiving a request to
   implement pre-DR event energy management. Operation 2206 may be modified to determine
   whether a pre DR-event grid load is likely greater than a predetermined amount. One skilled
   in the art would recognize how to similarly apply such changes to the remainder of the
25 operations described with reference to FIG. 22.
   [0273]     As described in various places, e.g., with respect to operation 1408 of FIG. 14, one
   or more metrics indicative of an amount of energy likely to be shifted as a result of an
   enrolled energy consumer participating in a DR event may be calculated. At the time of
   performing such a calculation, in many embodiments a DR event has already been defined, as
30 has a DR event implementation profile for the energy consumer. Further, as the DR event is
   likely to occur soon (e.g., within a matter of days) after calculating the one or more metrics
   indicative of an amount of energy likely to be shifted, the originally scheduled setpoints for
   the DR event (or very accurate estimates thereof) may also be acquired. These, in
   combination with the ability of the structure associated with the energy consumer and, in
                                                    84

   some cases, the likely cost of energy over the DR event, can be used to determine the one or
   more metrics indicative of the amount of energy likely to be shifted. One particular process
   for calculating such metrics is described with reference to FIG. 23.
   [0274]     Specifically, FIG. 23 illustrates a process 2300 for generating one or more metrics
 5 indicative of an amount of energy likely be shifted by an enrolled energy consumer if the
   energy consumer participates in a demand-response event according to an embodiment. To
   facilitate understanding, the process 1000 is described with reference to FIG. 1 and FIG. 2,
   although it should be understood that embodiments of the process 1000 are not limited to the
   exemplary systems and apparatus described with reference to FIG. 1 and FIG. 2.
10 [0275]     In operation 2302 the characteristics of the DR event are determined. As previously
   described, a DR event is defined by a DR event profile that includes information such as the
   DR event period, DR event magnitude, geographical scope of the DR event, etc.
   Accordingly, such characteristic information may be received by the utility provider
   computing system 120, generated by the energy management system 130, or received or
15 generated in part or in whole by another suitable entity.
   [0276]     In operation 2304, the HVAC schedule of the energy consumer over the DR event
   period is determined. In determining the HVAC schedule of the energy consumer, the
   HVAC schedule set by the energy consumer may be acquired. For example, energy
   management system 130 may receive the HVAC schedule from one or more of the thermostat
20 202 and access device 266. In some cases, the HVAC schedule may not be explicitly set by
   the energy consumer, but rather may be learned by the thermostat 202 and/or other electronic
   devices associated with the energy consumer. In such a case, the learned and/or manually set
   setpoints may be acquired.
   [0277]     Once the HVAC schedule is determined, processing may continue to operation 2306
25 where the DR implementation profile for the DR event is determined. The DR
   implementation profile indicates the setpoints to be implemented for the energy consumer
   during a DR event instead of their scheduled setpoints. In determining the DR
   implementation profile, a number of factors may be taken into consideration. These factors
   may include, for example, the HVAC schedule determined in operation 2302, the occupancy
30 probability profile, the thermal retention characteristic of the structure associated with the
   energy consumer, the HVAC capacity of the structure associated with the energy consumer,
   the DR event profile, any indication as to the energy consumer's amenability to load shifting,
                                                     85

   past DR event behavior, weather forecast, etc. Some particular methods for generating a DR
   implementation profile are described with reference to FIGS. 16 through FIG. 22.
   [0278]     In operation 2308 the ability of the structure associated with the energy consumer to
   load shift, for example one of residences 150A - 150N, is determined. The ability of a
 5 structure to load shift may be calculated based on a number of factors, such as the capacity of
   an environmental management system of the structure relative to a volume of the structure to
   be environmentally managed. The environmental management system may be, e.g., an
   HVAC, a cooling system, a heating system, a humidifier, etc. The ability to load shift may
   also or alternatively be based on the environmental retention characteristics of the structure.
10 Environmental retention characteristics refer to a structures ability to retain heat, retain cold,
   retain humidity, retain dryness, etc. Various techniques for determining the environmental
   retention characteristics of a structure may be used. Some particular techniques are described
   in U.S. Patent Application Nos. 12/881,463 and 13/632,152, supra. Further, it should be
   recognized that while thermal retention is described in numerous places herein, embodiments
15 are not so limited. Rather, other types of environmental retention may be considered and/or
   used depending on the particular environmental conditions at the structure and type of energy
   management being performed during a DR event.
   [0279]     In operation 2310, the amount of energy likely to be shifted from the DR event
   period to another time period is calculated. Such a calculation may use some or all of the
20 aforementioned factors, such as the HVAC schedule, the DR implementation profile, and the
   ability of the structure to load shift. In one particular embodiment, a 'baseline' energy
   consumption for the DR event may first be determined using the HVAC schedule for the DR
   event and the structures ability to load shift. The likely energy consumption as a result of
   participating in the DR event may then be determined using the DR implementation profile
25 and the structures ability to load shift. The difference of these values may then be taken as
   the amount of energy likely to be shifted from the DR event period to another time period.
   [0280]     In operation 2312, the likely value per unit of energy over the DR event period may
   be determined. The likely value per unit may be, for example, an expected cost per unit of
   energy. In the context of electrical energy, this may be a cost per kWh or other suitable unit.
30 The expected cost per unit of energy may be determined using one or more of a variety of
   sources, such as contracted energy costs (i.e., a cost of energy as defined by the DR
   program), historical energy costs (i.e., energy costs from prior similar DR events, energy
   costs during prior similar weather patterns as expected for the DR event, etc.
                                                    86

   [0281]     In operation 2314 the value of energy likely to be shifted from the DR event period
   to another time period is determined. This value of energy may be determined by multiplying
   the likely value per unit of energy determined in operation 2312 with the amount of energy
   likely to be shifted calculated in operation 2310. In one particular embodiment, the value of
 5 energy likely be shifted represents only the energy reduction that is likely to occur during the
   DR event period. In other embodiments, however, the value of energy likely be shifted may
   also incorporate increased energy consumption outside of the DR event period.
   [0282]     In operation 2316, one or more metrics indicative of the amount of energy likely to
   be shifted as a result of participating in the DR event are communicated to the energy
10 consumer. The metrics may include the amount of energy likely to be shifted as described
   with reference to operation 2310. The metrics may also or alternatively include the value of
   energy likely to be shifted (e.g., as described with respect to operation 2314). In one
   particular embodiment, energy management system 130 may communicate the one or more
   metrics to one or more electronic devices of residences 150A - 15ON associated with the
15 identified energy consumer, including one or more of an intelligent, multi-sensing, network
   connected thermostat 202 and an access device 266 associated with the identified energy
   consumer.
   [0283]     It should be appreciated that the specific operations illustrated in FIG. 23 provide a
   particular process for generating one or more metrics indicative of an amount of energy likely
20 be shifted by an enrolled energy consumer if the energy consumer participates in a demand
   response event according to an embodiment. The various operations described with reference
   to FIG. 23 may be implemented at and performed by one or more of a variety of electronic
   devices or components described herein. For example, they may be implemented at and
   performed by the energy management system 130, one or more residences 150A - 150N, the
25 utility provider computing system 120, etc. Other sequences of operations may also be
   performed according to alternative embodiments. For example, alternative embodiments of
   the present invention may perform the operations outlined above in a different order.
   Moreover, the individual operations illustrated in FIG. 23 may include multiple sub
   operations that may be performed in various sequences as appropriate to the individual
30 operations. Furthermore, additional operations may be added or existing operations removed
   depending on the particular applications. For example, where only energy estimates (i.e., no
   value estimates) are needed, operations 2312 and 2314 may be omitted. One of ordinary skill
   in the art would recognize and appreciate many variations, modifications, and alternatives.
                                                    87

   [0284]     As described with reference to operation 1402, each identified energy consumer that
   is enrolled in a DR program may be notified of an upcoming DR event. The notification
   generally includes information regarding the DR event profile, such as when the DR event is
   to occur, how long the DR event will last, etc. Further, as described with reference to
 5 operation 1410, one or more metrics indicative of the amount of energy likely be shifted as a
   result of that particular energy consumer participating in the upcoming DR event may also be
   communicated to the energy consumer. While such information may be communicated to the
   energy consumer in a variety of ways, one particular technique for doing so is described with
   reference to FIGS. 24A through 24C.
10 [0285]     FIGS. 24A through 24C illustrate a simplified graphical user interface for
   presenting a DR event notification to an energy consumer according to an embodiment.
   While the graphical user interface (GUI) is presented in the form of an interface that may be
   displayed on a circular-shaped device such as the device 300 discussed with reference to
   FIGS. 3A through 3C, embodiments are not so limited as similar GUI's could be presented
15 on other devices of other shapes.
   [0286]     Turning to the figures, FIG. 24A illustrates an input/output (1/0) element 2400
   which may be, e.g., user interface 304 (FIG. 3A), output device 606 and/or input device 608
   (FIG. 6), or other suitable I/O element 2400 of an electronic device associated with an
   identified energy consumer which is participating in the DR program. The I/O element 2400
20 includes a notification message 2402 displaying information regarding the upcoming DR
   event, such as the date and time of the event. The I/O element 2400 also includes a selectable
   input mechanism 2404 whereby the user can either accept or reject the offer. In one specific
   example, ring 320 could be rotated and/or depressed to either accept or reject the offer. In
   this particular example, the 1/0 element 2400 simultaneously displays an energy savings
25 estimate 2406 which is one or more metrics indicative of the amount of energy likely to be
   shifted as a result of that particular energy consumer participating the DR event. The
   estimated savings in this particular example is illustrated as a dollar savings, but in other
   examples may also or alternatively be illustrated as a magnitude of energy savings (e.g.,
   kWh), AC run time, percentages, etc. AC run time, in some embodiments, may be a good
30 metric where information regarding pricing or HVAC capacity is unknown. The estimated
   savings may be calculated based on a default or expected level of participation, such as a
   level of participation input by the energy consumer at the time of enrolling.
   [0287]     FIG. 24B illustrates the I/O element 2400 in the event the user accepts the offer to
   participate in the DR event. The 1/0 element 2400 includes a participation level request
                                                    88

   message 2410 displaying a request for the identified energy consumer to select their desired
   level of participation in the DR event. This may range from a minimum level of participation
   to a maximum level of participation in the event. The I/O element 2400 may include a
   controllable slider 2412 that enables the identified energy consumer to select any level of
 5 participation on a gradient ranging from minimum to maximum participation. In one specific
   example, ring 320 could be rotated and/or depressed to select the level of participation. The
   I/O element 2400 may also include an estimated savings 2416 the identified energy consumer
   may realize if they participate at the level of participation indicated by the slider 2416. The
   estimated savings in this particular example is illustrated as a dollar savings, but in other
10 examples may also or alternatively be illustrated as a magnitude of energy savings (e.g.,
   kWh). The estimated savings may also be recalculated and re-displayed in real-time in
   response to the energy consumer changing their level of participation.
   [0288]     FIG. 24C illustrates the I/O element 2400 in the event the identified energy
   consumer accepts the offer to participate in the DR event and, in some embodiments, in the
15 event the identified energy consumer selects their desired level of participation. The I/O
   element 2400 includes a thank you message 2420 thanking the identified energy consumer
   for participating the DR event.
   [0289]     It should be appreciated that the specific 1/0 elements illustrated in FIGS. 24A
   through 24C describe particular 1/0 elements according to certain embodiments. The I/O
20 elements described with reference to FIGS. 24A through 24C may be implemented at and
   performed by one or more of a variety of electronic devices associated with the identified
   energy consumer. For example, they may be implemented at and performed by one or more
   of the a thermostat 202, hazard detection unit 204, entryway interface device 206, wall light
   switch 208, wall plug interface 210, appliance 212, access device 266, or other electronic
25 device associated with the identified energy consumer. The various messages and input
   elements may not necessarily be displayed at different times, but rather some messages could
   be presented simultaneously on the same display. Some messages could be communicated
   using other communication mechanisms, and responses could similarly be received using
   other communication mechanisms. For example, audible, touch, or other input/output
30 mechanisms could be used. Further, it should be recognized that additional or alternative
   information could be presented to request participation in a DR event, and all of the
   information illustrated in FIGS. 24A through 24C need not be presented. For example, an
   option to participate or refuse participation in a DR event may not be presented, and/or a
                                                    89

   level of participation may not be set by the user in some embodiments. One of ordinary skill
   in the art would recognize and appreciate many variations, modifications, and alternatives.
   [0290]     As described with reference to operation 1420 of FIG. 14, an energy consumer may
   alter one or more basis used for creating a DR event implementation profile. For example,
 5 the energy consumer may change the setpoints defined by the DR event implementation
   profile to shift energy either more aggressively or less aggressively. In some embodiments,
   the energy consumer may make such changes to the scheduled setpoints using a scheduler
   provided on one or more electronic devices (e.g., access device 266) associated with the
   energy consumer. Such changes may be done either before or during the DR event period.
10 One particular scheduler interface for facilitating such changes is described with reference to
   FIGS. 25A through 25F.
   [0291]     FIGS. 25A through 25F illustrate a simplified graphical user interface of a schedule
   of setpoints associated with an energy consumer that has agreed to participate in a DR event
   according to an embodiment. Various techniques for modifying scheduled setpoint
15 temperatures for a thermostat are described in commonly assigned U.S. Patent Application
   No. 13/624,875 (client reference number NES0245), filed September 21, 2012, the contents
   of which are incorporated herein in their entirety for all purposes. While the graphical user
   interface (GUI) is presented in the form of an interface that may be displayed on a
   rectangular-shaped device, embodiments are not so limited as similar GUI's could be
20 presented in other forms.
   [0292]     Turning to the figures, FIG. 25A illustrates an input/output (1/0) element 2500
   including a number of originally scheduled setpoints 2502 according to an embodiment. The
   originally scheduled setpoints 2502 in this example are defined at hourly intervals from noon
   until 9pm and indicate a setpoint (i.e., desired) temperature of 74 0 F throughout the entire time
25 period.
   [0293]     FIG. 25B illustrates the I/O element 2500 including a number of DR event-modified
   setpoints 2510 prior to beginning the DR event. The DR event-modified setpoints 2510 are
   new setpoints defined by the DR event implementation profile that replace the originally
   scheduled setpoints. In this particular example, the DR-event modified setpoints 2510 are
30 identified by an additional graphical ring around each setpoint, although in other
   embodiments such setpoints could be identified using other techniques, such as using a color
   different than the originally scheduled setpoints, using a different font for the numbers or
   text, etc. It may be recognized that while the DR-event modified setpoints 2510 span over
                                                   90

   the DR event period (e.g., from 2pm-7pm), they may also span over other time periods (e.g.,
   a pre-cooling period from 1pm-2pm). In cases where a DR event-modified setpoint 2510 is
   not defined, the originally scheduled setpoints 2502 may remain. In this particular example,
   a savings estimate 2512 is also displayed indicating to the energy consumer an estimate of the
 5 value of the energy shifting likely to occur if the DR event implementation profile is
   followed.
   [0294]     FIG. 25C illustrates the I/O element 2500 including a number of DR event-modified
   setpoints 2510 partway through the DR event. In this particular example, the energy
   consumer may be notified as to how far along the DR event they have progressed, and
10 whether each setpoint achieved the expected energy shifting. In the case that a time period
   associated with a particular setpoint has passed, and the setpoint was not altered to reduce the
   expected energy savings, a successful implementation indicator 2520 may be displayed. In
   this particular example, the successful implementation indicator 2520 is graphically
   illustrated as a leaf, although other shapes, objects, or graphical indications may be used and
15 may have one or more of a variety of colors, such as a gold colored gear. The successful
   implementation indicator 2520, in some embodiments, may indicate that the thermostat is
   successfully following or applying the DR implementation profile (i.e., no user setpoint
   changes to the DR implementation profile). As mentioned, the successful implementation
   indicator 2520 may be displayed if the setpoint was not altered to reduce the expected energy
20 savings. For example, if the energy consumer did not alter the setpoint, then the indicator
   2520 may be displayed. In this particular embodiment, the energy consumer has successfully
   progressed through four DR event-modified setpoints 2510.
   [0295]     FIG. 25D illustrates the I/O element 2500 including a number of DR event-modified
   setpoints 2510 partway through a DR even subject to an energy consumer-instigated change
25 to a DR event-modified setpoint resulting in a decrease of energy shifting. In this particular
   example, the energy consumer's cooling system is being managed to deal with hot
   temperatures. The energy consumer reduced the 7pm DR event-modified setpoint 2530 by
   4F from 76F to 72F. In this situation, such a reduction will result in reduced energy
   shifting, and as a result a successful implementation indicator 2520 may not be displayed for
30 the setpoint 2530. Further, in some embodiments the savings estimate 2512 may be modified
   to reflect an updated estimate to the value of the energy shifting likely to occur as a result of
   the change in setpoint 2530. A savings correction notification 2532 is also displayed
   indicating the change in value from the estimate prior to the change and the estimate after the
   change.
                                                    91

   [0296]     FIG. 25E illustrates the 1/0 element 2500 including a number of DR event-modified
   setpoints 2510 partway through a DR even subject to an energy consumer-instigated change
   to a DR event-modified setpoint resulting in an increase of energy shifting. This example is
   similar to that described with reference to FIG. 25D, but in this case the 7pm DR-event
 5 modified setpoint 2530 is increased 2'F from 76'F to 78F. In this situation, such an increase
   will result in an increased energy shifting, and as a result a successful implementation
   indicator 2520 may still be displayed for the setpoint 2530. Further, the savings estimate
   2512 is modified to reflect an updated estimate to the value of the energy shifting likely to
   occur as a result of the change in setpoint 2530, and a savings correction notification 2532 is
10 also displayed indicating the change in value from the estimate prior to the change and the
   estimate after the change.
   [0297]     FIG. 25F illustrates the I/O element 2500 including a number of DR event-modified
   setpoints 2510 after completion of the DR event. In this particular example, the energy
   consumer completed the entire DR event in accordance with the DR event implementation
15 profile. Accordingly, successful implementation indicators 2520 are displayed for each
   event-modified setpoint 2510. Further, in some embodiments the actual amount of savings
   2540 resulting in energy costs resulting from participation in the DR event may be calculated
   and displayed.
   [0298]     It should be appreciated that the specific 1/0 elements illustrated in FIGS. 25A
20 through 25F describe particular I/O elements according to certain embodiments. The I/O
   elements described with reference to FIGS. 25A through 25F may be implemented at and
   performed by one or more of a variety of electronic devices associated with the identified
   energy consumer. For example, they may be implemented at and performed by one or more
   of the a thermostat 202, hazard detection unit 204, entryway interface device 206, wall light
25 switch 208, wall plug interface 210, appliance 212, access device 266, or other electronic
   device associated with the identified energy consumer. The various messages and input
   elements may not necessarily be displayed at different times, but rather some messages could
   be presented simultaneously on the same display. Some messages could be communicated
   using other communication mechanisms, and responses could similarly be received using
30 other communication mechanisms. For example, audible, touch, or other input/output
   mechanisms could be used. Further, it should be recognized that additional or alternative
   information could be presented to request enrollment and a participation level, and all of the
   information illustrated in FIGS. 25A through 25F need not be presented. For example, in
   some embodiments, the energy consumer may not be provided with an opportunity to change
                                                    92

   the DR event-modified setpoints at all. For example, with reference to FIG. 25B, all of the
   DR event-modified setpoints 2510 may be blacked out or otherwise hidden from the energy
   consumer. Or, in some embodiments, simply not changeable by the energy consumer. For
   another example, in some embodiments a consumer may not be notified of a DR event at all.
 5 This may be particularly advantageous for 'instantaneous' DR events, where a DR event
   notification is communicated to a thermostat shortly before the DR event begins. In these or
   other cases there may be no notification to the consumer of the DR event (e.g., no "DR
   EVENT" notification as described with reference to FIG. 26A), but rather the thermostat may
   display temperature setpoints as defined by the DR implementation profile without displaying
10 an explicit notification that the thermostat is actively implementing a DR implementation
   profile. Accordingly, in some cases the 1/0 element 2600 may display the originally
   scheduled setpoints even during implementation of a DR implementation profile, whereas in
   other cases the the I/O element 2600 may alternatively or additionaly display the DR
   implementation profile setpoints during implemlentation of the DR implementation profile.
15 In at least one embodiment, the setpoints shown to the user may change based on whether the
   user attempts to view those setpoints before, during, or after the DR event. For example,
   before and during the DR event the user's typically scheduled setpoints may be displayed,
   whereas after the DR event the DR implementation profile setpoints may be displayed. One
   of ordinary skill in the art would recognize and appreciate many variations, modifications,
20 and alternatives.
   [0299]     In addition or alternatively to changing scheduled setpoint temperatures, an energy
   consumer may modify their immediate setpoint temperature. Various techniques for
   modifying an immediate setpoint temperature of a thermostat are described in commonly
   assigned U.S. Patent Application No. 13/356,762 (client reference number NES0176), filed
25 January 24, 2012, the contents of which are incorporated herein in their entirety for all
   purposes. Such immediate setpoint temperatures may be changed before, during, or after a
   DR event. If changing such setpoint temperatures during a DR event result in a change to the
   estimated energy shifting, then the energy consumer may be notified and confirmation of the
   change required.
30 [0300]     FIGS. 26A through 26D illustrate a simplified graphical user interface for
   responding to immediate setpoint changes during a DR event according to an embodiment.
   While the graphical user interface (GUI) is presented in the form of an interface that may be
   displayed on a circular-shaped device such as the device 300 discussed with reference to
                                                    93

   FIGS. 3A through 3C, embodiments are not so limited as similar GUI's could be presented
   on other devices of other shapes.
   [0301]     Turning to the figures, FIG. 26A illustrates an input/output (1/0) element 2600
   which may be, e.g., user interface 304 (FIG. 3A), output device 606 and/or input device 608
 5 (FIG. 6), or other suitable I/O element 2600 of an electronic device used by an energy
   consumer during a DR event. The I/O element 2600 includes a current setpoint temperature
   2602 displaying the immediate setpoint to the identified energy consumer. The I/O element
   2600 also includes a current temperature indicator 2604 indicating the current temperature
   inside of the structure, and in some cases a current setpoint temperature indicator 2608
10 indicating the immediate setpoint and graphically displayed relative to the current
   temperature indicator 2604. The I/O element 2600 may also include a DR event indicator
   2610 indicating that energy consumption of the energy consumer is currently being managed.
   In this particular example, the DR event indicator 2610 is a textual display of "DR EVENT",
   but in other embodiments the DR event indicator 2610 may take other forms or textual
15 sequences, such as "RUSH HOUR". Such an indicator may be displayed during the DR
   event period, but may also be displayed during other time periods over which energy
   consumption is being managed, such as during the pre-event period and/or post-event period.
   The I/O element 2600 may also include a successful implementation indicator 2612 similar to
   indicator 2520.
20 [0302]     FIG. 26B illustrates an input/output (1/0) element 2600 in which the energy
   consumer alters the immediate setpoint to result in a decrease of energy shifting. In this
   particular example, the energy consumer has reduced the immediate setpoint temperature by
   7F from 75F to 68F. The energy consumer is presented with a confirmation message 2620
   requesting confirmation of the change, as well as a selectable input mechanism 2622 whereby
25 the user can either accept or reject the change. The energy consumer may also be presented
   with a savings correction notification 2624 indicating the change in value of energy shifting
   that is likely to result if the energy consumer's change to the immediate setpoint is accepted.
   In some embodiments, the desired change to the immediate setpoint temperature may cause
   the energy consumer to opt-out of the DR event (e.g., due to the change resulting in the
30 structure not achieving any energy shifting). In such a case, the energy consumer may also
   be presented with a message indicating that their change will result in them opting out of the
   DR event, and a confirmation message requesting confirmation of their desire to opt-out.
   [0303]     FIG. 26C illustrates an input/output (1/0) element 2600 in which the energy
   consumer alters the immediate setpoint to result in an increase of energy shifting. In this
                                                    94

   particular example, the energy consumer has increased the immediate setpoint temperature by
   3F from 75F to 78F. The energy consumer in this example is not presented with a
   confirmation message but rather the desired change is immediately accepted as it increased
   energy shifting. In other examples, the energy consumer may be presented with a
 5 confirmation message. The energy consumer may also be presented with a savings correction
   notification 2624 indicating the change in value of energy shifting that is likely to result due
   to the energy consumer's change to the immediate setpoint. In some cases, information, such
   as the implementation indicator 2612, may be removed from the display.
   [0304]     FIG. 26D illustrates the I/O element 2600 upon completion of the DR event. The
10 I/O element 2600 includes an event completion message 2640 notifying the energy consumer
   that the DR event is completed. The I/O element 2600 may also include an actual savings
   notification 2642 indicating the value of energy savings actually achieved as a result of the
   energy consumer's participation in the DR event, as well as an expected savings notification
   2644 indicating the value of energy savings that was expected to be achieved as a result of
15 the energy consumer's participation in the DR event.
   [0305]     It should be appreciated that the specific 1/0 elements illustrated in FIGS. 26A
   through 26D describe particular I/O elements according to certain embodiments. The I/O
   elements described with reference to FIGS. 26A through 26D may be implemented at and
   performed by one or more of a variety of electronic devices associated with the identified
20 energy consumer. For example, they may be implemented at and performed by one or more
   of the a thermostat 202, hazard detection unit 204, entryway interface device 206, wall light
   switch 208, wall plug interface 210, appliance 212, access device 266, or other electronic
   device associated with the identified energy consumer. The various messages and input
   elements may not necessarily be displayed at different times, but rather some messages could
25 be presented simultaneously on the same display. Some messages could be communicated
   using other communication mechanisms, and responses could similarly be received using
   other communication mechanisms. For example, audible, touch, or other input/output
   mechanisms could be used. Further, it should be recognized that additional or alternative
   information could be presented to request enrollment and a participation level, and all of the
30 information illustrated in FIGS. 26A through 26D need not be presented. For example, in
   some embodiments a consumer may not be notified of a DR event at all. This may be
   particularly advantageous for 'instantaneous' DR events, where a DR event notification is
   communicated to a thermostat shortly before the DR event begins. In these or other cases
   there may be no notification to the consumer of the DR event (e.g., no "DR EVENT"
                                                    95

   notification as described with reference to FIG. 26A), but rather the thermostat may display
   temperature setpoints as defined by the DR implementation profile without displaying an
   explicit notification that the thermostat is actively implementing a DR implementation
   profile. In some cases, while no explicit notification is provided, an implicit notification may
 5 be provided (e.g., by constant display of the implementation indicator 2612 during
   implementation of the DR implementation profile) that indicates the thermostat is actively
   shifting energy. One of ordinary skill in the art would recognize and appreciate many
   variations, modifications, and alternatives.
   [0306]     As described with reference to operation 1218, the tendencies and preferences of the
10 occupants of a structure (e.g., preferred temperatures, humidity's, etc. for different times of
   the day, for different occupants, etc.) may be learned, where specific learning algorithms are
   further described in U.S. Provisional Application No. 61/550,346, supra. In some
   embodiments, in addition to learning preferred temperatures, humidity's, etc. during regular
   (i.e., non-DR event) time periods, the tendencies and preferences of occupants with respect to
15 participation in a DR event may also be learned. For example, a DR event implementation
   profile may be implemented for a particular energy consumer. During the DR event, the
   energy consumer may indicate increases or decreases the amount of energy shifting resulting
   from participation in the DR event (e.g., due to changing the DR event implementation
   setpoints). Such changes made during the DR event may be used in the generation of DR
20 event implementation profiles for subsequent DR events. For example, where an energy
   consumer indicates an increase in the amount of energy shifting resulting from participation
   in a first DR event, the DR implementation profile for a second, subsequent event may be
   made to more aggressively shift energy as compared to the DR implementation profile
   originally generated for the first event. FIG. 27 illustrates a particular process for learning
25 the preferences of energy consumers during DR events, although it should be recognized that
   some or all of the learning processes described in U.S. Provisional Application No.
   61/550,346, supra, may similarly be applied herein.
   [0307]     Specifically, FIG. 27 illustrates a process 2700 for learning user preferences
   indicated during a DR event according to an embodiment. In operation 2702 the scheduled
30 setpoints prior to application of a DR implementation profile (i.e., the originally scheduled
   setpoints) may be determined. For example, with reference to FIG. 25D, these may be
   originally scheduled setpoints 2502. In determining the originally scheduled setpoints, a
   schedule set by the energy consumer may be acquired. For example, energy management
   system 130 may receive an HVAC schedule from one or more of the thermostat 202 and
                                                     96

   access device 266. In some cases, the schedule may not be explicitly set by the energy
   consumer, but rather may be learned (e.g., using some or all of the learning processed
   described in U.S. Provisional Application No. 61/550,346, supra) by the thermostat 202
   and/or other electronic devices associated with the energy consumer. In such a case, the
 5 learned and/or manually set setpoints may be acquired.
   [0308]    In operation 2704, the DR event-modified setpoints are determined. For example,
   with reference to FIG. 25D, these may be DR event-modified setpoints 2510. These may be
   determined from the DR implementation profile.
   [0309]    In operation 2706 it is determined whether the energy consumer changes any of the
10 DR event-modified setpoints. It may be determined whether the change is an increase or a
   decrease in the setpoint value. For example, with reference to FIG. 25D, when an energy
   consumer reduces a DR event-modified setpoint from 76F to 72F, it may be determined
   that a decrease in the DR event-modified setpoint has occurred. For another example, with
   reference to FIG. 26B, when an energy consumer reduces a DR event-modified setpoint (in
15 this example, a current setpoint) from 72F to 68F, it may be determined that a decrease in
   the DR event-modified setpoint has occurred.
   [0310]    If it is determined that there are no changes to the DR event-modified setpoints, then
   processing may continue to operation 2710 where information indicating the user's
   acceptance of the DR event-modified setpoints is stored. In contrast, if it is determined that
20 there are changes to the DR event-modified setpoints, then processing may continue to
   operation 2708.
   [0311]    In operation 2708 the time and magnitude of the deviation are determined. For
   example, with reference to FIG. 25D, when an energy consumer reduces a DR event
   modified setpoint from 76F to 72F, the 7pm time of the setpoint change as well as the 4F
25 magnitude of the change may be determined. In some cases, the values of the DR event
   modified setpoints prior to and after change (i.e., 76F and 72F) may also be determined, as
   may be the corresponding originally scheduled setpoint (i.e., 74F). Processing may then
   continue to operation 2710, where the time, magnitude, and other information may be stored.
   [0312]    Information identifying the aforementioned deviations may be stored in any suitable
30 element of system 100, such as the energy management system 130, one or more residences
    150A - 150N, the utility provider computing system 120, etc. Such stored information may
   subsequently be used when determining the DR implementation profile for a subsequent DR
   event profile. For example, as described with reference to operation 1602, past DR event
                                                    97

   behavior may be used when identifying the basis for the DR implementation profile. One
   particular process for using the stored deviations is described with reference to FIG. 28.
   [0313]      Specifically, FIG. 28 illustrates a particular process for modifying a DR
   implementation profile based on user preferences indicated during a prior DR event
 5 according to an embodiment. In operation 2802, information indicating deviations (or lack
   thereof) to DR event-modified setpoints for one or more previous DR events is identified.
   For example, this could be information stored in operation 2710.
   [0314]      In operation 2804 it is determined whether there were any deviations to the DR
   event-modified setpoints for the previous DR event(s). If not, then processing may continue
10 to operation 2806, where a DR implementation for a current DR event is not altered. In some
   embodiments, even though there were no deviations for past DR events, the DR
   implementation for a current DR event may nonetheless be altered. For example, the DR
   implementation for the current DR event may be altered to more aggressively shift energy in
   an effort to slowly increase the amount of energy shifting caused a particular energy
15 consumer.
   [0315]      If, on the other hand, in operation 2804 it is determined that there is a deviation,
   then processing may continue to operation 2808. In operation 2808 it is determined whether
   the deviation indicates more an increase in (e.g., more aggressive) energy shifting. For
   example, with reference to FIG. 25E, an increase in the temperature of the DR event
20 modified setpoint 2530 would result in an increased energy shift or, at the very least, an
   indication of a desire for more aggressive energy shifting. Accordingly, if it is determined
   that the deviation indicates an increase in energy shifting, processing may continue to
   operation 2810.
   [0316]      In operation 2810 the DR implementation profile for the current DR event is altered
25 to result in more aggressive energy shifting. For example, referring to FIG. 25B, instead of
   setting the DR event period setpoints to 76F, the DR implementation profile may push for
   more aggressive energy shifting by setting the DR event period setpoints to 77F. In contrast,
   if it is determined in operation 2808 that the deviation does not indicate an increase in energy
   shifting, but rather indicates a decrease in (e.g., less aggressive) energy shifting, then
30 processing may continue to operation 2812.
   [0317]      In operation 2812 the DR implementation profile for the current DR event is altered
   to result in less aggressive energy shifting. For example, referring to FIG. 25B, instead of
                                                      98

   setting the DR event period setpoints to 76F, the DR implementation profile may allow for
   less aggressive energy shifting by setting the DR event period setpoints to 75F.
   [0318]     It should be appreciated that the specific operations illustrated in FIGS. 27 and 28
   provide particular processes for learning and applying energy consumers' DR event
 5 preferences according to embodiments. The various operations described with reference to
   FIGS. 27 and 28 may be implemented at and performed by one or more of a variety of
   electronic devices or components described herein. For example, they may be implemented
   at and performed by a thermostat 202, an access device 266, or other electronic device
   described in accordance with the smart home environment 200, the energy management
10 system 130, the utility provider computing system 120, etc. Other sequences of operations
   may also be performed according to alternative embodiments. For example, alternative
   embodiments of the present invention may perform the operations outlined above in a
   different order. Moreover, the individual operations illustrated in FIGS. 27 and 28 may
   include multiple sub-operations that may be performed in various sequences as appropriate to
15 the individual operations. Furthermore, additional operations may be added or existing
   operations removed depending on the particular applications. One of ordinary skill in the art
   would recognize and appreciate many variations, modifications, and alternatives.
   [0319]     Turning back to FIG. 1, in many embodiments, energy management system 130
   may manage the energy consumption at one or more residences 150A - 150N. Such energy
20 management may be performed for and during a DR event having characteristics (such as a
   desired reduction in energy consumption during the DR event on a particular electric grid)
   defined by the utility provider associated with utility provider computing system 120. In
   some embodiments, energy management system 130 may provide the utility provider, via
   utility provider computing system 120, various information regarding the status and progress
25 of the energy reduction mechanisms implemented by the energy management system 130.
   For example, the energy management system 130 may allow the utility provider to see which
   particular residences 150A - 15ON are participating in a DR event, how much energy shifting
   each residence has actually performed, whether the actual aggregate energy reduction during
   the DR event period is close to the desired aggregate energy reduction initially instructed by
30 the utility provider. In one particular embodiment, such information may be presented to the
   utility provider via a utility portal. The utility portal may a website hosted by the energy
   management system 130 or other third party entity, may be an application executed at the
   utility provider computing system 120, may be an application executable on a portable
   electronic device provided to one or more members of the utility provider, or other type of
                                                     99

   interface that allows the utility provider to acquire, manage, and respond to such information.
   In at least one embodiment, the various information provided to the utility provider may be
   provided in real-time so that the utility provider may monitor the characteristics and
   effectiveness of the energy reduction mechanisms employed by the energy management
 5 system 130.
   [0320]     FIG. 29A illustrates an input/output (I/O) element 2900 including a utility portal
   summary according to an embodiment. A variety of information regarding an energy
   management mechanism employed by the energy management system 130 may be presented
   to the utility provider via the I/O element 2900. Such information may initially be stored at
10 energy management system 130 and/or electronic devices at residences 150A - 150N. In one
   particular embodiment, the information may be acquired by and aggregated at a server of
   energy management system 130 from various electronic devices associated with each of the
   residences 150A - 150N. The information may then be presented in real-time to the utility
   provider via the utility portal and, in some embodiments, the utility provider computing
15 system 120 may be used to interact with the data.
   [0321]     In the particular input/output element 2900 depicted in FIG. 29A, the utility portal
   includes a summary of information regarding a particular DR event. The summary includes
   the number of energy consumers that are enrolled to participate in a particular DR program
   2902, information regarding an upcoming DR event 2904, a refresh link 2906 that upon
20 selection causes the displayed information to be refreshed (recognizing that the information
   can be refreshed periodically, e.g., every minute, every 30 minutes, every 60 minutes, etc.
   without user input), an export link 2908 that upon selection exports the displayed information
   in one or more of a variety of file formats, and a utility account identifier 1910 that uniquely
   identifies an account associated with the utility provider.
25 [0322]     The information regarding an upcoming DR event 2904 may include a variety of
   information regarding an upcoming DR event. For example, such information may include
   the date of the DR event 2912, the time of the DR event 2914, the desired amount of energy
   shifting 2914, the number of participants for the DR event 2918, etc. Much of this
   information, such as the date, time, and desired energy shifting, may be acquired from the DR
30 event profile by the energy management system 130. Other information, such as the number
   of participants, may be generated by the energy management system (e.g., as a result of the
   operations described with reference to FIG. 8) and communicated to the utility provider
   computing system 120.
                                                   100

   [0323]      The utility provider computing system 120 may be used to interact with the various
   data presented by the energy management system 130. For example, upon selecting the
   number of enrolled energy consumers 2902, the utility portal may present additional
   information regarding all of the enrolled consumers. Similarly, upon selecting the number of
 5 participants, the utility portal may present additional information regarding the energy
   consumers that have indicated they will participate (or are currently participating) in the
   upcoming DR event.
   [0324]      In some embodiments, the utility portal may include prior DR event information
   2920. The prior DR event information may identify past DR events and include selectable
10 links to those DR events. Upon receiving a selection of one of those links, the utility portal
   may provide various information regarding the past DR event similar to that described with
   reference to FIGS. 29A and 29B.
   [0325]      FIG. 29B illustrates an I/O element 2950 including a utility portal providing detailed
   energy consumer information according to an embodiment. Such detailed information may
15 be provided in a number of fashions, for example in response to a user of the utility provider
   computing system 120 selecting the number of enrolled energy consumers 2902 or the
   number of participants 2918 described with reference to FIG. 29A. In one particular
   embodiment, in response to the number of enrolled energy consumers 2902 being selected, a
   list of all enrolled energy consumers and their devices used for managing energy
20 consumption may be generated. Similarly, in response to the number of participants in a DR
   event 2918 being selected, a list of only the energy consumers participating in a particular DR
   event may be generated.
   [0326]      The I/O element 2950 in this particular example includes a user identifier 2952 that
   identifies an energy consumer, a device identifier 2954 that uniquely identifies an electronic
25 device (e.g., thermostat 202) associated with the energy consumer and is used for energy
   management, a connection status 2956 indicating whether the electronic device is connected
   to the energy management system 130 (e.g., remote server 264), qualification information
   2958 indicating whether the device qualifies to participate in a DR event, notification
   information 2960 indicating whether the device received a DR event notification, DR
30 execution information 2962 indicating whether the device is currently performing energy
   management in accordance with a DR event (e.g., currently implementing a DR
   implementation profile), an estimate of total energy reduction 2964 indicating an estimate of
   the total energy reduction during the DR event period (or energy shifting from the DR event
   period to other time periods) attributed to the device, an estimate of the current energy
                                                   101

   reduction 2966 indicating an estimate of the amount of energy reduction the device was
   expected to achieve from the beginning of the DR event period up until a particular time
   during the DR event in accordance with its DR implementation profile, and an actual current
   energy reduction 2968 indicating the actual amount of energy reduction achieved by the
 5 device from the beginning of the DR event period up until the particular time during the DR
   event.
   [0327]    In addition to providing a variety of information on a per-device basis, aggregated
   values may also be generated and provided to the utility portal. For example, the utility
   portal may also include an estimate of the aggregate current energy reduction 2970 that
10 indicates the total amount of energy reduction across all participating devices expected to be
   achieved from the beginning of the DR event up until a particular time during the DR event,
   an actual aggregate current energy reduction 2972 that indicates the total amount of energy
   reduction across all participating devices actually achieved from the beginning of the DR
   event up until the particular time during the DR event, the percentage of devices currently
15 executing the DR event 2974, and the amount of time remaining in in the DR event 2976.
   [0328]    It should be recognized that much of the aforementioned information may be
   generated by the energy management system 130 in accordance with many of the previously
   described processes. For example, the estimated total energy reductions 2964 may be
   calculated in accordance with operation 1408, while the estimated current energy reduction
20 2966, estimated aggregate current energy reduction 2970, actual current energy reduction
   2968, and actual aggregate current energy reduction 2972 may be calculated in accordance
   with operations 1504 and 1510.
   [0329]    Moreover, it should be appreciated that the specific 1/0 elements illustrated in
   FIGS. 29A and 29B describe particular I/O elements according to certain embodiments. The
25 various information and selectable elements may not necessarily be displayed at different
   times, but rather some messages could be presented simultaneously on the same display;
   similarly, the information and selectable elements may not necessarily be displayed
   simultaneously, but could be displayed at different times. Some messages could be
   communicated using other communication mechanisms, and responses could similarly be
30 received using other communication mechanisms. For example, audible, touch, or other
   input/output mechanisms could be used to communicate the information to the utility
   provider and allow the utility provider to interact with the information. Further, it should be
   recognized that additional or alternative information could be presented, and all of the
   information illustrated in FIGS. 25A through 25F need not be presented. For example, in
                                                  102

   some embodiments, the user identifier 2952 and/or device identifier 2954 can be selected to
   generate and display additional information regarding the energy consumer, such as their full
   name, address, billing information, structure information (type of structure, volume of
   structure, thermal retention characteristics of structure, cooling/heating capacity of structure,
 5 etc.), or other user/account/device-related information. For another example, in some
   embodiments, after a DR event the utility portal may generate and display information
   identifying which devices completed their participation in the DR event, which devices did
   not even start their participation in the DR event, which devices canceled or altered their
   participation level during the DR event, and when such changes were made and the impact of
10 such changes (e.g., increased energy shifting, decreasing energy shifting, opt-out). One of
   ordinary skill in the art would recognize and appreciate many variations, modifications, and
   alternatives.
   [0330]     In some instances energy consumers may attempt to obviate the application of a DR
   implementation profile while still enjoying rewards associated with participation in a DR
15 event. For example, an energy consumer may prevent their thermostat 202 from controlling
   their HVAC 203, but still allow the thermostat 202 to download and implement a DR
   implementation profile for a DR event. In some cases, the thermostat 202 may execute the
   DR implementation profile for the entire duration of the DR event, and the energy consumer
   may get rewarded for their participation in the DR event, although the user has only presented
20 the appearance of participating in the DR event. Instead of actually shifting their energy
   consumption, the energy consumer may manually control their HVAC resulting in no energy
   shifting or less energy shifting than that reported by the thermostat. In some embodiments,
   techniques for determining whether an energy consumer is or has attempted to obviate DR
   programming (i.e., application of a DR implementation profile) are disclosed. In making
25 such a determination, the status of an HVAC wire connection to an electronic device (e.g.,
   thermostat 202) can be monitored to see whether the HVAC has been disconnected. If so,
   this may indicate tampering. In some embodiments, one or more additional factors may also
   be taken into consideration prior to making a definitive determination of tampering, such as
   whether the energy consumer is enrolled in a DR program, participating in a DR event, etc.
30 [0331]     FIG. 30A illustrates a process 3000 for determining whether an energy consumer
   has complied with participation in a DR event according to an embodiment. To facilitate
   understanding, the process 3000 is described with reference to FIG. 1 and FIG. 2, although it
   should be understood that embodiments of the process 3000 are not limited to the exemplary
   systems and apparatus described with reference to FIG. 1 and FIG. 2.
                                                   103

   [0332]     In operation 3002, an HVAC wire connection established during a device install is
   identified. The device may be any device connected to an HVAC or other environmental
   management system, such as thermostat 202 being connected to HVAC 203. The thermostat
   202 may generally be connected to the HVAC 203 so as to control the operation of HVAC
 5 203. In one particular embodiment and with reference to FIG. 3C, various electric wires from
   the HVAC 203 for controlling the HVAC 203 may be connected to the thermostat 203, such
   as a heating call wire WI, a cooling call wire Y1, etc. One particular technique for
   connecting an HVAC to a thermostat is described in commonly assigned U.S. Ser. No.
    13/034,674, supra. Accordingly, in one embodiment, processor 330 (or other processing
10 circuitry/software associated with device 300) may identify one or more connections to an
   HVAC via the wire connectors 338.
   [0333]     In operation 3004, the HVAC wire connection is monitored. For example, the wire
   connectors 338 may be monitored for wire connections and disconnections. In one particular
   embodiment, the port sensing circuit 342 may include a two-position switch that is closed to
15 short the electrical leads 344 together when no wire has been inserted into the associated wire
   connector 338, and the two-position switch may be mechanically urged into an open position
   to electrically segregate the electrical leads 344 when a wire is inserted into the associated
   wire connector 338. Accordingly, the two-position switch may be monitored to determine
   whether a wire has been connected or disconnected to/from a particular wire connector 338.
20 [0334]     In operation 3006 it is determined whether an HVAC wire connection has been
   tampered with. In some embodiments, it may be determined whether an HVAC wire
   connection has been removed. For example, as a result of monitoring the two-position switch
   in operation 3004, it may be determined whether a wire connected to an HVAC via a wire
   connector 338 is removed from the wire connector 338. If it is determined that an HVAC
25 wire connection has not been tampered with, then processing may continue to operation 3008
   where it is determined that the device is compliant. Otherwise, processing may continue to
   operation 3010.
   [0335]     In operation 3010 it is determined whether the tampering is indicative of an attempt
   to obviate DR programming. In some embodiments it may be determined that the mere
30 disconnect of one or more wires is indicative of tampering. In some cases, a particular wire
   (e.g., cooling call wire Yl) must be removed to indicate tampering. In other embodiments,
   one or more additional factors may be taken into consideration in determining whether the
   tampering is indicative of an attempt to obviate the DR programming. A number of such
   factors are further described with reference to FIG. 30B. If it is determined that the
                                                   104

   tampering is not indicative of an attempt to obviate DR programming, then processing may
   return to operation 3008 where it is determined that the device is compliant. Otherwise,
   processing may continue to operation 3012 where it is determined that the device is
   compliant.
 5 [0336]     As mentioned, FIG. 30B illustrates a process 3050 for determining whether
   tampering of an HVAC wire is indicative of an attempt to obviate DR programming
   according to an embodiment. In operation 3052, it is determined whether the energy
   consumer associated with the device (e.g., paired with the device) is enrolled in a DR
   program. If so, then this may weigh against a determination of compliance as the energy
10 consumer may have a motive to obviate the DR programming. In operation 3054, it is
   determined whether the energy consumer associated with the device is participating in a DR
   event. If so, then this may weigh against a determination of compliance as the energy
   consumer may have a motive to obviate the DR programming. In operation 3056 it is
   determined whether the tampering occurred after a DR event notification. If so, then this
15 may weigh against a determination of compliance as the energy consumer may have notice of
   an upcoming DR event and thus a motive to obviate the upcoming DR programming. In
   operation 3058 it is determined whether there has been a change in HVAC. For example, it
   may be determined whether a new HVAC has been installed, or the device has been installed
   at a different HVAC. If so, then this may weigh in favor of a determination of compliance as
20 there may be justified reason for the appearance of tampering. In operation 3060 it is
   determined whether there is change in device ownership. For example, it may be determined
   whether a user account paired with a device becomes unpaired with device, and/or whether a
   new user account is paired with the device. If so, then this may weigh in favor of a
   determination of compliance as there may be justified reason for the appearance of
25 tampering. In operation 3062 it is determined whether the environmental conditions in the
   structure (e.g., temperature, humidity, etc.) vary during a DR event as expected. For
   example, based on the DR implementation profile, structural characteristics (i.e., thermal
   retention characteristics), HVAC capacity, and outside weather, changes to the environmental
   conditions inside of the structure in response to programmed environmental
30 (temperature/humidity) changes by the HVAC may be estimated. Environmental sensors in
   the structure may be used to determine whether the actual environmental conditions inside of
   the structure change as estimated. If so, then this may weigh in favor of a determination of
   compliance since the environmental conditions inside of the structure are changing as they
   should if the HVAC were being controlled as expected. In operation 3064 it is determined
35 whether other factors suggest non-compliance. This may be any one or more of a variety of
                                                   105

   factors, such as whether a real-time occupancy sensor indicates the structure is occupied,
   whether the energy consumer changed the DR event-modified setpoints to perform less
   aggressive energy shifting immediately prior to the detected tampering, or changed the
   setpoints to be perform much more aggressive energy shifting immediately after detecting the
 5 tampering, etc.
   [0337]     It should be recognized that although the process described with reference to FIG.
   30A includes making definitive determinations of compliance or non-compliance, in some
   embodiments a probability of compliance ranging from non-complaint (e.g,. 0%) to full
   compliance (100%) may be determined, where each of the factors may impact either a
10 probabilistic findings of non-compliance or compliance. The factors may be equally or non
   equally weighted. Further, it should be appreciated that the specific operations illustrated in
   FIGS. 30A and 30B provide a particular process for determining whether an energy consumer
   has complied with participation in a DR event according to an embodiment. The various
   operations described with reference to FIGS. 30A and 30B may be implemented at and
15 performed by one or more of a variety of electronic devices or components described herein.
   For example, they may be implemented at and performed by a thermostat 202, an access
   device 266, or other electronic device described in accordance with the smart home
   environment 200, or one or more electronic components at energy management system 130,
   utility provider computing system 120, or other entity of system 100. Other sequences of
20 operations may also be performed according to alternative embodiments. For example,
   alternative embodiments of the present invention may perform the operations outlined above
   in a different order. Moreover, the individual operations illustrated in FIGS. 30A and 30B
   may include multiple sub-operations that may be performed in various sequences as
   appropriate to the individual operations. Furthermore, additional operations may be added or
25 existing operations removed depending on the particular applications. One of ordinary skill
   in the art would recognize and appreciate many variations, modifications, and alternatives.
   [0338]     As described with reference to FIG. 1, the energy management system 130 may
   manage the energy consumption for a number of different residences 150A - 150N. In
   managing that energy consumption, the energy management system 130 may predict the
30 likely amount of an energy reduction over a given period of time resulting from the energy
   management. While the energy management system 130 itself does not necessarily generate
   energy, the energy manager associated with the energy management system 130 may enter
   into a variety of different agreements with the utility provider associated with the utility
   provider computing system 120 in order to sell the reductions in energy. FIGS. 3 1A and 3 1B
                                                  106

   illustrate various processes by which the energy management system 130 and utility provider
   computing system 120 may manage energy.
   [0339]     Specifically, FIG. 3 1A illustrates a process 3100 for an energy management system
   (e.g., energy management system 130) to manage energy in accordance with a bilateral
 5 contract between an energy manager associated with the energy management system and a
   utility provider associated with a utility provider computing system (e.g., utility provider
   computing system 130) according to an embodiment. To facilitate understanding, the process
   3100 is described with reference to FIG. 1 and FIG. 2, although it should be understood that
   embodiments of the process 3100 are not limited to the exemplary systems and apparatus
10 described with reference to FIG. 1 and FIG. 2.
   [0340]     In operation 3102 the energy management provider enters into a contract with the
   utility provider to remove a certain amount of load from a grid for one or more demand
   response events. For example, the utility provider associated with utility provider computing
   system 120 and the energy manager associated with energy management system 130 may
15 enter into a contract for energy management system 130 to reduce the energy consumption on
   power distribution network 160 by a certain number of kWh over a particular duration (i.e.,
   DR event period).
   [0341]     In operation 3104, the energy management system identifies energy consumers on
   the grid who, in aggregate, are likely to remove the agreed upon amount of load from the
20 grid. For example, energy management system 130 may identify some of residences 150A
    15ON to participate in a DR program and DR event who, in the aggregate, are likely to reduce
   their energy consumption on the power distribution network 160 the contracted number of
   kWh over the DR event period.
   [0342]     In operation 3106 a demand-response event begins. For example, the beginning of a
25 DR event period defined by a DR event profile may be reached. It should be recognized that
   the beginning of the DR event period may include the beginning of a pre-event energy
   management period.
   [0343]     In operation 3108 the energy management provider manages the energy consumers
   on the grid to remove the agreed upon amount of load. For example, the energy management
30 system 130 may apply DR implementation profiles for the residences 150A - 150N
   associated with the participating energy consumers. The DR implementation profiles may be
   generated to cause the participating energy consumers to, in the aggregate, reduce their
                                                     107

   energy consumption by the amount agreed upon and defined in the contract described with
   reference to operation 3102.
   [0344]    In operation 3110 the demand-response event ends. For example, the end of a DR
   event period defined by a DR event profile may be reached. It should be recognized that the
 5 end of the DR event period may include the end of a post-event energy management period.
   [0345]    In operation 3112 the energy management provider determines the energy reduction
   contributed by each participating energy consumer. For example, for each residence 150A
    150N associated with an energy consumer that at least partially participated in the DR event,
   the energy management provider may determine the amount of energy reduced at that
10 residence during the DR event period as compared to what the energy consumer would have
   consumed but-for its participation in the DR event.
   [0346]    In operation 3114 it is determined, for each energy consumer, whether the actual
   energy reduction is greater than some threshold amount. The threshold amount may be zero
   or some energy value greater than zero. If it is determined that the actual amount of energy
15 reduction does not exceed the threshold, then processing may continue to operation 3116
   where it is determined that no reward is distributed to the energy consumer. In contrast, if it
   is determined that the actual amount of energy reduction exceeds the threshold, then
   processing may continue to operation 3118 where an award is determined and distributed to
   the energy consumer. The award may be relative the amount of energy reduction achieved by
20 the energy consumer, such that if the energy consumed reduces a greater amount of energy
   compared to another consumer they will be awarded a greater reward computer to the other
   consumer. In other embodiments, all energy consumers that meet some threshold of energy
   reduction may receive the same reward.
   [0347]    FIG. 31B illustrates a process 3150 for an energy management system (e.g., energy
25 management system 130) to manage energy in accordance with a market-based sale of energy
   reduction according to an embodiment. To facilitate understanding, the process 3150 is
   described with reference to FIG. 1 and FIG. 2, although it should be understood that
   embodiments of the process 3150 are not limited to the exemplary systems and apparatus
   described with reference to FIG. 1 and FIG. 2.
30 [0348]    In operation 3152 the energy management system 130 determines how much energy
   reduction for a grid it may achieve during a particular time interval. For example, the energy
   management system 130 may determine how much energy consumption can be reduced by
   one or more energy consumers associated with structures 150A - 150N.
                                                  108

   [0349]    In operation 3154 the energy management provider offers the energy reduction on
   an option market. The energy management provider may offer the energy reduction as an
   amount of energy reduction (e.g., number of kWh) that may be achieved on a particular grid
   (e.g,. power distribution network 160) during a particular time interval (e.g., a particular date
 5 and time interval). In some cases the offered energy reduction may also be accompanied by a
   probability of the reduction being achieved (e.g., there is a 95% probability that 50kWh of
   energy can be reduced on the grid over the period from 2pm-6pm on a particular day)
   [0350]    In operation 3156 one or more third party entities accept the offered energy
   reduction. The entity may be any one or more of a variety of entities, such as a utility
10 provider associated with the utility provider computing system 120, one or more power
   operators associated with electrical power generators 1 I0A - 1 ION, etc. As a result of the
   third party entity accepting the offer, the third party entity and the energy management
   provider may enter into a contract for the energy management provider to reduce the amount
   of energy consumption consumed at the residences 150A - 150N similar to that described in
15 operation 3102. Further, once the contract has been entered into, a DR event may begin, the
   energy management system 130 may manage energy, and then rewards may be distributed, as
   described in operations 3158-3170, which are similar to operations 3106-3118, so further
   description is omitted.
   [0351]    It should be recognized that one or more entities may determine and provide
20 rewards to the energy consumers. For example, the energy management system 130 may
   determine and provide rewards, and/or the utility provider computing system 120 may
   determine and provide rewards. In some cases, the rewards may be monetary. For example,
   the energy management system 130 may provide credits towards energy bills that are sent to
   the energy consumers for the energy consumption. In other cases the rewards may be points.
25 For example, the energy management system 130 may award points which may subsequently
   be traded for goods or services.
   [0352]    In at least one embodiments, points may be used as a normalizer. For example,
   energy consumers may attempt to obviate DR programming by putting their scheduled
   setpoints at points that are less energy efficient (e.g., lower temperatures on hot days) than
30 what the energy consumer is actually comfortable at. A resulting DR implementation profile,
   looking only at the energy consumer's scheduled setpoints, presumes that the setpoints are set
   at temperatures the energy consumer deems comfortable, and adjusts the setpoints from those
   temperatures. Accordingly, the energy consumer ends up being compensated for the
   resulting discomfort of setpoints placed at temperatures higher than may be comfortable for
                                                    109

   the DR event period. However, if the energy consumer sets their scheduled setpoints to
   temperatures below what they're actually comfortable at, the DR implementation profile may
   inadvertently set their DR event-modified setpoints to temperatures that the energy consumer
   is actually comfortable at.
 5 [0353]     To obviate such behavior, an 'average' setpoint temperature may be determined.
   This may be determined using the setpoint temperatures of similarly situated energy
   consumers (e.g., other energy consumers having structures with similar thermal retention
   characteristics, similar cooling capacities, similar outside weather patterns, similar occupancy
   profiles, etc.). The average setpoint temperature may be determined using a number of
10 similarly situated energy consumers so that the setpoint temperatures that likely correspond to
   what most people deem 'comfortable' may be determined. In the event an energy consumer
   sets their scheduled setpoints to consume more energy than the average setpoints (e.g., in hot
   weather, they may be set lower than average), it may be deemed that the energy consumer is
   possibly a 'bad actor' and thus entitled to fewer points upon successful completion of a DR
15 event than an energy consumer that sets their scheduled setpoints to consume the same
   energy or less energy than the average setpoints. Accordingly, points may be used as a way
   to normalize the behavior of energy consumers. Other techniques for obviating such
   behavior may also or alternatively be implemented. For example, a history of the user's
   scheduled setpoints may be compared to altered setpoints, and if the altered setpoints differ
20 significantly (e.g., more than a number of degrees) it may be deemed that the energy
   consumer is possibly a 'bad actor'.
   [0354]     In at least one embodiment, points may be used as incentive to not only incentivize
   positive individual behavior, but also or alternatively to incentivize positive group behavior.
   For example, energy consumers may be associated into groups. The groups may be, e.g,.
25 friends, colleagues, geographically defined (within a same ZIP code), structurally defined (all
   tenants of an apartment complex), etc. Groups may be defined by the energy consumer (e.g.,
   one energy consumer can associate themselves with another energy consumer), or may be
   defined by a third party (e.g., the energy management system 130 may define a group
   including specified energy consumers). If a group then achieves some particular goal, such
30 as reducing their aggregate energy consumption for a particular DR event by a certain
   amount, they may receive an additional reward that is in addition to what they receive for
   their individual contributions to the energy reduction.
   [0355]     In some cases, points do not need to necessarily be awarded only based on an
   amount of energy consumption reduction. Rather, points (or other goods or services of value)
                                                   110

   may be awarded based on an energy consumer's good behavior. For example, points may be
   awarded if users participate in one or more DR events, if they successfully participate in at
   least a certain percentage of DR events in a program, if they maintain a temperature at some
   average temperature for a particular time period (where the average may be defined by
 5 similarly situated energy consumers), if they consume less than some threshold amount of
   energy over the course of a DR event (where the threshold may be set as an average amount
   based on similarly situated consumers, based on utility capacity, etc.), or for other positive
   behavior.
   [0356]     In some embodiments, points may be used as a currency. For example, points may
10 be traded for goods or services. In at least one case, points may be used to enter into a
   sweepstakes. For example, the energy management provider may hold a sweepstakes for
   certain goods or services, and a certain number of points may be traded by an energy
   consumer to the energy management provider for one or more entries into the sweepstakes.
   Further, points may also be used to grant a ranking or status. For example, the a particular
15 status or level may be associated with different aggregate numbers of points, where increased
   levels identify an increased status, but are only achieved after certain threshold(s) of points
   have been accumulated.
   [0357]     In at least one embodiment, various models for incentivizing participation in a DR
   program or DR event may be used. These may include, e.g., a punishment model, a reward
20 model, and a subscription model. In a punishment model an energy consumer may receive a
   high reward for successfully completing a DR event, and being given a limited number of
   opt-outs. After they expend those limited opt-outs, however, they get punished (e.g., reward
   reductions, higher utility fees, etc.) for each additional opt-out. In a reward model, the energy
   consumer may receive a medium-size reward for each DR event they successfully complete.
25 In this case, there would be no punishment for opting-out, but they would also not receive
   high rewards for each successful DR event. In a subscription model the customer may
   receive a constant, low, period reward for them to enroll in the DR program. The customers
   may not participate in all of the DR events, or may not participate in any DR event.
   However, there is no monitoring, no rewards, and no punishment.
30 [0358]     It should be appreciated that the specific operations illustrated in FIGS. 3 1A and
   3 1B provide particular processes for an energy management system to manage energy in
   accordance with different types of contracts. The various operations described with reference
   to FIGS. 31A and 31B may be implemented at and performed by one or more of a variety of
   electronic devices or components described herein. For example, they may be implemented
                                                    111

   at and performed by the energy management system 130, the utility provider computing
   system 120, one or more residences 150A - 150N, etc. Other sequences of operations may
   also be performed according to alternative embodiments. For example, alternative
   embodiments of the present invention may perform the operations outlined above in a
 5 different order. Moreover, the individual operations illustrated in FIGS. 31A and 31B may
   include multiple sub-operations that may be performed in various sequences as appropriate to
   the individual operations. Furthermore, additional operations may be added or existing
   operations removed depending on the particular applications. One of ordinary skill in the art
   would recognize and appreciate many variations, modifications, and alternatives.
10 [0359]    As described with reference to FIG. 2, a number of intelligent, network-connected
   devices (e.g., thermostat 202) may be incorporated in a smart-home environment 200 and in
   communication with an energy management system 130 (e.g., remote server 264) that is
   disposed as an intermediary between the smart home environment 200 and a utility provider
   associated with utility provider computing system 120. Generally speaking, a typical smart
15 home will usually have at least one high-speed broadband connection to the outside world,
   such as may be provided by an Internet Service Provider (ISP), and such as indicated by the
   link shown in FIG. 2, supra, between wireless router 260 and network 262 (e.g., the Internet).
   Generally speaking, these high-speed broadband connections to the outside world will be
   characterized by very high speeds, low network latencies, and generally high reliability,
20 especially in view of growing consumer dependence on high-speed broadband for home
   entertainment and other data communications needs. In some embodiments the smart home
   environment 200 includes a smart meter 218. The smart meter 218 monitors some or all
   energy (electricity, gas, etc.) consumed by the devices in and around the structure 250, and
   may provide such raw data to the utility provider using some type of data communications
25 link. However, likely due in significant part to the relatively uneven historical development
   and adoption patterns of smart meter infrastructures, the data communications link between
   the smart meter 218 and utility provider (which can take various forms based on telephone
   lines, special-purpose wireless metropolitan-area networks, powerline communications, etc.)
   can sometimes be characterized by slow data rates, long latencies, and uneven reliability.
30 Thus, for example, some wireless implementations known in the art tend to be problematic in
   that the smart meter 218 provides updates to the utility provider only after long time intervals.
   Further yet, some wireless implementations known in the art also tend to be problematic in
   that they raise health concerns due to the strong RF fields propagated by the smart meter 218
   in order to reach a receiving station. Provided according to one or more embodiments herein
35 is a method for providing improved data communications between the smart meter 218 and
                                                  112

   the associated utility provider by forming an alternative data communication channel between
   the smart meter 218 and one or more of the intelligent, network-connected devices inside the
   smart home (e.g., thermostat 202), wherein the smart-home device then transmits the raw
   data to the utility provider through the smart home's high-speed broadband connection. In
 5 some embodiments, the alternative data communication channel can be provided by
   implementing a low-power RF connection (for example, using ZigBee, 6LowPAN, WiFi,
   NFC, etc.) between the smart meter 218 and one or more electronic devices of the smart
   home environment 200 (e.g., thermostat 202). In other embodiments, wired communications
   paths can be used. In such a case, real-time status updates may advantageously be
10 communicated to the utility provider computing system 120 from the smarter meter 218 via
   another electronic device in the smart home environment 200 (e.g., thermostat 202), router
   260, network 262, and remote server 264 / energy management system 130.
   [0360]     FIG. 32 illustrates a process 3200 for passing and supplementing information from
   an energy consumption meter to a utility provider computing system via an energy
15 management system according to an embodiment. For example, information generated by
   and stored at the smart meter 218 may be read by thermostat 202, communicated from
   thermostat 202 to energy management system 130, and communicated from energy
   management system 130 to utility provider computing system 120.
   [0361]     In operation 3202 a wireless connection is established with the energy meter that
20 measures aggregate energy consumption for a structure. For example, a wireless connection
   may be established between thermostat 202 and smart meter 218.
   [0362]     In operation 3204 energy-related information is received from the energy meter via
   the wireless connection. For example, information indicating the aggregate energy
   consumption for any given period of time at the structure may be communicated from the
25 smart meter 218 to the thermostat 202.
   [0363]     In operation 3206 value-added data is appended to the energy-related information.
   The energy management system monitors and generates a variety of energy-related
   information such as a current inside temperature or humidity of the structure, a thermal
   retention characteristic of the structure, an HVAC capacity of an HVAC associated with the
30 structure, an estimated or actual energy reduction associated with the structure before, during,
   or after a DR event, whether a structure is enrolled in a DR program or volunteered to
   participate in a DR event, an amenability of the residents of the structure to load shifting, a
   baseline, etc. Any or all of this information may be appended to the basic information
                                                   113

   generated by the smart meter 218 (i.e., aggregate energy consumption). This additional
   information may be used by the utility provider computing system to perform a variety of
   functions, such as deciding whether to issue a DR event, the scope of DR event, the
   magnitude of a DR event, etc. Accordingly, in operation 3206, such information may be
 5 added (either at the structure or at the energy management system 130) to the energy-related
   information acquired from the smart meter 218.
   [0364]     In operation 3208 a utility provider that manages the supply of energy to the
   structure is identified. For example, the energy management system 130 may determine that
   the utility provider computing system 120 provides power to the smart home environment
10 200 (i.e., a particular residence 150A - 150N over the power distribution network 160. In
   one embodiment, the identity of the utility provider may be included in the information
   communicated from the smart meter 218.
   [0365]     In operation 3210 the energy-related information and the appended value-added
   data is communicated to the utility provider. For example, the energy management system
15  130, after appending the value-added data to the information received from smart meter 218,
   may communicated both sets of information to the utility provider 120. In some
   embodiments, such information may be communicated in real-time, or in very short intervals
   (e.g., every 30 seconds), so as to provide the utility provider with a real-time perception of
   the energy consumption characteristics of the smart home environment 200.
20 [0366]     It should be appreciated that the specific operations illustrated in FIG. 32 provide a
   particular process for passing and supplementing information from an energy consumption
   meter to a utility provider computing system via an energy management system according to
   an embodiment. The various operations described with reference to FIG. 32 may be
   implemented at and performed by one or more of a variety of electronic devices or
25 components described herein. For example, they may be implemented at and performed by
   the energy management system 130, one or more residences 150A - 150N, etc. Other
   sequences of operations may also be performed according to alternative embodiments. For
   example, alternative embodiments of the present invention may perform the operations
   outlined above in a different order. Moreover, the individual operations illustrated in FIG. 32
30 may include multiple sub-operations that may be performed in various sequences as
   appropriate to the individual operations. Furthermore, additional operations may be added or
   existing operations removed depending on the particular applications. One of ordinary skill
   in the art would recognize and appreciate many variations, modifications, and alternatives.
                                                   114

   [0367]     Specific details are given in the above description to provide a thorough
   understanding of the embodiments. However, it is understood that the embodiments may be
   practiced without these specific details. For example, circuits may be shown in block
   diagrams in order not to obscure the embodiments in unnecessary detail. In other instances,
 5 well-known circuits, processes, algorithms, structures, and techniques may be shown without
   unnecessary detail in order to avoid obscuring the embodiments. Further, embodiments may
   include some or all of the systems, methods, apparatus, etc. described in U.S. Application No.
    13/632,118, filed September 30, 2012, U.S. Application No. 13/632,093, filed September 30,
   2012, U.S. Application No. 13/632,028, filed September 30, 2012, U.S. Application No.
10  13/632,041, filed September 30, 2012, U.S. Application No. 13/632,070, filed September 30,
   2012, U.S. Provisional Application No. 61/704,437, filed September 21, 2012, PCT
   Application No. PCT/US 12/20026, filed January 3, 2012, and PCT Application No.
   PCT/US 12/00007, filed January 3, 2012, all of which are incorporated by reference herein in
   their entirety for all purposes.
15 [0368]     Implementation of the techniques, blocks, steps and means described above may be
   done in various ways. For example, these techniques, blocks, steps and means may be
   implemented in hardware, software, or a combination thereof. For a hardware
   implementation, the processing units may be implemented within one or more application
   specific integrated circuits (ASICs), digital signal processors (DSPs), digital signal
20 processing devices (DSPDs), programmable logic devices (PLDs), field programmable gate
   arrays (FPGAs), processors, controllers, micro-controllers, microprocessors, other electronic
   units designed to perform the functions described above, and/or a combination thereof.
   [0369]    Also, it is noted that the embodiments may be described as a process which is
   depicted as a flowchart, a flow diagram, a data flow diagram, a structure diagram, or a block
25 diagram. Although a flowchart may describe the operations as a sequential process, many of
   the operations can be performed in parallel or concurrently. In addition, the order of the
   operations may be re-arranged. A process is terminated when its operations are completed,
   but could have additional steps not included in the figure. A process may correspond to a
   method, a function, a procedure, a subroutine, a subprogram, etc. When a process
30 corresponds to a function, its termination corresponds to a return of the function to the calling
   function or the main function.
   [0370]     Furthermore, embodiments may be implemented by hardware, software, scripting
   languages, firmware, middleware, microcode, hardware description languages, and/or any
   combination thereof. When implemented in software, firmware, middleware, scripting
                                                   115

   language, and/or microcode, the program code or code segments to perform the necessary
   tasks may be stored in a machine readable medium such as a storage medium. A code
   segment or machine-executable instruction may represent a procedure, a function, a
   subprogram, a program, a routine, a subroutine, a module, a software package, a script, a
5  class, or any combination of instructions, data structures, and/or program statements. A code
   segment may be coupled to another code segment or a hardware circuit by passing and/or
   receiving information, data, arguments, parameters, and/or memory contents. Information,
   arguments, parameters, data, etc. may be passed, forwarded, or transmitted via any suitable
   means including memory sharing, message passing, token passing, network transmission, etc.
0  [0371]    While the principles of the disclosure have been described above in connection with
   specific apparatuses and methods, it is to be clearly understood that this description is made
   only by way of example and not as limitation on the scope of the present teachings.
   [0372]    Throughout this specification and the claims which follow, unless the context
   requires otherwise, the word "comprise", and variations such as "comprises" and
5  "comprising", will be understood to imply the inclusion of a stated integer or step or group of
   integers or steps but not the exclusion of any other integer or step or group of integers or
   steps.
   [0373]    The reference to any prior art in this specification is not, and should not be taken as,
   an acknowledgement or any form of suggestion that the referenced prior art forms part of the
.0 common general knowledge in Australia.
                                                    116

    WHAT IS CLAIMED IS:
                     1.      An intelligent, network-connected thermostat comprising:
                     a user interface for displaying information to an energy consumer associated
 5  with a structure and receiving user inputs from the energy consumer;
                     a connector for coupling the thermostat to a heating, ventilation, and air
    conditioning (HVAC) system associated with the structure;
                     a communications component for communicating with a remote server;
                     a memory for storing a demand response event implementation profile that
 0  defines a plurality of setpoint temperatures distributed over a demand response event period
    of a demand response event, and
                     a processor coupled to the user interface, the connector, the communications
    component, and the memory, the processor being operable to:
                             control the HVAC system to cool the structure in accordance with the
 5          setpoint temperatures defined by the demand response event implementation profile
            over the demand response event period,
                             receive a requested change to one or more of the setpoint temperatures
            defined by the demand response event implementation profile;
                             access a determination of an impact on energy shifting that would
 .0         result if the requested change is incorporated into the demand response event
            implementation profile; and
                             communicate to the energy consumer information indicative of the
            impact on energy shifting that would result if the requested change is incorporated
            into the demand response event implementation profile.
25                   2.      The thermostat of claim 1, wherein the processor is further operable to:
                     access a determination of whether the requested change would increase or
    decrease the amount of energy shifting if the requested change is incorporated into the
    demand response event implementation profile.
                     3.      The thermostat of claim 2, wherein the processor is further operable to:
30                   in response to accessing a determination that the requested change would
    increase the amount of energy shifting, incorporate the requested change into the demand
    response event implementation profile without further input from the energy consumer.
                                                     117

                   4.      The thermostat of claim 2, wherein the processor is further operable to:
                   in response to accessing a determination that the requested change would
   decrease the amount of energy shifting, cause the user interface to request confirmation of the
   requested change prior to incorporating the requested change into the demand response event
 5 implementation profile.
                   5.      The thermostat of claim 2, wherein the processor is further operable to:
                   in response to accessing a determination that the requested change would
   decrease the amount of energy shifting, eliminate or suspend participation of the energy
   consumer from the demand response event.
 0                 6.      The thermostat of claim 1, wherein the information indicative of an
   impact on energy shifting includes one or more of a monetary value and an amount of energy.
                   7.      The thermostat of claim 1, wherein the requested change is received
   prior to the demand response event period and information indicative of the impact on energy
   shifting is communicated to the energy consumer prior to the demand response event period.
 5                 8.      The thermostat of claim 1, wherein the requested change is received
   during the demand response event period and information indicative of the impact on energy
   shifting is communicated to the energy consumer during the demand response event period.
                   9.      The thermostat of claim 1, wherein the determination of an impact on
   energy shifting accessed by the thermostat is computed at a remote server.
20                 10.     The thermostat of claim 1, wherein the determination of an impact on
   energy shifting accessed by the thermostat is computed by the thermostat.
                   11.     A method of operating an intelligent, network-connected thermostat,
   the method comprising:
                   displaying, on a user interface, information to an energy consumer associated
25 with a structure and receiving user inputs from the energy consumer;
                   storing, in a memory device, a demand response event implementation profile
   that defines a plurality of setpoint temperatures distributed over a demand response event
   period of a demand response event
                                                   118

                   control an HVAC system to cool the structure in accordance with the setpoint
    temperatures defined by the demand response event implementation profile over the demand
    response event period,
                   receive a requested change to one or more of the setpoint temperatures defined
 5  by the demand response event implementation profile;
                   access a determination of an impact on energy shifting that would result if the
    requested change is incorporated into the demand response event implementation profile; and
                   communicate to the energy consumer information indicative of the impact on
    energy shifting that would result if the requested change is incorporated into the demand
 0  response event implementation profile.
                   12.     The method of claim 11, further comprising:
                   accessing a determination of whether the requested change would increase or
    decrease the amount of energy shifting if the requested change is incorporated into the
    demand response event implementation profile.
 5                 13.     The method of claim 12, further comprising:
                   in response to accessing a determination that the requested change would
    increase the amount of energy shifting, incorporating the requested change into the demand
    response event implementation profile without further input from the energy consumer.
                   14.     The method of claim 12, further comprising:
 .0                in response to accessing a determination that the requested change would
    decrease the amount of energy shifting, causing the user interface to request confirmation of
    the requested change prior to incorporating the requested change into the demand response
    event implementation profile.
                   15.     The method of claim 12, further comprising:
25                 in response to accessing a determination that the requested change would
    decrease the amount of energy shifting, eliminating or suspending participation of the energy
    consumer from the demand response event.
                   16.     The method of claim 11, wherein the information indicative of an
    impact on energy shifting includes one or more of a monetary value and an amount of energy.
                                                   119

                  17.   The method of claim 11, wherein the requested change is received
  prior to the demand response event period and information indicative of the impact on energy
  shifting is communicated to the energy consumer prior to the demand response event period.
                  18.   The method of claim 11, wherein the requested change is received
5 during the demand response event period and information indicative of the impact on energy
  shifting is communicated to the energy consumer during the demand response event period.
                  19.   The method of claim 11, wherein the determination of an impact on
  energy shifting accessed by the thermostat is computed at a thermostat management server.
                 20.    The method of claim 11, wherein the determination of an impact on
0 energy shifting accessed by the thermostat is computed by the thermostat.
                                                120

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
