5596A-AU
                                         ABSTRACT
    A memorial apparatus 1 for perpetuating the memory of deceased armed forces
     personnel is disclosed and takes the form of a first area of land adjacent a road 2,
     and at least one amenities structure 3 on the first area and accessible by vehicles
     from the road. Also provided are a multiplicity of small second land areas 6 each
     of which is allocated to a nominated one of the deceased armed forces personnel,
     and each of which carries a marker 26 either visible to an observer or detectable
     by a portable electronic device 21 with GPS capability. The second land areas 6
     are located adjacent at least one side of the public road 2 and form a road side
     steering or guiding arrangement to shepherd or urge persons towards the
     amenities structure 3. The amenities structure includes a publically accessible
     database containing data relating to (generally deceased) arms forces personnel.
                                             10

                   '/4
           I     I  ~
         ~
                                              N
              4.
             cK§D4C'
             t')
                             J1
                             'I'I
                                  "I
                                                I'
  *2                   ~>;~:
                                                             K.
     14)
r                                    ..-.-.-.         ,
                                                           ,
                                                                'K
                                                         jr
                                                   \.~.4\
                                                      ~
                                                                   \'
                                                        It-

5596A-AU
                              "A Memorial Arrangement"
Field of the Invention
The present invention relates to memorials and, in particular, to memorials
commemorating deceased armed forces personnel.
Background Art
Since ancient times humans have attempted to commemorate, or keep alive, their
memories of their dead. Generally these attempts have involved the construction of
memorials, usually of stone, and many fine and enduring structures have been created
in this manner. For example, many countries have a tomb of the unknown soldier, war
memorials in public plazas, and the like. Australia, in particular, has a strong cultural
ethos in this connection where returned servicemen's licensed clubs each evening at
sunset call a halt to drinking, dining, entertaining and other activities, all patrons
stand, and the Ode to Remembrance is recited.
However, not all memorials are constructed from stone and so memorials can take
many and varied forms. US Patent No. 9,464,454 and US Patent Applications Nos.
2014/01363<removed-date>/0253771          exemplify such memorials.          Other forms of
memorials include groves of memorial trees or, in Australia, the Remembrance
Driveway extending from Sydney to Canberra. At spaced apart intervals along this
Remembrance Driveway are located vehicle accessible rest areas including various
structural amenities such as seats, tables, toilets and the like. These rest areas are each
dedicated to the memorial of a specific winner of the highest decoration for valour,
the Victoria Cross. The rest areas serve a dual purpose of not only commemorating
the Victoria Cross winners, but also providing road safety "driver reviver" roadside
laybys which function to ameliorate driver fatigue.
Genesis of the Invention
The Genesis of the present invention is a desire to build upon this cultural foundation
and provide a means of commemorating and/or perpetuating the memory of the very
many ordinary men and women who have served their country in a military capacity.
                                             1

5596A-AU
Summary of the Invention
In accordance with a first aspect of the present invention there is disclosed a memorial
apparatus for perpetuating the memory of deceased armed forces personnel, said
apparatus comprising:
         a first area of land adjacent a road,
         at least one amenities structure on said first area and accessible by vehicles
from said road,
         a multiplicity of small second land areas each of which is allocated to a
nominated one of said deceased armed forces personnel, and each of which carries a
marker either visible to an observer or detectable by a portable electronic device with
GPS capability,
         said second land areas being located adjacent at least one side of said road and
forming a road side steering or guiding means to shepherd or urge persons towards
said amenities structure, and
         said amenities structure including a publically accessible database containing
data relating to deceased armed forces personnel.
In accordance with a second aspect of the present invention there is disclosed a
method of perpetuating the memory of deceased armed forces personnel, said method
comprising the steps of:
         making accessible to vehicles from a road at least one amenities structure on a
first area of land adjacent said road,
         providing said amenities structure with a publicly accessible database
containing data related to deceased armed forces personnel,
         providing a multiplicity of small land areas located adjacent at least one side
of said road, said small land areas having a configuration forming a roadside steering
or guiding arrangement to shepherd or urge persons towards the amenities structure,
allocating each of said small second land areas to a nominated one of said deceased
armed forces personnel, and
         providing each of said small second land areas with a marker either visible to
an observer or detectable by a portable electronic device with GPS capability.
                                               2

5596A-AU
Brief Description of the Drawings
A preferred embodiment of the invention will now be described, by way of example
only, with reference to the accompanying drawings in which:
         Fig. 1 is a schematic perspective view of a memorial apparatus of a first
embodiment,
         Fig. 2 is a front elevation of the amenities structure of the memorial apparatus
of Fig. 1,
         Fig. 3 is a schematic representation of a handheld electronic communication
device with GPS capability in response mode, and
         Fig. 4 is a plan view of one of the second land areas.
Detailed Description
As seen in Fig. 1, a memorial rest area 1 lies alongside a road 2 (which is typically a
public road, but need not be) and includes an amenities building 3 and a number of
designated car spaces 4. The rectangular area of land occupied by the amenities
building 3 constitutes a first land area and is adjacent the road 2. To either side of the
amenities building 3 and extending alongside the road 2 is a sequence of second land
areas 6. Preferably the second land areas 6 are not physically marked on the ground
but instead exist only as a boundary of a delineated area on a digitised map (not
illustrated but conventional). That is, the second land areas 6 may be regarded as
virtual areas and for this reason are designated in broken lines in Fig. 1. Furthermore,
in order not to overburden the drawing, the number of second land areas 6 illustrated
in Fig. 1 is very much less than the actual number as will become apparent hereafter.
Turning now to Fig. 2, the amenities building 3 provides public amenities including
GENTS and LADIES toilets, a water supply tank 11, a drinking fountain 12, a
communications antenna 13, and a digital display screen 14. Preferably the memorial
rest area 1 is dedicated to the memory of a specific Victoria Cross recipient and the
glass front door 16 of the amenities building 3 is provided with a frosted outline 17 of
a Victoria Cross medal. Not illustrated in Fig. 2 but located within the amenities
building 3 is a public notice board which includes information about the Victoria
Cross recipient, the circumstances of the incident leading to the award of the
decoration, about career of the recipient, and the like.
                                              3

5596A-AU
As seen in Fig. 3, a hand-held device 21 has a screen 22 and is held in the hand of a
subscriber 24. As seen in Fig. 4, each of the second land areas 6 is rectangular, and
preferably square, having dimensions of approximately 1 m x 1 m. Located at the
centre of each of the second land areas 6 is a marker 26 which can be either a physical
marker such as a concrete disk embedded into the ground, or a virtual marker apparent
only on a digital representation of the second land area 6. In both cases the marker 26
has coordinates of latitude and longitude which are unique to the specific second land
area 6.
It will be apparent that the number of Victoria Cross winners is very much less than
the number of individual military personnel which took part in any given military
conflict. Therefore it is feasible to allocate individual memorial rest areas 1 to specific
individual Victoria Cross winners. However, each of the second land areas 6 can be
allocated to a corresponding one of the very many individual military personnel, in
general now deceased, and whose memory it is intended should be commemorated.
A perennial problem for the responsible authority burdened with the construction and
upkeep of memorials such as memorial rest area 1, is to be able to have a source of
funds sufficient for the necessary construction and upkeep. One way of providing
such a source of funds is to offer the second land areas 6 to individual subscribers 24
who provide an annual subscription or sponsorship fee and in return are allocated a
specific one of the second land areas 6.
Preferably, there is no particular personal connection (such as a parent or grandparent
or uncle etc.) between the individual subscribers or sponsors 24 and the military
person of their corresponding allocated second land areas 6. As a consequence, a
subscriber or sponsor 24 can be driving along the road 2 in a motor vehicle 30 and
passes by their particular allocated second land area 6. As a result, the hand-held
device 21 with GPS capability communicates with one or more satellites 33 and as the
vehicle 30 approaches the allocated second land area 6 causes the hand-held device 21
to be activated as schematically illustrated in Fig. 3.
                                               4

5596A-AU
As a consequence of this activation, a subscriber or sponsor 24 is able to download
information pertaining to the deceased military person corresponding to the subscriber
or sponsor 24. Such information can include personal details such as a name, a
photograph, a short biography, etc. In this way, the interest of the subscriber or
sponsor 24 in the sacrifice made by military service men and women is stimulated
and the memory of the deceased military person is burnished. In addition, the
subscriber or sponsor 24 is induced towards, or shepherded towards, the memorial rest
area 1 having had their interest in military service men and women stimulated.
Preferably be hand-held electronic device 21 utilises NFC (near frequency
communication) for the purpose of registering or displaying on the digital noticeboard
or display screen 14 in the amenities building 3 the "pilgrimage achievement" of the
subscriber or sponsors 24.
The foregoing describes only one embodiment of the present invention and
modifications, obvious to those skilled in the electronic arts, can be made thereto
without departing from the scope of the present invention.
The term "comprising" (and its grammatical variations) as used herein is used in the
inclusive sense of "including" or "having" and not in the exclusive sense of
"consisting only of'.
LEST WE FORGET
                                             5

5596A-AU
    CLAIMS
    1. A memorial apparatus for perpetuating the memory of deceased armed forces
        personnel, said apparatus comprising:
                a first area of land adjacent a road,
                at least one amenities structure on said first area and accessible by
        vehicles from said road,
                a multiplicity of small second land areas each of which is allocated to a
        nominated one of said deceased armed forces personnel, and each of which
        carries a marker either visible to an observer or detectable by a portable
        electronic device with GPS capability,
                said second land areas being located adjacent at least one side of said
        road and forming a road side steering or guiding means to shepherd or urge
        persons towards said amenities structure, and
                said amenities structure including a publically accessible database
        containing data relating to deceased armed forces personnel.
    2. The apparatus as claimed in claim 1 wherein said marker is located
        approximately at the centre of the corresponding second land area.
    3.  The apparatus as claimed in claim 2 wherein the boundaries of said second
        land areas are not physically represented.|
    4. The apparatus as claimed in claim 3 wherein the boundaries of said second
        land areas are virtual and are represented only in or by electronic equipment.
    5. The apparatus as claimed in claim 1 wherein said second land areas are
        substantially rectangular and have sides each having a length of the order of
        one metre.
    6. The apparatus as claimed in claim 1 wherein said second land areas are each
        allocated to both a corresponding deceased armed forces person and to a
        corresponding subscriber or sponsor.
                                              6

5596A-AU
    7. The apparatus as claimed in claim 6 wherein said portable electronic device
        with GPS capability associated with one of subscribers responds when in close
        proximity to the second land area allocated to said one subscriber.
    8.  The apparatus as claimed in claim 7 wherein the range of said close proximity
        permits said responding device to respond when located in a motor vehicle
        driving on a public road past the second land area allocated to said one
        subscriber.
    9. The apparatus as claimed in claim 6 wherein said portable electronic device
        with GPS capability associated with said one subscriber or sponsor, enables
        said one subscriber or sponsor to access the military history of said
        corresponding deceased armed services person.
    10. The apparatus as claimed in claim 1 wherein said publicly accessible database
        at said amenities structure is able to access the military history of each
        corresponding deceased armed services person of the second land areas
        adjacent said amenities structure.
    11. A method of perpetuating the memory of deceased armed forces personnel,
        said method comprising the steps of:
                making accessible to vehicles from a road at least one amenities
        structure on a first area of land adjacent said road,
                providing said amenities structure with a publicly accessible database
        containing data related to deceased armed forces personnel,
                providing a multiplicity of small land areas located adjacent at least
        one side of said road, said small land areas having a configuration forming a
        roadside steering or guiding arrangement to shepherd or urge persons towards
        the amenities structure,
                allocating each of said small second land areas to a nominated one of
        said deceased armed forces personnel, and
                providing each of said small second land areas with a marker either
        visible to an observer or detectable by a portable electronic device with GPS
                                              7

5596A-AU
        capability.
    12. The method as claimed in claim 11 including the further step of locating said
        marker approximately at the centre of the corresponding second land area.
    13. The method as claimed in claim 12 wherein the boundaries of said second land
        areas are not physically represented.
    14. The method as claimed in claim 13 wherein the boundaries of said second land
        areas are virtual and are represented only in or by electronic equipment.
    15. The method as claimed in claim 11 including the further step of forming said
        second land areas to be substantially rectangular and having sides each having
        a length of the order of one metre.
    16. The method as claimed in claim 11 comprising the further step of allocating
        said second land areas to both a corresponding deceased armed forces person
        and to a corresponding subscriber or sponsor.
    17. The method as claimed in claim 16 wherein said portable electronic device
        with GPS capability associated with one of subscribers or sponsors responds
        when in close proximity to the second land area allocated to said one
        subscriber or sponsor.
    18. The method as claimed in claim 17 wherein the range of said close proximity
        permits said responding device to respond when located in a motor vehicle
        driving on a public road past the second land area allocated to said one
        subscriber.
    19. The method as claimed in claim 6 wherein said portable electronic device with
        GPS capability associated with said one subscriber or sponsor, enables said
        one subscriber or sponsor to access the military history of said corresponding
                                             8

5596A-AU
        deceased armed services person.
    20. The method as claimed in claim 11 wherein said publicly accessible database
        at said amenities structure is able to access the military history of each
        corresponding deceased armed services person of the second land areas
        adjacent said amenities structure.
Dated this 8th day of January 2018
                                        PHILLIP PATRICK SWEENEY
                                        By
                                        FRASER OLD & SOHN
                                        Patent Attorneys for the Applicant
                                              9

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           1 / 4

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           2 / 4

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                       3 / 4

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           4 / 4

