   Abstract
   A method of gaming comprising: initiating a wagering game
   comprising an initial expected time duration at which the
 5 wagering game will terminate if no time duration altering
   events occur in the wagering game; altering the time
   duration of the wagering game in response to a duration
   altering event occurring in the wagering game to derive a
   current expected time duration; and terminating the
10 wagering game when the initial or current expected time
   duration expires.
   10118189_1(GHMaters) P81489.AU.4

                             5/7
          Display                Base Game                 Symbols
          Controller      4     Controller
                   624                   620                          641
                                         54                 Game
                                     RNG     621            Rules 642
                                                               Pay
                               I  --                          Table
          Bonus Game Controller             625
                                                                      642A
           Event                   Event                   Meter
           Evaluator               Generator               Data
                    8623                    622                        643
50                          62                                      64              60
                            Figure 6
                                                                  *r700
   Initiating a wagering game with an initial expected
                         time duration                           710
   Altering the time duration of the wagering game in
   response to a duration altering event occurring in
    the wagering game to derive a current expected               720
                         time duration
    Terminating the wagering game when the initial
        or current expected time duration expires
                                                                 730
                            Figure 7
                                                     4920276_1 (GHMatters) P81489.AU.2

   Title
   A METHOD OF GAMING, A GAMING SYSTEM AND A GAME CONTROLLER
 5 Related Application
   This application is a divisional application of Australian
   application no. <removed-apn>, which in turn is a divisional
   application of Australian patent application no.
10 2013266978, which in turn is a divisional application of
   Australian patent application no. 2011200344. The
   disclosures of each of these applications are incorporated
   herein by reference.
15 Field
   The present invention relates to a method of gaming, a
   gaming system and a game controller.
20 Background
   Current electronic gaming machines allow a player to play
   a wagering game having a number of game rounds and it is
   known that the number of game rounds remaining may be
25 extended in response to an event occurring in a played
   game round.                      For example, a "free spin" event may occur in
   a game round to extend the number of game rounds remaining
   in      the wagering game.
30 While such gaming systems provide players with enjoyment,
   a need exists for alternative gaming systems in order to
   maintain or increase player enjoyment.
   Summary of the Invention
35
   In a first aspect, the present invention provides a method
   in a gaming system, the method comprising:
   10118189_1(GHMaters) P81489.AU.4

                                     - 2
               initiating a wagering game comprising an initial
   expected time duration at which the wagering game will
   terminate if no time duration altering events occur in the
   wagering game;
 5             altering the time duration of the wagering game in
   response to a duration altering event occurring in the
   wagering game to derive a current expected time duration,
   the duration altering event being generated using a random
   number generator of the gaming system;
10             terminating the wagering game when the initial or
   current expected time duration expires; and
               awarding a prize based on the allocated initial or
   current expected time duration of the wagering game,
   wherein a highest prize value in respect of the wagering
15 game is awarded when termination of the wagering game
   corresponds to a predefined time duration.
   In an embodiment, the method further comprises altering
   the initial or current expected time duration of the
20 wagering game by truncating the initial or current
   expected time duration in response to a truncate event
   occurring in the wagering game.
   In an embodiment, the method further comprises altering
25 the initial or current expected time duration of the
   wagering game by extending the initial or current expected
   time duration in response to a extend event occurring in
   the wagering game.
30 In an embodiment, the method further comprises allocating
   a truncating duration to truncate the initial        or current
   expected time duration of the wagering game thereby in
   response to the truncate event occurring in        the wagering
   game.
35
   In an embodiment, the method further comprises allocating
   an extending duration to extend the initial or current
   10118189_1(GHMaters) P81489.AU.4

                                    - 3
   expected time duration of the wagering game thereby in
   response to the extend event occurring in the wagering
   game.
 5 In an embodiment, the method further comprises allocating
   a maximum time duration for the current expected time
   duration of the wagering game.
   In an embodiment, the method further comprises awarding a
10 prize to a player of the wagering game when the initial or
   current expected time duration expires.
   In an embodiment, the method further comprises allocating
   a value of the prize based on the initial or current
15 expected time duration of the wagering game.
   In an embodiment, the wagering game is a bonus game.
   In an embodiment, the method further comprises initiating
20 the wagering game by displaying an object to a player of
   the wagering game on a display, whereby the object travels
   across the display for the initial or current expected
   time duration with a displayed rate of travel and distance
   of travel which reduces iteratively until reaching a
25 threshold value at expiry of the initial or current
   expected time duration.
   In an embodiment, the method further comprises altering
   the displayed rate of travel and distance of travel by
30 further reducing the displayed rate of travel and distance
   of travel of the object across the display thereby
   truncating the initial or current expected time duration
   in response to a truncate event occurring in the wagering
   game.
35
   In an embodiment, the method further comprises altering
   the displayed rate of travel and distance of travel by
   10118189_1(GHMaters) P81489.AU.4

                                             - 4
   extending the reducing displayed rate of travel and
   distance of travel of the object across the display
   thereby extending the initial or current expected time
   duration in response to an extend event occurring in the
 5 wagering game.
   In a second aspect, the invention provides a game
   controller for a gaming system, the game controller
   arranged to:
10             initiate a wagering game comprising an initial
   expected time duration at which the wagering game will
   terminate if no time duration altering events occur in the
   wagering game;
               alter the time duration of the wagering game in
15 response to a duration altering event occurring in the
   wagering game to derive a current expected time duration;
               use a random number generator to generate the
   duration altering event;
               terminate the wagering game when the initial or
20 current expected time duration expires; and
               award a prize based on the allocated initial or
   current expected time duration of the wagering game,
   wherein a highest prize value in respect of the wagering
   game is awarded when termination of the wagering game
25 corresponds to a predefined time duration.
   In a third aspect, the invention provides a gaming system
   comprising:
               a display for displaying a wagering game to a player;
30 and
               a game controller arranged to:
                            initiate a wagering game comprising an initial
               expected time duration at which the wagering game
               will terminate if no time duration altering events
35             occur in the wagering game;
                            alter the time duration of the wagering game in
               response to a duration altering event occurring in
   10118189_1(GHMaters) P81489.AU.4

                                             - 5
               the wagering game to derive a current expected time
               duration;
                            use a random number generator to generate the
   duration altering event;
 5                          terminate the wagering game when the initial or
   current expected time duration expires; and
                            award a prize based on the allocated initial or
               current expected time duration of the wagering game,
               wherein a highest prize value in respect of the is
10             awarded wagering game when termination of the
               wagering game corresponds to a predefined time
               duration.
   In a fourth aspect, the invention provides a gaming system
15 comprising:
               a plurality of gaming devices; and
               a game controller in data communication with the
   plurality of gaming devices, the game controller arranged
   to:
20                          initiate a wagering game comprising an initial
               expected time duration at which the wagering game
               will terminate if no time duration altering events
               occur in the wagering game;
                            alter the time duration of the wagering game in
25             response to a duration altering event occurring in
               the wagering game to derive a current expected time
               duration;
                            use a random number generator to generate the
   duration altering event;
30                          terminate the wagering game when the initial or
   current expected time duration expires; and
                            award a prize based on the allocated initial or
               current expected time duration of the wagering game,
               wherein a highest prize value in respect of the
35             wagering game is awarded when termination of the
               wagering game corresponds to a predefined time
               duration.
   10118189_1(GHMaters) P81489.AU.4

                                             - 6
   In a fifth aspect, the invention provides a gaming system
   comprising:
               at least one gaming device comprising a cabinet, a
 5 display mounted within the cabinet arranged to display a
   wagering game to a player, and a game play mechanism
   mounted to the cabinet incorporating at least one input
   device, the game play mechanism operable by the player to
   place wagers in the wagering game, and a game controller
10 disposed within the cabinet comprising a processor and a
   memory storing game control instructions which enable the
   game controller to operate, the game controller arranged
   to:
                            initiate the wagering game comprising an initial
15             expected time duration at which the wagering game
               will terminate if no time duration altering events
               occur in the wagering game;
                            alter the time duration of the wagering game in
               response to a duration altering event occurring in
20             the wagering game to derive a current expected time
               duration;
                            use a random number generator to generate the
   duration altering event;
                            terminate the wagering game when the initial or
25 current expected time duration expires; and
                            award a prize based on the allocated initial or
               current expected time duration of the wagering game,
               wherein a highest prize value in respect of the
               wagering game is awarded when termination of the
30             wagering game corresponds to a predefined time
               duration.
   In a sixth aspect, the invention provides a gaming system
   comprising:
35             means for initiating a wagering game comprising an
   initial expected time duration at which the wagering game
   will terminate if no time duration altering events occur
   10118189_1(GHMaters) P81489.AU.4

                                      -7
   in the wagering game;
               means for altering the time duration of the wagering
   game in response to a duration altering event occurring in
   the wagering game to derive a current expected time
 5 duration;
               means for terminating the wagering game when the
   initial or current expected time duration expires; and
               means for awarding a highest prize value in respect
   of the wagering game when termination of the wagering game
10 corresponds to a predefined time duration
   In a seventh aspect, the invention provides computer
   program code which when executed implements the above
   method.
15
   In an eighth aspect, the invention provides a computer
   readable medium comprising the above program code.
   In a ninth aspect, the invention extends to transmitting
20 or receiving the above program code.
   In a tenth aspect, the invention provides a data signal
   comprising the above program code.
25 Brief Description of Drawings
   An exemplary embodiment of the invention will now be
   described with reference to the accompanying drawings in
   which:
30
   Figure 1 is a block diagram of the core components of a
   gaming system;
   Figure 2 is a perspective view of a stand alone gaming
35 machine;
   Figure 3 is a block diagram of the functional components
   10118189_1(GHMates) P81489.AU.4

                                    -8
   of a gaming machine;
   Figure 4 is a schematic diagram of the functional
   components of a memory;
 5
   Figure 5 is a schematic diagram of a network gaming
   system;
   Figure 6 is a further block diagram of a gaming system;
10
   Figure 7 is a flow chart of a method of an embodiment;
   Figure 8 is a flow chart of an example of an embodiment;
   and
15
   Figures 9a to 9c show exemplary displays of examples of
   embodiments.
   Detailed Description
20
   Referring to the drawings, there is shown a method and a
   gaming system for implementing the method.  In an
   embodiment, the method includes initiating a wagering game
   comprising an initial expected time duration at which the
25 wagering game will terminate if no time duration altering
   events occur in the wagering game, altering the time
   duration of the wagering game in response to a duration
   altering event occurring in the wagering game to derive a
   current expected time duration, and terminating the
30 wagering game when the initial or current expected time
   duration expires.
   General construction of gaming system
35 The gaming system can take a number of different forms.
   In a first form, a stand alone gaming machine is provided
   wherein all or most components required for implementing
   10118189_1(GHMaters) P81489.AU.4

                                                - 9
   the game are present in a player operable gaming machine.
   In a second form, a distributed architecture is provided
   wherein some of the components required for implementing
 5 the game are present in a player operable gaming machine
   and some of the components required for implementing the
   game are located remotely relative to the gaming machine.
   For example, a "thick client" architecture may be used
   wherein part of the game is executed on a player operable
10 gaming machine and part of the game is executed remotely,
   such as by a gaming server; or a "thin client"
   architecture may be used wherein most of the game is
   executed remotely such as by a gaming server and a player
   operable gaming machine is used only to display audible
15 and/or visible gaming information to the player and
   receive gaming inputs from the player.
   However, it will be understood that other arrangements are
   envisaged.                    For example, an architecture may be provided
20 wherein a gaming machine is networked to a gaming server
   and the respective functions of the gaming machine and the
   gaming server are selectively modifiable.                    For example,
   the gaming system may operate in stand alone gaming
   machine mode, "thick client" mode or "thin client" mode
25 depending on the game being played, operating conditions,
   and so on.                    Other variations will be apparent to persons
   skilled in the art.
   Irrespective of the form, the gaming system has several
30 core components.                    At the broadest level, the core
   components are a player interface 50 and a game controller
   60 as illustrated in Figure 1.                    The player interface is
   arranged to enable manual interaction between a player and
   the gaming system and for this purpose includes the
35 input/output components required for the player to enter
   instructions to play the game and observe the game
   outcomes.
   10118189_1(GHMaters) P81489.AU.4

                                                 - 10
   Components of the player interface may vary from
   embodiment to embodiment but will typically include a
   credit mechanism 52 to enable a player to input credits
 5 and receive payouts, one or more displays 54, a game play
   mechanism 56 including one or more input devices that
   enable a player to input game play instructions                    (e.g.   to
   place a wager), and one or more speakers 58.
10 The game controller 60 is in data communication with the
   player interface and typically includes a processor 62
   that processes the game play instructions in accordance
   with game play rules and outputs game play outcomes to the
   display.                 Typically, the game play rules are stored as
15 program code in a memory 64 but can also be hardwired.
   Herein the term "processor" is used to refer generically
   to any device that can process game play instructions in
   accordance with game play rules and may include:                    a
   microprocessor, microcontroller, programmable logic device
20 or other computational device, a general purpose computer
    (e.g. a PC) or a server.
   A gaming system in the form of a stand alone gaming
   machine 10 is illustrated in Figure 2.                     The gaming machine
25 10 includes a console 12 having a display 14 on which are
   displayed representations of a game 16 that can be played
   by a player.                     A mid-trim 20 of the gaming machine 10
   houses a bank of buttons 22 for enabling a player to
   interact with the gaming machine, in particular during
30 game play.                    The mid-trim 20 also houses a credit input
   mechanism 24 which in this example includes a coin input
   chute 24A and a bill collector 24B.                     Other credit input
   mechanisms may also be employed, for example, a card
   reader for reading a smart card, debit card or credit
35 card.            Other gaming machines may configure for ticket in
   such that they have a ticket reader for reading tickets
   having a value and crediting the player based on the face
   10118189_1(GHMaters) P81489.AU.4

                                              -  11
   value of the ticker.                  A player marketing module (not
   shown) having a reading device may also be provided for
   the purpose of reading a player tracking device, for
   example as part of a loyalty program.                   The player tracking
 5 device may be in the form of a card, flash drive or any
   other portable storage medium capable of being read by the
   reading device.                  In some embodiments, the player marketing
   module may provide an additional credit mechanism, either
   by transferring credits to the gaming machine from credits
10 stored on the player tracking device or by transferring
   credits from a player account in data communication with
   the player marketing module.
   A top box 26 may carry artwork 28, including for example
15 pay tables and details of bonus awards and other
   information or images relating to the game.                   Further
   artwork and/or information may be provided on a front
   panel 29 of the console 12.                   A coin tray 30 is mounted
   beneath the front panel 29 for dispensing cash payouts
20 from the gaming machine 10.
   The display 14 shown in Figure 2 is in the form of a video
   display unit, particularly a cathode ray tube screen
   device.                Alternatively, the display 14 may be a liquid
25 crystal display, plasma screen, any other suitable video
   display unit, or the visible portion of an
   electromechanical device.                   The top box 26 may also include
   a display, for example a video display unit, which may be
   of the same type as the display 14, or of a different
30 type.
   Figure 3 shows a block diagram of operative components of
   a typical gaming machine which may be the same as or
   different to the gaming machine of Figure 2.
35
   The gaming machine 100 includes a game controller 101
   having a processor 102 mounted on a circuit board.
   10118189_1(GHMaters) P81489.AU.4

                                                 -  12
   Instructions and data to control operation of the
   processor 102 are stored in a memory 103, which is in data
   communication with the processor 102.                      Typically, the
   gaming machine 100 will include both volatile and non
 5 volatile memory and more than one of each type of memory,
   with such memories being collectively represented by the
   memory 103.
   The gaming machine has hardware meters 104 for purposes
10 including ensuring regulatory compliance and monitoring
   player credit, an input/output (I/0) interface 105 for
   communicating with peripheral devices of the gaming
   machine 100.                     The input/output interface 105 and/or the
   peripheral devices may be intelligent devices with their
15 own memory for storing associated instructions and data
   for use with the input/output interface or the peripheral
   devices.                 A random number generator module 113 generates
   random numbers for use by the processor 102.                      Persons
   skilled in the art will appreciate that the reference to
20 random numbers includes pseudo-random numbers.
   In the example shown in Figure 3, a player interface 120
   includes peripheral devices that communicate with the game
   controller 101 including one or more displays 106, a touch
25 screen and/or buttons 107                     (which provide a game play
   mechanism),                   a card and/or ticket reader 108, a printer
   109, a bill acceptor and/or coin input mechanism 110 and a
   coin output mechanism 111.                      Additional hardware may be
   included as part of the gaming machine 100, or hardware
30 may be omitted as required for the specific
   implementation.                     For example, while buttons or touch
   screens are typically used in gaming machines to allow a
   player to place a wager and initiate a play of a game any
   input device that enables the player to input game play
35 instructions may be used.                      For example, in some gaming
   machines a mechanical handle is used to initiate a play of
   the game.
   10118189_1(GHMaters) P81489.AU.4

                                                  - 13
   In addition, the gaming machine 100 may include a
   communications interface, for example a network card 112.
   The network card may, for example, send status
 5 information,                     accounting information or other information
   to a bonus controller, central controller, server or
   database and receive data or commands from the bonus
   controller, central controller, server or database.                       In
   embodiments employing a player marketing module,
10 communications over a network may be via player marketing
   module -               i.e.        the player marketing module may be in data
   communication with one or more of the above devices and
   communicate with it on behalf of the gaming machine.
15 Figure 4 shows a block diagram of the main components of
   an exemplary memory 103.                      The memory 103 includes RAM
   103A, EPROM 103B and a mass storage device 103C.                      The RAM
   103A typically temporarily holds program files for
   execution by the processor 102 and related data.                      The
20 EPROM 103B may be a boot ROM device and/or may contain
   some system or game related code.                      The mass storage device
   103C is typically used to store game programs, the
   integrity of which may be verified and/or authenticated by
   the processor 102 using protected code from the EPROM 103B
25 or elsewhere.
   It is also possible for the operative components of the
   gaming machine 100 to be distributed, for example
   input/output devices 106,107,108,109,110,111 to be
30 provided remotely from the game controller 101.
   Figure 5 shows a gaming system 200 in accordance with an
   alternative embodiment.                      The gaming system 200 includes a
   network 201, which for example may be an Ethernet network.
35 Gaming machines 202, shown arranged in three banks 203 of
   two gaming machines 202 in Figure 5, are connected to the
   network 201.                      The gaming machines 202 provide a player
   10118189_1(GHMaters) P81489.AU.4

                                                 - 14
   operable interface and may be the same as the gaming
   machines 10,100 shown in Figures 2 and 3, or may have
   simplified functionality depending on the requirements for
   implementing game play.                     While banks 203 of two gaming
 5 machines are illustrated in Figure 5, banks of one, three
   or more gaming machines are also envisaged.
   One or more displays 204 may also be connected to the
   network 201.                     For example, the displays 204 may be
10 associated with one or more banks 203 of gaming machines.
   The displays 204 may be used to display representations
   associated with game play on the gaming machines 202,
   and/or used to display other representations, for example
   promotional or informational material.
15
   In a thick client embodiment, game server 205 implements
   part of the game played by a player using a gaming machine
   202 and the gaming machine 202 implements part of the
   game.            With this embodiment, as both the game server and
20 the gaming device implement part of the game, they
   collectively provide a game controller.                     A database
   management server 206 may manage storage of game programs
   and associated data for downloading or access by the
   gaming devices 202 in a database 206A.                     Typically, if the
25 gaming system enables players to participate in a Jackpot
   game, a Jackpot server 207 will be provided to perform
   accounting functions for the Jackpot game.                     A loyalty
   program server 212 may also be provided.
30 In a thin client embodiment, game server 205 implements
   most or all of the game played by a player using a gaming
   machine 202 and the gaming machine 202 essentially
   provides only the player interface.                     With this embodiment,
   the game server 205 provides the game controller.                      The
35 gaming machine will receive player instructions, pass
   these to the game server which will process them and
   return game play outcomes to the gaming machine for
   10118189_1(GHMaters) P81489.AU.4

                                            - 15
   display.                In a thin client embodiment, the gaming machines
   could be computer terminals, e.g.                 PCs running software
   that provides a player interface operable using standard
   computer input and output components.                 Other client/server
 5 configurations are possible, and further details of a
   client/server architecture can be found in WO 2006/052213
   and PCT/SE2006/000559, the disclosures of which are
   incorporated herein by reference.
10 Servers are also typically provided to assist in the
   administration of the gaming network 200, including for
   example a gaming floor management server 208, and a
   licensing server 209 to monitor the use of licenses
   relating to particular games.                 An administrator terminal
15 210 is provided to allow an administrator to run the
   network 201 and the devices connected to the network.
   The gaming system 200 may communicate with other gaming
   systems, other local networks, for example a corporate
20 network, and/or a wide area network such as the Internet,
   for example through a firewall 211.
   Persons skilled in the art will appreciate that in
   accordance with known techniques, functionality at the
25 server side of the network may be distributed over a
   plurality of different computers.                 For example, elements
   may be run as a single "engine" on one server or a
   separate server may be provided.                 For example, the game
   server 205 could run a random generator engine.
30 Alternatively, a separate random number generator server
   could be provided.                Further, persons skilled in the art
   will appreciate that a plurality of game servers could be
   provided to run different games or a single game server
   may run a plurality of different games as required by the
35 terminals.
   Further detail of gaming system
   10118189_1(GHMates) P81489.AU.4

                                                  - 16
   In an embodiment, a player operates the game play
   mechanism 56 to input a wager for a wagering game, or bet
   a number of credits for the wagering game, and input
 5 instructions                     (e.g. selections) for the game.   The inputted
   instructions and wager may then be used to initiate the
   wagering game.
   In an embodiment, the wagering game is implemented as a
10 jackpot or bonus game that is triggered from a base game
   upon occurrence of corresponding trigger criteria in the
   base game, such as the occurrence of designated symbols in
   designated symbol display positions in the base game, and
   subsequently initiated.                      For example, the base game may be
15 a spinning reel type game, where the player inputs a wager
   and instructions to select a number of lines to be played
   in each game or each game round of the game.                       In this
   game, it is typical for the player's entitlement to be
   affected by the amount they wager and selections they make
20  (e.g. the nature of the wager).                      In the embodiment, the
   player's entitlement                     (e.g. the value of any bonus prize or
   jackpot) from the bonus game is affected by the amount
   they wager in the base game.
25 As described above, the wagering game has an initial
   expected time duration at which the wagering game will
   terminate if no time duration altering events occur in the
   wagering game.                      If time duration altering events do occur
   in the wagering game, a current expected time duration of
30 the wagering game is derived.                       In Figure 6, the processor
   62 of the game controller 60 is shown implementing a
   number of modules based on program code and data stored in
   memory 64 to conduct both the base game and the wagering
   game.            The modules are adapted to initiate the wagering
35 game, based on the inputted instructions and wager, to
   generate and evaluate time duration altering events
   occurring in the wagering game to alter the time duration
   10118189_1(GHMaters) P81489.AU.4

                                                  - 17
   of the game,                     and to terminate the wagering game at the
   expiry of the initial or derived expected time duration.
   Persons skilled in the art will appreciate that several of
   the modules could be implemented in some other way; for
 5 example, by a dedicated circuit, or on a server remote
   from the game controller 60.
   In the embodiment shown in Figure 6, the modules of the
   game controller 60 include a base game controller 620
10 which operates in response to the player's operation of
   game play mechanism 56 to initiate a play of a base game
   to generate base game outcomes.                      In the example of a
   spinning reel type game, the player operates the game play
   mechanism 56 to input a wager and a number of lines to be
15 played in each game.                      In response, a game outcome is
   generated by the base game controller 620 by selecting
   symbols from a set of symbols specified by symbol data 641
   using random number generator 621.                      The selected symbols
   are advised to the display controller 624 which causes
20 them to be displayed on display 54 at designated symbol
   display positions.                      In addition, the symbols 641 for the
   base game may be displayed in symbol display positions
   arranged in columns, generally representing reels, and the
   symbols 641 may include designated symbols to indicate
25 that the bonus game is triggered (e.g. wild symbols).                      For
   example, the game controller 620 selects symbols from a
   plurality of symbol sets stored corresponding to
   respective ones of a plurality of spinning reels.                      The
   display controller 624 is subsequently advised of these
30 symbols and displays them in symbol display positions such
   that a player selected line includes one symbol display
   position from each column.
   In the embodiment, the base game controller 620 generates
35 a game outcome in the base game corresponding to a trigger
   event to initiate the wagering game, such as selecting
   wild symbols to be displayed in designated symbol display
   10118189_1(GHMaters) P81489.AU.4

                                                - 18
   positions.                    This trigger event is communicated to a bonus
   game controller 625 and, in response, the bonus game
   controller 625 operates to conduct the wagering game as a
   bonus game from the base game.                     The bonus game controller
 5 625 includes an event generator 622, which operates in
   response to the trigger event, to initiate the wagering
   game and to generate time duration altering events which
   are be evaluated by an event evaluator 623.                     The event
   generator 622 generates these time duration altering
10 events based on game rules 642 and using the random number
   generator 621.                    For example, the likelihood of the
   occurrence of the events may be allocated and stored in
   the game rules 642 and accordingly employed by the event
   generator 622.                    Also allocated and stored in the game
15 rules 642 is the initial time duration of the game
   expected by the player.                    In an example, the expected time
   duration, initial or otherwise, may be displayed visually
   to the player (e.g. via a displayed clock) so that the
   player is aware of the duration of time remaining before
20 the game expires.
   The time duration altering events may also be displayed
   visually to the player and accordingly symbols 641
   representing the time duration altering events are advised
25 to the display controller 624 which causes them to be
   displayed on the display 54.                     In an example, the display
   controller 624 displays an object moving across the
   display 54 in a predefined path representing the expected
   duration of time of the wagering game.                     The object may
30 then strike symbols, which represent an alteration to the
   remaining duration of the game, generated by the event
   generator 622.                    These symbols are advised to the display
   controller 624 to be displayed as lying on the predefined
   path.
35
   In      the embodiment, the event generator 622 generates
   truncate events to alter                   the time duration by truncating
   10118189_1(GHMaters) P81489.AU.4

                                                 -  19
   the time duration of the wagering game and extend events
   to extend the time duration of the wagering game.                      The
   event evaluator 623 evaluates the occurrence of these
   generated events and either extends or truncates the
 5 initial or current expected time duration of the game
   accordingly.                     It will be appreciated by those persons
   skilled in the art that other events may be generated; for
   example, the event generator 622 may generate events which
   do not affect the time duration of the wagering game.
10
   The extending and truncating durations of time may also be
   allocated and stored in the game rules 642 along with the
   initial expected time duration if no truncate or extend
   events occur in the game.                      It will also be appreciated by
15 those persons skilled in the art that a number of
   different truncating and extending durations may be
   allocated and stored in the game rules 642 along with
   various initial expected time durations for the wagering
   game, such as having various initial time durations based
20 on the wager.                     Furthermore, a maximum time duration of the
   wagering game that the wagering game can be extended to
   may also be allocated and stored in the game rules 642.
   For example, the maximum time duration of the wagering
   game, from initiation to termination, is allocated as
25 thirty seconds.
   In the embodiment, a prize may be awarded to the player
   when the time duration expires and the game terminates.
   The game evaluator 623 determines and allocates a value
30  (i.e. quantum) of the prize to be awarded based on the
   allocated initial or derived current expected time
   duration of the wagering game and this value may be
   displayed to the player on the display 54 via the display
   controller 624.                     At termination of the wagering game the
35 game evaluator 623 determines the value of the prize and
   forwards the value to a win meter.                      Generally, the value
   of the prize is proportional to the elapsed time duration
   10118189_1(GHMaters) P81489.AU.4

                                            - 20
   of the game from initiation to termination however it is
   envisaged that other game rules may be employed to
   determine the value of the prize, such as awarding a
   highest prize value to a particular time duration, e.g.
 5 thirteen seconds.                In addition, the value of the prize may
   be affected by the amount wagered in the base game                 (e.g.
   the value of the prize is multiplied by the number of
   credits bet per selected line in the base game).                 In any
   case, data indicative of the value of the prize is
10 accumulated from the event evaluator 623 to a win meter
   and stored as meter data 643 to be awarded to the player
   at termination of the game.                 Generally, the value of the
   prize is reset once it is awarded and, at termination of
   the game, credits are transferred to a credit meter in the
15 meter data 643.
   In an alternative embodiment, the wagering game is played
   independent of a base game and in this case the value of
   the prize is affected by the elapsed time duration, as
20 above, and an amount wagered in the wagering game.                  In
   this case, the wagering game is initiated by the event
   generator 622 in response to the player inputting
   instructions using the game play mechanism 56 and a wager
   for the game.
25
   An example of a wagering game employing the above method
   is described with reference to Figure 8.                 The example 800
   includes first initiating 810 a wagering game with an
   initial expected time duration (e.g. ten seconds) and
30 subsequently altering 820 this initial time duration by
   truncating it (e.g. truncating by an allocated two
   seconds) in response to a truncate event occurring in the
   wagering game to derive a current expected time duration.
   Thus, in an example, if at the five second mark of the
35 wagering game the two second truncate event is generated
   by the event generator 622,                the event evaluator 623 will
   subsequently derive a current expected time duration of
   10118189_1(GHMaters) P81489.AU.4

                                                  - 21
   three seconds before the game is to be terminated.
   The example 800 further includes altering 830 the current
   expected time duration by extending the current time
 5 duration (e.g. extending by an allocated five seconds) in
   response to an extend event occurring in the wagering game
   to derive the current expected time duration.                      In the
   example, if the wagering game is currently at two seconds
   before termination and a five second extend event is
10 generated by the event generator 622, the event evaluator
   623 will subsequently derive the current expected time
   duration to be seven seconds before the game is to be
   terminated.                      After this time duration expires, the example
   800 includes terminating 840 the wagering game and
15 subsequently awarding 850 a prize having a value based on
   the derived current expected time duration (e.g. eleven
   seconds) to the player.
   Further examples of wagering games employing the above
20 described method of gaming can be seen in the exemplary
   displays illustrated in Figures 9a to 9c.                      Figures 9a to
   9c show displays of wagering games at termination.
   Figure 9a shows a display 900 where the initial expected
25 time duration expired as no time duration altering events
   occurred in the game.                      With reference to Figure 6 also,
   the display 900 of the wagering game was displayed on the
   display 54 and the display of an object travelling across
   the display 54 was controlled by the display controller
30 624.          At initiation of the wagering game, the object was
   displayed to the player in the form of a bouncing ball
   which travelled across the display 54 for the initial
   expected time duration with a displayed rate of travel and
   distance of travel which reduced iteratively until
35 reaching a threshold value at expiry of the initial
   expected time duration.                      That is, the ball bounced at an
   iteratively slower rate and distance of travel with each
   10118189_1(GHMaters) P81489.AU.4

                                            - 22
   successive bounce until reaching a threshold bounce height
   where the game was terminated.                It can be seen that with
   each successive bounce the rate and distance of travel of
   the ball reduced by 50%.                In addition, each bounce of the
 5 ball represented a unit of time duration, e.g. one second,
   and thus in the wagering game shown on the display 900 the
   initial expected time duration of the wagering game was
   three seconds.
10
   Figure 9b shows a display 910 of a wagering game with an
   initial time duration of three seconds and where on the
   second bounce of the ball, e.g. at two seconds, an extend
   event          (having an allocated extending duration of two
15 seconds) was generated by the event generator 622 and it
   can be seen that the expected bounce of the ball increased
   by 50%.                Thus, the event evaluator 623 derived the current
   expected time duration as three seconds and advised to the
   display controller 624 that the rate and distance of
20 travel of the ball was to increase by 50% upon occurrence
   of the extend event.                In the wagering game shown on the
   display 910, the extend event extended the duration of the
   wagering game by two seconds as no further events
   occurred.
25
   Figure 9c shows a display 920 of the wagering game which
   also had an initial expected time duration of three
   seconds at which the wagering game was to be terminated
   but on the first bounce of the ball, i.e. at one second, a
30 truncate event was generated by the event generator 622
   with an allocated truncation duration of one second.                It
   can be seen that the expected bounce of the ball reduced
   by a further 50% than would be the case if no time
   altering event occurred.                Thus, the event evaluator 623
35 has derived the current expected time duration to be one
   second and advised to the display controller 624 that the
   rate and distance of travel of the ball was to decrease by
   10118189_1(GHMaters) P81489.AU.4

                                                  -  23
   the further 50% upon occurrence of the truncate event.                        In
   the wagering game shown on the display 920, the truncate
   event truncated the duration of the wagering game by one
   second as no further events occurred.
 5
   Referring back to Figure 7, a method of gaming as
   described above is summarised.                       The method 700 includes
   initiating 710 a wagering game with an initial expected
   time duration, altering 720 the time duration of the
10 wagering game in response to a duration altering event
   occurring in the wagering game to derive a current
   expected time duration of the game, and terminating 730
   the wagering game when the initial or current expected
   time duration expires.
15
   Further aspects of the method will be apparent from the
   above description of the system.                       It will be appreciated
   that at least part of the method will be implemented
   digitally by a processor.                       Persons skilled in the art will
20 also appreciate that the method could be embodied in
   program code.                      The program code could be supplied in a
   number of ways, for example on a tangible computer
   readable storage medium, such as a disc or a memory (for
   example, that could replace part of memory 103) or as a
25 data signal                     (for example, by transmitting it from a
   server).                 Persons skilled in the art, will appreciate that
   program code provides a series of instructions executable
   by the processor.
30 It will be understood to persons skilled in the art of the
   invention that many modifications may be made without
   departing from the spirit and scope of the invention, in
   particular it will be apparent that certain features of
   embodiments of the invention can be employed to form
35 further embodiments.
   It is to be understood that, if any prior art is referred
   10118189_1(GHMaters) P81489.AU.4

                                      - 24
   to herein, such reference does not constitute an admission
   that the prior art forms a part of the common general
   knowledge in the art in any country.
 5 In the claims which follow and in the preceding
   description of the invention, except where the context
   requires otherwise due to express language or necessary
   implication, the word "comprise" or variations such as
   "comprises" or "comprising" is used in an inclusive sense,
10 i.e.          to specify the presence of the stated features but
   not to preclude the presence or addition of further
   features in various embodiments of the invention.
   10118189_1(GHMaters) P81489.AU.4

                                            - 25
    Claims
    1.          A method in a gaming system, the method comprising:
                initiating a wagering game comprising an initial
  5 expected time duration at which the wagering game will
    terminate if no time duration altering events occur in the
    wagering game;
                altering the time duration of the wagering game in
    response to a duration altering event occurring in the
10  wagering game to derive a current expected time duration,
    the duration altering event being generated using a random
    number generator of the gaming system;
                terminating the wagering game when the initial or
    current expected time duration expires; and
15              awarding a prize based on the allocated initial or
    current expected time duration of the wagering game,
    wherein a highest prize value in respect of the wagering
    game is awarded when termination of the wagering game
    corresponds to a predefined time duration.
20
    2.          A method as claimed in claim 1, further comprising
    altering the initial or current expected time duration of
    the wagering game by truncating the initial              or current
    expected time duration in              response to a truncate event
25  occurring in the wagering game.
    3.          A method as claimed in claim 1 or 2, further
    comprising altering the initial or current expected time
    duration of the wagering game by extending the initial or
30  current expected time duration in response to a extend
    event occurring in              the wagering game.
    4.          A method as claimed in claim 2, further comprising
    allocating a truncating duration to truncate the initial
35  or current expected time duration of the wagering game
    thereby in response to the truncate event occurring in the
    wagering game.
    10118189_1(GHMates) P81489.AU.4

                                     - 26
   5.          A method as claimed in claim 3, further comprising
   allocating an extending duration to extend the initial or
   current expected time duration of the wagering game
 5 thereby in response to the extend event occurring in the
   wagering game.
   6.          A method as claimed in claim 5, further comprising
   allocating a maximum time duration for the current
10 expected time duration of the wagering game.
   7.          A method as claimed in any one of the preceding
   claims, wherein the wagering game is a bonus game.
15 8.          A method as claimed in claim 1, further comprising
   initiating the wagering game by displaying an object to a
   player of the wagering game on a display, whereby the
   object travels across the display for the initial or
   current expected time duration with a displayed rate of
20 travel and distance of travel which reduces iteratively
   until reaching a threshold value at expiry of the initial
   or current expected time duration.
   9.          A method as claimed in claim 8, further comprising
25 altering the displayed rate of travel and distance of
   travel by further reducing the displayed rate of travel
   and distance of travel of the object across the display
   thereby truncating the initial or current expected time
   duration in response to a truncate event occurring in the
30 wagering game.
   10.         A method as claimed in claim 8 or 9, further
   comprising altering the displayed rate of travel and
   distance of travel by extending the reducing displayed
35 rate of travel and distance of travel of the object across
   the display thereby extending the initial or current
   expected time duration in response to an extend event
   10118189_1(GHMaters) P81489.AU.4

                                     - 27
   occurring in the wagering game.
   11.         A game controller for a gaming system, the game
   controller arranged to:
 5             initiate a wagering game comprising an initial
   expected time duration at which the wagering game will
   terminate if no time duration altering events occur in the
   wagering game;
               alter the time duration of the wagering game in
10 response to a duration altering event occurring in the
   wagering game to derive a current expected time duration;
               use a random number generator to generate the
   duration altering event;
               terminate the wagering game when the initial or
15 current expected time duration expires;
               award a prize based on the allocated initial or
   current expected time duration of the wagering game,
   wherein a highest prize value in respect of the wagering
   game is awarded when termination of the wagering game
20 corresponds to a predefined time duration.
   12.         A game controller as claimed in claim 11, further
   arranged to alter the initial or current expected time
   duration of the wagering game by truncating the initial or
25 current expected time duration in response to a truncate
   event occurring in the wagering game.
   13.         A game controller as claimed in claim 11 or 12,
   further arranged to alter the initial or current expected
30 time duration of the wagering game by extending the
   initial or current expected time duration in response to a
   extend event occurring in the wagering game.
   14.         A game controller as claimed in claim 12, further
35 arranged to allocate a truncating duration to truncate the
   initial or current expected time duration of the wagering
   game thereby in response to the truncate event occurring
   10118189_1(GHMaters) P81489.AU.4

                                     - 28
   in the wagering game.
   15.         A game controller as claimed in claim 13, further
   arranged to allocate an extending duration to extend the
 5 initial or current expected time duration of the wagering
   game thereby in response to the extend event occurring in
   the wagering game.
   16.         A game controller as claimed in claim 15, further
10 arranged to allocate a maximum time duration for the
   current expected time duration of the wagering game.
   17.         A game controller as claimed in any one of claims 11
   to 16 wherein the wagering game is a bonus game.
15
   18.         A game controller as claimed in claim 11, arranged to
   initiate the wagering game by displaying an object to a
   player of the wagering game on a display, whereby the
   object travels across the display for the initial or
20 current expected time duration with a displayed rate of
   travel and distance of travel which reduces iteratively
   until reaching a threshold value at expiry of the initial
   or current expected time duration.
25 19.         A game controller as claimed in claim 18, arranged to
   alter the displayed rate of travel and distance of travel
   by further reducing the displayed rate of travel and
   distance of travel of the object across the display
   thereby truncating the initial or current expected time
30 duration in response to a truncate event occurring in the
   wagering game.
   20.         A game controller as claimed in claim 18 or 19,
   further comprising altering the displayed rate of travel
35 and distance of travel by extending the reducing displayed
   rate of travel and distance of travel of the object across
   the display thereby extending the initial or current
   10118189_1(GHMaters) P81489.AU.4

                                             - 29
   expected time duration in response to an extend event
   occurring in the wagering game.
   21.         A gaming system comprising:
 5             a display for displaying a wagering game to a player;
   and
               a game controller arranged to:
                            initiate a wagering game comprising an initial
               expected time duration at which the wagering game
10             will terminate if no time duration altering events
               occur in the wagering game;
                            alter the time duration of the wagering game in
               response to a duration altering event occurring in
               the wagering game to derive a current expected time
15             duration;
                            use a random number generator to generate the
   duration altering event;
                            terminate the wagering game when the initial or
   current expected time duration expires; and
20                          award a prize based on the allocated initial or
               current expected time duration of the wagering game,
               wherein a highest prize value in respect of the
               wagering game is awarded when termination of the
               wagering game corresponds to a predefined time
25             duration.
   22.         A gaming system comprising:
               a plurality of gaming devices; and
               a game controller in data communication with the
30 plurality of gaming devices, the game controller arranged
   to:
                            initiate a wagering game comprising an initial
               expected time duration at which the wagering game
               will terminate if no time duration altering events
35             occur in the wagering game;
                            alter the time duration of the wagering game in
               response to a duration altering event occurring in
   10118189_1(GHMaters) P81489.AU.4

                                             - 30
               the wagering game to derive a current expected time
               duration;
               use a random number generator to generate the
   duration altering event;
 5             terminate the wagering game when the initial or
   current expected time duration expires; and
               award a prize based on the allocated initial or
   current expected time duration of the wagering game,
   wherein a highest prize value in respect of the wagering
10 game is awarded when termination of the wagering game
   corresponds to a predefined time duration.
   23.         A gaming system comprising:
               at least one gaming device comprising a cabinet, a
15 display mounted within the cabinet arranged to display a
   wagering game to a player, and a game play mechanism
   mounted to the cabinet incorporating at least one input
   device, the game play mechanism operable by the player to
   place wagers in the wagering game, and a game controller
20 disposed within the cabinet comprising a processor and a
   memory storing game control instructions which enable the
   game controller to operate, the game controller arranged
   to:
                            initiate the wagering game comprising an initial
25             expected time duration at which the wagering game
               will terminate if no time duration altering events
               occur in the wagering game;
                            alter the time duration of the wagering game in
               response to a duration altering event occurring in
30             the wagering game to derive a current expected time
               duration;
                            use a random number generator to generate the
   duration altering event;
                            terminate the wagering game when the initial or
35 current expected time duration expires; and
                            award a prize based on the allocated initial or
               current expected time duration of the wagering game,
   10118189_1(GHMaters) P81489.AU.4

                                    - 31
              wherein a highest prize value in respect of the
              wagering game is awarded when termination of the
              wagering game corresponds to a predefined time
              duration.
5
  24.         Computer program code which when executed implements
  the method of any one of claims 1 to 10.
  10118189_1(GHMaters) P81489.AU.4

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
        <removed-apn>     <removed-date>
'
    $
         !"# $ # %"&

<removed-date>
                         -        )1 )22
                                       '
                -) .                              &
                         '
<removed-apn>
                             ),    )              & () *     +
                "/0
                                                 +/ ,*
              ! 32 .   #) ,4 5,         1                        53   *
                                                   +
                        ) 1 13 /6 22
                 1                              )10 3
                          ,, 3 )
                                            '
                                                         )
                                   0
                                                      + 7,
                '                  '$
                                                        '
                                                                 '

<removed-date>
<removed-apn>
                      !   6
                              '
                                     ( 22
              '
                                  #) 2), 2
                                    ) (+
                  '           1 () *

<removed-date>
                   ! 32 .                       $            -              5.-6)2
                    )1 )22                          )1 )22
                                                                                 -
                                                        &                        2
                                                                                  .
                                                                                # 62
<removed-apn>
                   $)1               -       )1 )22
                    7 1                               7 1
                    7 2          )                     1     )              !
                                     '                                                 '
              "1   1      (              1     - ( 4 1 1         2 83 , +
                                             - +  )1
               2 1 4 - +    )1 )9 4 (   1   - 1
                3)1 ) +   )1 2 1 7 1 ),, 1 1
               4 (  1   - )+ 7       , 1 83 , +
                         - +      )1
              # -1       1       4 (    1  - (4 1 4 1                  2
                ) ,          1    83 , + - +  )1 83
                                                                                  '

<removed-date>
                  "1   1  (    1   - ( 4 1 1 2 83 , + -
                  +   )1 (4 ,4 4 (   1   - ( 22 - 1   9 1)
<removed-apn>
                  - +    )1 2 1 7 1 ),, 1 4 (      1    -
                  2    1 4 1 2 83 , + - +        )1 )9   4 (     1
                      - 6. 1, 1 4 1 2 83 ,       + -      +   )1 1
                      3)1  )  1, 1 7 1 ),,       1 1     4 (     1
                         - )+ 7  ,   1 83 ,     + -      +   )1
              2     1 4 ,   1 83      , + - +    )1 )9 4 (     1
                   - 6. 8 1+ 1 4      ,   1 83 , + - +      )1 1
                  3)1  )  8 1+ 7      1 ),, 1 1 4 (       1    -     '
                      )+ 7 4 ,          1 83 , + - +     )1
                      # -1    1 4 (    1     - (4 1 4 ,       1
                               83 , + - +     )1 83
                          ( +1   3 : (4 1 4 ,   1 83 , + -
                      +    )1 83   ; 4 7 2 )9 4 3 : 6  + )1 4
                               ,   1 83 , + - +     )1

        <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
,   6

