Examiner Prepared Abstract
According to the invention, there is provided an article of clothing and / or child or infant care comprising: a
body portion and an emergency prompt portion comprising a plurality of prompts associated with one or more
potential infant emergencies, wherein the emergency prompt portion is arranged so as to enable ready access
for a carer in order to revise and / or follow the prompts.

                                          First aid improvements
   Background of the invention:
   A number of drowning and asphyxiated related child and adult deaths are regularly reported in
 5 Australia and Internationally. Most individuals are not trained in basic first aid or CPR and there
   is a need for a readily available, instructional guide on how to revive an asphyxiated person in
   a domestic setting.
   Whilst there are many poster type instructional first-aid and CPR flowcharts widely used in
   commercial settings these products are almost never present and are not sufficiently aesthetic
10 for domestic applications, nor are they portable or readily accessible in the event of an
   emergency.
   The reference to any prior art in this specification is not, and should not be taken as, an
   acknowledgement or any form of suggestion that the prior art forms part of the common
   general knowledge.
15
   Summary of the invention:
   According to the invention, there is provided an article of clothing and / or child or infant care
   comprising: a body portion and an emergency prompt portion comprising a plurality of prompts
   associated with one or more potential infant emergencies, wherein the emergency prompt
20 portion is arranged so as to enable ready access for a carer in order to revise and / or follow
   the prompts.
   The emergency prompt portion may be located at any suitable position on or within the article.
   In some preferred embodiments, it is locatable by a carer within a cavity defined by the body of
   the article. The emergency prompt portion may comprise any suitable useful functions, for
25 example in some preferred embodiments it comprises a pull-out prompt which optionally
   remains attached to the article body when pulled out for use. The article may comprise any
   suitable child or infant related thing, in some preferred embodiments it optionally comprises
   one or more of a toy and / or comfort article. The prompts may be delivered in any suitable
   way sufficient to prompt the care giver to revise and / or follow the prompts, for example they
30 may be delivered visually as a static label, or by audio or video.
                                                      I

   Throughout this specification (including any claims which follow), unless the context requires
   otherwise, the word 'comprise', and variations such as 'comprises' and 'comprising', will be
   understood to imply the inclusion of a stated integer or step or group of integers or steps but
   not the exclusion of any other integer or step or group of integers or steps.
 5
   Brief description of the drawings:
   Figure 1a shows an abbreviated pictorial and written description of the basic and key CPR
   essentials.
   Figure 1b is a front view of an example embodiment of the invention comprising a children's
10 toy.
   Figure 2 is a rear view of an example embodiment of the invention comprising a children's toy.
   Figure 3 is a front view of another example embodiment of the invention comprising a
   children's toy.
   Figure 4 is a front view of another example embodiment of the invention comprising a
15 children's toy.
   Figure 5 is a front view of another example embodiment of the invention comprising a
   children's toy.
   Figure 6 is a front view of another example embodiment of the invention comprising a
   children's toy.
20 Figure 7 is a front view of another example embodiment of the invention comprising a
   children's toy.
   Figure 8 is a top view of another example embodiment of the invention comprising a blanket.
   Figure 9 is a top view of another example embodiment of the invention comprising a blanket.
   Figure 10 is a top view of another example embodiment of the invention comprising a folded
25 change mat.
   Figure 11 is a top view of another example embodiment of the invention comprising an
   unfolded change mat.
                                                    2

   Figure 12 is a side view of another example embodiment of the invention comprising a hooded
   or other, towel.
   Figure 13 is a top view of another example embodiment of the invention comprising a hooded
   or other, towel.
 5 Figure 14 is a view of a hooded or other towel according to the invention.
   Figure 15 is a view of a folded Quillow according to the invention.
   Figure 16 is a view of an unfolded Quillow according to the invention.
   Figure 17 is a view of the unfolded Quillow according to the invention.
   Figure 18 is a view of various comfort item/toy/blanket/bear/other animals according to the
10 invention.
   Figure 19 is a view a comfort item/toy/blanket/bear/other animas according to the invention.
   Figure 20 is a view of a large toy bear/animal according to the invention.
   Figure 21 is a view of the underside of the sprawled bear according to the invention.
   Figure 22 is a view of a Bib/feeder according to the invention.
15 Figure 23 is a view of a Bib/feeder according to the invention.
   Figure 24 is a view of a bath, shower or other mat according to the invention.
   Figure 25 is a view of a bath, shower or other kneeling/knee pad according to the invention.
   Figure 26 is a view of a bath or shower or other infant support aid according to the invention.
   Figure 27 is a view of an infant car seat cover according to the invention.
20 Figure 28 is a view of a car seat insert according to the invention.
   Figure 29 is a view of an article of clothing according to the invention.
   Figure 30 is a view of an article of clothing according to the invention.
   Figure 31 is a view of a sticker or adhesive sheet according to the invention.
   Figure 32 is an embodiment of a QR code linked to a video showing a demonstration of CPR
25 according to the invention.
                                                     3

   Detailed description of exemplary embodiments:
   It is convenient to describe the invention herein in relation to particularly preferred
   embodiments. However, the invention is applicable to a wide range of implementations and it
 5 is to be appreciated that other constructions and arrangements are also considered as falling
   within the scope of the invention. Various modifications, alterations, variations and or additions
   to the construction and arrangements described herein are also considered as falling within the
   ambit and scope of the present invention.
   There is a need for an aid which is not confined to a wall and can be readily co-located with or
10 portable to wherever a child is situated, whether that be in a home, outdoors, public place or
   even a vehicle. This invention has been specifically designed to be simple, non-invasive and
   compatible with pre-existing domestic environments. It displays CPR and resuscitation
   information in a range of products and designs used in daily life.
   Our innovative product is to incorporate resuscitation and/or choking instructions on a range of
15 children's items, in the form of a bear/animal, blanket, change mat, bib/feeder, towel, mat,
   kneeling pad, bath support, car seat cover, car seat insert and adult/children clothing or a
   sticker making these instructions portable and more easily accessible in the event of an
   emergency.
   In some embodiments, the article of the invention comprises a link or QR code to a
20 CPR/choking demonstration that the purchaser/user can view. Users may also be referred to a
   reputed organisation that conducts CPR/First Aid courses or lessons to encourage the carer to
   undertake formal first aid training. In some embodiments, the invention utilises a CPR or
   choking first aid guide which is printed directly onto domestic/commonly used products or
   applied via a sticker to a surface.
25 The DRSABCD is shown in an abbreviated format to indicate that the product contains
   advisory information. The DRSABCD is also depicted in an unabbreviated format indicating
   the full word indicated by the initial letter. The initial letter 'D' instructs to look for danger. 'R'
   instructs to check for a response. 'S' instructs to send for help by dialling 000. 'A' instructs to
   check the patient's airway. 'B' instructs to check for breathing.         'C' instructs to commence
30 CPR. 'D' instructs to utilise a defibrillator if available.
   An abbreviated pictorial and written description of the basic and key CPR essentials is also
   shown at Figure 1a. This begins with a mobile phone outline displaying '000' and the words
                                                       4

   'Call for help'. It then shows a hand with two raised fingers and underneath, the words 'infants
   <1yo, to indicate the number of fingers to use during the compression phase of CPR on an
    infant under the age of 1 year. It shows a single, open hand with the word 'children'
    underneath, to indicate that a single hand is to be used during the compression phase of CPR
 5 on children over the age of 1 year. It shows two open and crossed hands and the word 'adult'
    underneath this drawing to indicate that two hands are to be used during the compression
   phase of CPR on an adult. A representation of a heart with the number '30' inside it's outline
   and the words "Compressions (2 per second) is shown above a face with a graphic of wind
   coming from the lips and the words "2 breaths". On either side of this is cyclic arrows and the
10 words "Repeat!". This is to indicate that there should be 30 compressions followed by 2
    breaths and that this process should be repeated.
    Further to this is also a written, point form of the CPR key essentials in regard to infants and a
   child/adult. This states "Infants - mouth over nose & mouth; gentle puff to raise chest; 2
   fingers for compressions; repeat until help arrives. Children/Adult - mouth to mouth; blow to
15  raise chest; single handed compressions for children; double hand compressions for adult;
    repeat until help arrives."
     INFANTS
      *   Mouth over nose & mouth
      *   Gentle puff to raise chest
      *   2 fingers for compressions
      *   Repeat until help arrives!!
     CHILDRENIADULT
      *   Mouth to mouth
      *   Blow to raise chest
      *   Single hand compressions for children
      *   Double hand compressions for adult
      *   Repeat until help arrives!!
   Our innovative product is to incorporate resuscitation and/or choking instructions on a range of
   children's items, in the form of a bear/animal, blanket, change mat, bib or towel, making these
20  instructions portable and more easily accessible in the event of an emergency.
    In some preferred embodiments, the invention comprises a link such as a QR code to a first aid
   demonstration that the user can view.
                                                       5

   In some preferred embodiments, the invention comprises means of referral to a reputed
   organisation that conducts CPR/First Aid courses or lessons to encourage the carer to
   undertake formal first aid training
   In some embodiments, the invention provides a child related product or toy having pictorial and
 5 or worded first aid instructions which optionally comprise resuscitation CPR and/or choking. In
   some embodiments there is provided a bear/animal likeness with the instructions incorporated
   onto the body of the toy. In some embodiments there is provided a clothing item for a toy as
   described above wherein the clothing comprises said first aid instructions. Some embodiments
   comprise a toy with the resuscitation instructions contained on an article of clothing including
10 but not limited to a waistcoat/dress/jacket/cardigan/cape secured by a velcro/stud closure; or
   with the resuscitation instructions published on fabric which is attached to the toy and extruded
   via means of an external tab. Some embodiments comprise another child-associated item,
   which may for example optionally be a blanket/change mat/quillow/towel with the instructions
   incorporated on a surface of the item. Some embodiments comprise a bib or feeder.
15 Amongst other things, the invention provides an alternative delivery method for standard CPR
   and choking instructions. By incorporating these instructions within a product or products which
   is/are used on a daily basis by parents or carers, it is an accessible reminder of what to do in
   the event of an emergency.
   Some embodiments of the invention provide a link to a video showing a demonstration of CPR
20 on a child and the method of clearing a choking childs airway. Some embodiments provide a
   referral to a certified and reputable training organisation, encouraging carers to undertake
   formal first aid training.
   The invention provides parents and carers of children with ready access to resuscitation
   instructions which will result in lower child morbidity and mortality rates caused by a simple lack
25 of knowledge.
   Turning now to the remainder of the Figures in more detail.
   Figure 1b is a frontal view of the front of a toy, bear/animal with the DRSABCD acronym on its
   chest (or anywhere on the product). Figure 1b is an embodiment of an educational CPR
   prompt (50) with the DRSABCD acronym (1) on it to indicate that it contains CPR instructions
30 for use as a visual reminder of the basic steps of CPR.
   Figure 2 is a view of the back of a toy, bear/animal with a Velcro, elastic or zip opening, with a
   pull out attached/sewn in description of the basic steps of CPR (which can be anywhere on the
                                                      6

   product). Figure 2 is an embodiment of an educational CPR prompt in the form of a toy
   bear/animal (50) with a pull out/cloth (2) that is extruded from an opening anywhere on the
   product (50) which is fastened by means of a zip, velcro or elastic (6). The pull out/cloth (2)
   depicts a visual reminder by way of a pictorial and written description of the basic steps of CPR
 5 (4). It also provides a written unabbreviated depiction of the DRSABCD acronym (3) and the
   details of the fundamental essentials when performing CPR on an infant, child or adult (5).
   Figure 3 is a view of the front of a toy, bear/animal with a tab with the DRSABCD acronym on it
   protruding from an opening fastened with Velcro, elastic or zip (which can be anywhere on the
   product). Figure 3 is an embodiment of an educational CPR prompt in the form of a toy
10 bear/animal (50) with a tab depicting the DRSABCD acronym on it (7) protruding from an
   opening (6) fastened with Velcro, elastic or zip (anywhere on the CPR aid) (50).
   Figure 4 is a view of the front of a toy, bear/animal with a pull out showing a description of the
   basic steps of CPR, with the tab attached to one edge of this pull out. Figure 4 is an
   embodiment of an educational CPR prompt in the form of a toy bear/animal (50) with a pull out
15 cloth (2) that is extruded from an opening anywhere on the CPR aid (50) which is fastened by
   means of a zip, velcro or elastic (6). The pull out cloth (2) has the tab depicting the DRSABCD
   acronym (7) attached to one edge of the cloth. The pull out cloth (2) depicts a visual reminder
   by way of a pictorial and written description (4) of the basic steps of CPR. It also provides a
   written unabbreviated depiction of the DRSABCD acronym (3) and the details of the
20 fundamental essentials when performing CPR on an infant, child or adult (5).
   Figure 5 is a view of the front of a toy, bear/animal wearing a waistcoat /dress/ jacket/ cardigan/
   cape/ clothing. Velcro/stud closure on clothing with the DRSABCD acronym on its chest (or
   anywhere on the product). Figure 5 is an embodiment of an educational CPR prompt in the
   form of a toy bear/animal (50) wearing a waistcoat/dress/jacket/cardigan/cape/clothing (8).
25 The clothing (8) is secured by way of velcro/stud closure (9).
   Figure 6 is a view of the front of a toy, bear/animal wearing a waistcoat/ dress /jacket /cardigan/
   cape/ clothing that has been opened to reveal a description of the basic steps of CPR, the
   centre panel of which is part of the bear's belly area. Figure 6 is an embodiment of an
   educational CPR prompt in the form of a toy bear/animal (50) wearing a
30 waistcoat/dress/jacket/cardigan/cape/clothing (8) that has been opened to reveal a visual
   reminder by way of a pictorial and written description (4) of the basic steps of CPR on the
   centre panel which is part of the toy bear/animal (50) abdominal/chest area. It also provides a
                                                      7

   written unabbreviated depiction of the DRSABCD acronym (3) and the details of the
   fundamental essentials when performing CPR on an infant, child or adult (5).
   Figure 7 is a view of the front of a toy, bear/animal wearing a waistcoat that has been opened
   to reveal a pictorial and written description of the basic steps of CPR, the centre panel of which
 5 is part of the waistcoat/dress/jacket/cardigan/cape/clothing. Figure 7 is an embodiment of an
   educational CPR prompt in the form of a toy bear/animal (50) wearing a
   waistcoat/dress/jacket/cardigan/cape/clothing (8) that has been opened to reveal a visual
   reminder by way of a pictorial and written description (4) of the basic steps of CPR on the
   centre panel which is part of the waistcoat/dress/jacket/cardigan/cape/clothing. It also provides
10 a written unabbreviated depiction of the DRSABCD acronym (3) and the details of the
   fundamental essentials when performing CPR on an infant, child or adult (5).
   Figure 8 is a view of a blanket with the DRSABCD acronym on one side of the blanket at the
   top (or anywhere on the product). Figure 8 is an embodiment of an educational CPR prompt in
   the form of a blanket (51) with the DRSABCD acronym (1) on one side of the product (or
15 anywhere on the product).
   Figure 9 is a view of a blanket with a pictorial and written description of the basic steps of CPR
   on one side of the product. Figure 9 is an embodiment of an educational CPR prompt in the
   form of a blanket (51) with a visual reminder by way of a pictorial and written description (4) of
   the basic steps of CPR. It also provides a written unabbreviated depiction of the DRSABCD
20 acronym (3) and the details of the fundamental essentials when performing CPR on an infant,
   child or adult (5), on its other side (or anywhere on the product).
   Figure 10 is a view of a folded change mat (plastic, nylon, waterproof or padded cloth) with the
   DRSABCD acronym placed anywhere on the front of it. Figure 10 is an embodiment of an
   educational CPR prompt in the form of a folded change mat (52) which could be made from
25 either plain, plastic, nylon, waterproof or padded cloth with the DRSABCD acronym (1) on the
   front of it (or anywhere on the product).
   Figure 11 is a view of the unfolded change mat (plastic, nylon, waterproof or padded cloth) with
   a pictorial and written description of the basic steps of CPR placed anywhere on its other side.
   Figure 11 is an embodiment of an educational CPR prompt in the form of an unfolded change
30 mat (52) which could be made from either plain, plastic, nylon, waterproof or padded cloth with
   a pictorial and written description (4) of the basic steps of CPR. It also provides a written
   unabbreviated depiction of the DRSABCD acronym (3) and the details of the fundamental
                                                      8

   essentials when performing CPR on an infant, child or adult (5) on its other side (or anywhere
   on the product).
   Figure 12 is a view of a hooded or other, towel. Figure 12 is an embodiment of an educational
   CPR prompt in the form of a hooded or other towel (53).
 5 Figure 13 is a view of a hooded or other towel with the DRSABCD acronym placed on one side
   of/back/outside of the head/hood (or anywhere on the product). Figure 13 is an embodiment of
   an educational CPR prompt in the form of a hooded or other towel (53) with the DRSABCD
   acronym (1) on one side of/back/outside of the head/hood (or anywhere on the product).
   Figure 14 is a view of a hooded or other towel with a pictorial and written description of the
10 basic steps of CPR placed on its other side. Figure 14 is an embodiment of an educational
   CPR prompt in the form of a hooded or other towel (53) with a pictorial and written description
   (4) of the basic steps of CPR. It also provides a written unabbreviated depiction of the
   DRSABCD acronym (3) and the details of the fundamental essentials when performing CPR on
   a child or infant (5) on its other side (or anywhere on the product).
15 Figure 15 is a view of a folded Quillow (a quilt that folds into a pillow) and shows the
   DRSABCD acronym placed on the outside of the pocket that contains the quilt. Figure 15 is an
   embodiment of an educational CPR prompt in the form of a folded Quillow (54) (a quilt that
   folds into a pillow) and shows the DRSABCD acronym (1) on the outside of the pocket (12) that
   contains the quilt (or anywhere on the product). Figure 16 is a view of an unfolded Quillow and
20 shows the DRSABCD acronym placed on the outside of the pocket that would contain the
   folded quilt.
   Figure 16 is a view of an unfolded Quillow (54) and shows the DRSABCD acronym (1) on one
   side (or anywhere on the product) of the pocket (12) that would contain the folded quilt.
   Figure 17 is a view of the unfolded Quillow with a pictorial and written description of the basic
25 steps of CPR placed on its other side. Figure 17 is a view of the unfolded Quillow (54) with a
   pictorial and written description (4) of the basic steps of CPR. It also provides a written
   unabbreviated depiction of the DRSABCD acronym (3) and the details of the fundamental
   essentials when performing CPR on an infant, child or adult (5) on its other side (or anywhere
   on the product).
30 Figure 18 is a view of various comfort item/toy/blanket/bear/other animal that comprises of a
   stuffed toy attached to a miniature blanket with the DRSABCD acronym placed on one side of
   the blanket (or anywhere on the product). Figure 18 is an embodiment of an educational CPR
                                                      9

   prompt in the form of a comfort toy (55) that comprises of a toy or part of a toy (56) attached to
   a miniature blanket (57) with the DRSABCD acronym (1) on one side of it (or anywhere on the
   product).
   Figure 19 is a view a comfort item/toy/blanket/bear/other animal with a pictorial and written
 5 description of the basic steps of CPR placed on its other side/underside/inside. Figure 19 is an
   embodiment of an educational CPR prompt in the form of a comfort toy (55) that comprises of
   a toy or part of a toy (56) attached to a miniature blanket (57) with a pictorial and written
   description (4) of the basic steps of CPR. It also provides a written unabbreviated depiction of
   the DRSABCD acronym (3) and the details of the fundamental essentials when performing
10 CPR on an infant, child or adult (5) on its other side/underside/inside (or anywhere on the
   product).
   Figure 20 is a view of a large toy bear/animal in a sprawled position with the DRSABCD
   acronym on its upper side. Figure 20 is an embodiment of an educational CPR prompt in the
   form of a large toy bear/animal (50) in a sprawled position with the DRSABCD acronym (1) on
15 its upper side.
   Figure 21 is a view of the underside of the sprawled bear with a pictorial and written description
   of the basic steps of CPR, the unabbreviated depiction of the DRSABCD acronym and the
   details of the fundamental essentials when performing CPR on an infant, child or adult on the
   underside (or anywhere on the product). Figure 21 is an embodiment of an educational CPR
20 prompt in the form of a toy bear/animal (50) with a pictorial and written description (4) of the
   basic steps of CPR. It also provides a written unabbreviated depiction of the DRSABCD
   acronym (3) and the details of the fundamental essentials when performing CPR on an infant,
   child or adult (5) on the underside (or anywhere on the product).
   Figure 22 is a view of a Bib/feeder with the DRSABCD acronym placed on one side of the
25 product. Figure 22 is an embodiment of an educational CPR prompt in the form of a bib/feeder
   (58) with the DRSABCD acronym (1) on one side of it (or anywhere on the product).
   Figure 23 is a view of a Bib/feeder with a pictorial and written description of the basic first aid
   steps to clear a blocked airway of an infant child and the subsequent first aid advice placed on
   the other side of the product. Figure 23 is an embodiment of an educational CPR prompt in the
30 form of a bib/feeder (58) with a pictorial and written description (10) of the basic first aid steps
   to clear a blocked airway of an infant or child. It also provides the immediate subsequent
   procedure (11) following an attempted blockage clearance.
                                                     10

   Figure 24 is a view of a bath, shower or other mat with the DRSABCD acronym and a pictorial
   and written description of the basic steps of CPR, the unabbreviated depiction of the
   DRSABCD acronym and the details of the fundamental essentials when performing CPR on an
   infant, child or adult on the underside (or anywhere on the product). Figure 24 is an
 5 embodiment of an educational CPR prompt in the form of a bath/shower or other mat (59) with
   a pictorial and written description (4) of the basic steps of CPR. It also provides a written
   unabbreviated depiction of the DRSABCD acronym (3) and the details of the fundamental
   essentials when performing CPR on an infant, child or adult (5) on one side. The DRSABCD
   acronym (1) is placed on the edge of the product (or anywhere on the product).
10 Figure 25 is a view of a bath, shower or other kneeling/knee pad with the DRSABCD acronym
   and a pictorial and written description of the basic steps of CPR, the unabbreviated depiction of
   the DRSABCD acronym and the details of the fundamental essentials when performing CPR
   on an infant, child or adult on the underside (or anywhere on the product). Figure 25 is an
   embodiment of an educational CPR prompt in the form of a bath/shower or other kneeling/knee
15 pad (60) with a pictorial and written description (4) of the basic steps of CPR. It also provides a
   written unabbreviated depiction of the DRSABCD acronym (3) and the details of the
   fundamental essentials when performing CPR on an infant, child or adult (5) on the product.
   The DRSABCD acronym (1) is placed on the edge of the product (or anywhere on the product).
   Figure 26 is a view of a bath or shower or other infant support aid with the DRSABCD acronym
20 and a pictorial and written description of the basic steps of CPR, the unabbreviated depiction of
   the DRSABCD acronym and the details of the fundamental essentials when performing CPR
   on an infant, child or adult on the underside (or anywhere on the product). Figure 26 is an
   embodiment of an educational CPR prompt in the form of a bath/shower or other infant support
   aid (61) with a pictorial and written description (4) of the basic steps of CPR. It also provides a
25 written unabbreviated depiction of the DRSABCD acronym (3) and the details of the
   fundamental essentials when performing CPR on an infant, child or adult (5) on the product.
   The DRSABCD acronym (1) is placed on the edge of the product (or anywhere on the product).
   Figure 27 is a view of an infant car seat cover with the DRSABCD acronym and a pictorial and
   written description of the basic steps of CPR, the unabbreviated depiction of the DRSABCD
30 acronym and the details of the fundamental essentials when performing CPR on an infant,
   child or adult on the underside (or anywhere on the product). Figure 27 is an embodiment of an
   educational CPR prompt in the form of an infant car seat cover (62) with a pictorial and written
   description (4) of the basic steps of CPR. It also provides a written unabbreviated depiction of
   the DRSABCD acronym (3) and the details of the fundamental essentials when performing
                                                     11

   CPR on an infant, child or adult (5) on the product. The DRSABCD acronym (1) is placed at the
   top of the product (or anywhere on the product).
   Figure 28 is a view of a car seat insert with the DRSABCD acronym and a pictorial and written
   description of the basic steps of CPR, the unabbreviated depiction of the DRSABCD acronym
 5 and the details of the fundamental essentials when performing CPR on an infant, child or adult
   on the underside (or anywhere on the product). Figure 28 is an embodiment of an educational
   CPR prompt in the form of a car seat insert (63) with a pictorial and written description (4) of
   the basic steps of CPR. It also provides a written unabbreviated depiction of the DRSABCD
   acronym (3) and the details of the fundamental essentials when performing CPR on an infant,
10 child or adult (5) on the product. The DRSABCD acronym (1) is placed at the top of the product
   (or anywhere on the product).
   Figure 29 is a view of an article of clothing (shirt/coat/pants/vest/cardigan) with the DRSABCD
   acronym and a pictorial and written description of the basic steps of CPR, the unabbreviated
   depiction of the DRSABCD acronym and the details of the fundamental essentials when
15 performing CPR on an infant, child or adult on the underside (or anywhere on the product).
   Figure 29 is an embodiment of an educational CPR prompt in the form of an article of clothing
   (shirt/coat/pants/vest/cardigan) (65) with a pictorial and written description (4) of the basic
   steps of CPR, anywhere on the product. It also provides a written unabbreviated depiction of
   the DRSABCD acronym (3) and the details of the fundamental essentials when performing
20 CPR on an infant, child or adult (5), anywhere on the product. The DRSABCD acronym (1) is
   placed anywhere on the product.
   Figure 30 is a view of an article of clothing (shirt/coat/pants/vest/cardigan) a tab with the
   DRSABCD acronym on it protruding from an opening fastened with Velcro, elastic or zip (which
   can be anywhere on the product) and a pull out showing a description of the basic steps of
25 CPR, with the tab attached to one edge of this pull out. Figure 30 is an embodiment of an
   educational CPR prompt in the form of an article of clothing (shirt/coat/pants/vest/cardigan)
   (66) with a pull out cloth (2) that is extruded from an opening anywhere on the product which is
   fastened by means of a zip, velcro or elastic (6). The pull out cloth (2) has the tab depicting the
   DRSABCD acronym (7) attached to one edge of the cloth. The pull out cloth (2) depicts a
30 visual reminder by way of a pictorial and written description (4) of the basic steps of CPR. It
   also provides a written unabbreviated depiction of the DRSABCD acronym (3) and the details
   of the fundamental essentials when performing CPR on an infant, child or adult (5). The
   DRSABCD acronym (1) is placed anywhere on the product.
                                                      12

   Figure 31 is a view of a sticker or adhesive sheet ) with the DRSABCD acronym and a pictorial
   and written description of the basic steps of CPR, the unabbreviated depiction of the
   DRSABCD acronym and the details of the fundamental essentials when performing CPR on an
   infant, child or adult on the underside (or anywhere on the product). Figure 31 is an
 5 embodiment of an educational CPR prompt in the form of a sticker or adhesive sheet (64) to be
   applied to (but not limited to) walls, fences, tiles or other surfaces with a pictorial and written
   description (4) of the basic steps of CPR. It also provides a written unabbreviated depiction of
   the DRSABCD acronym (3) and the details of the fundamental essentials when performing
   CPR on an infant, child or adult (5) on the product. The product is of a rectangular shape (or
10 any other shape) printed with hydrochromic , hydrothermic, or regular inks.
   Figure 32 is an embodiment of a QR code linked to a video showing a demonstration of CPR
   on a child or adult an the method of clearing a choking childs airway. Some embodiments
   provide a referral to a certified and reputable training organisation, encouraging carers to
   undertake formal first aid training.
15 List of numbered references from Figures:
   1        DRSABCD acronym
   2        Pull out/cloth
   3        Written unabbreviated depiction of the DRSABCD acronym
   4        Pictorial and written description of the basic steps of CPR
20 5        Details of the fundamental essentials when performing CPR
   6        Opening with fastener-zip, Velcro or elastic
   7        Tab with DRSABCD acronym on it
   8        Waistcoat/dress/jacket/cardigan/cape/clothing
   9        Opening with fastener-velcro or stud
25 10       Pictorial and written description of the basic steps to clear an infant/child's blocked
            airway
   11       Written description of the subsequent procedure after an attempted blockage clearance
   12       Pocket
                                                      13

   50 Toy bear/animal
   51 Blanket
   52 Change mat
   53 Hooded or other towel
 5 54 Quillow (a quilt that folds into a pillow)
   55 Comfort toy
   56 Toy or part of toy
   57 Miniature blanket
   58 Bib/feeder
10 59 Bath/shower or other mat
   60 Bath/shower or other kneeling/knee pad
   61 Bath/shower or other infant support support aid
   62 Infant car seat cover
   63 Car seat insert
15 64 Sticker or adhesive sheet
   65 Shirt/coat/pants/vest/cardigan/clothing
20
                                                 14

   Claims
   1. An article of clothing and / or child or infant care comprising:
       a body portion and an emergency prompt portion comprising a plurality of prompts
       associated with one or more potential infant emergencies, wherein the emergency prompt
 5     portion is arranged so as to enable ready access for a carer in order to revise and / or
       follow the prompts.
   2. An article according to claim 1 wherein the emergency prompt portion is locatable by a
       carer within a cavity defined by the body of the article.
   3. An article according to claim 2 wherein the emergency prompt portion comprises a pull-out
10     prompt which optionally remains attached to the body when pulled out for use.
   4. An article according to claim 1 comprising an infant care article which optionally comprises
       one or more of a toy and / or comfort article.
   5. An article according to claim 1 wherein at least one prompt is delivered by audio or video.
15
                                                     15

              Figure 1a
<removed-date>
<removed-apn>
              Figure 1b
                    1 of 32

          <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                                     Figure 2
2 of 32

          <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                                     Figure 3
3 of 32

          <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                                     Figure 4
4 of 32

          <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                                     Figure 5
5 of 32

          <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                                     Figure 6
6 of 32

          <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                                     Figure 7
7 of 32

          <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                                     Figure 8
8 of 32

          <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                                     Figure 9
9 of 32

           <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                                      Figure 10
10 of 32

           <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                                      Figure 11
11 of 32

           <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                                      Figure 12
12 of 32

           <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                                      Figure 13
13 of 32

           <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                                      Figure 14
14 of 32

           <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                                      Figure 15
15 of 32

           <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                                      Figure 16
16 of 32

           <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                                      Figure 17
17 of 32

           <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                                      Figure 18
18 of 32

           <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                                      Figure 19
19 of 32

           <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                                      Figure 20
20 of 32

           <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                                      Figure 21
21 of 32

           <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                                      Figure 22
22 of 32

           <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                                      Figure 23
23 of 32

           <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                                      Figure 24
24 of 32

           <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                                      Figure 25
25 of 32

           <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                                      Figure 26
26 of 32

           <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                                      Figure 27
27 of 32

           <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                                      Figure 28
28 of 32

           <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                                      Figure 29
29 of 32

           <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                                      Figure 30
30 of 32

           <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                                      Figure 31
31 of 32

           <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                                      Figure 32
32 of 32

