ABSTRACT
A load adjustment assembly for a trailer or a caravan having a wheeled frame adapted
to be coupled by a drawbar to a towing vehicle, a forward end of the drawbar
comprising a hitch for coupling said wheeled frame to the towing vehicle, the load
adjustment assembly comprising: a counterweight assembly positioned at or adjacent
a rear end of the wheeled frame for countering a load acting on the hitch.

FIGURE 1
                                            1
        LOAD ADJUSTMENT ASSEMBLY FOR VEHICLES AND TRAILERS
TECHNICAL FIELD
This invention relates generally to load adjustment assembly, more particularly for
evenly distributing weight in a vehicle such as a camper trailer or a caravan.
BACKGROUND
Any references to methods, apparatus or documents of the prior art are not to be taken
as constituting any evidence or admission that they formed, or form part of the
common general knowledge.
When a trailer is hitched to a tow vehicle, the tongue weight typically causes the rear
of the tow vehicle to lower, and the front to raise. Therefore, it is desirable to remove
excessive weight from the tow vehicle's rear axle and to distribute it either to the front
wheels of the tow vehicle and/or to the trailer wheels. Whilst some weight distributing
hitch systems typically provide complicated arrangements to achieve redistribution of
weight, it is still desirable in the art to achieve more even weight distribution by
providing an improved load adjustment assembly.
SUMMARY OF INVENTION
In one aspect, the invention provides a load adjustment assembly for a trailer or a
caravan having a wheeled frame adapted to be coupled by a drawbar to a towing
vehicle, a forward end of the drawbar comprising a hitch for coupling said trailer or
caravan to the towing vehicle, the load adjustment assembly comprising: a

                                            2
counterweight assembly positioned at or adjacent a rear end of the wheeled frame for
countering a load acting on the hitch.
In an embodiment, the counterweight assembly comprises one or more container
mounted on said wheeled frame, said containers comprising one or more walls
defining an internal space for receiving material therein to counter a load acting on the
hitch.
In an embodiment, said one or more containers comprise a plurality of inlets and
outlets for receiving and expelling material into and from the containers.
In an embodiment, said one or more containers are positioned at the rear end of the
wheeled frame, preferably in between the frame and one or more spare tyres mounted
at the rear end of the frame.
In an embodiment, the counterweight assembly is removably fastened to said wheeled
frame.
In an embodiment, the containers are adapted to receive flowable solid or liquid
material.

                                            3
In an embodiment, the load adjustment assembly further comprises a containment
sub-frame coupled to the wheeled frame for positioning the one or more containers at
the rear end of the wheeled frame.
In an embodiment, said one or more containers comprises a base, a plurality of side
walls extending from the base and a top wall to form an enclosed internal space for
receiving material therein.
BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
Preferred features, embodiments and variations of the invention may be discerned
from the following Detailed Description which provides sufficient information for those
skilled in the art to perform the invention. The Detailed Description is not to be
regarded as limiting the scope of the preceding Summary of the Invention in any way.
The Detailed Description will make reference to a number of drawings as follows:
Fig 1 is a rear end view of a camper trailer 100 in accordance with an embodiment of
the present invention.
Fig 2 is an enlarged left hand side view of the rear end of the camper trailer 100.
Fig 3 is an underside view of the rear end of the camper trailer 100.

                                              4
 Fig 4A is a top view of the rear end of the camper trailer 100.
Fig 5 is a right hand side view of the camper trailer 100.
Fig 6 is a perspective view of the camper trailer 100.
DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF PREFERRED EMBODIMENTS
Camper trailers and caravans typically comprise a wheeled frame adapted to be
coupled by a drawbar to a towing vehicle. A forward end of the drawbar usually
comprises a hitch for coupling the trailer or the caravan to the towing vehicle.
Towball mass is the weight the loaded trailer places on the tow vehicle's tow point
when hooked up and ready to go. As a general guide, the trailer mass should be ±9%
per cent of the fully laden trailer's weight or ATM (Aggregate Trailer mass - the weight
of your un-hitched trailer and it's full load). In practice, it is calculated as ATM minus
GTM (Gross Trailer Mass - the weight imposed on the same trailer's axles when
hitched to it's tow vehicle).
A trailer's towball mass can be easily calculated by placing just the jockey wheel of the
loaded trailer or caravan on the scales at a weigh bridge, or on a set of dedicated
towball weight scales. If the towball mass falls too far outside the general '9% of ATM'
rule, it might be worthwhile using a load adjustment assembly to counter some of the
excess towball mass (also known as drawbar ball weight of a camper trailer or
caravan).

                                            5
Referring to Figures 1 to 6, a camper trailer 100 with a load adjustment assembly 110
is illustrated. The camper trailer comprises a wheeled frame with a housing 9 that
forms the side walls of the trailer 100. As shown clearly in Figure 6, the frame of the
trailer 100 extends between a forward end 120 and a rear end 140. Drawbars 130
extend in a forwardly direction from the forward end 120 of the trailer 100. A hitch 12
is provided along an end portion of the convergent drawbars 130 for coupling the trailer
100 to a towing vehicle (not shown). A load adjustment assembly 110 is provided at
the rear end of the camper trailer 100 to counter any excess weight acting on the hitch
12 during use.
The load adjustment assembly 110 includes a container 1 positioned in a containment
sub-frame 7 that is located at the rear end of the camper trailer 100. The containment
sub-frame 7 is formed from square shaped steel tubes and may be welded to the The
container 1 is positioned in between spare tyres 5 (mounted on a separate tyre
supporting frame 6) and a rear end wall of the frame of the trailer 100. The container
1 comprises a base, four side walls extending upwardly from the base and a top wall
to form an enclosure for receiving flowable material. In the preferred embodiment, the
container 1 is adapted to receive flowable fluids such as water. However, it would be
understood that the container 1 may be modified for receiving other flowable materials
including flowable solids such as sand.
Fig 2 shows an enlarged view of the rear end 140 of the camper trailer 100 close up.
The container 1 allows the weight of the container to be easily adjusted by filling the

                                             6
container 1 with water or any other fluid in order to counter at least some of the weight
acting on the hitch 12 during use. The container 1 is provided with an inlet cap 2 that
can be easily opened for filling the container 1 with water. Advantageously, restraining
straps are also provided for restraining the container to the containment sub-frame 7
to prevent excessive movement of the container 1. The container 1 is also provided
with outlets in the form of a tap 10 for expelling any water out of the container. In order
to adjust the weight of the containers any excessive weight may be reduced by
opening the tap 10 and draining the water until a desired counterweight is achieved in
the container 1.
It is important to note that the container 1 is not only beneficial for providing a load
adjustment assembly for counteracting the downward weight acting on the hitch 12
but also have the secondary use of carrying and storing water during camping trips.
Fig 3    shows the under chassis view of the camper body housing (9) and the
containment sub-frame 7 spare tyre 5 and the tap 10 under the bottom of the container
1 and hose connecting to another storage container 11. An underside guard may also
provided to protect the underside of the container 1 from being damaged during
movement of the trailer 100.
In compliance with the statute, the invention has been described in language more or
less specific to structural or methodical features. The term "comprises" and its
variations, such as "comprising" and "comprised of" is used throughout in an inclusive
sense and not to the exclusion of any additional features.

                                           7
It is to be understood that the invention is not limited to specific features shown or
described since the means herein described comprises preferred forms of putting the
invention into effect.
The invention is, therefore, claimed in any of its forms or modifications within the
proper scope of the appended claims appropriately interpreted by those skilled in the
art.

                                            8
CLAIMS
1.      A load adjustment assembly for a trailer or a caravan having a wheeled frame
adapted to be coupled by a drawbar to a towing vehicle, a forward end of the drawbar
comprising a hitch for coupling said wheeled frame to the towing vehicle, the load
adjustment assembly comprising: a counterweight assembly positioned at or adjacent
a rear end of the wheeled frame for countering a load acting on the hitch.
2.      A load adjustment assembly in accordance with claim 1 wherein the
counterweight assembly comprises one or more container mounted on said wheeled
frame, said containers comprising one or more walls defining an internal space for
receiving material therein to counter a load acting on the hitch.
3.      A load adjustment assembly in accordance with claim 2 wherein said one or
more containers comprise a plurality of inlets and outlets for receiving and expelling
material into and from the containers.
4.      A load adjustment assembly in accordance with claims 2 or 3 claims wherein
said one or more containers are positioned at the rear end of the wheeled frame,
preferably in between the frame and one or more spare tyres mounted at the rear end
of the frame.

                                           9
5.     A load adjustment assembly in accordance with any one of the preceding
claims wherein the counterweight assembly is removably fastened to said wheeled
frame.
6.     A load adjustment assembly in accordance with any one of claims 2 to 5
wherein the containers are adapted to receive flowable solid or liquid material.
7.     A load adjustment assembly in accordance with any one of claims 2 to 5 further
comprising a containment sub-frame coupled to the wheeled frame for positioning the
one or more containers at the rear end of the wheeled frame.
8.     A load adjustment assembly in accordance with any one of claims 2 to 7
wherein said one or more containers comprises a base, a plurality of side walls
extending from the base and a top wall to form an enclosed internal space for receiving
material therein.

                 <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                       100
           110
FIGURE 1

           <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
FIGURE 2
            100

           <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
FIGURE 3

           <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
FIGURE 4

           <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
FIGURE 5

           <removed-apn>         <removed-date>
                 130
           120
FIGURE 6
                        140

