                                       ABSTRACT
       Described herein are compositions and methods related to isolated Trichoderma
harzianum and strains thereof.

          COMPOSITIONS AND METHODS RELATED TO ISOLATED ENDOPHYTES
                                     FIELD OF THE INVENTION
            The present application is a divisional application of Australian Application No.
 5 2014292990 , which is incorporated in its entirety herein by reference.
            The disclosure relates to isolated endophytes and uses thereof, such as for the
   inoculation of plants to promote stress tolerance and/or increase growth or germination.
                                BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
10          Symbiosis, defined as the living together of two or more organisms in close or
   intimate association, is often a mutually beneficial interaction between two organisms. Most
   plants are symbiotic with fungi (Petrini, 1986) and these fungi play important roles in the
   structure, function, and health and adaptation of plant communities (Bacon and Hill, 1996;
   Clay and Holah, 1999; Petrini, 1986; Read, 1999; Rodriguez and Redman, 1997).
15          It has been demonstrated that a symbiotic relationships with fungi can enhance the
   growth of host plants under stressful conditions. For example, specific strains of endophytic
   fungi confer tolerance to host plants against extreme environmental conditions including
   temperature, drought, and salinity (Redman et al., 2002b; Rodriguez et al., 2004; Rodriguez
   and Redman, 2008; Rodriguez et al., 2009; Redman et al., 2011; Rodriguez et al., 2012).
20 Endophytes are a class of fungal symbionts that reside within host plant roots, stems and/or
   leaves. In addition to promoting stress tolerance, endophytes also increase nutrient
   acquisition and growth rates (biomass and yields) of host plants, and improve water use
   efficiency (Rodriguez et al., 2008; Rodriguez et al., 2009).
            Abiotic stresses (such as drought, temperature, salinity, pH and nutrient) alter the
25 physiology of plants resulting in decreased fitness, health, development and yields.
   Propagating plants under marginal growth conditions (typically due to abiotic stresses) would
   allow for an increase in agriculture production and mitigation of climate induced habitat
   changes for both crop and native plants. Moreover, creating new vegetation is important for
   soil and water remediation of polluted sites created by modern industry and other human
30 activities.
                                                   -1-

         Previous published studies (Redman et al., 2002b & 2011; Rodriguez et al., 2008 &
  2012) have demonstrated that a special class of fungal symbionts (class 2) can confer biotic
  and abiotic stress benefits to plants simply by colonizing them with the fungal endophyte.
5
                                                 -la-

                                  SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
            As described herein, it has been discovered that fungal endophytes such as
   Trichoderma harzianum, e.g., strain ThLml. conferred superior abiotic/biotic stress tolerance
   and increased yields of both agricultural and native plants compared to previously identified
 5 fungal endophytes. Accordingly, aspects of the disclosure relate to compositions and
   methods related to isolated fungal endophytes, such as the species T harzianum, including
   strain ThLml.
            According to one aspect of the invention, an isolated Trichoderma harzianum strain
   ThLml fungus is provided, deposited at the U.S. Department of Agriculture Culture
10 Collection under Patent Deposit Designation number NRRL 50846 (date of deposit July 26,
   2013), or a progeny or spore thereof. Compositions comprising the Trichodermaharzianum
   strain ThLm I fungus and/or a progeny and/or a spore thereof also are provided. The
   compositions include, for example, liquid compositions and powder compositions.
            According to another aspect of the invention, methods for promoting stress tolerance
15 and/or enhancing plant growth or seed germination are provided. The methods include
   inoculating a plant or a plant seed with the isolated Trichodermaharzianum strain ThLml
   fungus, or a spore or progeny thereof; or a composition thereof. In some embodiments, the
   stress tolerance is drought tolerance, salt tolerance, reduced nutrient tolerance, fungal
   tolerance, and/or temperature tolerance. In some embodiments, the enhanced plant growth or
20 seed gemination comprises an increase in size, extent of root development, germination rate
   of seeds, chlorophyll content/level, photosynthetic efficiency, yield or mass.
            Inoculating the plant can, in some embodiments, include colonizing a root and/or stem
   of the plant with a Trichodermaharzianum strain ThLml fungus or a spore or progeny
   thereof.
25          In some embodiments, the method further comprises growing the plant or plant seed,
   which may be in soil characterized by high salinity, low moisture, and/or low nutrient
   content. In some embodiments, the high salinity is greater than 35mM amount of a salt. In
   some embodiments, the low moisture content is between 0 - 0.18 in3 water/in3 soil. In some
   embodiments, the low nutrient content is fewer than 80 lbs/acre of nutrient, wherein the
30 nutrient comprises 20% each of nitrogen, phosphorus, and potassium, and associated
   micronutrients.
                                                   -2-

            In some embodiments, the plant or plant seed is grown in water characterized by high
   salinity and/or low nutrient content.
            In some embodiments, the plant or plant seed is grown or germinated at an average
   temperature at or above 35 degrees Celsius or at or below 15 degrees Celsius.
 5          In some embodiments, the plant or plant seed is a crop plant or cr-op plant seed, such
   as watermelon, tomato, corn, wheat, soybean, cucurbits, peppers, leafy greens, barley, cotton,
   beans, peas, tubers, berries, woody plants or rice, or a seed thereof. In other embodiments,
   the plant or plant seed is an ornamental, such as Rosaceae, Liliaceae, Azalea, Rhododendron,
   Poaceae or Chrysanthemum.
10          According to another aspect of the invention, plants or plant seeds are provided that
   are inoculated with the isolated Trichoderma harzianum strain ThLml fungus, or a spore or
   progeny thereof; or composition thereof.
            In some embodiments, the plant or plant seed is a crop plant or crop plant seed, such
   as watermelon, tomato, corn, wheat, soybean, cucurbits, peppers, leafy greens, barley, cotton,
15 beans, peas, tubers, berries, woody plants or rice, or a seed thereof In other embodiments,
   the plant or plant seed is an ornamental, such as Rosaceae, Liliaceae, Azalea, Rhododendron,
   Poaceae or Chrysanthemum.
            According to another aspect of the invention, methods for increasing stress tolerance
   are provided. The methods include inoculating a plant or a plant seed with an isolated
20 Trichoderma harzianum fungus or a spore thereof; or a composition comprising the isolated
   Trichoderma harzianum fungus or a spore thereof, thereby increasing stress tolerance of the
   inoculated plant.
            In some embodiments, the stress is drought, elevated salt, reduced nutrients and/or
   temperature stress. In some embodiments, the stress is not the presence of polycyclic
25 aromatic hydrocarbons, napthenic acids, or high pH.
            In some embodiments, inoculating the plant comprises colonizing a root, stem and/or
   leaf of the plant with a Trichoderma harzianum strain fungus or a spore or progeny thereof.
            In some embodiments, the method further comprises growing the plant or plant seed,
   which may be in soil characterized by high salinity, low moisture, and/or low nutrient
30 content. In some embodiments, the high salinity is greater than 35mM amount of a salt. In
   some embodiments, the low moisture content is between 0 - 0.18 in3 water/in3 soil. In some
   embodiments, the low nutrient content is fewer than 80 lbs/acre of nutrient, wherein the
                                                 -3-

   nutrient comprises 20% each of nitrogen, phosphorus, and potassium, and associated
   micronutrients.
            In some embodiments, the plant or plant seed is grown in water characterized by high
   salinity and/or low nutrient content.
 5          In some embodiments, the plant or plant seed is grown or germinated at an average
   temperature at or above 35 degrees Celsius or at or below 15 degrees Celsius.
            In some embodiments, the plant or plant seed is a crop plant or crop plant seed, such
   as watermelon, tomato, corn, wheat, soybean, cucurbits, peppers, leafy greens, barley, cotton,
   beans, peas, tubers, berries, woody plants or rice, or a seed thereof. In other embodiments,
10 the plant or plant seed is an ornamental, such as Rosaceac, Liliaceac, Azalea, Rhododendron,
   Poaceae or Chrysanthemum.
            In some embodiments, the Trichoderma harzianum strain fungus is not strain
   TSTh20-I or strain T-22.
            According to another aspect of the invention, methods for increasing germination of
15 seeds are provided. The methods include inoculating a plant seed with an isolated
   Trichoderma harzianum fungus or a spore thereof; or a composition comprising the isolated
   Trichoderma harzianum fungus or a spore thereof, thereby increasing germination of the
   inoculated seeds.
            In some embodiments, the plant seed is previously, concurrently and/or subsequently
20 treated with a fungicide and/or insecticide.
            In some embodiments, the plant or plant seed is a crop plant or crop plant seed, such
   as watermelon, tomato, corn, wheat, soybean, cucurbits, peppers, leafy greens, barley, cotton,
   beans, peas, tubers, berries, woody plants or rice, or a seed thereof. In other embodiments,
   the plant or plant seed is an ornamental, such as Rosaceae, Liliaceae, Azalea, Rhododendron,
25 Poaceae or Chrysanthemum.
            In some embodiments, the Trichoderna harzianun strain fungus is not strain
   TSTh20-I or strain T-22.
            According to another aspect of the invention, methods for reducing establishment of
   fungi other than Trichoderma harzianum in a plant are provided. The methods include
30 inoculating a plant seed or seedling with an isolated Trichoderma harzianum fungus or a
   spore thereof; or a composition comprising the isolated Trichoderma harzianum fungus or a
                                                 -4-

   spore thereof, thereby reducing establishment of fungi other than Trichoderma harzianum in
   aplant growing from the inoculated seed or seedling.
           In some embodiments, the plant or plant seed is a ci-op plant or crop plant seed, such
   as watermelon, tomato, corn, wheat, soybean, cucurbits, peppers, leafy greens, barley, cotton,
 5 beans, peas, tubers, beries, woody plants or rice, or a seed thereof. In other embodiments,
   the plant or plant seed is an ornamental, such as Rosaceae, Liliaceae, Azalea, Rhododendron,
   Poaceae or Chrysanthemum.
           In some embodiments, the Trichoderma harzianum strain fungus is not strain
   TSTh20-1 or strain T-22.
10         The details of one or more embodiments of the invention are set forth in the
   description below. Other features or advantages of the present invention will be apparent
   from the following drawings and detailed description of several embodiments, and also from
   the appending claims.
15                          BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
           The following drawings form part of the present specification and are included to
   further demonstrate certain aspects of the present disclosure, which can be better understood
   by reference to one or mom of these drawings in combination with the detailed description of
   specific embodiments presented herein.
20         Figure 1 is a bar graph showing the biomass response of young corn plants to
   ThLml. Nonsymbiotic (NS - bars on left of each pair) and Symbiotic with ThLml (S - bars
   on right of each pair) corn plants (N=24) were grown for one month in a greenhouse without
   stress. Values on the Y-axes are wet weights in grams (g) with average weights shown.
           Figure 2 is a bar graph depicting corn growth and yield enhancement through
25 symbiosis with ThLml. Left - Nonsymbiotic (NS), Right =Symbiotic (S) with ThLml.
   Values on the Y-axes are wet weights in grams (g) with average weights shown.
           Figure 3 is a graph showing corn growth and yield enhancement through symbiosis
   with ThLml. Left two bars = Nonsymbiotic (NS), Right two bars =Symbiotic (S) with
   ThLm 1. Values on the Y-axes ar wet weights in grams (g) with average weights shown.
30         Figure 4 is a bar graph depicting seed germination of corn symbiotic with ThLml(S)
   or nonsymbiotic (NS). Left = Nonsymbiotic (NS), Right =Symbiotic (S) with ThLml.
   Values on the Y-axes represent percent seed germination with average values shown.
                                                 -5-

           Figure 5 is a graph depicting increased chlorophyll content in symbiotic corn plants.
   Left = Nonsymbiotic (NS), Right =Symbiotic (S) mature greenhouse grown corn plants in the
   absence of stress were measured for chlorophyll content (Y-axis, numbers are SPAD values)
   with average values shown.
 5         Figure 6A is a series of bar graphs showing root and shoot weight of corn plants
   exposed to drought stress. Left bars of each graph = Nonsymbiotic (NS), Right bars of each
   graph =Symbiotic (S) with ThLml. Values on the Y-axes are wet weights in grams (g) with
   average weights shown.
           Figure 6B is a bar graph showing root and shoot weight of corn plants exposed to low
10 nutrient stress. Left bars of each graph = Nonsymbiotic (NS), Right bars of each graph =
   Symbiotic (S) ThLml. Values on the Y-axes are wet weights in grams (g) with average
   weights shown.
           Figure 7 is a bar graph depicting the weight of corn exposed to salt stress. Left
   Nonsymbiotic (NS), Right = Symbiotic (S) with ThLml. Numbers on the Y-axis are wet
15 weight in grams with average weights shown.
           Figure 8 is a graph depicting cold stress tolerance in rice seedlings. Root biomass is
   depicted by the upper half of each bar. Root and shoot growth are shown (cm). Shoot
   growth is depicted by the lower half of each bar.
           Figure 9 is a graph depicting field evaluation under drought stress. Yield data is
20 shown for five replicate plots containing 120 corn plants each. Plants symbiotic with ThLml
   produced an average of 85% more yield than nonsymbiotic (NS) plants.
           Figure 10 is a graph showing shoot and joot biomass of corn either nonsymbiotic
   (NS) or symbiotic (S) with ThLml. Values on the Y-axes are fresh weight biomass in grams
   (g).
25         Figure I 1 is a photograph showing that symbiotic corn plants inoculated with ThLm 1
   produced more extensive root systems with more lateral roots. Figure 11 is a representative
   photograph of Nonsymbiotic (NS, left) and Symbiotic (S, right) roots from plants in Figure
   10.
           Figure 12 is a bar graph showing root and shoot biomass of soybeans either
30 nonsymbiotic (NS) or symbiotic (S) with ThLm 1. Values on the Y-axes are fresh weight
   biomass in grams (g).
           Figure 13 is a bar graph depicting leaf chlorophyll content of corn plants. SPAD
                                                  -6-

   measurements were taken which indicated relative % chlorophyll. Each of the three "S" bars
   represent three unique preparations of ThLm 1.
           Figure 14 is a bar graph of SPAD measurements of soybean plants symbiotic (S, right
   bar) with ThLml or nonsymbiotic (NS, left bar). SPAD measurements indicated the relative
 5 % of chlorophyll in plants.
           Figure 15 is a bar graph showing fruit yield of corn symbiotic with different
   preparations of ThLml(S) or nonsymbiotic (NS).
           Figure 16 is a series of bar graphs depicting the roots, shoots, and yield of corn plants
   symbiotic with ThLml(S, right bars in each graph) or nonsymbiotic (NS, left bars in each
10 graph) under low nutrient stress.
           Figure J7 is a series of bar graphs depicting the roots, shoots, and yield of corn plants
   symbiotic with ThLml(S, right bars in each graph) or nonsymbiotic (NS, left bars in each
   graph) under drought stress.
           Figure 18 is a bar graph depicting root and shoot biomass in soybean plants symbiotic
15 with ThLml (S, left bar) or nonsymbiotic (NS, tight bar) under salt stress.
           Figure 19 is a bar graph depicting shoot and root biomass in corn symbiotic with
   ThLml (S, left bar) or nonsymbiotic (NS, right bar) under salt stress.
           Figure 20 is a bar graph depicting the growth of nonsymbiotic (NS) or ThLml
   symbiotic (S) corn plants exposed to high temperatures. Growth of symbiotic (right bars in
20 each pair) and nonsymbiotic (left bars in each pair) corn plants was measured after two weeks
   of exposure to high temperatures (45-50'C).
           Figure 21 is a bar graph depicting the growth of nonsymbiotic (NS) or ThLrml
   symbiotic (S) tomato plants exposed to high temperatures. Growth of symbiotic (right bars in
   each pair) and nonsymbiotic (left bars in each pair) corn plants was measured after two weeks
25 of exposure to high temperatures (45-5 0 *C, right pair) or normal temperatures (25-30*C, left
   pair).
           Figure 22 is a graph of the percent germination of coin seeds treated with ThLml (S)
   or not treated with ThLml (NS) under high heat (50-55 0 C).
           Figure 23 is a graph of the percent germination of soybean seeds treated with ThLml
30 (S) or not treated with ThLml (NS) under high heat (50-55 0 C).
           Figure 24 is a graph of the percent germination of corn seeds treated with ThLml (S)
   or not treated with ThLml (NS) exposed to a cold temperature (5"C) for 144 hours. Three
                                                  -7-

   corn varieties were tested (A, P & D).
           Figure 25 is a graph of the percent germination of soybean seeds treated with ThLml
   (S) or not treated with ThLml (NS) exposed to a cold temperature (50 C or 150 C) for 72
   hours.
 5         Figure 26 is a graph showing drought stress tolerance confen-ed to soybean plants by
   16 geographically diverse isolates of T. harzianum. NS (Nonsymbiotic) represents control
   plants without an endophyte and each bar represents four replicates of 9 plants (n=36). Plants
   were exposed to 9 days of drought stress (complete lack of watering) and standard deviations
   were less than 5%. No wilt = plants with full turgor no different from plants grown without
10 plant stress; Mild wilt = plants with full turgor but mild leaf curling at tips; Permanent wilt
   point = severe wilt that plants do not recover from when re-watered.
           Figure 27 is a representative image of drought tolerance conferred to soybeans by T.
   harzianum isolates. Plants were exposed to 6 days of drought conditions and all NS plants
   wilted while El colonized plants retained all turgor. The El colonized plants also continued
15 to grow during the drought stress as seen by plant sizes.
           Figure 28 is a graph showing drought stress tolerance conferred to corn plants by 16
   geographically diverse isolates of T. harzianum. NS (Nonsymbiotic) represents control
   plants without an endophyte and each bar represents four replicates of 9 plants (n=36). Plants
   were exposed to 9 days of drought stress (complete lack of watering) and standard deviations
20 were less than 5%. No wilt = plants with full turgor no different from plants grown without
   plant stress; Mild wilt = plants with full turgor but mild leaf curling at tips; Permanent wilt
   point = severe wilt that plants do not recover from when re-watered.
           Figure 29 is a graph showing salt stress tolerance conferred to soybean plants by 16
   geographically diverse isolates of T. harzianum. NS (Nonsymbiotic) represents control
25 plants without an endophyte and each bar represents four replicates of 9 plants (n=36). Plants
   were exposed to 14 days of salt stress (300mM NaCl) with standard deviations < 10%. All
   endophytes significantly increased plant root biomass compared to nonsymbiotic control
   plants. All symbiotic plants were healthy while NS plants were chlorotic and wilting.
           Figure 30 is a graph showing salt stress tolerance conferred to soybean plants by 16
30 geographically diverse isolates of T. harzianum. NS (Nonsymbiotic) represents control
   plants without an endophyte and each bar represents four replicates of 9 plants (n=36). Plants
   were exposed to 14 days of salt stress (300mM NaCl) with standard deviations < 10%. All
                                                   -8-

   endophytes decreased water usage by more than 100% compared to nonsymbiotic control
   plants. All symbiotic plants were healthy while NS plants were chlorotic and wilting.
           Figure 31 is a graph showing salt stress tolerance conferred to corn plants by 16
   geographically diverse isolates of T. harzianum. NS (Nonsymbiotic) represents control
 5 plants without an endophyte and each bar represents four replicates of 9 plants (n=36). Plants
   were exposed to 14 days of salt stress (300mM NaCl) with standard deviations < 10%. All
   endophytes decreased water usage by more than 300% compared to nonsymbiotic control
   plants. All symbiotic plants were healthy while NS plants were chlorotic and wilting.
           Figure 32 is a graph showing salt stress tolerance conferred to corn plants by 16
10 geographically diverse isolates of T harzianum. NS (Nonsymbiotic) represents control
   plants without an endophyte and each bar represents four replicates of 9 plants (n=36). Plants
   were exposed to 14 days of salt stress (300mM NaCI) with standard deviations < 10%. All
   endophytes increased plant root biomass by 12-32% compared to nonsymbiotic control
   plants. All symbiotic plants were healthy while NS plants were chlorotic and wilting.
15         Figure 33 is a graph showing heat tolerance conferred to corn plants by 11
   geographically diverse isolates of T. harzianum. NS (Nonsymbiotic) represents control
   plants without an endophyte and each bar represents four replicates of 9 plants (n=36). Plants
   were exposed to 10 days of 45 0 C root temperatures with standard deviations < 10%. All
   endophytes increased plant shoot height by 15-46% compared to nonsymbiotic control plants.
20 All symbiotic plants were healthy while NS plants were chlorotic and wilting.
           Figure 34 is a graph showing heat tolerance conferred to corn plants by II
   geographically diverse isolates of T. harzianum. NS (Nonsymbiotic) represents control
   plants without an endophyte and each bar represents four replicates of 9 plants (n=36). Plants
   were exposed to 10 days of 45 0 C root temperatures with standard deviations < 10%. All
25 endophytes increased plant leaf chlorophyll levels by 16-37% compared to nonsymbiotic
   control plants. All symbiotic plants were healthy while NS plants were chlorotic and wilting.
           Figure 35 is a graph showing heat tolerance conferred to soybean plants by 6
   geographically diverse isolates of T. harzianum. NS (Nonsymbiotic) represents control
   plants without an endophyte and each bar represents four replicates of 9 plants (n=36). Plants
30 were exposed to 10 days of 45 0 C root temperatures with standard deviations < 10%. All
   endophytes deci-eased plant water use by 26-77% compared to nonsymbiotic control plants.
   All symbiotic plants were healthy while NS plants were chlorotic and wilting.
                                                 -9-

           Figure 36 is a graph showing heat tolerance conferred to soybean plants by 6
   geographically diverse isolates of T. harzianum. NS (Nonsymbiotic) represents control
   plants without an endophyte and each bar represents four replicates of 9 plants (n=36). Plants
   were exposed to 10 days of 45 0 C root temperatures with standard deviations < 10%. All
 5 endophytes increased plant root biomass by 30-100% compared to nonsymbiotic control
   plants. All symbiotic plants were healthy while NS plants were chlorotic and wilting.
           Figure 37 is a graph showing cold tolerance conferred to soybean plants by an isolate
   (ThLml) of T. harzianum. NS (Nonsymbiotic) represents control plants without an
   endophyte and each bar represents three replicates of 9 seeds (n=27, standard deviations <
10 10%). Seeds were inoculated and placed at either 5*C, 150 and 25 0 C for 72 hours to assess
   germination. The endophyte conferred cold tolerance and increased seed germination at all
   temperatures compared to nonsymbiotic control plants.
           Figure 38 is a graph showing cold tolerance conferred to corn plants by an isolate
   (ThLml) of T. harzianum. NS (Nonsymbiotic) represents control plants without an
15 endophyte and each bar represents three replicates of 9 seeds (n=27, standard deviations <
   10%). Seeds of three corn varieties (A,P,D) were inoculated and placed at 150 C 96 hours to
   assess germination. The endophyte conferred cold tolerance and significantly increased seed
   germination compared to nonsymbiotic control plants.
           Figures 39A-39C present a series of graphs showing the photosynthetic efficiency
20 (Qmax, Y-axes) measured over time in nonsymbiotic (NS) and symbiotic (TT = ThLM1)
   corn seedlings two weeks post germination. Plants were grown without stress (Figure 39A),
   or in the presence of drought stress (Figure 391B) or heat stress (Figure 39C). In all cases,
   quantum efficiency was significantly higher in symbiotic plants.
           Figure 40 is a bar gi-aph showing the average corn yield following drought stress at
25 one location in Michigan, USA. The site was subjected to randomized design with 25 plots
   (20 feet x 20 feet each). Four corn varieties were tested with 2 BioEnsure@ (formulated
   ThLm I) treatments (L=low number of spores/seed & H=high number of spores/seed) and
   there were 10 replicates/treatment with N=30/treatment). Seeds were inoculated with powder
   formulations of BioEnsure@ and were planted within 2 hours. (All other field studies
30 involved liquid formulations.) Treatment with BioEnsure@ resulted in 30-85% increase in
   corn yield relative to plants that did not receive the treatment.
           Figure 41 is a bar graph showing the average corn yield with low stress at sites
                                                   - 10 -

   established by independent cooperators in several ecozones in Michigan and Indiana, USA.
   The sites were subjected to randomized design with a total of 215 plots. Overall 84% of plots
   treated with BioEnsure@ (formulated ThLm 1) had an increase in corn yield with the average
   being a 6.5% increase and a range of 3-20% increase. The increase in bushels/acre ranged
 5 from 5-38.
           Figure 42 is a bar graph showing the average rice yield with low stress in plots
   established in two soil types in Texas, USA. The sites were subjected to randomized design
   with a total of 105 plots (20 feet x 20 feet each). Three rice varieties were tested with 2
   BioEnsure@ (formulated ThLm I) treatments, and there were 4 replicates/treatment drill
10 seeded at 80b/acre. BioEnsure@ induced yield increases ranged from 191-657 lbs/acre with a
   field average increase of 6% and a range from 2.1-18.2%.
           Figure 43 is a bar graph showing the average barley yield in low stress, One barley
   variety was planted in 18 randomized plots (20 feet x 20 feet each). BioEnsure@ (formulated
   ThLml) treatment increased barley yield by 7%.
15         Figure 44 is a bar graph showing the grass yield in salt stress. A total of 18 plots of
   grass were assessed in the presence of constant salt stress of 30-80 mM. The BioEnsure@
   (formulated ThLml)-treated plants had 86% more biomass than plants that did not receive
   the treatment (untreated).
           Figure 45 is a bar graph showing heat tolerance conferred to soybean plants by 15
20 geographically diverse isolates of T. harzianum. NS (Nonsymbiotic) represents control
   plants without an endophyte and each bar represents four replicates of 9 plants (n=36). Plant
   roots were exposed to 10 days of 45 0 C with standard deviations < 10%. All endophytes
   increased plant leaf chlorophyll levels by 16-37% compared to nonsymbiotic control plants.
   All symbiotic plants were healthy while NS plants were chlorotic and wilting.
25         Figure 46 is a bar graph showing heat tolerance conferred to soybean plants by 15
   geographically diverse isolates of T. harzianum. NS (Nonsymbiotic) represents control
   plants without an endophyte and each bar represents four replicates of 9 plants (n=36). Plant
   roots were exposed to 10 days of 45 0 C with standard deviations < 10%. All endophytes
   increased plant biomass compared to nonsymbiotic control plants. All symbiotic plants were
30 healthy while NS plants were chlorotic and wilting.
           Figure 47 is a bar graph showing nutrient tolerance conferred to soybean plants by 16
   geographically diverse isolates of T. harzianum. One-week old soybean plants were given an
                                                  - 11 -

   initial watering with nitrogen, phosphorus, potassium (NPK), after which plants were
   exposed every 2 days to no NPK stress (watered with full strength NPK) or high NPK stress
   (watered with     strength NPK) for the duration of the experiments (approximately 90 days),
   Plants were then assessed for biomass (roots and shoots) and data are shown for the high
 5 NPK stress plants. NS (nonsymbiotic) represents control plants without an endophyte.
            Figure 48 is a bar graph showing nutrient tolerance conferred to corn plants by 16
   geographically diverse isolates of T. harzianum. One-week old corn plants were given an
   initial watering with nitrogen, phosphorus, potassium (NPK), after which plants were
   exposed every 2 days to no NPK stress (watered with full strength NPK) or high NPK stress
10 (watered with     strength NPK) for the duration of the experiments (approximately 90 days).
   Plants were then assessed for biomass (roots and shoots) and data are shown for the high
   NPK stress plants. NS (nonsymbiotic) represents control plants without an endophyte.
            Figure 49 is a bar graph showing seed germination enhancement conferred to soybean
   plants by 19 geographically diverse isolates of T. harzianum. UT (untreated) represents
15 control seeds without an endophyte, and each bar represents 20 seeds. Data represent the
   percent enhanced germination above untreated control seeds. All endophytes increased seed
   germination 40-70X compared to untreated control seeds.
            Figure 50 is a bar graph showing cold tolerance conferred to corn plants by 17
   geographically diverse isolates of T. harzianum. Cold tolerance is expressed as root radical
20 length from germinated seeds. NS (Nonsymbiotic) represents control plants without an
   endophyte and each bar represents 30 germlings exposed to 150 C for 6 days with standard
   deviations < 10%. All endophytes increased germling growth by 10-32x compared to
   nonsymbiotic control plants. All symbiotic plants were healthy while NS plants were stunted
   and desiccated.
25          Figure 51 is a bar graph showing cold tolerance conferred to soybean plants by 18
   geographically diverse isolates of T. harzianum. Cold tolerance is expressed as seed
   germination at 15*C. NS (Nonsymbiotic) represents control seeds without an endophyte and
   each bar represents 18 seeds exposed to 15*C for 4 days with standard deviations < 10%. All
   endophytes increased seed germination by 85-240% compared to nonsymbiotic control
30 plants.
                                                -12-

                         DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION
           In this century the foreseeable limitations on agricultural productivity include abiotic
   stresses such as drought, temperature extremes and salinity. Currently, there are no stress
   tolerant crop plants or commercial products capable of generating stress tolerant crops.
 5 Abiotic stress tolerant cr-ops have not been generated by breeding, mutational selection or
   genetically modified (GM) approaches and remain a "holy grail" of agriculture.
           Corn, soybean, wheat and rice are grown in great quantities around the world and am
   considered to be among the most important crops for sustaining the human population.
   However, growers are faced with many challenges in maintaining the high crop yields
10 required for agricultural sustainability. In recent years, global climate changes have
   contributed to an increased frequency of severe droughts in many agricultural settings. It is
   possible to mitigate the impacts of drought through irrigation, however, this is a costly fix
   and water quality/availability is also decreasing.
           There are several microbial products available that enhance growth, alter the nutrient
15 status of plants or protect plants against microbial or insect pathogens (Table 1; Berg, 2009).
   Table 1. Microbial products for use in agriculture
   Microbial Genus/Group                Description                 Agriculture use category
   Ampelomyces                          Fungal                      Disease control
   Azospirillurn                        Bacterial                   Growth enhancement
   Bacillus                             Bacterial                   Disease control & Growth
                                                                    enhancement
   Beauveria                            Fungal                      Insect control
   Bradyrhizobium                       Bacterial                   Nutrient supplementation
   Candida                              Fungal                      Post harvest disease control
   Colletotrichum                       Fungal                      Weed control
   ConiothYrium                         Fungal                      Disease control
   Delftia                              Bacterial                   Growth enhancement
   Erwinia                              Bacterial                   Disease control
   Metarhizium                          Fungal                      Insect control
   Mycorrhizae                          Fungal                      Nutrient acquisition
   Paecilomyces                         Fungal                      Disease control
                                                  - 13 -

   Coniothyrium                        Fungal                     Disease control
   Phytophlhora                        Fungal                     Weed control
   Pichia                              Fungal                     Post harvest disease control
   Pseudomonas                         Bacterial                  Disease control, Growth
                                                                  enhancement, Frost protection
   Rhizobacteria                       Bacterial                  Disease control
   Rhizobium                           Bacterial                  Nitrogen supplementation
   Serratic                            Bacterial                  Disease control
   Streptomyces                        Bacterial                  Disease control, Growth
                                                                  enhancement
   Trichoderma                         Fungal                     Disease control
            Trichoderma harzianum (T. harzianum) is a fungal species that encompasses a wide
   variety of physiologically specialized strains, some of which are used as biopesticides against
   soil-borne plant pathogens or for the industrial production of enzymes (Naseby et al., 2000).
 5 T. harzianum has been shown to induce metabolic changes in plants that increase their
   resistance to a wide variety of plant-pathogenic microorganisms and viruses (Harman et al.,
   2004). It has previously been shown that T. harzianum strain T-22, can increase the growth
   of plant and root development under some conditions. T-22 can also solubilize plant
   nutrients for plant uptake that would otherwise be unavailable to plants in certain soils
10 (Altomare et al., 1999; Harman et al., 2004). In addition, another strain of T. harzianum
   TSTh20-1 (Patent Deposit Designation number PTA 10317), isolated as an endophytic fungus
   from a plant that was found growing on oil-sand tailings, was found to promote plant growth,
   particularly under sub-optimal or stressful conditions with respect to water, organic carbon,
   nitrogen and mineral content, temperature, and contamination with polycyclic aromatic
is hydrocarbons or naphthenic acids (PCT Publication No. W02011/032281).
            As described herein, a novel endophytic fungal symbiont Trichoderma harzianum
   strain, referred to herein as ThLml, was isolated from a grass (Poacea)species growing on a
   beach in Washington state. This strain is not a known pathogen of plants or animals.
            When other plants, such as crop plants and native plants, were inoculated with T.
20 harzianum strain ThLm I, it was found that this inoculation lead to several benefits including
   an increase in plant seed germination rates, growth and yields; a decrease in water
   consumption and NPK (nitrogen, phosphorus and potassium) supplementation; a conference
                                                 - 14 -

   of tolerance to abiotic stresses including drought, temperature, salinity; and an enhancement
   of general plant health. It was found that ThLml was capable of colonizing a broad range of
   plants including both monocots and eudicots and as such, have cross plant/crop utility.
   Additionally, it was found that 7. harzianum strain ThLml resided entirely within the plant
 5 vegetative tissues and did not grow into seeds or fruits of plants which had been inoculated.
   As a result, ThLml has cross-crop utility, can be used to provide consumer products free of
   the endophyte, and confers abiotic stress tolerance (salt, temperature, low NPK, drought),
   biomass and yield enhancement, and increases overall plant health and robustness.
            Other strains of T. harzianum are commercially used as biopesticides, plant growth
io enhancers and for the production of industrial enzymes. No strains have been reported to
   enhance seed germination or confer salinity or temperature stress tolerance, as has been found
   for ThLml. Although other strains have been reported to decrease water consumption,
   ThLml produces superior results in agricultural crops and have been shown to confer
   benefits under field conditions (see Examples).
15          Accordingly, aspects of the disclosure relate to isolated Trichudernaharzianum strain
   ThLml. and compositions and methods of use thereof.
            Additional aspects of the disclosure relate to methods of use of Trichoderma
   harzianum as described here for strain ThLml. Provided are methods for increasing stress
   tolerance by inoculating a plant or a plant seed with an isolated T. harzianum fungus or a
20 spore thereof; or a composition comprising the isolated T. harzianum fungus or a spore
   thereof, thereby increasing stress tolerance of the inoculated plant. In some embodiments, the
   stress is drought, elevated salt, reduced nutrients and/or temperature stress and/or is not the
   presence of polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons, napthenic acids, or high pH. Methods for
   increasing germination of seeds are also provided, in which plant seeds are inoculated with an
25 isolated . harzianum fungus or a spore thereof; or a composition comprising the isolated 7.
   harzianum fungus or a spore thereof, thereby increasing germination of the inoculated seeds.
   Also provided are methods for reducing establishment of fungi other than T. harzianum in a
   plant by inoculating a plant seed or seedling with an isolated T. harzianum fungus or a spore
   thereof; or a composition comprising the isolated T harzianum fungus or a spore thereof,
30 thereby reducing establishment of fungi other than T harzianum in a plant growing from the
   inoculated seed or seedling. In some embodiments of these aspects, the . harzianum fungus
   is not strain TSTh20-l or strain T-22.
                                                  - 15 -

   Definitions:
           The term "abiotic stress" as used herein refers to the negative impact of physical and
   chemical factors on living organisms in a specific environment. Physical and chemical
 5 factors can include, but are not limited to, water, organic nutrient levels, mineral nutrient
   levels, chemical contamination, chemical treatment (e.g., pesticides such as fungicides and
   insecticides), temperature, rainfall, pH, redox, oxygen content, hydrocarbon residues, alkali,
   metals, salinity, atmospheric gases, light, soil composition.
           The term "endophyte" as used herein refers to a class of fungal symbionts that reside
10 within host plant roots, stems and/or leaves.
           The term "inoculating a plant" with a fungus, for example, as used herein refers to
   applying or infecting a plant with a fungus or any fungal developmental phase.
           The term "plant" as used herein includes any member of the plant kingdom that can
   be colonized by fungi. In one embodiment, the plant is an agricultural crop including, without
15 limitation corn, soybean, rice, wheat, cotton, barley, sorghum, tomato, cucurbits, leafy
   greens, cotton, berries, woody plants and turf grasses. These plant species have been tested
   and T. harzianum strains such as ThLml has been shown to confer growth benefits to them.
   In other embodiments, the plant is an ornamental, such as Rosaceae, Liliaceae, Azalea,
   Rhododendron, Poaceae or Chrysanthemum.
20         The term "progeny of ThLml" as used herein refers to all cells deriving from ThLml
   cells.
           The term "promoting plant growth" or "increased plant biomass and yields" as used
   herein means that the plant or parts thereof (such as roots and shoots, and seed/fruit yields)
   have increased in size, mass or number compared to control nonsymbiotic plants, or parts
25 thereof, that has not been inoculated with the fungus or as compared to a predetermined
   standard.
           The term "spores of ThLml" as used herein refers to asexual reproductive cells
   formed by ThLml fungi, or its sexual stage, Hypocrea.
           The term "symbiosis" and/or "symbiotic relationship" as used herein refer to a
30 beneficial interaction between two organisms including the interaction most plants have with
   fungi such as mycorrhizae. Similarly, the term "symbiont" as used herein refers to an
   organism in a symbiotic interaction.
                                                  - 16 -

            The term "water use efficiency" as used herein means the amount of water or fluid
   consumed by plants over a defined period of time. It can also be defined by water or fluid use
   per grain of plant biomass or water potential.
 5 Isolated Trichoderma harzianum ThLml
            In one aspect, the disclosure relates to an isolated Trichoderma harzianum strain
   ThLml fungus, submitted to the U.S. Department of Agriculture Culture Collection oil July
   25, 2013 and deposited under Patent Deposit Designation number NRRL 50846 (date of
   deposit, July 26, 2013), or a progeny or spore thereof.
10          A progeny of ThLml includes any cell derived from a ThLml cell. A spore of
   ThLml includes an asexual reproductive cell formed by ThLml fungi, or by its sexual stage,
   Hypocrea. As used herein, "isolated" refers to a cell or fungus that has been removed from
   its natural symbiotic host. For example, an isolated Trichoderma harzianum strain ThLm I
   may be removed from a Poaceagrass species. A fungus may be isolated using methods well
15 known in the art or described herein. The isolated fungi or cell may be maintained after
   isolation using methods known in the art, e.g., by culturing on 0. IX potato dextrose agar
   medium supplemented with ampicillin, tetracycline, and streptomycin, and grown at 22C
   with a 12 hr light regime. After 5-14 days of growth, conidia can be harvested from plates by
   adding 10 ml of sterile water and gently scraping off spores with a sterile glass slide.
20          Mutants and variants of ThLm I can provide the same (or better) benefits than the
   parent strain. Mutants can be generated using methods known to those skilled in the art, such
   as by exposure to various chemicals, irradiation, physical conditions, molecular manipulation,
   viral based DNA modifications and or plasmid based DNA modifications. Mutants can then
   be selected by the methods described herein to identify mutants that provide the same or
25 better benefits as the parent strain. Variants could also be generated by exposing colonized
   plants to physical or chemical conditions and selecting for symbiotic benefits.
   Compositions
            Other aspects of the disclosure relate to compositions comprising a Trichoderma
30 harzianum strain, such as ThLml, and/or a progeny and/or a spore thereof.
            In some embodiments, the composition may comprise a physiologically acceptable
   carrier, such a carrier that is not harmful to a seed and/or plant. Such carriers are known in
                                                   -17-

   the art (see. e.g., PCT Publication No. W096/039844 and U.S. Patent Nos. 5,586,411;
   5,697,186; 5,484,464; 5,906,929; 5,288,296; 4,875,921; 4,828,600; 5,951,978; 5,183,759;
   5,041,383; 6,077,505; 5,916,029; 5,360,606; 5,292,507; 5,229,114; 4,421,544; and
   4,367,609, each of which is incorporated herein by reference).
 5          In addition, a variety of substances can be added during the treatment of seeds
   including fungicides, insecticides, nematicides, bactericides, nutrients, biopesticides, other
   microbial inoculants, colorants, hydration matrices and polymers, all of which are well
   known in the art. Most of the substances commonly used in seed treatment do not interfere
   with the establishment of symbioses between Trichodermaharzianum strains, such as
10 ThLml, and plant species.
            In some embodiments, the composition is in a fluid form suitable for spray application
   or dip application. The composition may be diluted or concentrated. In one embodiment, the
   composition is diluted with water before inoculation. In another embodiment, the
   composition is in a paste form. In still another embodiment, the composition is in a dry and
15 powdered form for dusting. The composition may be applied to any part of the plant
   including roots, leaves, stems or seeds. The composition is preferably applied to dried seeds,
   such as in the form of a seed coating.
            One of skill in the art can readily determine the amount or concentration of the
   composition that may be applied to the plant or plant seed to achieve a desired result, such as
20 induction of stress tolerance and/or enhancement of growth of a plant. In one embodiment,
   from about 5 to about 100,000 viable spores of the T. harzianum strains such as ThLml can
   be used per seed, preferably between about 50 to 1000 viable spores per seed.
   Plants and Plant Seeds
25          Other aspects of the disclosure relate to plants and plant seeds that have been
   inoculated with an isolated Trichoderma harzianum strain, such as ThLml, or a spore or
   progeny thereof as described herein. The term "plant" as used herein includes any member of
   the plant kingdom that can be colonized by fungi. Determining whether a plant is colonized
   by a Trichoderma harzianum strain, such as ThLm 1, can be performed using standard
30 methods known to those skilled in the art, such as isolating the fungus from the plant and
   identifying it (by the methods known in the art, such as described herein), direct DNA
   extraction from the plant followed by detection analysis (e.g., using PCR or probes). It may
                                                   - 18-

   be determined that the plant is colonized by simple observation of its health and stress
   tolerance, or variation in physiological metrics compared to nonsymbiotic plants.
            The plant or plant seed may be, e.g., a monocot or a eudicot. In some embodiments,
   the plant or plant seed is a crop plant or seed thereof, including, without limitation corn,
 5 soybean, rice, wheat, watermelon, tomato, cucurbits, peppers, leafy greens, barley, cotton,
   beans, pea, tubers and woody plants.
            In some embodiments, the plant is a native plant. As used herein, a native plant is a
   plant that is indigenous or naturalized to a habitat or climate zone. Examples of native plants
   include, but are not limited to grasses, trees, flowering plants, shrubs, and herbs, such as
10 spike bentgrass, annual hairgrass, California brome, slender hairgrass, blue wild rye, meadow
   barley, American dunegrass, American pokeweed, and Arabidopsis. A person of skill in the
   art can readily identify native plants for a particular habitat or climate zone, e.g., using known
   classification systems and databases (see, e.g., the Native Plant Database at wildflower.org;
   the Native Plant Network at nativeplantnework.org; the Plants database through the United
15 States Department of Agriculture; Kenrick, Paul & Crane, Peter R. (1997). The Origin and
   Early Diversification of Land Plants: A Cladistic Study. Washington, D. C.: Smithsonian
   Institution Press. ISBN 1-56098-730-8; Raven, Peter H., Evert, Ray F., & Eichhorn, Susan
   E. (2005). Biology of Plants (7th ed.). New York: W. H. Freeman and Company; and Prance
   G. T. (2001). "Discovering the Plant World". Taxon (International Association for Plant
20 Taxonomy) 50 (2, Golden Jubilee Part 4): 345-359.).
            In some embodiments, the plant is a non-native plant. As used herein, a non-native
   plant is a plant that is not indigenous to a habitat or climate zone and may be naturalized or
   invasive. Examples of non-native plants include, but are not limited to grasses, trees,
   flowering plants, shrubs, and herbs, succulents, etc. A person of skill in the art can readily
25 identify native plants for a particular habitat or climate zone, e.g., using known classification
   systems and databases (see, e.g., the Plants database through the United States Department of
   Agriculture).
            A plant or plant seed may be inoculated using any method known in the art or
   described herein. A plant may be tested for inoculation with a T. harzianum strain, such as
30 ThLml, or a spore or progeny thereof, e.g., by isolating the fungus from the plant using
   standard procedures and identifying the fungus by the methods described herein, by direct
   DNA extraction from the plant followed by detection analysis, or by observation of plant
                                                   - 19 -

   health and stress tolerance, or variation in physiological metrics compared to nonsymbiotic
   plants.
   Methods
 5          Yet other aspects of the disclosure relate to method for promoting stress tolerance
   and/or enhancing plant growth or seed germination. In some embodiments, the method
   comprises inoculating a plant or a plant seed with an isolated Trichoderma harzianurnstrain,
   such as ThLml, or a spore or progeny thereof.
            The term "stress" as used herein refers to the negative impact of physical, organic,
10 and chemical factors on living organisms, such as plants, in a specific environment, including
   impact on seed germination, plant growth or development, and/or plant (e.g., fruit) yield.
   Physical and chemical factors can include, but are not limited to, water (including soil
   moisture and rainfall), nutrient levels (including organic and mineral nutrient levels, and
   especially low nutrient levels), temperature (including high or low temperatures that are
15 outside of the range of temperatures tolerated by a particular plant or optimal for a particular
   plant), pH (including high or low pH that are outside of the range of pH tolerated by a
   particular plant or optimal for a particular plant), Redox, oxygen content, salinity,
   atmospheric gases, light, and soil composition. Organic factors can include fungi, bacteria,
   viruses, nematodes or insects which may be pathogenic, or other animals which may be
20 herbivores. As used herein "stress tolerance" refers to resistance of a living organism, such
   as a plant, to a stress condition. The resistance may be, e.g., an ability to grow or persist in
   stress conditions that would otherwise result in death of the plant or growth reduction and/or
   yield reduction in the plant. In some embodiments, the stress tolerance is drought tolerance,
   salt tolerance, reduced nutrient tolerance, fungal tolerance, and/or temperature tolerance. In
25 some embodiments, plants that are inoculated with T. harzianum strains, such as ThLml, are
   more stress tolerance relative to plants that are not inoculated with said strains.
            An increase or promotion of stress tolerance may be determined by comparing a level
   of stress tolerance in a plant inoculated with T. harzianum strains, such as ThLml or a spore
   or progeny thereof, with a level of stress tolerance in a control plant that has not been
30 inoculated. For example, the growth rate, germination rate, yield, mass, physiological
   metrics and other such factors may be measured in an inoculated plant under stress
   conditions, and compared to the same factors in a control non-inoculated plant under similar
                                                  - 20  -

   stress conditions. An increase of one or more such factors in the inoculated plant would
   indicate an increase or promotion of str-ess tolerance. An increase or promotion of stress
   tolerance may also be determined by comparing a level of stress tolerance in a plant
   inoculated with T. harzianurnstrains, such as ThLml or a spore or progeny thereof, with a
 5 predetermined standard. The predetermined standard may be, e.g., an average gr-owth rate,
   germination rate, photosynthetic efficiency, yield or mass of a population of plants, such as a
   population of non-inoculated plants. In some embodiments, promoting stress tolerance
   comprises an increase in stress tolerance of at least 5%, 10%, 15%, 20%, 25%, 30%, 40%,
   45%, 50%, 55%, 60%, 65%, 70%, 75%, 80%, 85%, 90%, 95%, 100%, 110%, 120%, 130%,
10  140%, 150%, 160%, 170%, 180%, 190%, 200%, or more compared to a control or
   predetermined standard.
            The term "enhancing growth" as used herein refers to a plant or parts thereof (such as
   roots and shoots) that have an increase in size, extent of root development (e.g., how
   extensive a root system is), germination rate of seeds, chlorophyll content/level, yield (e.g.,
15 number of seeds, or fruit production) or mass compared to control plants, or parts thereof,
   that has not been inoculated with the fungus or as compared to a predetermined standard.
   The predetermined standard may be, e.g., an average size, extent of root development,
   germination rate, chlorophyll content/level, photosynthetic efficiency, yield or mass of a plant
   or plant part of a population of plants, such as a population of non-inoculated plants.
20 Determining an enhancement in plant growth can be assessed in a number of ways. For
   example, the size, extent of root development, germination rate, chlorophyll content/level,
   photosynthetic efficiency, yield or mass of the entire plant or a part thereof (such as seeds,
   fruit, shoots and roots) can be measured. In some embodiments, enhancing growth comprises
   increasing size, extent of joot development, germination rate, chlorophyll content/level,
25 photosynthetic efficiency, yield or mass of a plant or parts thereof by at least 5%, 10%, 15%,
   20%, 25%, 30%, 40%, 45%, 50%, 55%, 60%, 65%, 70%, 75%, 80%, 85%, 90%, 95%, 100%,
    110%, 120%, 130%, 140%, 150%, 160%, 170%, 180%, 190%, 200%, or more than a control
   or predetermined standard.
            As used herein, "inoculating a plant or plant seed" with a fungus, for example, refers
30 to applying or colonizing a plant or plant seed with a fungus or a fungal cell from any fungal
   developmental phase, such as a spore. In some embodiments, inoculating the plant comprises
                                                 - 21  -

   colonizing a root and/or stem of the plant with a Trichodenna harzianum strain, such as
   ThLm1.
            In some embodiments, a method provided herein further comprises growing the plant
   or plant seed. The plant or plant seed may be grown in one or more stress conditions, such as
 5 drought conditions, high salt conditions, reduced nutrient conditions, low light conditions,
   parasitic fungal conditions, and/or high temperature conditions.
            Thus, in some embodiments, a method provided herein comprises growing the plant
   or plant seed in soil characterized by high salinity, low moisture, and/or low nutrient content.
   Soil characterized by high salinity includes soil that has greater than 35mM amount of a salt,
10 such as Na, Mg, Ca or K chlorides, sulfates or carbonates, present in the soil, such as greater
   than: 35mM, 40mM, 45mM, 50mM, 60mM, 70mM, 80mM, 90mM, 100mM, 120mM,
   140mM, 160mM, 180mM, 200mM, 250mM, 300mM, 350mM, 400mM, 450mM, 500mM or
   more amount of a salt. Soil characterized by low moisture includes soil that has between 0
   0.18 in3 water/in3 soil depending on soil type, such as less than: 0.18, 0.17, 0.16, 0.15, 0.14,
15 0.13, 0.12, 0.11, 0.10, 0.09, 0.08, 0.07, 0.06, 0.05, 0.04, 0.03, 0.02 or 0.01 in3 water/in 3 soil.
   Soil characterized by low nutrient content includes soil that has fewer than 80 lbs/acre of
   nutrient (comprising 20% each of nitrogen, phosphorus, and potassium (NPK), and associated
   micronutrients), such as fewer than: 75, 70, 65, 60, 55, 50, 45, 40, 35, 30, 25, 20, 15, 10 or 5
   lbs/acre of nutrient.
20          In some embodiments, a method provided herein comprises growing the plant or plant
   seed at an average temperature at or above 36 degrees Celsius, such as 36, 37, 38, 39, 40, 41,
   42, 43, 44, 45, 46, 47, 48, 49,50 or higher. In some embodiments, the method comprises
   germinating the plant seed at an average temperature at or above 36 degrees Celsius, such as
   36, 37, 38, 39,40, 41, 42, 43, 44, 45, 46, 47, 48, 49, 50 or higher.
25          In some embodiments, a method provided herein comprises growing the plant or plant
   seed at an average temperature at or below 15 degrees Celsius, such as 15, 14, 13, 12, 11, 10,
   9, 8, 7, 6, 5 or lower. In some embodiments, the method comprises germinating the plant
   seed at an average temperature at or below 15 degrees Celsius, such as 15, 14, 13, 12, 11, 10,
   9, 8, 7, 6, 5 or lower.
30          In some embodiments of any of the methods provided herein, the plant or plant seed is
   a crop plant or crop plant seed. In some embodiments, the crop plant or crop plant seed is
   watermelon, tomato, corn, wheat, soybean, cucurbits, peppers, leafy greens, barley, cotton,
                                                  - 22 -

   beans, pea, tubers, woody plants, berries or rice, or a seed thereof. In other embodiments, the
   plant or plant seed is an ornamental, such as Rosaceae, Liliaceae, Azalea, Rhododendron,
   Poaceae or Chrysanthemum.
           Unless defined otherwise, all technical and scientific terms used herein are intended to
 5 have the same meaning as is commonly understood by one of ordinary skill in the relevant
   art.
           As used herein, the singular forms "a," "an", and "the" include the plural reference
   unless the context clearly dictates otherwise.
           All publications and patent applications cited in this specification are herein
10 incorporated by reference as if each individual publication or patent application were
   specifically and individually indicated to be incorporated by reference.
           Without further elaboration, it is believed that one skilled in the art can, based on the
   above description, utilize the present invention to its fullest extent. The following specific
   embodiments are, therefore, to be construed as merely illustrative, and not limitative of the
15 remainder of the disclosure in any way whatsoever. All publications cited herein are
   incorporated by reference for the purposes or subject matter referenced herein.
                                              EXAMPLES
   Example 1. Isolation and Identification of ThLml as a beneficial symbiont
20 Isolation and Inoculation of ThLml
           Trichodermaharzianum strain ThLml was isolated from a grass (Poacea)species
   growing on a beach in Washington state, The habitat-stresses on these plants were identified
   as drought, low soil nutrients, and elevated salinity. Leymus mollis (dunegrass) plants
   were collected from several coastal beach habitats in the San Juan Island Archipelago, WA.
25 Plants were washed until soil debris was removed, placed into plastic zip-loc baggies and
   surface sterilized as previously described (Redman et al., 2001, 2002a). Using aseptic
   technique, plants were cut into sections representing the roots, rhizomes and stems, plated on
   fungal growth media (0. IX PDA (potato dextrose agar)] and incubated at room temperature
   for 5-7 days under cool fluorescent lights to allow for the emergence of fungi. Upon
30 emergence, 30 representative isolates of the dominant fungal endophyte represented (X95%)
   were sub-cultured and, of these, single spore isolation of 10 representative isolates
   was performed as previously described (Redman et al., 1999). All 10 of the representative
                                                  - 23 -

   isolates were placed under sterile water supplemented with 50- 100 mg/ml of ampicillin in
   sterile 1.5 ml screw-cap tubes and placed at 4 *C for long-term storage.
   Colonization of seeds and plants with ThLml
 5          Several test plants were inoculated with ThLm 1. Corn (Zea mays) and soybean
   (Glycine max) seeds were surface-sterilized in a 0.5-1.0% (v/v) sodium hypochlorite solution
   for 15-20 min with moderate agitation and rinsed with 10 -20 volumes of sterile distilled
   water. These plant species represent two major plant lineages monocots and eudicots.
   However, ThLml also establishes symbioses with many other plants including vegetables
10 (e.g., tomato, cucurbits, peppers, pea, beans, turf, leafy greens etc.), staple crops (e.g., wheat,
   rice, barley, tubers), grasses and woody plants, which are treated as described for corn and
   soybean to colonize with ThLml. Plants can establish symbioses with ThLml by treating
   (sprayed, soaked, mixed or watered) seeds, germlings, seedlings or older stage plants directly
   with either liquid or powdered formulations of spores (10 - 10,000 spores/seed). Spores can
15 be applied to any part of the plant with best results obtained by inoculating lower stem and
   roots.
            ThLml was found to establish symbiosis with many plant species inoculated with
   ThLml including crop plants and native plants. Inoculation with ThLml was found to confer
   stress tolerance. A summary of the plants that were inoculated with ThLml and had
20 improved stress tolerance are shown in Table 2.
   Table 2. Plants inoculated with ThLm1
             Cnsweec                             tk     mdon         Wmemtams    Pt     t   aed
                       wsmtt5 sfs
                       v&mww                         24r,-ras sem    'ttv t         e
    Tt*4   mox                             "enn              sm        Ttnvslt            vwa
            L Vw~~~                        mek        r   l SUM       Wstt     4'meM~sk
                                   asns~*m N'qcm    MO    Vm     kMf stmess             '    W
                                         ch~~ft'~    24      m
                                                        -'neMM   efs         vm_           lam

   ThLml Increased Plant Growth and Health in the Absence of Stress
           Corn plants were inoculated or not inoculated with ThLml and were grown in the
   absence of stress conditions in a greenhouse for one month. The corn plants were then
 5 separated into root and shoot sections for wet weight measurements. Statistical analysis of
   the weight measurements showed that plants inoculated with ThLml (symbiotic with
   ThLml) were significantly larger than non-inoculated plants (ANOVA, P<0.05, Figure 1).
           Corn growth and yield were also measured in corn plants inoculated or not inoculated
   with ThLm I. Mature greenhouse plants were further grown in the absence of stress to
10 produce corn ears (yields) for wet weight measurements. Statistical analysis showed that
   plants inoculated with ThLml (symbiotic with ThLml) produced significantly more yield
   than non-inoculated plants (N=48; P>0.05, Figure 2).
           Corn growth and yield enhancement in ThLml inoculated corn grown in the absence
   of stress was further measured. Mature greenhouse plants grown in the absence of stress
15 were separated into whole plant weight (biomass) or corn ears (yields) for wet weight
   measurements. Statistical analysis showed that plants inoculated with ThLml (symbiotic
   with ThLml) were significantly larger than non-inoculated plants (N=48; P>0.05, Figure 3).
           Seed germination enhancement in ThLml inoculated plants was also measured.
   Germination of corn seeds was measured in the presence and absence of stress in plant
20 growth incubators and greenhouses. Statistical analysis showed that seeds inoculated with
   ThLml (symbiotic with ThLml) had significantly higher rates of germination than non
   inoculated (NS) seeds (N=100; SD<5; P<0.05, Figures 4, 22-25).
           Chlorophyll content was also measured in ThLml inoculated plants. Mature
   greenhouse com plants grown in the absence of stress were measured for % chlorophyll
25 content. Statistical analysis showed that ThLml inoculated plants (symbiotic with ThLml)
   had higher chlorophyll content than non-inoculated plants (N=9; P>0.05, Figures 5, 13, 14).
   As a general observation, ThLml inoculated plants looked greener and more robust than non
   inoculated plants.
           These data show that ThLml inoculation of plants generally increased plant health,
30 including plant growth, yield, germination rates, and chlorophyll content in the absence of
   stress.
                                                - 25 -

   ThLnl Increased Plant Growth and Health in the Presence of Stress
            Stress conditions were also tested to determine if plants inoculated with ThLml were
   healthier than plants not inoculated with ThLm 1. Root and shoot weights were measured in
   com plants exposed to drought stress that were previously inoculated or not inoculated with
 5 ThLm . Sixty-day old corn plants were exposed to no stress (watered fully every 2 days),
   moderate drought stress (watered every 4 days) or high drought stress (watered every 7 days).
   Plants were then assessed for biomass from high drought exposed plants (roots and shoots).
   Plants were separated into root and shoot sections for wet weight measurements. Statistical
   analysis showed that plants inoculated with ThLml (symbiotic with ThLml) were
10 significantly larger than non-inoculated plants (N=36; P>0.05, Figure 6A).
            Root and shoot measurements were also taken in corn plants exposed to low nutrient
   stress that were previously inoculated or not inoculated with ThLml. One-week old corn
   plants were given an initial watering with nutrients (nitrogen, phosphorus & potassium based
   plant fertilizer, NPK), after which plants were exposed every 2 days to no nutrient stress
15 (watered with full strength NPK) or low nutrient stress (watered with W strength NPK) for the
   duration of the experiments (approximately 90 days). Plants were then assessed for biomass
   (roots and shoots). Plants were separated into root and shoot sections for wet weight
   measurements. Statistical analysis showed that plants inoculated with ThLml (symbiotic
   with ThLml) were significantly larger than non-inoculated plants (N=36; P>0.05, Figure 6B).
20         Weight measurements were taken in corn plants under salt stress that were previously
   inoculated or not inoculated with ThLml. Sixty-day old plants were exposed every 2 days to
   no salt stress (water with standard levels of NPK) or salt stress (200mM NaCl in standard
   NPK solution) for thirty days. Plant wet weights were measured. Statistical analysis showed
   that plants inoculated with ThLmi (symbiotic with ThLml) were significantly larger than
25 non-inoculated plants (N=36; P>0.05, Figure 7).
           Cold stress tolerance was measured in rice seedlings that were previously inoculated
   or not inoculated with ThLm 1. The rice seedlings were exposed to cold-water stress. After 2
   weeks, rice seedlings were assessed for root and shoot biomass (wet g). Rice inoculated with
   ThLml had statistically larger roots and shoots (N=10; P<0.05, Figure 8).
30          A field evaluation under drought stress was also conducted. Plants were grown under
   dryland cultivation in Michigan, USA, and exposed to the worst drought in 50 years. Yield
   data was obtained for four replicate plots containing 120 coin plants each. Plants inoculated
                                                  - 26 -

   with ThLml (symbiotic with ThLml) produced an average of 85% more yield than non
   inoculated plants, Figure 9.
           These data show that inoculation with ThLml improved plant health, such as growth
   and yield, under stress conditions including drought, low nutrient, temperature, and salt
 5 stress.
   Summary
           Taken together, the data show that inoculation with ThLml increased seed
   germination rates and seedling growth, conferred tolerance to various stresses (salt,
10 temperature, drought, nutrients), enhanced general robustness and health (such as an increase
   in % chlorophyll), and increased yields. In addition, it was found (data not shown) that
   ThLm I could competitively out compete plant colonization by other microbes and in so
   doing, thwart the ingress of pathogenic organisms (thereby decreasing incidence of disease)
   in a wide range or agricultural plants such as soybean, lice and corn. A list of benefits that
15 ThLml provided to plants upon inoculation is summarized in Table 3.
   Table 3. Th-Lml Inoculated Plant benefits
    Inoculated Plant Characteristics
    Improved seed germination
    Drought tolerance
    Salt tolerance
    Temperature tolerance
    Decreased nutrient requirements
    Increased photosynthetic efficiency
    Increased chlorophyll content
    Field benefits conferred in corn, rice,
    wheat, barley, soybean
    Prevent colonization by other fungi
    Decreased water consumption
    Enhanced plant growth
                                                 - 27 -

   Example 2. Isolation and Inoculation of plants with ThLml
   Isolation of T7hLmI
           To isolate ThLml, plants were washed until soil debris was removed, placed
 5 into plastic Zip-loc baggies and surface sterilized as previously described (Redman et al.,
   2001, 2002a). Using aseptic technique, plants were cut into sections representing the roots,
   rhizomes and stems, plated on fungal growth media [0. IX PDA (potato dextrose agar, Difco)]
   and incubated at room temperature for 5-7 days under cool fluorescent lights to allow for the
   emergence of fungi. Upon emergence, 30 representative isolates of the dominant fungal
10 endophyte represented were sub-cultured and, of these, single spore isolation of 10
   representative isolates was performed as previously described (Redman et al., 1999). All 10
   of the representative isolates were placed under sterile water supplemented with 50- 100
   mg/ml of ampicillin in sterile 1.5 ml screw-cap tubes and placed at 4*C for long-term
   storage.
15
   Culturing ThLnl:
           ThLml was cultured on .iX potato dextrose agar (PDA) medium (Difco). The
   medium was supplemented with 50-100 ug/mI of ampicillin, tetracycline, and streptomycin,
   and fungal cultures grown at 22 0 C with a 12 hr light regime. After 5-14 days of growth,
20 conidia were harvested from plates by adding 10 ml of sterile water and gently scraping off
   spores with a sterile glass slide. The final volume of spores was adjusted to 100 ml with
   sterile water, filtered through four layers of sterile cotton cheesecloth gauze and spore
   concentration adjusted to 104_ 105 spores/ml.
25 Identification of ThLm.I:
            Fungi were identified using conidiophore and conidial morphology (Arx, 1981;
   Bamett and Hunter, 1998; Leslie and Summerell, 2005). Once isolates from L. mollis were
   identified as the same fungal species microscopically, three of the isolates were randomly
   selected for molecular species identification. Species designations were based on sequence
30 analysis of the variable ITSI and ITS2 sequences of rDNA [ITS4 (5'-tectccgcttattgatatgc-3';
   SEQ ID NO:1)/ITS5 (5'-ggaagtaaaagtcgtaacaagg-3'; SEQ ID NO:2) primers] and translation
   elongation factor [EF1T (5'-atgggtaaggaggacaagac-3'; SEQ ID NO:3)/EF2T (5'
                                                  - 28  -

   ggaagtaccagtgatcatgtt-3'; SEQ ID NO:4) and EF11 (5'-gtggggcatttaccccgec-3'; SEQ ID
   NO:5)/EF22 (5'-aggaacccttaccgagctc-3'; SEQ ID NO:6) primers (O'Donnell et al, 2000;
   White et al., 1990)]. DNA was extracted fromrnycelia and PCR amplified as previously
   described (Rodriguez, 1993; Rodriguez and Yoder, 1991). PCR products were sequenced
 5 and BLAST searched against the GenBank database. Morphological and GenBank analysis
   identified the three isolates/species as the same species (Trichoderma harzianum) and all
   isolates tested for plant benefits.
   Benefits of Trichodermna harzianum strain ThLm]
10          A series of studies were performed to assess the benefits of Trichoderma harzianum
   strain ThLml on a monocot (corn) and eudicot (soy and/or tomato) to demonstrate that the
   fungus establishes a beneficial symbiosis with plants of both lineages.
   ThLnl IncreasedPlant Growth and Health in the Absence of Stress
15          Firstly, experiments were performed in the without stress conditions to determine the
   general plant health, such as plant growth and development, of ThLm 1 inoculated plants in
   the absence of stress.
           Corn seedlings inoculated or not inoculated with ThLml wer assessed for shoot and
   root biomass after 12 weeks of growth. Growth enhancement was observed in plants
20 inoculated with ThLml (N=48; SD<6.8; P<0.050, Figure 10). Additionally, the corn
   inoculated with ThLm 1 was found to produce a more extensive root system with more lateral
   roots (Figure 11),
            Soybeans seedlings inoculated or not inoculated with ThLml were also assessed for
   shoot and root biomass after 13 days of growth. Growth enhancement of soybean seedlings
25 was observed in plants inoculated with ThLml (N=10; SD<10%; P<0.050, Figure 12).
           Corn plants inoculated or not inoculated with ThLml were assessed for chlorophyll
   content. SPAD measurements were taken which indicated relative % chlorophyll. Corn
   plants inoculated with ThLml were found to have a higher chlorophyll content than non
   inoculated plants (N=60, P<0.05, Figure 13). Generally, coin plants inoculated with ThLml
30 were darker green than non-inoculated plants.
            Soybean plants inoculated or not inoculated with ThLm I were also assessed for
   chlorophyll content. Soybean plants inoculated with ThLml had significantly more
                                                  - 29 -

   chlorophyll than non-inoculated plants (N=10, SD<5%, P<0.05, Figure 14).
           Corn seeds inoculated or not inoculated with ThLml were assessed for germination.
   Corn seeds inoculated with ThLml had a higher % of germination (N=100; SD<5; P<0.05,
   Figure 4).
 5         Corn plants inoculated or not inoculated with ThLml were assessed for fruit yield.
   For corn yield assessment, 6 corn plants were pooled to determine yield weights of ears.
   ThLml inoculated plants produced more fruit than non-inoculated plants (N=6, P<0.05,
   Figure 15).
           Together, these data show that in the absence of stress ThLml inoculation conferred
10 growth enhancement, more extensive root systems, increased chlorophyll levels, higher
   germination rates, and higher fruit yields.
   ThLmJ Increased Plant Growth and Health in the Presence of Stress
           Next, experiments were performed under stress conditions to determine the general
15 plant health of ThLml inoculated plants in the presence of stress.
           Corn plants inoculated or not inoculated with ThLml were assessed for root mass,
   shoot mass, seedling weight, and yield under low nutrient stress. One-week old corn plants
   were given an initial watering with nitrogen, phosphorus, potassium (NPK), after which
   plants were exposed every 2 days to no NPK stress (watered with full strength NPK), low
20 NPK stress (watered with % strength NPK), or high NPK stress (watered with W strength
   NPK) for the duration of the experiments (approximately 90 days). Plants were then assessed
   for yields and biomass (roots and shoots). ThLml inoculated plants had higher root mass,
   shoot mass, seedling weight, and yields than non-inoculated plants under low nutrient stress
   (N=12-60; SD< 10%, P<0.05, Figure 16).
25         Corn plants inoculated or not inoculated with ThLrnl were assessed for root mass,
   shoot mass, and yield under drought stress. Sixty-day old corn plants were exposed to no
   stress (watered fully every 2 days) or high drought stress (watered every 7 days). Plants were
   then assessed for yields and biomass (roots and shoots). ThLml symbiotic plants had higher
   root mass, shoot mass, and yields than NS plants under drought stress (N=12-60; SD< 10%,
30 P<0.05, Figure 17).
           Soybean plants inoculated or not inoculated with ThLm I were assessed for root and
   shoot biomass under salt stress. Eight inoculated and eight non-inoculated seedlings were
                                                - 30 -

   exposed to salt (300mM) for two weeks. Inoculated plants produced significantly more shoot
   and root biomass (Figure 18). Non-inoculated plants leaves were wilted at the end of the
   study while inoculated plants remained healthy.
            Corn plants inoculated or not inoculated with ThLml were assessed for root and shoot
 5 biomass under salt stress. Eight inoculated and eight non-inoculated seedlings were exposed
   to salt (300mM) for two weeks. Inoculated plants produced significantly mom shoot and root
   biomass (Figure 19). Non-inoculated plants leaves were wilted at the end of the study while
   inoculated plants remained healthy.
            Corn plants inoculated or not inoculated with ThLml were assessed for growth under
io high temperature stress. Growth was measured after two weeks of exposure to high
   temperatures (45-50 0 C). ThLml inoculated plants grew more than non-inoculated plants
   under heat stress (Figure 20). Non-inoculated plants were wilted while the inoculated plants
   remained healthy.
            Tomato plants inoculated or not inoculated with ThLml were assessed for growth
15 under high temperature stress. Growth was measured after two weeks of exposure to high
   temperatures (45-50'C). ThLml inoculated plants grew more than non-inoculated plants
   under heat stress (Figure 21). Non-inoculated plants were wilted while the inoculated plants
   remained healthy.
            Corn seeds treated or not treated with ThLml were assessed for germination under
20 high temperature stress (50-55 0 C). Seeds (N=15) treated with ThLml germinated
   significantly better than untreated control seeds (Figure 22).
            Soybean seeds treated or not treated with ThLml were assessed for germination under
   high temperature stress (50-55 0 C). Seeds (N=15) treated with ThLml germinated
   significantly better than untreated control seeds (Figure 23).
25          Corn seeds treated or not treated with ThLml were assessed for germination under
   low temperature stress. Corn seeds were exposed to a cold temperature (50 C) for 144 hours.
   Seeds (N=30) treated with ThLml germinated significantly better than untreated control
   seeds (Figure 24).
            Soybean seeds treated or not treated with ThLml were assessed for germination under
30 low temperature stress. Soybean seeds were exposed to a cold temperature (50 C or 150C) for
   72 hours. Seeds (N=30) treated with ThLml germinated significantly better than untreated
   control seeds (Figure 25).
                                                  - 31 -

            Together, these data suggest that inoculation with ThLml improved plant health and
   growth, including root and shoot mass, yield, and germination, under stress conditions such
   as drought, salt, high temperature, and low temperature.
 5 ThLml Increases the Photosynthetic Efficiency in the Presenceand Absence of Stress
            The photosynthetic efficiency (Qmax) is the fraction of light energy converted into
   chemical energy during photosynthesis. Several studies with ThLm I in both the presence or
   absence of stress revealed that treatment of plants with ThLml resulted in an increase in
   Qmax in both monocots and eudicots, as shown for example in Figure 39A-39C for corn.
10
   ThLml Increases Crop Yields in the Presence and Absence of Stress
            Two years of field tests were performed in 8 states with BioEnsure (formulated
   ThLml) inoculated and non-inoculated seeds of corn, rice, grains, and grass (Figures 40-44).
   Field testing was performed under conditions of high drought and salt stress, or very low
15 stress levels (normal growing season). BioEnsure increased crop yields under all
   conditions although greater yield increases were observed under high levels of stress. Yield
   increases occurred irrespective of soil type and climate zone.
   Summary
20          Taken together, the data show that inoculation with ThLml increased seed
   germination rates and plant growth, conferred tolerance to various stresses (salt, temperature,
   drought, nutrients), enhanced general robustness and health (such as an increase in %
   chlorophyll), and increased yields.
25 Example 3. Effects of T. harzianum isolates on increasing stress tolerance, increasing
   germination and excluding other fungi
            Strains of T. harzianum isolated from a diversity of geographic locations (the origin of
   16 of the strains are noted in Table 4) were used to assess benefits of T. harzianum strains in
30 addition to ThLml, using methods as described in the examples above.
                                                 - 32 -

   Table 4: Geographic Diversity of T. harzianum strains used
    Strain         Origin
    El             USA, WA
    E2             USA, NY
    E3             USA, OH
    E4             USA, FL
    E5             USA, TX
    E6             USA, GA
    E7             USA, AL
    Eg             Columbia
    E9             India
     310           France
    Eli            Belgium
    EJ2            Tokyo
    E13            United Kingdor
    E14            French Guiana
    E15            Spain
    E16            Canada
            The results are depicted in Figures 26-38, 45-48, 50 and 51 for drought stress
   tolerance, salt stress tolerance, temperature tolerance (heat and cold tolerance), and low
 5 nutrient tolerance conferred to plants by geographically diverse isolates of T. harzianum. Not
   all of the geographically diverse isolates of 7. harzianum were used in each experiment or
   condition, but the results clearly support the use of T harzianum generally for increasing
   tolerance to a variety of stresses.
            Soybean plants inoculated or not inoculated with geographically diverse isolates of T.
10 harzianum were assessed for growth under high temperature stress. Growth was measured
   after two weeks of exposure to high temperatures (45-500 C). Plants inoculated with
   geographically diverse isolates of T. harzianum had increased leaf chlorophyll levels and
   higher plant biomass more than non-inoculated plants under heat stress (Figure 45 and 46).
            Soybean or corn plants inoculated or not inoculated with geographically diverse
15 isolates of T. harzianum were assessed for seedling weight under low nutrient stress One
   week old soybean or corn plants were given an initial watering with nitrogen, phosphorus,
   potassium (NPK), after which plants were exposed every 2 days to no NPK stress (watered
   with full strength NPK), low NPK stress (watered with % strength NPK), or high NPK stress
   (watered with      strength NPK) for the duration of the experiments (approximately 90 days).
20 Plants were then assessed for seedling weight. Plants inoculated with geographically diverse
                                                  - 33 -

   isolates of T. harzianum had higher seedling weight than non-inoculated plants under low
   nutrient stress (Figure 47, soybean; Figure 48, corn).
            Further, cold stress tolerance was measured in corn seedlings that were previously
   inoculated or not inoculated with geographically diverse isolates of T. harzianum. The corn
 5 seedlings were exposed to cold stress then assessed for germling radical length. Corn
   inoculated with T. harzianum had statistically longer germlings (Figure 50).
            Cold stress tolerance also was measured in soybean seedlings that were previously
   inoculated or not inoculated with geographically diverse isolates of T. harzianum. The
   soybean seedlings were exposed to cold stress then assessed for germling radical length.
10 Soybean seedlings inoculated with T. harzianum had statistically longer get-rlings (Figure
   51).
            In other experiments, geogi-aphically diverse isolates of T harzianum were tested for
   their effects on germination of seeds, using the methodology described herein, as shown in
   Figure 49. Soybean seeds inoculated or not inoculated with geographically diverse isolates of
15 T. harzianum were assessed for germination. Soybean seeds inoculated with geographically
   diverse isolates of T. harzianun had a significantly higher % of germination compared to
   soybean seeds that were untreated (Figure 49). The results support the use of T. harzianum
   generally for increasing germination of seeds.
20          In other experiments, the 16 geographically diverse isolates of T. harzianum are tested
   for their effects on establishment of fungi other than Trichoderma harzianum in a plant.
   Seeds or seedlings are inoculated with isolated T harzianum isolates or spores thereof and
   the seeds or seedlings are grown. The growth of fungi other than the inoculated T. harzianum
   isolates is evaluated. The results support the use of T. harzianum generally for reducing
25 establishment of fungi other than Trichodermaharzianum in a plant growing from the
   inoculated seed or seedling.
   References
   Altomare C, Norvell WA, Bjorkman T, Harman GE (1999) Solubilization of phosphates and
30 micronutrients by the plant-gi-owth-promoting and biocontrol fungus trichoderma harzianurn
   rifal 1295-22 Appl Environ Microbiol. 65: 2926-2933.
   An JAv (1981). The genera offungi sporulatingin pure culture. J. Cramer: Vaduz,       4 24pp.
   Barett HL, Hunter BB (1998). Illustratedgenera of imperfect fungi. American
                                                 - 34 -

   Phytopathology Society: St. Paul, 24 0 pp.
   Bacon CW, Hill NS (1996) Symptomless grass endophytes: products of coevolutionary
   symbioses and their role in the ecological adaptations of grasses. In: Redkin SC, Carris LM,
   editors. Endophytic fungi in grasses and woody plants. St. Paul: APS Press. pp. 155-178.
 5 Berg, G (2009) Plant-microbe interactions promoting plant growth and health: perspectives
   for controlled use of microorganisms in agriculture. Apple Microbiol Biotechnol 84:11-18.
   Clay K, Holah J (1999) Fungal endophyte symbiosis and plant diversity in successional
   fields. Science 285: 1742-1745.
   Harman GE, Howell CR, Viterbo A, Chet I, Lorito M (2004) Trichoderma species-
10 opportunistic, avirulent plant symbionts. Nat Rev Microbiol, 2: 43-56.
   Leslie JF, Sumnerell BA (2005). The FusariumLaboratoryManual. Blackwell Publishing:
   Ames, 4 00pp.
   Naseby DC, Pascual JA, Lynch JM (2000) Effect of biocontrol strains of Trichoderma on
   plant growth, Pythium ultimum polulations, soil microbial communities and soil enzyme
15 activities. JAppl Microbiol 88: 161-169.
   O'Donnell K, Kistler HC, Tacke BK, Casper HC (2000). Gene genealogies reveal global
   phylogeographic structure and reproductive isolation among lineages of Fusarium
   graminearum,the fungus causing wheat scab. Proceedingsof the NationalAcademy of
   Sciences 97: 7905-7910.
20 Petrini 0 (1996) Ecological and physiological aspects of host-specificity in endophytic fungi.
   In: Redlin SC, Carris LM, editors. Endopytic Fungi in Grasses and Woody Plants. St. Paul:
   APS Press. pp. 87-100.
   Read, D.J.: 1999, 'Mycorrhiza - the state of the an', in A. Varma and B. Hock (eds.),
25 Mycorrhiza, Berlin, Springer-Verlag, pp. 3-34.
   Redman RS, Freeman S, Clifton DR, Morrel J, Brown 0, Rodriguez RJ (1999). Biochemical
   analysis of plant protection afforded by a nonpathogenic endophytic mutant of colletotrichum
   magna. Plant Physiology 119: 795-804
30 Redman RS, Dunigan DD, Rodriguez RJ (2001). Fungal symbiosis: from mutualism to
   parasitism, who controls the outcome, host or invader? New Phytologist 151: 705-716.
   Redman RS, Rossinck MR, Maher S, Andrews QC, Schneider WL, Rodriguez RJ (2002a).
   Field performance of cucurbit and tomato plants infected with a nonpathogenic mutant of
   Colletotrichum magna (teleomorph: Glomerella magna; Jenkins and Winstead). Symbiosis
35 32: 55-70.
   Redman RS, Sheehan KB, Stout RG, Rodriguez RJ, Henson JM (2002b) Thermotolerance
   generated by plant/fungal symbiosis. Science 298:1581.
   Redman RS, Kim YO, Woodward CJ, Greer C, Espino L, Doty SL, Rodriguez RI (2011)
   Increased fitness of rice plants to abiotic stress via habitat adapted symbiosis: a strategy for
40 mitigating impacts of climate change. PLoS One 6:el4823.
   Rodriguez RJ, Yoder OC (1991). A family of conserved repetitive DNA elements from the
   fungal plant pathogen Glomerella cingulata (Colletotrichum lindemuhianum). Experimental
                                                   - 35 -

   Mycology 15: 232-242.
   Rodriguez RJ (1993). Polyphosphates present in DNA preparations from filamentous fungal
   species of Colletotrichum inhibits restriction endonucleases and other enzymes. Analytical
   Biochemistry 209: 1-7.
 5 Rodriguez, R.J. and Redman, R.S.: 1997, 'Fungal life-styles and ecosystem dynamics:
   biological aspects of plant pathogens, plant endophytes and saprophytes', Adv. Bot. Res. 24,
    169-193.
   Rodriguez R, Redman R. (2008) More than 400 million years of evolution and some plants
   still can't make it on their own: plant stress tolerance via fungal symbiosis. J Eyp Bot. 59:
10  1109-1114.
   Rodriguez RI, Redman RS, Henson 3M. (2004). The role of fungal symbioses in the
   adaptation of plants to high stress environments. MitigationandAdaptation Strategiesfor
   Global Change 9: 261-272.
is Rodriguez R.I., Henson I., Van Volkenburgh E., Hoy M., Wright L., Beckwith F., Kim Y.,
   Redman R.S. 2008. Stress Tolerance in Plants via Habitat-Adapted Symbiosis. ISME-Nature,
   2,404-416.
   Rodriguez RJ, Freeman DC, McArthur ED, Kim YO, Redman RS (2009) Symbiotic
   regulation of plant growth, development and reproduction. Commun Integr Biol. 2: 141-3.
20 Rodriguez R.J. and Roossinck M. 2012. Viruses, fungi and plants: cross-kingdom
   communication and mutualism. In, Biocommunication of Fungi, Ed. 0. Witzany (ed.),
   Springer, pg 219-227.
   White TI, Bruns T, Lee S, Taylor J (1990). Amplification and direct sequencing of fungal
   ribosomal RNA genes for phylogenetics. In: Innis MA, Gelfand DH, Sninsky JJ and White
25 TJ (eds). PCR Protocols:A Guide to Methods and Applications. Academic Press, INC.: San
   Diego. pp 315-322.
                                        OTHER EMBODIMENTS
            All of the features disclosed in this specification may be combined in any
30 combination. Each feature disclosed in this specification may be replaced by an alternative
   feature serving the same, equivalent, or similar purpose. Thus, unless expressly stated
   otherwise, each feature disclosed is only an example of a generic series of equivalent or
   similar features.
            From the above description, one skilled in the art can easily ascertain the essential
35 characteristics of the present invention, and without departing from the spirit and scope
   thereof, can make various changes and modifications of the invention to adapt it to various
   usages and conditions. Thus, other embodiments are also within the claims.
                                                   - 36 -

                                               CLAIMS
   What is claimed is:
    1.     An isolated Trichoderma harzianum strain ThLmI fungus, deposited at the U.S.
 5 Department of Agriculture Culture Collection under Patent Deposit Designation number
   NRRL 50846, or a progeny or spore thereof.
   2.      A composition comprising the Trichoderma harzianum strain ThLml fungus of claim
    I and/or a progeny and/or a spore thereof.
10
   3.      The composition of claim 2, wherein the composition is a liquid or a powder.
   4.      A method for promoting stress tolerance and/or enhancing plant growth or seed
   germination, the method comprising:
15         inoculating a plant or a plant seed with the isolated Trichoderma harzianum strain
   ThLml fungus of claim 1, or a spore or progeny thereof; or the composition of claim 2.
   5.      The method of 4, wherein the stress tolerance is drought tolerance, salt tolerance,
   reduced nutrient tolerance, fungal tolerance, and/or temperature tolerance.
20
   6.      The method of 4, wherein the enhanced plant growth or seed germination comprises
   an increase in size, extent of root development, germination rate of seeds, chlorophyll
   content/level, photosynthetic efficiency, yield or mass.
25 7.      The method of any one of claims 4-6, wherein inoculating the plant comprises
   colonizing a root and/or stem of the plant with a Trichoderma harzianum strain ThLm 1
   fungus or a spore or progeny thereof.
   8.      The method of any one of claims 4-7, wherein the method further comprises growing
30 the plant or plant seed.
                                                 - 37 -

   9.      The method of claim 8, wherein the plant or plant seed is grown in soil characterized
   by high salinity, low moisture, and/or low nutrient content.
   10.     The method of claim 8, wherein the plant or plant seed is grown in water
 5 characterized by high salinity and/or low nutrient content.
   11.     The method of any one of claims 8-10, wherein the plant or plant seed is grown or
   germinated at an average temperature at or above 35 degrees Celsius or at or below 15
   degrees Celsius.
10
   12.     The method of any one of claims 4-11, wherein the plant or plant seed is a crop plant
   or crop plant seed.
   13.     The method of claim 12, wherein the crop plant or crop plant seed is watermelon,
15 tomato, corn, wheat, soybean, cucurbits, peppers, leafy greens, barley, cotton, beans, peas,
   tubers, berries, woody plants or rice, or a seed thereof.
   14.     The method of any one of claims 4-11, wherein the plant or plant seed is an
   ornamental, such as Rosaceae, Liliaceae, Azalea, Rhododendron, Poaceae or
20 Chrysanthemum.
   15.     A plant or plant seed inoculated with the isolated Trichoderma harzianum strain
   ThLml fungus of claim 1, or a spore or progeny thereof; or the composition of claim 2.
25 16.     The plant or plant seed of claim 15, wherein the plant or plant seed is a crop plant or
   crop plant seed.
   17.     The plant or plant seed of claim 16, wherein the crop plant or crop plant seed is
   watermelon, tomato, corn, wheat, soybean, cucurbits, peppers, leafy greens, barley, cotton,
30 beans, peas, tubers, berries, woody plants or rice, or a seed thereof.
                                                  - 38 -

   18.     The method of claim 15, wherein the plant or plant seed is an ornamental, such as
   Rosaceac, Liliaceac, Azalea, Rhododendron, Poaceae or Chrysanthemum.
   19.     A method for increasing stress tolerance, the method comprising:
 5         inoculating a plant or a plant seed with an isolated Trichoderma harzianum fungus or
   a spore thereof; or a composition comprising the isolated Trichoderma harzianum fungus or a
   spore thereof, thereby increasing stress tolerance of the inoculated plant.
   20.     The method of 19, wherein the stress is drought, elevated salt, reduced nutrients
10 and/or temperature stress.
   21,     The method of 19, wherein the stress is not the presence of polycyclic aromatic
   hydrocarbons, napthenic acids, or high pH.
15 22.     The method of any one of claims 19 to 21, wherein inoculating the plant comprises
   colonizing a root, stem and/or leaf of the plant with a Trichoderma harzianum strain fungus
   or a spore or progeny thereof.
   23.     The method of any one of claims 19 to 22, wherein the method further comprises
20 growing the plant or plant seed.
   24,     The method of claim 23, wherein the plant or plant seed is grown in soil characterized
   by high salinity, low moisture, and/or low nutrient content.
25 25.     The method of claim 24, wherein the high salinity is greater than 35mM amount of a
   salt.
   26.     The method of claim 24, wherein the low moisture content is between 0 - 0.18 in3
   water/in 3 soil.
30
                                                 - 39 -

   27.     The method of claim 24, wherein the low nutrient content is fewer than 80 lbs/acre of
   nutrient, wherein the nutrient comprises 20% each of nitrogen, phosphorus, and potassium,
   and associated micronutrients.
 5 28.     The method of claim 24, wherein the plant or plant seed is grown in water
   characterized by high salinity and/or low nutrient content.
   29.     The method of claim 24, wherein the plant or plant seed is grown or germinated at an
   average temperature at or above 35 degrees Celsius or at or below 15 degrees Celsius.
10
   30.     The method of any one of claims 19 to 29, wherein the plant or plant seed is a crop
   plant or crop plant seed.
   31.     The method of claim 30, wherein the crop plant or crop plant seed is watermelon,
15 tomato, corn, wheat, soybean, cucurbits, peppers, leafy greens, barley, cotton, beans, peas,
   tubers, berries, woody plants or rice, or a seed thereof.
   32.     The method of any one of claims 19 to 29, wherein the plant or plant seed is an
   ornamental, such as Rosaceae, Liliaceae, Azalea, Rhododendron, Poaceae or
20 Chrysanthemum.
   33.     The method of any one of claims 19 to 32, wherein the Trichoderma harzianum strain
   fungus is not strain TSTh20-1 or strain T-22.
25 34.     A method for increasing germination of seeds, the method comprising:
           inoculating a plant seed with an isolated Trichodermaharzianum fungus or a spore
   thereof; or a composition comprising the isolated Trichoderma harzianum fungus or a spore
   thereof, thereby increasing germination of the inoculated seeds.
30 35.     The method of claim 34, wherein the plant seed is previously, concurrently and/or
   subsequently treated with a fungicide and/or insecticide.
                                                  - 40 -

   36.     The method of any one of claims 34 to 35, wherein the plant or plant seed is a crop
   plant or crop plant seed.
   37.     The method of claim 36, wherein the crop plant or crop plant seed is watermelon,
 5 tomato, corn, wheat, soybean, cucurbits, peppers, leafy greens, barley, cotton, beans, peas,
   tubers, berries, woody plants or rice, or a seed thereof.
   38.     The method of any one of claims 34 to 35, wherein the plant or plant seed is an
   ornamental, such as Rosaceae, Liliaceae, Azalea, Rhododendron, Poaceae or
10 Chrysanthemum.
   39.     The method of any one of claims 34-38, wherein the Trichoderma harzianum strain
   fungus is not strain TSTh20-l or strain T-22.
15 40.     A method for reducing establishment of fungi other than Trichoderma harzianum in a
   plant, the method comprising:
           inoculating a plant seed or seedling with an isolated Trichoderma harzianum fungus
   or a spore thereof; or a composition comprising the isolated Trichoderma harzianum fungus
   or a spore thereof, thereby reducing establishment of fungi other than Trichoderma
20 harzianum in a plant growing from the inoculated seed or seedling.
   41,     The method of claim 40, wherein the plant or plant seed is a crop plant or crop plant
   seed.
25 42.     The method of claim 41, wherein the crop plant or crop plant seed is watermelon,
   tomato, com, wheat, soybean, cucurbits, peppers, leafy greens, barley, cotton, beans, peas,
   tubers, berries, woody plants or rice, or a seed thereof.
   43.     The method of claim 40, wherein the plant or plant seed is an ornamental, such as
30 Rosaceac, Liliaceac, Azalea, Rhododendron, Poaceae or Chrysanthemum.
                                                  - 41 -

44.    The method of any one of claims 40-43, wherein the Trichoderma harzianum strain
fungus is not strain TSTh20-1 or strain T-22.
                                            - 42 -

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
                                                  A104570000WO00- SEQ- JRV
<removed-date>
                                              SEQUENCE LI STI NG
              <110>    Adapt i ve Symbi ot i c Technol ogi es LLC
              <120>    Composi t i ons and Met hods Rel at ed t o I sol at ed Endophyt es
              <130>    A1045. 70000WO00
              <150>    US 61/ 858, 819
<removed-apn>
              <151>    2013- 07- 26
              <160>    6
              <170>    Pat ent I n ver si on 3. 5
              <210>    1
              <211>    20
              <212>    DNA
              <213>    ar t i f i ci al sequence
              <220>
              <223>    synt het i c pol ynucl eot i de
              <400> 1
              t cct ccgct t at t gat at gc                                                  20
              <210>    2
              <211>    22
              <212>    DNA
              <213>    ar t i f i ci al sequence
              <220>
              <223>    synt het i c pol ynucl eot i de
              <400> 2
              ggaagt aaaa gt cgt aacaa gg                                                   22
              <210>    3
              <211>    20
              <212>    DNA
              <213>    ar t i f i ci al sequence
              <220>
              <223>    synt het i c pol ynucl eot i de
              <400> 3
              at gggt aagg aggacaagac                                                       20
              <210>    4
              <211>    21
              <212>    DNA
                                                           Page 1

                                                  A104570000WO00- SEQ- JRV
<removed-date>
              <213>   ar t i f i ci al sequence
              <220>
              <223>   synt het i c pol ynucl eot i de
              <400> 4
              ggaagt acca gt gat cat gt t                                    21
<removed-apn>
              <210>   5
              <211>   19
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   ar t i f i ci al sequence
              <220>
              <223>   synt het i c pol ynucl eot i de
              <400> 5
              gt ggggcat t t accccgcc                                        19
              <210>   6
              <211>   19
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   ar t i f i ci al sequence
              <220>
              <223>   synt het i c pol ynucl eot i de
              <400> 6
              aggaaccct t accgagct c                                         19
                                                          Page 2

