                                          ABSTRACT
          The application provides a method of reducing the DNA content of a protein
preparation or a culture broth from a filamentous fungal host cell using an endogenous
filamentous fungal host DNase activity.

                                                                                            P/00/011
                                                                                       Regulation 3.2
                                          AUSTRALIA
                                        Patents Act 1990
                      COMPLETE SPECIFICATION
                            FOR A DIVISIONAL PATENT
                                          ORIGINAL
Name of Applicant:        DANISCO US INC.
Actual Inventors:         HOFFMANN, Katherine
                          KO, Douglas
                          WARD, Michael
Address for Service:      Houlihan2, Level 1, 70 Doncaster Road, Balwyn North, Victoria
                         3104, Australia
Invention Title:          ENDOGENOUS DNASE ACTIVITY TO REDUCE DNA
                          CONTENT
The following statement is a full description of this invention, including the best method of
performing it known to the Applicant:-

                 ENDOGENOUS DNASE ACTIVITY TO REDUCE DNA CONTENT
                        CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATION
 5 [0001] The present Application is a Divisional Application from Australian Patent Application
   No. 2012312384. The entire disclosures of Australian Patent Application No. 2012312384 and
   its corresponding International Patent Application No. PCT/US2012/056315, are incorporated
   herein by reference. This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No.
   61/537,837, filed on September 22, 2011, which is hereby incorporated by reference in its
 0 entirety.
                                            BACKGROUND
   [0002] Filamentous fungi (e.g., Trichoderma,Aspergillus, Geosmithia,Myceliophthora,
   Penicillium,Fusarium,Humicola, and others) have become popular host strains for protein
   production in recent years. Enzyme preparations produced by fungal species such as
 5 Trichoderma reesei, Aspergillus niger, Aspergillus tubingensis, Aspergillus oryzae, Geosmithia
   emersonii, Mycellophthora thermophila,Pencilliumfuniclosum,Fusariumvenenatum, and
   Humicola insolens have been developed as commercial products. Filamentous fungi, such as
   Trichoderma,Aspergillus, Myceliophthora, Penicillium,Fusarium, and others, have also been
   engineered to express heterologous proteins, e.g., enzymes and therapeutic proteins, typically
 0 under control of inducible promoters (see, e.g., England et al., PCT Patent publication
   W02004/035070). Many thus prepared fungal (e.g., T. reesei, A. niger, A. tubingensis, A.
   oryzae, G. emersonii, M. thermophila,P. funiculosum, F. venenatum, and H. insolens) proteins
   are useful as food or feed additives (see, e.g., Dunn-Coleman et al., in PCT patent publication
   W02003/038035) or in other industrial applications. Because production of proteins in fungi is
25 usually carried out on a large scale, improvements in production and processing efficiency can
   have great economic significance.
                              BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE FIGURES
   [0003] Figure 1:        Effect of elevated pH or temperature on DNA degradation observed from
   an ultrafiltration concentrate of a fermentation broth of a T. reesei expressing a phytase from
30 Buttiauxella sp.
   [0004] Figure 2:        Effect of incubation time on DNA degradation observed from the same
   ultrafiltration concentrate as above of a fermentation broth of a T. reesei expressing a phytase
   from Buttiauxella sp.

    [0005] Figure 3:         Effect of elevated temperatures and incubation time on DNA degradation
    observed from the same ultrafiltration concentrate as above of a fermentation broth of a T. reesei
    expressing a phytase from Buttiauxella sp.
    [0006] Figures 4A-4B:            Effects of elevated pH on DNA degradation observed at pH levels
 5  5.2, 6.3, and 7.6, observed from an ultrafiltration concentrate of a fermentation broth of a T.
    reesei expressing a lipase from Aspergillus tubingensis.
                                                  SUMMARY
    [0007] The invention provides methods of reducing DNA content of a broth in which
    filamentous fungal host cells have been cultured. Such methods comprise adjusting the pH
 0  and/or temperature of a broth in which the filamentous fungal host cells have been cultured for
    at least 24 hours to above the pH and/or the temperature used in culturing; and incubating the
    broth for a sufficient period at the increased pH and/or temperature to detectably reduce
    filamentous fungal host DNA in the preparation. The reduction of DNA is not primarily due to
    presence of an exogenous DNase in the broth in such methods. Some methods further comprise
 5  performing a solid-liquid separation step to separate the broth from the filamentous fungal host
    cells before the adjusting step. Some methods further comprise performing an ultrafiltration
    step, wherein the macromolecules in the broth are concentrated before the adjusting step. In
    some methods, the broth is at room temperature after the ultrafiltration step. In some methods,
    the temperature of the broth before the adjusting step is 25 C to 34 C. In some methods, the pH
 .0 of the broth before the adjusting step is between 4 and 5. Some methods further comprise
    culturing the filamentous fungal host cells in the broth until a desired concentration of secreted
    proteins of interest in the broth is obtained before the adjusting step. Preferably, the pH and/or
    temperature adjusting step is performed before the enzyme(s) produced by the host cell is/are
    applied to treat or act on an intended substrate.
25  [0008] In some methods, the pH is increased to pH 6-8 during the adjusting step. In some
    methods, the temperature is increased to 35 C-47 C during the adjusting step. Some methods
    further comprise assessing the DNA content of the broth. In some methods, the DNA content
    can be assessed before and after the incubating step. In some methods, the DNA content is
    reduced to an undetectable level as assessed by PCR and/or gel electrophoresis with ethidium
30  bromide staining. Some methods further comprise allowing the broth to cool to room
    temperature after the incubating step. Some methods further comprise purifying one or more
    proteins from the broth. In some methods, one or more proteins in the broth is/are
    recombinantly expressed by the filamentous fungal host cell. In some methods, the filamentous
    fungal host cells lack an exogenous DNase. In some methods, no DNase is added to the broth.

   In some methods, the filamentous fungal host cells recombinantly express a cellulase enzyme.
   In some methods, the filamentous fungal host cells recombinantly express a phytase. In some
   methods, the filamentous fungal host cells recombinantly express a lipase.
   [0009] The invention further provides methods of reducing DNA content of a protein
 5 preparation (including, e.g., a culture broth) made from filamentous fungal host cells. These
   methods include steps of measuring a level of fungal host cell DNA in a protein preparation
   from the filamentous fungal host cells; adjusting the pH and/or temperature of the protein
   preparation to an adjusted pH and/or temperature; incubating the protein preparation for a
   sufficient period at the adjusted pH and/or temperature to detectably reduce the level of
 0 filamentous fungal host cell DNA in the protein preparation; and determining a reduction of the
   amount of filamentous fungal host cell DNA in the protein preparation. The reduction in such
   methods is not primarily due to an exogenous DNase present in the protein preparation. In some
   methods, the amount of the DNA has been reduced to an undetectable level.
   [0010] The invention further provides methods of reducing DNA content of a broth in which
 5 filamentous fungal host cells have been cultured. These methods include steps of increasing the
   pH and/or temperature of a broth in which the filamentous fungal host cells have been cultured
   for at least 24 hr, and on which a solid-liquid separation step has been performed to separate the
   broth from the filamentous fungal host cells; and incubating the broth for a sufficient period at
   the increased pH and/or temperature to detectably reduce filamentous fungal host DNA in the
 O broth. In such methods, the reduction is not primarily due to an exogenous DNase present in the
   broth.
   [0011] The invention also provides the use of an endogenous filamentous fungal host cell
   DNase activity to reduce filamentous fungal host DNA in a protein preparation made from the
   fungal host cell.
25 [0012] The invention further provides the use of an endogenous filamentous fungal host cell
   DNase activity to reduce fungal host DNA in a culture broth in which the fungal host cells have
   been cultured.
   [0013] In any of the above methods or use, the fungal host cell can be a cell of T. reesei, A.
   niger, A. tubingensis, A. oryzae, G. emersonii,M. thermophila,P.funiculosum, F. venenatum, or
30 H. insolens.
                                              DEFINITIONS
   [0014] A "DNase" is an enzyme capable of degrading DNA, usually by cleaving of a
   phosphodiester bond. DNases include endonucleases that cleave internal sites and exonucleases
   that cleave mononucleotides from the end of a DNA molecule. DNases are usually proteins but

    can also be non-protein DNases. DNases may or may not have RNase activity as well as DNase
    activity.
    [0015] An "exogenous" protein (e.g., an exogenous DNase) refers to a protein introduced into a
    host strain by recombinant expression or added to extracts of the host strain from an external
 5  supply of the protein. An exogenous protein can be heterologous to the host strain (i.e.,
    naturally produced by a different host strain) or homologous (i.e., naturally produced by the host
    strain).
    [0016] The term "recombinant" refers to a polynucleotide or polypeptide that does not naturally
    occur in a host cell. A recombinant molecule may contain two or more naturally occurring
 0  sequences that are linked together in a way that does not occur naturally.
    [0017] The term "heterologous" refers to elements that are not normally associated with each
    other. For example, if a host cell produces a heterologous protein, that protein is not normally
    produced in that host cell. Likewise, a promoter that is operably linked to a heterologous coding
    sequence is a promoter that is operably linked to a coding sequence that it is not usually
 5  operably linked to in a wild-type host cell. The term "homologous" with reference to a
    polynucleotide (e.g., a DNA) or protein, refers to a nucleic acid (e.g., a DNA) or protein that
    occurs naturally in a host cell.
    [0018] A "gene" refers to a DNA segment that is involved in producing a polypeptide and
    includes regions preceding and following the coding segments(s) (exons) and in some genes
 '0 intervening segments (introns) between individual coding segments.
    [0019] Nucleic acids include DNA, RNA, single-stranded or double-stranded and chemically
    modified versions thereof.
    [0020] A "vector" is a polynucleotide sequence designed to introduce nucleic acids into one or
    more cell types. Vectors include cloning vectors, expression vectors, shuttle vectors, plasmids,
25  phage particles, cassettes and the like.
    [0021] A "phytase" is an enzyme that catalyzes the hydrolysis of phytate to (1) myo-inositol
    and/or (2) mono-, di-, tri-, tetra- and/or penta-phosphates thereof and (3) inorganic phosphate.
    For example, phytases include enzymes defined by EC number 3.1.3.8, or EC number 3.1.3.26.
    [0022] "Cellulase enzymes" or "cellulases" include enzymes that act on cellulose directly and
30  accessory enzymes that facilitate the direct action of other enzymes on cellulose. Cellulases
    include bacterial or fungal exoglucanases or exocellobiohydrolases, and/or endoglucanases,
    and/or P-glucosidases. These three different types of cellulase enzymes act synergistically to
    convert cellulose and its derivatives to glucose. Cellulase enzymes also include accessory
    enzymes, including GH61 members, such as EG4, swollenin, loosenin, CIP 1, and the like.

     [0023] A "lipase" is an enzyme that catalyzes the hydrolysis or formation of lipids. For
     example, lipases catalyze the hydrolysis of triacylglycerol to produce diacylglycerol and
     carboxylate.    Lipases include enzymes defined by EC number 3.1.1.3.
     [0024] "Isolated" means an object specifies is removed from at least one component with which
 5   it is naturally associated.
     [0025] "Purified" means that an object species is at least 50% (w/w), and sometimes at least 75,
     90, 95 or 99% (w/w) free of macromolecular contaminants used in its production or purification
     but does not exclude the presence of excipients added to facilitate the use of the object species.
     [0026] A protein preparation includes one or more desired proteins secreted by a filamentous
 0   fungal host (e.g., T. reesei, A. niger,A. tubingensis, A. oryzae, G. emersonii, M. thermophila,P.
    funiculosum, F. venenatum, H. insolens and others) in any state of purity and may also include
     contaminants from production or purification of the desired proteins(s) or added excipients.
     Thus, a protein preparation can be a broth or protein(s) purified from a broth.
     [0027] A broth or a "fermentation broth" refers to culture media used for culturing a filamentous
 5   fungal host cell (e.g., T. reesei, A. niger, A. tubingensis, A. oryzae, G. emersonii,M.
     thermophila,P. funiculosum, F. venenatum, and H. insolens) with or without removal of cells
     and cell debris after fermentation, and with or without concentration of proteins and other
     macromolecules in the broth by ultrafiltration or similar technique but does not include
     preparation of purified proteins in which the desired protein(s) have been separated from broth
 '0  by techniques such as protein precipitation and resuspension in a fresh medium or column
     chromatography and elution in a fresh medium.
     [0028] The term "filamentous fungi" refers to all filamentous forms of the subdivision
     Eumycotina (See, Alexopoulos, C. J. (1962), INTRODUCTORY MYCOLOGY, Wiley, New
     York and AINSWORTH AND BISBY DICTIONARY OF THE FUNGI, 9.sup.th Ed. (2001)
25   Kirk et al., Eds., CAB International University Press, Cambridge UK). These fungi are
     characterized by a vegetative mycelium with a cell wall composed of chitin, cellulose, and other
     complex polysaccharides. The filamentous fungi of the present invention are morphologically,
     physiologically, and genetically distinct from yeasts. Vegetative growth by filamentous fungi is
     by hyphal elongation and carbon catabolism is obligatorily aerobic.
30   [0029] The term "Trichoderma" or "Trichoderma sp." refer to any fungal genus previously or
     currently classified as "T. " and hybrids of such strains, as well as genetically modified forms
     thereof (e.g., modified by mutation or a transgene, or a gene knockout).
     [0030] A "feed" means any natural or artificial diet, meal or the like or components of such
     meals intended or suitable for being eaten, taken in, digested, by a non-human animal.

   [0031] A "food" means any natural or artificial diet, meal or the like or components of such
   meals intended or suitable for being eaten, taken in, digested, by a human being.
   [0032] A "food or feed additive" is a purified compound or a multi component composition
   intended for or suitable for being added to food or feed. It may include one or more compounds
 5 such as vitamins, minerals, enzymes and suitable carriers and/or excipient.
   [0033] Terms such as "assess," "measure," or "determine" encompass qualitative or quantitative
   detection of an analyte, particularly an endogenous DNA. Such assessment or determination
   may thus indicate presence or absence of an analyte or an amount of the analyte.
   [0034] The term "comprising" and its cognates are used in their inclusive sense; that is,
 0 equivalent to the term "including" and its corresponding cognates.
   [0035] Unless otherwise apparent from the context, Reference to a specific numeric value
   encompasses the stated value and such variation as is inherent in its measurement (i.e., +/
   SEM).
   [0036] Unless otherwise apparent from the context, "about" indicates a tolerance of +/- 10%.
 5 [0037] Numeric ranges are inclusive of the numbers defining the range. Some preferred
   subranges are also listed, but in any case, reference to a range includes all subranges defined by
   integers included within a range.
                                      DETAILED DESCRIPTION
   I.      General
 0 [0038] The present application provides a method of reducing the DNA content of a protein
   preparation from filamentous fungi without the need to use an exogenous DNase. The
   application is based in part on the observation of an endogenous filamentous fungal DNase
   activity in culture broths together with commercially valuable proteins. For example, DNase
   activity is found in the culture broth of a T. reesei, A. niger,A. tubingensis,A. oryzae, G.
25 emersonii, M. thermophila,P. funiculosum, F. venenatum, H. insolens, or another strain
   expressing and/or producing certain industrial enzyme(s) of interest. Although an understanding
   of mechanism is not required for practice of the invention, it is believed that the endogenous
   DNase activity may have been the result of either one or more secreted DNases endogenous to
   the filamentous fungus, (e.g., T. reesei, A. niger, A. tubingensis, A. oryzae, G. emersonii,M.
30 thermophila,P. funiculosum, F. venenatum, H. insolens, and so forth) or one or more
   intracellular DNases to such filamentous fungi being released due to cell lysis.
   [0039] Such endogenous DNase activity can be used to reduce or eliminate DNA molecules
   from a filamentous fungal culture broth, for example, a T. reesei,A. niger, A. tubingensis, A.
   oryzae, G. emersonii, M. thermophila,P. funiculosum, F. venenatum, or H. insolens culture

    broth. Removal of such DNA molecules is useful in many applications, for example, in
    providing an enzyme preparation as a food or feed additive or supplement. Some commercial
    enzyme preparations, particularly those used in preparation of foods or feed, are required by
    regulatory authorities to be free of detectable host DNA or at least have host DNA below a
 5  defined limit. Although fungal DNA (e.g., DNA from T. reesei, A. niger, A. tubingensis, A.
    oryzae, G. emersonii, M. thermophila,P. funiculosum, F. venenatum, H. insolens, and so forth)
    in culture broth could be removed with an exogenous DNase, expressing such a DNase
    recombinantly or supplying it to the culture broth involves additional steps, increased costs, and
    possibly reduced efficiency. The present method provides a simple procedure of removing host
 0  genetic materials in a protein preparation without the need of either genetically manipulating the
    host cell or adding DNase(s) into the preparation.
    II.     Filamentous fungal host strains
    [0040] Any suitable fungal host strains capable of expressing proteins of either heterologous or
 5  endogenous varieties can be used to practice the present invention. For example, fungal host
    strains can be host strains of filamentous fungal species, such as those from the phylum
    Ascomycota, and the subphylum Pezizomycotina.         Such organisms include filamentous fungus
    cells used for the production of commercially important industrial and pharmaceutical proteins,
    including, but are not limited to Trichoderma spp., Aspergillus spp., Fusariumspp., Penicillium
 '0 spp., Chrysosporium spp., Talaromyces spp., Geosmithia spp., Myceliophthora spp., and
    Neurospora spp. Particular organisms from which suitable host strains may be derived may
    include, but are not limited to, Trichoderma reesei (previously classified as Trichoderma
    longibrachiatum and Hypocreajecorina),Aspergillus niger,Aspergillusfumigatus,Aspergillus
    itaconicus, Aspergillus oryzae, Aspergillus nidulans, Aspergillus terreus, Aspergillus sojae,
25  Aspergillusjaponicus,Aspergillus tubingensis, Humicola insolens, Humicola grisea,
    Thermomyces lanuginosus,Neurospora crassa,Penicilliumfuniculosum,Penicillium
    chrysogenum, Talaromyces (Geosmithia) emersonii,Fusarium venenatum, Fusarium
    graminearum,Myceliophthora thermophila, and Chrysosporiumlucknowense. Fungal host
    strains can also be host strains of filamentous fungal species, such as those from the phylum
30  Basidiomycota or the subphylum Mucormycotina. Such organisms include filamentous fungus
    cells used for the production of commercially important industrial and pharmaceutical proteins,
    including, but are not limited to Agaricus spp., Phanerochaetespp., Schizophyllum spp.,
    Rhizomucor spp., and Mucor spp. Particular organisms from which suitable host strains may be

    derived may include, but are not limited to Agaricus bisporus, Phanerochaetechrysosporium,
    Schizophyllum commune, Rhizomucor miehei, and Mucor circinelloides.
    [0041] It can be expected that some level of endogenous DNase activity will exist in
    fermentation products (e.g., a protein preparation, including, for example, a culture broth)
 5  derived from the above-listed and other species of filamentous fungi. The level of DNase
    activity and the pH or temperature optima of the DNase may vary between and among species.
    But the adjustments made to pH, temperature and time of incubation as described herein can be
    tested in order to determine the requirements for DNA removal, in accordance with the present
    disclosure.
 0  [0042] In a particular embodiment of any one of the present methods, the host cell is a cell of T.
    reesei, a well-known filamentous fungus.     Examples of T. reesei strains include ATCC No.
    13631, ATCC No. 26921, ATCC No. 56764, ATCC No. 56765, ATCC No. 56767, and NRRL
    No. 15709. One example of a host cell is derived from the RL-P37 T. reesei strain (described in
    Sheir-Neiss et al. (1984) Appl. Microbiol.Biotechnology 20:46-53. Another host cell is the
 5  Morph 1.1 (pyr+) T. reesei strain, a spontaneous pyr4 revertant of the quad-deleted RL-P37 T.
    reesei strain (described in PCT Patent publication WO 05/001036). Other host strains similar to
    RL-P37 include T. reesei (longibrachiatum) strain RUT-C30 (ATCC No. 56765) and strain
    QM9414 (ATCC No. 26921).
    [0043] In certain embodiments, the host strain may have been genetically manipulated through
 '0 genetic engineering, classic mutagenesis, or by forming hybrids of existing strains. Genetic
    engineering can be used to introduce exogenous genes or knockout or knockdown endogenous
    genes. Mutagenesis can be used to inhibit or knockout endogenous genes or, in some host cells,
    change or enhance the function of endogenous genes. Examples include overproducing mutants
    as described in, e.g., Bower et al., PCT Patent publication W02008/153903. Examples also
25  include host strains in which various native genes of the fungal host cell have been inactivated.
    Gene inactivation may be accomplished by complete or partial deletion, by insertional
    inactivation, or by any other means, which renders a gene nonfunctional for its intended purpose
    (such that the gene is prevented from expression of a functional protein). Examples of methods
    for gene inactivation can be found in e.g., U.S. Pat. Nos. 5,246,853 and 5,475,101, and PCT
30  Patent Publication WO 92/06209.       In some hosts, one or more genes encoding cellulolytic
    enzymes, such as endoglucanases (EG) and exocellobiohydrolases (CBH) (e.g., cbhl, cbh2,
    egl1, or egl2) can be inactivated. For example, U.S. Pat. No. 5,650,322 discloses derivative
    strains of RL-P37 having deletions in both the cbhl gene and the cbh2 gene. In a particular
    example, a "quad" deletion of cbhl, cbh2, egl1 and egl2 is described in U.S. Pat. No. 5,847,276

   and PCT Patent publication WO 05/001036. In yet a further example, certain host cells can be
   manipulated such that they are rendered protease-deficient or protease-minus strains, such that
   the risk of degradation of proteins of interest expressed by such strains is reduced or diminished.
   [0044] As indicated, the present methods do not require supplementation of the host cell culture
 5 with an exogenous DNase, such as the procedures described by EP658621 or PCT Patent
   publication W02008065200. However, host cells in which one or more exogenous DNases are
   recombinantly expressed, although not required, can be used, provided that the DNase activity
   employed in the method is not primarily that of the exogenous DNase(s).        In some such host
   cells, the exogenous DNase is not expressed in active form (e.g., it is expressed in inclusion
 0 bodies) or is only poorly expressed. In some such host cells, the exogenous DNase is not
   secreted extracellularly (e.g., lacking a signal peptide). If any exogenous DNase exists in a
   culture broth or other protein preparation the contribution of such exogenous DNase to
   degradation of host DNA is no more than 49% (e.g., no more than 49%, no more than 45%, no
   more than 40%, no more than 35%, no more than 30%, no more than 25%, no more than 20%,
 5 no more than 15%, no more than 10%, or no more than 5%) of the total DNase activity. Such
   can be demonstrated by showing that, under the conditions of temperature and pH of the assay
   (e.g., pH 7.0, at a temperature of 40 C), the time taken to reduce endogenous DNA to an
   undetectable level is increased by no more than 49% (e.g., no more than no more than 49%, no
   more than 45%, no more than 40%, no more than 35%, no more than 30%, no more than 25%,
 0 no more than 2 0%, no more than 15%, no more than 10%, or no more than 5%), and preferably
   increased by less than 2 5 % or 10% in the absence than in the presence of the exogenous
   DNase(s). In other words, the endogenous DNase activity is primarily responsible for degrading
   the DNA of the host cell (e.g., T. reesei, A. niger,A. tubingensis,A. oryzae, G. emersonii, M.
   thermophila,P. funiculosum, F. venenatum, H. insolens, and so forth) in the culture broth or
25 other protein preparation.
   [0045] The host strain can be used for expression and preferably secretion of one or more
   endogenous or exogenous enzymes or a blend of endogenous and exogenous enzymes. Some
   examples of enzyme types that can be expressed endogenously or exogenously include
   amylolytic enzymes, proteolytic enzymes, cellulase enzymes, oxido-reductase enzymes and
30 plant wall degrading enzymes. More specifically, such enzymes include amylases, proteases,
   xylanases, lipases, laccases, phenol oxidases, oxidases, cutinases, cellulases, hemicellulases,
   esterases, peroxidases, catalases, glucose oxidases, phytases, pectinases, glucosidases,
   isomerases, transferases, galactosidases and chitinases.

    [0046] Alternatively or additionally, the host strain can be engineered to express and preferably
    secrete hormones, enzymes, growth factors, cytokines, antibodies and the like. Some examples
    of hormones that can be expressed include follicle-stimulating hormone, luteinizing hormone,
    corticotropin-releasing factor, somatostatin, gonadotropin hormone, vasopressin, oxytocin,
 5  erythropoietin, insulin and the like.
    [0047] Growth factors are proteins that bind to receptors on the cell surface, with the primary
    result of activating cellular proliferation and/or differentiation. Some examples of growth
    factors to express include platelet-derived growth factor, epidermal growth factor, nerve growth
    factor, fibroblast growth factors, insulin-like growth factors, transforming growth factors and the
 0  like.
    [0048] Cytokines are a unique family of growth factors. Secreted primarily from leukocytes,
    cytokines stimulate both the humoral and cellular immune responses, as well as the activation of
    phagocytic cells. Some examples of cytokines to express include colony stimulating factors, the
    interleukins (IL-I a and [), IL-2 through IL-13) and the interferons (a, P, and Y).
 5  [0049] The host cells can also be engineered to express antibodies. Human, humanized,
    chimeric or veneered antibodies are preferred. Antibodies can be from any class and isotype,
    i.e., G1, 2, 3 and 4, and A, M, E or D.
    [0050] In certain embodiments, a nucleic acid segment encoding an exogenous protein is cloned
    into an expression vector. The nucleic acid segment encoding the exogenous protein can be
 '0 placed in operable linkage with a signal peptide to confer secretion, or it can be placed in
    operable linkage with a promoter and sometimes other regulatory sequences for appropriate
    expression. An expression vector encoding a polypeptide can be transfected or transformed into
    a host cell using standard techniques as described by e.g., Sambrook et al. (1989) Molecular
    Cloning: A LaboratoryManual, 2nd Edition, Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory Press. Nucleic acid
25  can also be transferred into cells via a retroviral vector (see e.g., Ferry et al. (1991) Proc.Natl.
    Acad. Sci., USA, 88: 8377-8381; and Kay et al. (1992) Human Gene Therapy 3: 641-647), an
    adenoviral vector (see, e.g., Rosenfeld (1992) Cell 68: 143-155; and Herz and Gerard (1993)
    Proc.Natl. Acad. Sci., USA, 90:2812-2816), receptor-mediated DNA uptake (see, e.g., Wu, and
    Wu (1988) J Biol. Chem. 263:14621; Wilson et al. (1992) J Biol. Chem. 267: 963-967; and
30  U.S. Pat. No. 5,166,320), direct injection of DNA (see, e.g., Acsadi et al. (1991) Nature 332:
    815-818; and Wolff et al. (1990) Science 247:1465-1468) or particle bombardment (biolistics)
    (see, e.g., Cheng et al. (1993) Proc.Natl. Acad. Sci., USA, 90:4455-4459; Zelenin et al. (1993)
    FEBS Letts. 315: 29-32).

   [0051] Both episomal and integrating expression vectors can be used. To identify integrants
   from an integrating vector, a gene that contains a selectable marker (e.g., drug resistance) is
   introduced into host cells along with the nucleic acid of interest. Examples of selectable
   markers include those that confer resistance to certain drugs, such as G418 and hygromycin.
 5 Selectable markers can be introduced on a separate vector from the nucleic acid of interest or on
   the same vector. Transfected host cells can then be identified by selecting for cells using the
   selectable marker. For example, if the selectable marker encodes a gene conferring neomycin
   resistance, host cells which have taken up nucleic acid can be identified by their growth in the
   presence of G418. Cells that have incorporated the selectable marker gene will survive, while
 0 the other cells die.
   [0052] Once expressed, a polypeptide can be purified according to conventional procedures
   including affinity purification, ammonium sulfate precipitation, ion exchange chromatography,
   or gel electrophoresis (see generally, R. Scopes (1982) ProteinPurification,Springer-Verlag,
   N.Y.; Deutscher (1990) Methods in Enzymology Vol. 182:Guide to ProteinPurification,
 5 Academic Press, Inc. N.Y.). Alternatively, the polypeptide can be subject to minimal or no post
   expression manipulation such that it is used in a composition that is substantially similar to the
   culture broth of the host cells expressing it.
   III.    Culturing a filamentous fungal host cell
 O [0053] Desired proteins such as cellulase enzymes, feed enzymes, or other enzymes, can be
   produced in cells of a filamentous fungal host (e.g., T. reesei, A. niger,A. tubingensis,A. oryzae,
   G. emersonii,M. thermophila,P. funiculosum, F. venenatum, H. insolens, and so forth) either by
   solid or submerged culture, including batch, fed-batch and continuous-flow processes. Fed
   batch is widely used due to its ease of control, production of uniform quantities of products, and
25 most economical uses of all equipment.
   [0054] Culturing (sometimes referred to as fermentation) can be done in a liquid (e.g., an
   aqueous) medium, or in a solid medium, and the present method is applicable to either.
   Culturing is, in certain typical embodiments, performed in a broth including an aqueous mineral
   salts medium, organic growth factors, a carbon or energy source material, assimilable nitrogen,
30 molecular oxygen, and a starting inoculum of the fungal host species to be employed. The
   mineral media suitably include certain amounts of phosphorus, magnesium, calcium, potassium,
   sulfur, and/or sodium, in soluble assimilable ionic and combined forms, and also preferably
   certain trace elements such as copper, manganese, molybdenum, zinc, iron, boron, and/or iodine,
   and others, again in suitable soluble assimilable form. The mineral nutrients can contribute to

   proper microorganism growth, maximizing the assimilation of the carbon and energy source by
   the cells in the microbial conversion process, and achieving maximum cellular yields.
   [0055] The source of assimilable nitrogen can be any nitrogen-containing compound or
   compounds capable of releasing nitrogen in a form suitable for metabolic utilization by the
 5 microorganism. Although a variety of organic nitrogen source compounds, such as protein
   hydrolysates, can be employed, usually inexpensive nitrogen-containing compounds such as
   ammonia, ammonium hydroxide, urea, or various ammonium salts, such as ammonium
   phosphate, ammonium sulfate, ammonium pyrophosphate, ammonium chloride, or various other
   ammonium compounds can be utilized. Ammonia gas itself is convenient for large-scale
 0 operations, and can be bubbled through the aqueous ferment (fermentation medium) in suitable
   amounts. The ammonia can also assist in pH control.
   [0056] Culturing is an aerobic process typically involving molecular oxygen supplied by a
   molecular oxygen-containing gas such as air, oxygen-enriched air, or even substantially pure
   molecular oxygen, provided to maintain the contents of the fermentation vessel with a suitable
 5 oxygen partial pressure effective in assisting the microorganism species to grow in a thriving
   fashion. In effect, by using an oxygenated hydrocarbon substrate, the oxygen requirement for
   growth of the microorganism is reduced. Nevertheless, molecular oxygen is supplied for
   growth, because the assimilation of the substrate and corresponding growth of the
   microorganisms, is, in part, a combustion process.
 O [0057] Although the aeration rate can vary over a considerable range, aeration generally is
   conducted at a rate that is in the range of about 0.5 to 10, preferably about 0.5 to 7, volumes (at
   the pressure employed and at 25 C) of oxygen-containing gas per liquid volume in the
   fermenter per minute. This amount is based on air of normal oxygen content being supplied to
   the reactor, and in terms of pure oxygen the respective ranges would be about 0.1 to 1.7, or
25 preferably about 0.1 to 1.3, volumes (at the pressure employed and at 25 C) of oxygen per
   liquid volume in the fermenter per minute.
   [0058] The pressure for fermentation can also range widely. Pressures generally are within the
   range of about 0 to 50 psig, preferably about 0 to 30 psig, more preferably at a level that is at
   least slightly over atmospheric pressure, as a balance of equipment and operating cost versus
30 oxygen solubility may be achieved. Greater than atmospheric pressure is advantageous to
   increase dissolved oxygen concentration, which in turn can help increase cellular growth rates.
   However, higher pressure increases equipment and operating costs.
   [0059] The fermentation temperature can vary somewhat. For example, for T. reesei, the
   temperature generally is within a range of about 20' C to about 40' C, generally preferably in the

   range of about 25 C to about 34 C. The preferred fermentation temperature for T. reesei is
   within the range of about 27 C to about 30 C.
   [0060] The pH range in the aqueous microbial ferment (fermentation admixture) can, for
   example, be in the range of about 2.0 to about 8.0. With filamentous fungi, the pH normally is
 5 within the range of about 2.5 to about 8.0; for example, with T. reesei, the pH normally is within
   the range of about 3.0 to about 7.0. The preferred pH range for T. reesei is within the range of
   about 3.5 to about 5.0.
   [0061] Although the average retention time of the fermentation admixture in the fermenter can
   vary considerably, depending in part on the fermentation temperature and culture employed, it is
 0 generally within a range of about 24 to about 500 hr, preferably 24 to 400 hr. In certain
   embodiments, the fungal host cell has been cultured for at least 24 hr, for example, for at least
   48 hr, at least 72 hr, or at least 96 hr. For example, T. reesei has preferably been cultured for at
   least 24 hr, such as, e.g., for at least 48 hr, at least 72 hr, or at least 96 hr. The fermentation is
   preferably continued until the cell density and/or concentration of one or more secreted proteins
 5 of interest is approaching a pre-determined desired level. Whether such a desired level has been
   reached can be determined using periodic sampling from the fermentation tank. The particular
   desired level of the cell density and/or concentration of one or more secreted protein of interest
   can vary and can be set in consideration of a number of factors. In certain embodiments, the
   particular desired level can be set at a point where the productivity of the host cell begins to
 0 decline.   In certain other embodiments, the particular desired level can be set at a point where
   the fermentation tank becomes too full to allow effective fermentation to continue. In yet
   further embodiments, the particularly desired level can be flexibly set at a point when the
   fermentation tank is simply needed to make another fermentation run. The particular desired
   level of the cell density can be set by any one, two or all of the above-described factors.
25 [0062] In some methods of DNase degradation, any elevation of the pH and/or of the
   temperature after fermentation is assessed relative to the pH and temperature during
   fermentation. If the pH or temperature varies significantly (i.e., more than 2 C or 0.5 pH units)
   over the period of fermentation, a mean value of the pH or temperature over the fermentation
   period is used as a baseline for comparison. Alternatively, particularly if the pH or temperature
30 does not vary significantly then a single measurement can be used, e.g., at the beginning or end
   of the fermentation period.
   [0063] Preferably, the fermentation is conducted in such a way that the carbon-containing
   substrate is controlled as a limiting factor, thereby providing good conversion of the carbon
   containing substrate to cells and avoiding contamination of the cells with a substantial amount of

   unconverted substrate. Unconverted substrates are not problematic if such substrates are water
   soluble ones, however, because any remaining traces of such substrates are readily washed off.
   Nonetheless, added product-treatment steps such as suitable washing steps may be needed for
   non-water-soluble substrates.
 5 [0064] Part or all of the carbon and energy source material, and/or part of the assimilable
   nitrogen source such as ammonia, can be added to the aqueous mineral medium before such a
   medium is fed to the fermenter.
   [0065] Each of the streams introduced into the reactor preferably is controlled at a
   predetermined rate, or in response to a need determinable by monitoring such as concentration
 0 of the carbon and energy substrate, pH, dissolved oxygen, oxygen or carbon dioxide in the off
   gases from the fermenter, cell density measurable by light transmittance, or the like. The feed
   rates of the various materials can be varied so as to obtain as rapid a cell growth rate as possible,
   consistent with efficient utilization of the carbon and energy source, to obtain as high a yield of
   microorganism cells relative to substrate charge as possible.
 5 [0066] In either a batch, or the preferred fed batch operation, all equipment, reactor, or
   fermentation means, vessel or container, piping, attendant circulating or cooling devices, and the
   like, are initially sterilized, which can be accomplished by, for example, employing steam such
   as at about 1210 C for an extended period, such as, for example, at least 15 min. The sterilized
   reactor then is inoculated with a culture of the selected microorganism in the presence of all the
 O required nutrients, including oxygen, and the carbon-containing substrate.
   [0067] The fermentation broth generally contains cellular debris, including cells, various
   suspended solids and other biomass contaminants including fungal host DNA, as well as the
   desired proteins, or proteins of interest. Preferably, at least about 40%, e.g., at least about 50%,
   at least about 75%, or at least about 90% of the total amount expressed of each desired protein
25 has been secreted into the broth at the end of the fermentation.
   IV.      Reduction of DNA content of a fungal protein preparation
   [0068] Once fermentation has produced a cell density or protein concentration as desired, the
   broth used in culturing or a protein preparation derived therefrom can then be processed to
30 reduce its DNA content. It is believed that a typical fungal host organism or host cell (e.g., T.
   reesei, A. niger, A. tubingensis, A. oryzae, G. emersonii,M. thermophila,P.funiculosum, F.
   venenatum, or H. insolens) can produce one or more DNase(s) that can be present in the cell
   culture broth after secretion or as a result of cell lysis, resulting in a DNA-degrading activity.
   The DNA content of a thus-made fungal protein preparation can be reduced exclusively or at

    least primarily by such endogenous DNase activity with none or insubstantial amount of
    exogenous DNase in the protein preparation.
    [0069] The DNA can be removed from the broth after completion of fermentation without
    further processing of the broth. Alternatively, at least one solid-liquid separation step can be
 5  performed to remove (i.e., at least reduce the amount of) cells and cell debris from the broth
    before the removal of DNA. In some methods, after removal of cells and solids, proteins in the
    broth are concentrated, and sometimes further purified before the removal of DNA. However,
    any purification steps performed before incubation to remove DNA should preferably not
    separate the desired protein(s) from the DNase activity, and in any event not remove more than
 0  10% (e.g., no more than 20%, no more than 30%, no more than 40%, or no more than 50%) of
    the DNase activity. Similarly, any steps performed before incubation to remove DNA should
    preferably not inactivate the DNase activity, and in any event not inactivate more than 10%
    (e.g., no more than 20%, no more than 30%, no more than 40%, or no more than 50%) of the
    DNase activity.
 5  [0070] Cells and cellular debris can be removed by conventional solid-liquid separation
    techniques such as, e.g., centrifugation, filtration, dialysis, microfiltration, rotary vacuum
    filtration, or other known processes, to produce a cell-free filtrate. The fermentation broth or the
    cell-free filtrate can be further concentrated using techniques such as, for example,
    ultrafiltration, evaporation or precipitation. The proteinaceous components of the supernatant or
 '0 filtrate can be precipitated by means of a salt, e.g., ammonium sulfate, followed by purification
    by a variety of conventional purification procedures, such as ion exchange chromatography,
    affinity chromatography or similar conventional procedures.
    [0071] To reduce the DNA content of a fungal protein preparation (e.g., a T. reesei, A. niger,A.
    tubingensis, A. oryzae, G. emersonii, M. thermophila,P. funiculosum, F. venenatum, or H.
25  insolens protein preparation), the pH and/or the temperature of the protein preparation is
    adjusted, typically increased, so as to increase the fungal DNase activity in the preparation. The
    pH before the adjusting step is typically unchanged from that during fermentation. The
    temperature before the adjusting step typically ranges from the culturing temperature to room
    temperature depending on how long, if at all, the broth has cooled before the temperature is
30  adjusted. The protein preparation is then incubated for a sufficient period at the adjusted pH
    and/or temperature to detectably decrease the DNA content and preferably reduce the DNA
    content to an undetectable level. In some methods, the adjustment in pH or temperature is an
    increase of the pH and/or temperature to above that used in the fermentation (typically at pH 4.0
    - 5.0, and temperature 27-30 C). A combination of elevated pH and temperature values is

    effective but is not always necessary. For example, complete degradation of DNA can be
    achieved with an elevated pH alone, while the temperature of the protein preparation is kept low
    (e.g., 100 C or 4 C), or maintained unchanged or at room temperature (e.g., temperature within a
    range of 4 C -27 C). DNA can also be degraded with an elevated temperature alone, while the
 5  pH of the protein preparation is kept low (e.g., pH 4-5) or maintained unchanged at that used in
    fermentation. Endogenous DNase activity in a fungal protein preparation can be detected using
    an assay such as those disclosed by, for example, Sinicropi, D., et al., (1994) Anal. Biochem.
    222:351-358, or by Tolun, G. and Myers, R.S. (2003) Nucleic Acids Research 31: el1.                Such
    an assay can be used to determine the optimum pH and/or temperature for endogenous DNase
 0  activity.
    [0072] An elevated pH for DNA removal can be in the range of 5.0 to 9.0, and is preferably in
    the range of 6.0 to 8.0. Some examples of ranges of pH for DNA removal include 5.0 to 6.0, 5.2
    to 7.8, 5.5 to 7.5, 6.0 to 7.0, 6.5 to 7.5, 7.0 to 8.0, and 8.0 to 9.0.
    [0073] An elevated temperature for DNA removal can be in the range of 30 C to 70 C, and is
 5  preferably in the range of 35 C to 47 C. Some examples of ranges of temperature for DNA
    removal include 30'C to 40 C, 40'C to 50 C, 50'C to 60 C, and 60'C to 70 C. For
    thermophilic or thermostable proteins recombinantly expressed in a filamentous fungal host
    (e.g., a T. reesei, A. niger, A. tubingensis, A. oryzae, G. emersonii, M. thermophila,P.
   funiculosum, F. venenatum, or H. insolens), a higher temperature can be used. The
 0  thermostability of the DNase of the particular fungal host is also determinative of such a higher
    temperature. For example, such a higher temperature may be no higher than about 660 C, such
    as no higher than about 600 C, 580 C, 550 C, or 520 C.
    [0074] The protein preparation can be incubated at an elevated pH in combination with various
    ranges of temperature. For example, the pH can be elevated to the range of 5.2 to 7.8, 5.5 to 7.5,
25  5.5 to 6.5, 6.5 to 7.5, or 7.5 to 8.5 with a temperature maintained in the range of      0 C to 5'C, 50
    C to 15'C, 15'C to 25 0 C, 25 0 C to 35 0 C, 35 0 C to 45 0 C, or 45 0 C to 55 0 C. Similarly, the
    protein preparation can be incubated at an elevated temperature in combination with various
    ranges of pH. For example, the temperature can be elevated to the range of 25 C to 35 C, 35 C
    to 450 C, or 45 C to 55 C with a pH maintained in the range of 3.5 to 4.5, 4.5 to 5.5, 5.5 to 6.5,
30  6.5 to 7.5, or 7.5 to 8.5.
    [0075] If DNA removal by DNase is performed on an ultrafiltered concentrate of protein, the
    concentrate is typically at room temperature after ultrafiltration. In this case, the temperature
    can be increased above room temperature and/or the pH increased above the pH used in the
    fermentation of the fungal host.

   [0076] The incubation time for DNA removal during the adjusting step can vary considerably,
   depending in part on the degree of reduction of DNA content desired, and the sensitivity of the
   desired proteins to the temperature and pH used for DNA removal. Removal of DNA to an
   undetectable level is preferred. Also preferred is little or no loss of activity of desired protein(s).
 5 Preferably, the optimized incubation conditions result in no loss or insignificant loss of protein
   stability or activity, e.g., less than 1%, 2%, 5%, 10%, 15%, or 20% loss of activity of desired
   protein(s). Optionally, protein stability or activity can be assessed before and/or after the
   incubation. The time period for the DNA removal incubation also depends on the pH and/or
   temperature during DNA removal, a longer time being required as the pH moves to below 7 and
 0 the temperature moves to below 40' C. The time period is generally at least 10, 20, 30, 60, 120,
   180, 240 min and up to 4, 6, 12, 24 or 48 hr including all permutations of lower and upper limits.
   The incubation time can also be longer than 48 hr. A preferred incubation time is 2-8 hr.
   Preferably, the pH and/or temperature adjusting step is performed before the enzyme(s)
   produced by the host cell is/are applied to treat or act on an intended substrate.
 5 [0077] The DNA content of the protein preparation (e.g., the culture broth) can also be assessed
   before and after incubation of the adjusting step. Any segment of fungal host DNA can be used
   as a marker of the total DNA contents of the preparation. Preferably a genomic segment is used.
   Optionally more than one segment can be detected.
   [0078] PCR amplification is a suitable and preferred method for analyzing nucleic acid (e.g.,
 0 DNA) content. Primers can be designed to flank any suitable genomic DNA segment (for
   example, the entire genomic sequence of T. reesei can be obtained from the website of the U.S.
   Department of Energy, Joint Genome Institute, and the entire genomic sequence of Aspergillus
   sp. can be obtained from the Aspergillus genome database hosted by University of Maryland
   School of Medicine and the Department of Genetics at the School of Medicine, Stanford
25 University, as well as from the fungal genome initiative website of the Broad Institute). PCR
   detection can be qualitative or quantitative. Performing amplification followed by detection of
   the amplification product, if any, by ethidium bromide staining of a gel would indicate the
   presence or absence of the underlying marker but does not provide an accurate measurement of
   the amount of such marker. Presence of DNA can also be detected by gel electrophoresis and
30 ethidium bromide staining without PCR amplification. DNA is shown by a characteristic smear
   or ladder of bands.
   [0079] In a quantitative amplification, the amount of amplification product is proportional to the
   amount of template in the original sample and detection occurs in real time. Comparison to
   appropriate controls provides a measure of the copy number of the DNA segment being

    amplified. Detailed protocols for quantitative PCR are provided in Innis et al. (1990) PCR
    Protocols,A Guide to Methods and Applications, Academic Press, Inc. N.Y.
    [0080] Other suitable amplification methods for use in detection include ligase chain reaction
    (LCR), (see Wu and Wallace (1989) Genomics 4: 560, Landegren et al. (1988) Science 241:
 5  1077, and Barringer et al. (1990) Gene 89: 117, transcription amplification (Kwoh et al. (1989)
    Proc.Natl. A cad. Sci. USA 86: 1173), self-sustained sequence replication (Guatelli et al. (1990)
    Proc.Nat. Acad. Sci. USA 87: 1874), dot PCR, and linker adapter PCR.
    [0081] The presence or the level of DNA in the protein preparation (e.g., the culture broth) can
    also be assessed by, for example, hybridization-based assays. Methods such as Southern
 0  blotting are described in e.g., Sambrook et al., (1989) Molecular Cloning: A Laboratory Manual
    (2d Ed., vols 1-3, Cold Spring Harbor Press, New York). Commercial DNA assay kits are also
    available, such as the Quant-iTTM DNA assay kit supplied by InVitrogen Corporation (Carlsbad,
    CA).
    [0082] Treatment of a broth or other protein preparation using the present methods results in
 5  detectable reduction in DNA, and preferably the DNA content is reduced to an undetectable
    level. A level is considered undetectable if PCR amplification of any segment of genomic DNA
    present in a single copy in a haploid genome followed by ethidium bromide staining gives no
    visible band (using the PCR conditions as in the present Examples). In an example of a typical
    regulatory requirement, "no detectable DNA in the final product" may be ascertained using a
 '0 PCR-based assay with a detection limit of, for example, 1 to 5 ng of total filamentous fungal
    DNA/mL enzyme preparation. In another example, depending on the formulation and/or use of
    the final product, detection limits of total filamentous fungal DNA of 20 pg/mL, or 2 ng/mL, or
    10 ng/mL can be imposed. In certain other examples, an even lower limit of about 500
    femtogram total filamentous fungal DNA/g of lyophilized product (e.g., less than about 450 fg
25  of DNA per g of lyophilized product, less than about 400 fg/g, less than about 350 fg/g, less than
    about 300 fg/g, less than about 250 fg/g, or even less than about 200 fg/g) can be achieved using
    the present method, for example, by extending the incubation time at the elevated temperature
    and/or at the elevated pH. In addition, the use of the instant method in combination with
    conventional methods of removing DNA from culture broths or other protein preparation is also
30  contemplated. For example, the herein-described method can be used to reduce the level of
    DNA in the culture broth, followed by the addition of small amounts of exogenous DNase so as
    to further removal residual DNA from such a broth, provided that the contribution of such
    exogenous DNase to degradation is no more than 49% (e.g., no more than 49%, no more than
    45%, no more than 40%, no more than 35%, no more than 30%, no more than 25%, no more

   than 20%, no more than 15%, no more than 10%, or no more than 5%) of the total DNase
   activity.
   [0083] After removing DNA from a protein preparation (including, e.g., a culture broth), the
   temperature if elevated during DNA removal can then be allowed to fall to a lower temperature,
 5 e.g., room temperature, or cooled to a lower temperature of 4' C or other temperature suitable for
   storage of the preparation. It is usually not necessary to re-adjust the pH of the preparation to a
   different value. However, if a downstream formulation or other procedures require a particular
   pH, the pH of the preparation can be adjusted to the desired value.
   [0084] Because fermentation products or broth of other recombinant filamentous host cells can
 0 be expected to contain some level of endogenous DNase activity, just as in the T. reesei culture
   broth, the method described herein can be used with equal facility to remove DNA from such
   broths or other protein preparations. It can be expected that the level of DNase activity and the
   pH or temperature optima of the endogenous DNases may vary from species to species, a skilled
   person can ascertain the pH adjustment and/or temperature adjustment, as well as the incubation
 5 period required to remove the DNA molecules using the teachings provided here without
   extensive experimentation.
   V.       Formulation
   [0085] After the fungal host DNA of the protein preparation (including, e.g., a culture broth) has
 0 been degraded, the preparation can be packaged for sale or used essentially as is with minimal, if
   any, further processing, or the protein preparation can be further purified or otherwise processed
   and/or formulated for downstream applications. Protein(s) or protein preparations can be
   formulated, for example, as a liquid, a slurry, a powder, a spray, a suspension, a lyophilized
   composition/ formulation, a solid, granule, geltab, pill, implant, a gel; or a pharmaceutical
25 formulation, a food, a feed, a food supplement, a feed supplement, a food additive, a feed
   additive, a nutritional supplement or a dietary supplement thereof.
   VI.      Uses of proteins
   [0086] Protein(s) or protein preparations (e.g., a broth) generated by the present methods have
30 agricultural, industrial, medical and nutritional applications. For example, cellulase enzymes
   can be used for generating glucose from grain, or as a supplement in animal feed to decrease the
   production of fecal waste by increasing the digestibility of the feed. Cellulase enzymes can also
   be used to increase the efficiency of alcoholic fermentations (e.g., in beer brewing) by
   converting lignocellulosic biomass into fermentable sugars. Phytase preparation can be used in

    grain wet milling, animal feed and cleaning products. Phytases, phytate and lower phosphate
    phytate derivatives also find many other uses in personal care products, medical products and
    food and nutritional products, as well as in various industrial applications, particularly in the
    cleaning, textile, lithographic and chemical arts. Lipases can be used in various food/feed,
 5  baking, cleaning, and/or biofuels applications. Proteins such as hormones, growth factors,
    cytokines, and antibodies can be used in treatment and prophylaxis of disease.
                                               EXAMPLES
    Example 1
 0  Part A:
    [00871 A recombinant T. reesei strain expressing a phytase from Buttiauxella sp. was cultured in
    a bioreactor. The expression cassette producing the phytase was prepared in accordance with
    the protocols described in U.S. Patent Publication US2009/0098249. The expression cassette
    was then inserted into a host strain that was derived from a "Quad deletion" version (wherein
 5  four major secreted cellulases CBHI (cel7a), CBHII (cel6a), EGI (cel7b), EGII (cel5a) have
    been deleted) of T. reesei strain RL-P37 (Sheir-Neiss and Montenecourt, 1984, Appl. Microbiol.
    Biotechnol. 20:46-53). The bioreactor was operated as described in Patent publication
    US20040121446 (the relevant disclosure of which is hereby incorporated by reference).
    [0088] Following growth in the bioreactor the culture supernatant was obtained by filtration to
 .0 remove the T. reesei cells. The supernatant was concentrated approximately four-fold by
    ultrafiltration. Sodium benzoate and potassium sorbate were added, both to a final concentration
    of 0.3%, and pH was adjusted to 5.5 to provide the ultrafiltration concentrate (UFC) used in the
    experiments below.
    [0089] A 1,526 bp fragment of DNA (the spike DNA) was obtained by polymerase chain
25  reaction (PCR) and purified using a Qiagen (Valencia, CA) PCR purification kit according to the
    manufacturer's directions. This spike DNA was added to UFC samples at a final concentration
    of 1 tg/mL. The oligonucleotide primers used in the PCR could be used to generate the same
    fragment of DNA using as template either genomic DNA from the T. reesei strain that was
    grown in the bioreactor or a purified plasmid DNA containing the same template DNA
30  sequence. The DNA sequence of the spike DNA is not important. Any region of the T. reesei
    genomic DNA can be used as template and primers designed by conventional procedures.
    [0090] Procedure to test for host DNA in UFC samples: DNA was purified from 50 ptL samples
    of UFC (to which a spike DNA preparation was added if desired) using a Promega (Madison,
    WI) Wizard SV Gel and PCR Clean-Up System according to the manufacturer's directions.

   Briefly, the 50 ptL UFC sample was mixed with 450 pL of Promega Membrane Binding
   Solution and this mix was loaded onto a Wizard SV Minicolumn. After washing the
   minicolumn with Membrane Wash Solution any DNA bound to the minicolumn membrane was
   finally eluted in nuclease-free water. Detection of DNA in the eluted sample was by PCR using
 5 the same primers used to generate the spike DNA followed by visualization of DNA fragments
   by agarose gel electrophoresis and staining with ethidium bromide. Two DNA bands were often
   observed in the PCR products, presumably due to some non-specific binding of the primers
   Part B:
   [0091] A UFC sample was selected that contained detectable DNA by PCR analysis without the
 0 addition of spike DNA (Figure 1, lane 1). Spike DNA was added to this UFC to a final
   concentration of 1 pg/mL and the amount of PCR product obtained was seen to increase (Figure
   1, lane 2). The UFC (without spike DNA) was adjusted to pH 3.0, pH 4.5 or pH 7.0 and
   incubated at 100 C for 1 hr. DNA remained detectable by PCR analysis after incubation at pH
   3.0 and pH 4.5 but not after incubation at pH 7.0. The UFC (without spike DNA) was adjusted
 5 to pH 4.5 or pH 7.0 and incubated at 40' C for 24 hr following which DNA was undetectable by
   PCR analysis.
   Part C:
   [0092] Spike DNA was added at a final concentration of 1 pg/mL to a UFC sample at pH 5.5.
   The sample was incubated at 40 C for 0, 4, 8, 12, 24, or 48 hr. With no incubation the spike
 0 DNA was detectable by PCR analysis (Figure 2, lane 1). However, by 4 hr of incubation the
   spike DNA was no longer detectable (Figure 2, lane 2). No loss of phytase activity was
   observed during incubation up to 24 hr. The same UFC sample with spike DNA was incubated
   for 7 days at 4' C or room temperature after which no DNA was detectable by PCR analysis
   (Figure 2, lanes 7 and 8).
25 Part D:
   [0093] Spike DNA was added at a final concentration of 1.45 pg/mL to a UFC sample at pH
   5.5. The sample was incubated at 10' C or 220 C or 370 C for 0, 4, 8, 12, or 24 hr followed by
   PCR analysis to detect the spike DNA.
   [0094] After incubation for 8 hr at 100 C DNA was detectable by PCR (Figure 3, lane 4), and
30 even after 24 hr at 100 C a trace of PCR product was observed (Figure 3, lane 5). After
   incubation for 8 hours at 220 C DNA was detectable by PCR (Figure 3, lane 9), but after 24 hr at
   220 C no PCR product was observed (Figure 3, lane 10). After incubation for 2 or 4 hr at 370 C a
   trace of PCR product was observed (Figure 3, lanes 12 and 13), but after 8 hr at 370 C no DNA
   was detected (Figure 3, lane 14). A control experiment consisting of the spike DNA in water

    clearly showed detectable DNA after incubation for 24 hr at 37 C confirming that loss of DNA
    was due to components in the UFC (Figure 3, lane 16).
    Example 2
    [0095] A recombinant T. reesei strain expressing a lipase from Aspergillus tubingensis was
 5  cultured in a bioreactor. The expression cassette producing the lipase was prepared in
    accordance with the protocols described in PCT Patent publication WO 2010/12253 1. The
    expression cassette was then inserted into a host strain that was derived from a "Quad deletion"
    version (wherein four major secreted cellulases CBHI (cel7a), CBHII (cel6a), EGI (cel7b), EGII
    (cel5a) have been deleted) of T. reesei strain RL-P37 (Sheir-Neiss and Montenecourt, 1984,
 0  Appl. Microbiol. Biotechnol. 20:46-53). The bioreactor was operated as described in Patent
    publication US20040121446 (the relevant disclosure of which is hereby incorporated by
    reference).
    [0096] Following growth in the bioreactor the culture supernatant was obtained by filtration to
    remove the T. reesei cells. The supernatant was concentrated approximately four-fold by
 5  ultrafiltration to create the ultrafiltration concentrate (UFC) used for further experiments.
    [0097] A Promega (Madison, WI) Wizard SV Gel and PCR Clean-Up System was used
    according to the manufacturer's instructions to extract DNA from UFC samples. Briefly, 100 pL
    UFC sample was mixed with 450 pL of Promega Membrane Binding Solution and this mix was
    loaded onto a Wizard SV Minicolumn. After washing the minicolumn with Membrane Wash
 '0 Solution any DNA bound to the minicolumn membrane was finally eluted in nuclease-free
    water. Detection of DNA in the eluted sample was by agarose gel electrophoresis and staining
    with ethidium bromide. A smear of low molecular weight DNA fragments (approximately 300
    bp and smaller) was often observed in UFC samples and is presumably derived from fragmented
    T. reesei genomic DNA.
25  [0098] Various treatments of the UFC were tested and their effects on the abundance of DNA
    recovered from the UFC were observed. The starting pH of the UFC was approximately 4.0 (the
    control UFC). Samples of UFC were adjusted to pH 5.2, 6.3 or 7.6. The control UFC and the
    adjusted UFCs were either frozen immediately after pH adjustment or were incubated for 24 hr
    at 4' C or room temperature and frozen until further analysis. All samples were then analyzed by
30  agarose gel electrophoresis. The results are shown in Figures 4A and 4B. Incubation of the
    control UFC or the UFC adjusted to pH 5.2 had no obvious effect on the presence of DNA.
    Incubation of UFC adjusted to pH 6.3 caused a slight reduction in DNA. Incubation of UFC
    adjusted to pH 7.6 caused an obvious reduction in DNA such that after 24 hr at room
    temperature the DNA smear was undetectable by agarose gel electrophoresis.

  [0099] All patents and publications, including all sequences disclosed within such patents and
  publications, referred to herein are expressly incorporated by reference in their entirety for all
  purposes. Although preferred methods and materials have been described, any methods and
  materials similar or equivalent to those described herein can be used in the practice or testing of
5 the present invention. Unless otherwise apparent from the context, any embodiment, aspect,
  step, feature, element or limitation can be used in combination with any other.
  [00100]          Where the terms "comprise", "comprises", "comprised" or "comprising" are used
  in this specification, they are to be interpreted as specifying the presence of the stated features,
  integers, steps or components referred to, but not to preclude the presence or addition of one or
0 more other feature, integer, step, component or group thereof.

THE CLAIMS DEFINING THE INVENTION ARE AS FOLLOWS
                  1.      A method of reducing DNA content of a broth in which filamentous
fungal host cells has been cultured, comprising the steps of:
                  adjusting the pH and/or temperature of a broth in which the fungal host cells
have been cultured for at least 24 hours to increase the pH and/or the temperature used in
culturing; and
                  incubating the broth for a sufficient period at the increased pH and/or
temperature to detectably reduce fungal host DNA in the preparation;
                 provided that the reduction of DNA is not primarily due to presence of an
exogenous DNase in the broth.
                 2.       The method of claim 1, further comprising performing a solid-liquid
separation step to separate the broth from filamentous fungal host cells before the adjusting
step.
                  3.      The method of claim 1 or 2, further comprising an ultrafiltration step,
wherein the macromolecules in the broth are concentrated by performing ultrafiltration before
the adjusting step.
                 4.       The method of claim 3, wherein the broth is at room temperature after
the ultrafiltration step.
                  5.      The method of any one of claims 1-4, wherein the temperature of the
broth before the adjusting step is 250 C to 340 C.
                  6.      The method of any one of claims 1-4, wherein the pH of the broth
before the adjusting step is between 4 and 5.
                  7.      The method of any one of claims 1-6, further comprising culturing the
filamentous fungal host cells in the broth until a desired concentration of secreted proteins of
interest in the broth is obtained before the adjusting step.
                  8.      The method of any one of claims 1-7, wherein the pH is increased to
pH 6-8 during the adjusting step.
                  9.      The method of any one of claims 1-7, wherein the temperature is
increased to 35' C-47' C during the adjusting step.
                                                  1)'s

                10.     The method of any one of claims 1-9, further comprising assessing the
DNA content of the broth.
                11.     The method of any one of claims 1-9, wherein the DNA content is
assessed before and after the incubating step.
                12.     The method of any one of claims 1-11, wherein the DNA content is
reduced to an undetectable level assessed by PCR and/or gel electrophoresis with ethidium
bromide staining.
                13.     The method of any one of claims 1-11, further comprising allowing the
broth to cool to room temperature after the incubating step.
                14.     The method of any one of claims 1-11, further comprising purifying
one or more proteins from the broth.
                15.     The method of any one of claims 1-11, wherein one or more proteins in
the broth are recombinantly expressed by the filamentous fungal host cell.
                16.     The method of claim 15, wherein the filamentous fungal host cell lacks
an exogenous DNase.
                17.     The method of any one of claims 1-16, wherein no DNase is added to
the broth.
                18.     The method of any one of claims 1-17, wherein the filamentous fungal
host cell recombinantly expresses a cellulase enzyme.
                19.     The method of any one of claims 1-17, wherein the filamentous fungal
host cell recombinantly expresses a phytase.
                20.     The method of any one of claims 1-17, wherein the filamentous fungal
host cell recombinantly expresses a lipase.
                21.     A method of reducing DNA content of a protein preparation from
filamentous fungal host cells, comprising the steps of:
                assessing a level of filamentous fungal host cell DNA in a protein preparation
from the fungal host cells;
                                               26

                   adjusting the pH and/or temperature of the protein preparation to an adjusted
 pH and/or temperature;
                  incubating the protein preparation for a sufficient period at the adjusted pH
 and/or temperature to detectably reduce the level of filamentous fungal host cell DNA in the
 protein preparation; and
                  determining a reduction of the amount of filamentous fungal host cell DNA in
 the protein preparation;
                  provided that the reduction is not primarily due to an exogenous DNase
 present in the protein preparation.
                  22.      The method of claim 21, wherein the amount of the DNA has been
 reduced to an undetectable level.
                  23.      A method of reducing DNA content of a broth in which a filamentous
 fungal host cells have been cultured, comprising the steps of:
                  increasing the pH and/or temperature of a broth in which the filamentous
 fungal host cells have been cultured for at least 24 hr, and on which a solid-liquid separation
 step has been performed to separate the broth from filamentous fungal host cells; and
                  incubating the broth for a sufficient period at the increased pH and/or
 temperature to detectably reduce filamentous fungal host DNA in the broth;
                  provided that the reduction is not primarily due to an exogenous DNase
 present in the broth.
                  24.      Use of an endogenous filamentous fungal host cell DNase activity to
 reduce filamentous fungal host DNA in a protein preparation from the filamentous fungal
 host cell.
                  25.      Use of an endogenous filamentous fungal host cell DNase activity to
 reduce filamentous fugal host DNA in a culture broth in which the filamentous fungal host
 cell has been cultured.
                  26.      The method of any one of claims 1-23, wherein the filamentous fungal
 host cell is a cell of T. reesei, A. niger, A. tubingensis, A. oryzae, G. emersonii,M.
 thermophila,P. funiculosum, F. venenatum, or H. insolens.
                  27.      The use of claim 24 or 25, wherein the filamentous fungal host cell is a
 cell of T. reesei, A. niger, A. tubingensis, A. oryzae, G. emersonii, M. thermophila,P.
funiculosum, F. venenatum, or H. insolens.
                                                    27

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
