                                            ABSTRACT
         Among others, the present invention provides micro-devices for detecting or treating a
disease, each comprising a first micro sensor for detecting a property of the biological sample at
the microscopic level, and an interior wall defining a channel, wherein the micro sensor is
located in the interior wall of the micro-device and detects the property of the biological sample
in the microscopic level, and the biological sample is transported within the channel.

   1    I
I     I I        _
I     I I
I     I I
I     I I
I  j  I I
I'
I  I  I I
I  I  I I
   I  I I
   I  I I
                                                                         B
                                                                         0
                              II     III       I  I  I      I   I
                              II     III       I  I  I      I   I
          ~1:1:::).:11:,'                                             -&
                              II     III
                                                 I   I      I I
                                            I     I  I      I I
     -
                              II
                              :1     :::
                                     III     I
                                               :  I I
                                                  :11::'
                                                            I I
                                 I   III     I    I  I      I I
                                               I  I      I  i   I
                                    II
                                    II                      I   I
                                 tI       I                     I
                                                                I---.
                                         t     t I         I    t
                          1/72

                         MICRO-DEVICES FOR DISEASE DETECTION
                                Cross-Reference to Related Applications
[1]      This application is a divisional application of Australian patent application 2015246139,
which is a divisional application of Australian patent application 2012231737, which is a national
phase application of PCT/US2012/022921 filed 27 January 2012, that claims priority to United States
patent application 61/467,097 filed 24 March 2011, United States patent application 61/498,954 filed
20 June 2011, International patent application PCT/US2011/042637 filed 30 June 2011 and
International patent application PCT/US2011/054979 filed 5 October 2011, the contents of each of
which applications are incorporated herein by reference in their entirety.
                                      Background of the Invention
[2]      Many serious diseases with high morbidity and mortality, including cancer and heart
diseases, are very difficult to diagnose early and accurately. Current disease diagnosis technologies
typically rely on macroscopic data and information such as body temperature, blood pressure, and
scanned images of the body. To detect serious diseases such as cancer, many of the diagnosis
apparatus commonly used today are based on imaging technologies, including x-ray, CT scan, and
nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR). While they provide various degrees of usefulness in disease
diagnosis, most of them cannot provide accurate, totally safe, and cost-effective diagnosis of such
serious diseases as cancer at an early stage. Further, many of the existing diagnosis techniques and
related apparatus are invasive and sometimes not readily accessible, especially in remote regions or
rural areas.
[3]      Even the newly emerged technologies such as those deployed in DNA tests have not been
proven effective in diagnosing a wide range of diseases in a rapid, reliable, accurate, and cost
effective manner. In recent years, there have been some efforts in using nano technologies for
various biological applications, with most of the work focused on gene mapping and moderate
developments in the field of disease detection. For instance, Pantel et al. discussed the use of a
MicroEelectroMechanical Systems (MEMS) sensor for detecting cancer cells in blood and bone
marrow in vitro (see, e.g., Klaus Pantel et al., Nature Reviews, 2008, 8, 329); Kubena et al. disclose
in U.S. Patent Number 6,922,118 the deployment of MEMS for detecting biological agents; and
Weissman et al. disclose in U.S. Patent Number 6,330,885 utilizing MEMS sensor for detecting
accretion of biological matter.
[4]      However, to date, most of the above described technologies have been limited to isolated
examples for sensing, using systems of relatively simple constructions and large dimensions but
often with limited functions, and lack sensitivities and specificities. Further, some existing
technologies utilizing nano-particles and biological approaches have the drawbacks of requiring
complicated sample preparation procedures (such as using chemical
                                                     I

or biological markers), difficulty in data interpretation, and too much reliance on visual and
color change as means of diagnosis (which is subjective and of limited resolution), making
them unsuitable for early stage disease detection, e.g., for such serious diseases as cancer, and
particularly for routine hospital screening and/or regular physical check-up examinations.
Some cannot achieve high degree of sensitivity and specificity simultaneously.
[5]      These drawbacks call for novel solutions that not only overcome them but also bring
enhanced accuracy, sensitivity, specificity, efficiency, non-invasiveness, practicality,
simplicity, and speed in early-stage disease detection at reduced costs.
                                   Summary of the Invention
[6]      The present invention in general relates to a class of innovative disease detection
apparatus which utilizes novel micro-devices (or functionalities) integrated onto them for
carrying out diagnosis at microscopic levels, in vivo or in vitro, on a single cell, a single
biological molecular (e.g., DNA, RNA, or protein), a single biological subject (e.g., a single
virus), or other sufficiently small unit or fundamental biological composition. This class of
apparatus can be made by using state-of-the-art micro-device fabrication technologies and
novel process flows such as integrated circuit fabrication technologies. As used herein, the
term "disease detection apparatus" can be interchanged with such terms as disease detection
device or apparatus integrated with micro-devices, or any other similar terms of the same
meaning. Apparatus of this invention containing multiple micro-devices can detect multiple
parameters of a biological sample to be analyzed. These disease detection apparatus are
capable of detecting diseases at their early stages with a high degree of sensitivity, specificity,
speed, simplicity, practicality, convenience (e.g., reduced apparatus size), or affordability
(e.g., reduced costs), with substantially reduced to no invasiveness and side effects.
[7]      One key component of the detection apparatus is a class of novel micro-devices and
their inventive fabrication processes which enable these novel micro-devices to perform at a
much higher level than those of conventional disease detection apparatus or technologies, due
to much improved detection sensitivity, specificity, simplicity, practicality, and speed, and
substantially reduced or no invasiveness and side effects. Examples of fabrication techniques
that can be used to make the micro-devices described herein include but not limited to
mechanical, chemical, physical-chemical, chemical mechanical, electrical, physical, bio
chemical, bio-physical, bio-physical mechanical, electro-mechanical, bio-electro-mechanical,
micro-electro-mechanical, electro-chemical-mechanical, electro-bio-chemical-mechanical,
nano-fabrication techniques, integrated circuit and semiconductor manufacturing techniques
and processes. For a general description of some of the applicable fabrication technologies,
                                                 2

see, e.g., R. Zaouk et al., Introductionto MicrofabricationTechniques, in Microfluidic
Techniques (S. Minteer, ed.), 2006, Humana Press; Microsystem EngineeringofLab-on-a
chip Devices, 1st Ed. (Geschke, Klank & Telleman, eds.), John Wiley & Sons, 2004. Micro
device functionalities would at least include sensing, detecting, measuring, diagnosing,
monitoring, and analyzing for disease diagnosis. Multiple micro-devices can be integrated
onto a piece of detection apparatus to make the apparatus more advanced and sophisticated
for further enhanced measurement sensitivity, specificity, speed and functionalities, with
ability to measure the same parameter or a set of different parameters.
[8]      Optional components of the apparatus includes means to perform at least the function
of addressing, controlling, forcing, receiving, amplifying, manipulating, processing,
analyzing, making decisions (e.g., logic decisions), or storing information from each probe.
Such means can be, e.g., a central control unit that includes a controlling circuitry, an
addressing unit, an amplifier circuitry, a logic processing circuitry, an analog device, a
memory unit, an application specific chip, a signal transmitter, a signal receiver, or a sensor.
[9]      Specifically, one aspect of this invention provides apparatus for detecting a disease,
each comprising a first micro-device and a first substrate supporting the first micro-device,
wherein the first micro-device contacts a biological subject to be analyzed and is capable of
measuring at the microscopic level an electrical, magnetic, electromagnetic, thermal, optical,
acoustical, biological, chemical, electro-mechanical, electro-chemical, electro-chemical
mechanical, bio-chemical, bio-physical, bio-mechanical, bio-thermal, bio-optical, bio-electro
mechanical, bio-electro-chemical, bio-electro-chemical-mechanical, photo-electrical, physical,
or mechanical property, or a combination thereof, of the biologic material. The apparatus can
further optionally include a device for reading the data from measuring the property.
[10]     In some embodiments, the difference in the measured property of the tested biologic
material and that of a biologic sample from a subject free of the disease is indicative of the
possible occurrence of the disease in early stage.
[11]     In some other embodiments, the electrical property is surface charge, surface potential,
oscillation in electrical signal (e.g., oscillation in ions, pulsing electrical field, pulsing surface
charge, pulsing voltage), capacitance, electro-magnetic parameters, electrical field, electrical
field distribution, electrical charge distribution, or impedance; the thermal property is
temperature; the chemical property is pH value, ionic strength, bonding strength; the physical
property is density, flow rate, volume, and surface area; and the mechanical property is
hardness, shear strength, elongation strength, fracture stress, adhesion, elasticity, or density.
These properties can be static or dynamic. For example, an electrical current can be a
                                                    3

constant current (DC) or an alternating current (AC). They can also be measured and
recorded in their values in a transition period from a static state to a dynamic state.
[12]     In some embodiments, the probing and detecting device applies to the biological
subject a voltage ranging from about 1 mV to about 10 V, or from about 1 mV to about 1.0 V.
[13]     In some embodiments, the first micro-device comprises a conductive material, an
electrically insulating material, a biological material, or a semiconductor material.
[14]     In some other embodiments, each of the apparatus further comprises at least one or
more additional micro-devices. In these embodiments, each of the micro-devices contained
in the apparatus comprises a conductive material, an electrically insulating material, or a
semiconductor material; and each of the micro-devices can comprise the same or different
material(s) and can measure the same or different properties at the same or different time.
[15]     In some embodiments, the probing device and the micro-devices are placed with a
desired distance between each other. These multiple micro-devices can be spaced out, e.g.,
with a distance of at least 10 angstroms on the substrate, or with a distance ranging from
about 5 microns to about 100 microns.
[16]     The multiple micro-devices integrated in a disease detection apparatus can
sequentially and/or simultaneously measure various parameters from a biological subject
being detected at macroscopic and/or microscopic levels. Sometimes, in an apparatus with
multiple micro-devices, some micro-devices can act as probing devices to disturb the
biological subject and trigger a response from the biological subject, while other micro
devices in the apparatus can act as detection devices to measure the triggered response by the
biological subject. Another inventive aspect of this application is that during measurements,
sometimes, at least one of the parameters applied to the biological sample being measured or
at least one of the properties in the surrounding media (in which the biological sample resides)
is intentionally changed from a static state (constant value) to a dynamic state (for example, a
pulsed value or an alternating value), or from one value to a new value. As an example, in a
measurement, a DC current applied to a biological sample is intentionally changed to an AC
current. In another example, a constant temperature applied to a biological sample is changed
to a higher temperature, or a pulsed heat wave (for example, from 30 *C to 50 *C,then from
50 *C back to 30 *C).
[17]     In some other embodiments, each of the micro-devices has the size ranging from
about 1 angstrom (A) to about 5 millimeter (e.g., from 5 A to 1 millimeter).
[18]     In some other embodiments, the apparatus comprises one or more additional
substrates on which the micro-devices are placed. Each of the substrates can comprise the
same or a different material (e.g., a conductive material or an insulator) and can be in the
                                                 4

same or a different shape (e.g., a slab or a tube), and each substrate can be a two- or three
dimensional object. They can take the form of cylinder, rectangle, cube, slabs, cavities, long
channels, long and narrow channels, chambers, chambers with channels connected to it, or
any other desired shapes and configurations, in order to further improve their measurement
sensitivity, specificity, speed, sample size, and reduce cost and size.
[19]    In terms of detection apparatus to integrate micro-devices, in one novel detection
apparatus design, to increase measurement sensitivity, micro-devices mounted on two slabs
separated by a small spacing with sample to be measured between the two said slabs can be
used to detect disease with improved speed, with micro-devices measuring cells, DNAs, and
desired items in the sample in parallel. The surface area of the slabs can be maximized in
order to have maximum number of micro-devices placed on the slabs and enhance
measurement efficiency and speed. Optionally, multiple micro-devices integrated on the
surface of the slabs can be closely spaced with their spacing matching that of cells, DNAs,
and items to be measured.
[20]    In another novel configuration, a detection apparatus integrated with micro-devices is
shaped in the form of a cylinder, with multiple micro-devices with detection probes
integrated/mounted in the inter surfaces of the cylinder and with sample to be measured (such
as blood, urine, sweat, tear, or saliva) flowing through the cylinder.
[21]    In yet another innovative configuration, a detection apparatus with integrated micro
devices is shaped in the form of a rectangular pipe, with multiple micro-devices with
detection probes integrated/mounted in the inter surfaces of the pipe and with sample to be
measured (such as blood, urine, sweat, tear, or saliva) flowing through the rectangular pipe.
[22]    In another aspect, the invention provides another set of apparatus for detecting a
disease in a biological subject, comprising a system for delivering the biological subject to be
detected and a probing and detecting device for probing and detecting the biological subject.
[23]    The difference in the measured property of the detected biologic material and of a
standard biologic sample is indicative of the possible occurrence of the disease.
[24]    In some embodiments, the probing and detecting device comprises a first micro
device and a first substrate supporting the first micro-device, the first micro-device contacts
the biologic subject to be detected and is capable of measuring at the microscopic level an
electrical, magnetic, electromagnetic, thermal, optical, acoustical, biological, chemical,
electro-mechanical, electro-chemical, electro-chemical-mechanical, bio-chemical, bio
physical, bio-thermal, bio-optical, bio-chemical-physical, bio-mechanical, bio-electro
mechanical, bio-electro-chemical, bio-electro-chemical-mechanical, photo-electrical, physical,
or mechanical property, or a combination thereof, of the biologic subject. For example, the
                                                 5

electrical property can be surface charge, surface potential, resting potential, electrical current,
electrical field distribution, electrical dipole, electrical quadruple, three-dimensional electrical
or charge cloud distribution, electrical properties at telomere of DNA and chromosome, or
impedance; the thermal property can be temperature, or vibrational frequency of biological
item or molecules; the optical property can be optical absorption, optical transmission, optical
reflection, optical-electrical property, brightness, or fluorescent emission; the chemical
property can be pH value, chemical reaction, bio-chemical reaction, bio-electro-chemical
reaction, reaction speed, reaction energy, oxygen concentration, oxygen consumption rate,
ionic strength, catalytic behavior, or bonding strength; the physical property can be density or
geometric size; the acoustic property is frequency, speed of acoustic waves, acoustic
frequency and intensity spectrum distribution, acoustic intensity, acoustical absorption, or
acoustical resonance; and the mechanical property is internal pressure, hardness, shear
strength, elongation strength, fracture stress, adhesion, mechanical resonance frequency,
elasticity, plasticity, or compressibility.
[25]     In some embodiments of the apparatus, the probing and detecting device applies to the
biological subject a voltage ranging from about 1 mV to about 10 V, or from about 1 mV to
about 1.0 V.
[26]     In some embodiments of the apparatus, the first micro-device comprises a conductive
material, an electrically insulating material, a biological material, or a semiconductor material.
[27]     In some embodiments of the apparatus, the first micro-device has a size ranging from
about 1 angstrom to about 5 millimeter.
[28]     In some embodiments of the apparatus, the probing and detecting device further
comprises one or more additional micro-devices, each of which is also capable of measuring
at the microscopic level an electrical, magnetic, electromagnetic, thermal, optical, acoustical,
biological, chemical, electro-mechanical, electro-chemical, electro-chemical-mechanical, bio
chemical, bio-physical, bio-mechanical, bio-electro-mechanical, bio-electro-chemical, bio
electro-chemical-mechanical, photo-electrical, physical, or mechanical property, or a
combination thereof, of the biologic entity. The electrical property can be surface charge,
surface potential, resting potential, electrical current, electrical field distribution, electrical
dipole, electrical quadruple, three-dimensional electrical or charge cloud distribution,
electrical properties at telomere of DNA and chromosome, capacitance, or impedance; the
thermal property can be temperature, or vibrational frequency of biological item or molecules;
the optical property can be optical absorption, optical transmission, optical reflection, optical
electrical property, brightness, fluorescent emission, or photo electrical parameters; the
chemical property can be pH value, chemical reaction, bio-chemical reaction, bio-electro
                                                   6

chemical reaction, bio-thermal parameters, bio-optical parameters, reaction speed, reaction
energy, oxygen concentration, oxygen consumption rate, ionic strength, catalytic behavior, or
bonding strength; the physical property can be density or geometric size (e.g., volume or
surface area); the acoustic property can be frequency, speed of acoustic waves, acoustic
frequency and intensity spectrum distribution, acoustic intensity, acoustical absorption, or
acoustical resonance; and the mechanical property can be internal pressure, hardness, shear
strength, elongation strength, fracture stress, adhesion, mechanical resonance frequency,
elasticity, plasticity, or compressibility.
[29]     In some embodiments of the apparatus, each of the additional micro-devices
comprises a conductive material, an electrically insulating material, a biological material, or a
semiconductor material. Further, each of the additional micro-devices comprises a material
that is the same as or different from the material of the first micro-device and is capable of
measuring the same or different property of the biologic subject as the first-micro-device
does.
[30]     In some embodiments of the apparatus, the first micro-device and each of the
additional micro-devices are capable of measuring the surface charge, surface potential,
resting potential, electrical current, electrical field distribution, electrical dipole, electrical
quadruple, three-dimensional electrical or charge cloud distribution, electrical properties at
telomere of DNA and chromosome, impedance, capacitance, volume, surface area, photo
electrical parameters, temperature, vibrational frequency, optical absorption, optical
transmission, optical reflection, optical-electrical property, brightness, fluorescent emission,
pH value, chemical reaction, bio-chemical reaction, bio-electro-chemical reaction, reaction
speed, reaction energy, oxygen concentration, oxygen consumption rate, ionic strength,
catalytic behavior, bonding strength, density, geometric size, frequency, speed of acoustic
waves, acoustic frequency and intensity spectrum distribution, acoustic intensity, acoustical
absorption, acoustical resonance, internal pressure, hardness, shearing strength, elongation
strength, fracture stress, adhesion, mechanical resonance frequency, elasticity, plasticity, or
compressibility. They can measure the same or different properties at the same or different
times.
[31]     In some embodiments of the apparatus, the probing device and the micro-devices are
placed with a desired distance between each other.
[32]     In some embodiments of the apparatus, each of the additional micro-devices has a size
ranging from about 1 angstrom to about 5 millimeter.
                                                   7

[33]    In some embodiments of the apparatus, the micro-devices are spaced out on the
substrate by a distance of at least 10 angstroms (e.g., from about 5 microns to about 100
microns).
[34]    In some embodiments of the apparatus, the substrate is in the shape of a slab, a
rectangle, a cube, a tube, an array of tubes, cavities, long channels, long and narrow channels,
chambers, or chambers with channels connected to it; or the substrate is a three-dimensional
object.
[35]    In some embodiments of the apparatus, the probing and detecting device further
comprises a second substrate of the same or different material as the first substrate.
[36]    In some embodiments, the apparatus further comprises a device for reading the data
from measuring the property by the probing and detecting device.
[37]    In some embodiments, the apparatus each further comprises a system for delivering a
fluid, which comprises a pressure generator, a pressure regulator, a throttle valve, a pressure
gauge, and distributing kits. The pressure generator can include a motor piston system and a
bin containing compressed gas; the pressure regulator can down-regulate or up-regulate the
pressure to a desired value; the pressure gauge feeds back the measured value to the throttle
valve, which then regulates the pressure to approach the target value.
[38]    The fluid to be delivered in the apparatus can be a liquid or gas. Examples of the
liquid include blood, urine, saliva, tear, saline, and sweat; whereas examples of the gas
include nitrogen, argon, helium, neon, krypton, xenon, or radon.
[39]    In some embodiments of the apparatus, the probing and detecting device further
comprises a system controller which comprises a pre-amplifier, a lock-in amplifier, an
electrical meter, a thermal meter, a switching matrix, a system bus, a nonvolatile storage
device, a random access memory, a processor, or a user interface. The interface may include
a sensor which can be, e.g., a thermal sensor, a flow meter, an optical sensor, or a sensor
comprising one or more piezo-electrical materials.
[40]    In some embodiments, the apparatus may further include a biological interface, an
interface between a sample injector and sample treatment and/or detection unit, a system
controller, or at least one system for reclaiming or treatment medical waste. Reclaiming and
treatment of medical waste is performed by the same system or by two different systems.
[41]    In some embodiments, the apparatus further include a testing sample delivery system,
a testing sample distribution system, a distribution channel, a pre-processing unit, a detection
device, a global positioning system, a motion device, a signal transmitter, a signal receiver, a
sensor, a memory storage unit, a logic processing unit, an application specific chip, a testing
sample recycling and reclaiming unit, a micro-electro-mechanical device, a multi-functional
                                                  8

device, or a micro-instrument to perform surgery, cleaning, or medical function. Such
additional components each may be fabricated by methods known in the art, e.g., as described
in PCT/US2010/041001, PCT/US2011/024672, U.S. Application No. 12/416,280, and
PCT/US2011/042637, all of which are incorporated herein by reference in their entireties.
[42]     In some embodiments of the apparatus, the system for delivering the biological
subject comprises at least one channel inside which the biological subject to be detected
travels in a certain direction; the probing and detecting device comprises at least one probing
micro-device and at least one detecting micro-device, at least one probing micro-device is
located before at least one detecting micro-device relative to the direction in which the
biological subject travels, and the probing micro-device and the detecting micro-device can
be attached to the interior or exterior wall of the channel.
[43]     In some embodiments, the probing and detecting device comprise at least two
detecting micro-devices capable of measuring at the micro-level the same or different
properties of the biological subject.
[44]     In some further embodiments, the detecting micro-devices are capable of measuring at
the microscopic level the surface charge, surface potential, resting potential, action potential,
electrical voltage, electrical current, electrical field distribution, electrical charge distribution,
electrical dipole, electrical quadruple, three-dimensional electrical or charge cloud
distribution, electrical properties at telomere of DNA and chromosome, dynamic changes in
electrical properties, dynamic changes in potential, dynamic changes in surface charge,
dynamic changes in current, dynamic changes in electrical field, dynamic changes in
electrical voltage, dynamic changes in electrical distribution, dynamic changes in electronic
cloud distribution, capacitance, impedance, temperature, vibrational frequency, optical
absorption, optical transmission, optical reflection, optical-electrical property, brightness,
fluorescent emission, photo-electrical parameters, pH value, chemical reaction, bio-chemical
reaction, bio-electro-chemical reaction, reaction speed, reaction energy, speed of reaction,
oxygen concentration, oxygen consumption rate, ionic strength, catalytic behavior, bonding
strength, density, geometric size, frequency, speed of acoustic waves, acoustic frequency and
intensity spectrum distribution, acoustic intensity, acoustical absorption, acoustical resonance,
internal pressure, hardness, volume, surface area, shear strength, elongation strength, fracture
stress, adhesion, mechanical resonance frequency, elasticity, plasticity, or compressibility.
[45]     In some embodiments of the apparatus, the shapes and sizes of different sections of
the channel can be the same or different; the width of the channel ranges from about 1 nm to
about 1 mm; the channel can be straight, curved, or angled; the interior wall of the channel
                                                   9

defines a circular, oval, or polygon space; the interior wall of the channel defines a circular or
rectangular space; the channel is a circular carbon nano-tube.
[46]    In some embodiments of the apparatus, the carbon nano-tube has a diameter ranging
from about 0.5 nm to about 100 nm and a length ranging from about 5.0 nm to about 10 mm.
[47]    In some embodiments of the apparatus, the interior wall of the channel has at least one
concave that may be in the same section as a probing or detecting micro-device. The concave
groove can be a cubic space or an angled space; the concave groove can have a depth ranging
from about 10 nm to about 1 mm.
[48]    In some embodiments of the apparatus, a distribution fluid is injected into the channel,
either before or after the biological subject passes a probing micro-device, to aid the traveling
or separation of the biological subject inside the channel. The distribution fluid can be
injected into the channel through a distribution fluid channel connected to an opening in the
channel wall.
[49]    In some yet other innovative embodiments, a cleaning fluid can be used to clean the
apparatus, particularly narrow and small spaces in the apparatus where biological residues
and deposits (such as dried blood and protein when they are used in or as a sample) likely
accumulate and block such spaces. Desired properties of such a cleaning fluid include, e.g.,
low viscosity and ability to dissolve the biological residues and deposits.
[50]    The apparatus can be for detecting the diseases of more than one biological subjects
and the channel comprises a device located therein for separating or dividing the biological
subjects based on different levels of a same property of the biological subjects. The
separating or dividing device can be, e.g., a slit, and separates or divides biological subjects
based on their properties such as surface charges.
[51]    The apparatus can further include a filtering device for removing irrelevant objects
from the biologic subject for detection.
[52]    The biological subject can be a DNA, telomere of DNA, RNA, chromosome, cell, cell
substructure, protein, tissue, virus, blood, urine, sweat, tear, or saliva.
[53]    In some embodiments, the apparatus may further includes a unit for delivering the
biological subject, a channel, a detection unit, a data storage unit, a data analysis unit, a
central control unit, a biological sample recirculation unit, a waste disposal unit; a pre
processing unit, a signal processing unit, or a disposal processing unit. All the additional
components can be integrated on a single device or a board along with the delivering system
and probing and detecting probe. The pre-processing unit may comprise a sample filtration
unit; a delivery unit for delivering a desired ion, a biological component, or a bio-chemical
component; a recharging unit; a constant pressure delivery unit; and a sample pre-probing
                                                 10

disturbing unit. The sample filtration unit may comprise an entrance channel, a disturbing
fluid channel, an accelerating chamber, and a slit. The signal processing unit may comprise
an amplifier, a lock-in amplifier, an A/D (analog-to-digital or alternative to direct electrical
current) converter, a micro-computer, a manipulator, a display, and network connections.
The signal processing unit may collect more than one signal, collect multiple signals
simultaneously, collect signals simultaneously at different locations, and the signals can be
integrated to cancel noise or to enhance the signal to noise ratio. The collected signal(s) may
also be processed through one or more lock-in amplifiers to enhance the signal to noise ratio,
thereby improving detection sensitivity and repeatability.
[54]     In some embodiments of the apparatus, a bio-compatible fluid is injected into the
disturbing fluid channel to separate the biological subject, or the bio-compatible fluid is
injected from the entrance of the disturbing fluid channel and delivered to an opening in the
entrance channel wall. The biocompatible fluid comprises saline, water, an oxygen-rich
liquid, or plasma.
[55]     In some embodiments of the apparatus, the angle between the entrance channel and
the disturbing fluid channel ranges from about 00 to about 1800, from about 300 to about 1500,
from about 600 to about 1200, or from about 750 to about 1050, or about 900; the width of each
channel ranges from about 1 nm to about 1 mm; and at least one of the channels comprises
one probing device attached to the channel's sidewall, wherein the probing device is capable
of measuring at the microscopic level an electrical, magnetic, electromagnetic, thermal,
optical, acoustical, biological, chemical, electro-mechanical, electro-chemical, electro
chemical-mechanical, bio-chemical, bio-mechanical, bio-electro-mechanical, bio-electro
chemical, bio-electro-chemical-mechanical, physical or mechanical property, or a
combination thereof, of the biological subject. The sample filtration unit may comprise an
entrance channel, a biocompatible micro-filter, or an exit channel.
[56]     In some embodiments of the apparatus, the biocompatible micro-filter is capable of
filtering the biological subject based on at least one property selected from physical size,
hardness, elasticity, shear strength, weight, surface feature, optical, photo-electrical,
acoustical, thermal, chemical, physical, mechanical, electrical, biological, bio-chemical, bio
physical, bio-mechanical, bio-electrical, bio-thermal, bio-chemical mechanical, bio-electrical
mechanical, bio-optical, bio-electrical optical, bio-chemical optical, electrical, electro
chemical, magnetic, electromagnetic, electro-mechanical, electro-chemical-mechanical, and
electro-chemical-biological property.
[57]     In some embodiments, at least one of the channels comprises at least two probing
devices attached to the channel's sidewalls, and the probing devices are capable of measuring
                                                 11

at the microscopic level an electrical, magnetic, electromagnetic, thermal, optical, photo
electrical, acoustical, biological, chemical, electro-mechanical, electro-chemical, electro
chemical-mechanical, bio-chemical, bio-physical, bio-electrical, bio-mechanical, bio-optical,
bio-thermal, physical-chemical, bio-physical, bio-physical mechanical, bio-mechanical, bio
electro-mechanical, bio-electro-chemical, bio-electro-chemical-mechanical, physical or
mechanical property, or a combination thereof, of the biological subject.
[58]     In some embodiments of the apparatus, the recharging unit recharges nutrient or
respiring gas to the biological subject. The nutrient can include a biocompatible strong or
weak electrolyte, amino acid, mineral, ions, oxygen, oxygen-rich liquid, intravenous drip,
glucose, or protein; and the respiring gas can include oxygen.
[59]     In some embodiments, the biological subject to be tested comprises blood, urine,
saliva, tear, saline, or sweat.
[60]     In some embodiments, the signal processing unit comprises an amplifier, a lock-in
amplifier, an A/D converter, a micro-computer, a manipulator, a display, or a network
connection. It can collect more than one signal, and the signals can be integrated to reduce
(i.e., cancel out) noise and hence enhance the signal to noise ratio.
[61]     In still another aspect, the invention provides alternative apparatus for detecting a
disease in a biological subject. The apparatus each comprise a launching chamber to launch a
probe object at a desired speed and direction, a detection unit, a probe object, a detection
component, a channel for transporting the biological subject to be tested and the probe object.
[62]     In some embodiments of these apparatus, the launching chamber comprises a piston
for releasing the probe object and a channel for directing the probe object.
[63]     In some embodiments, the detection unit or the detection component is capable of
measuring at the microscopic level an electrical, magnetic, electromagnetic, thermal, optical,
acoustical, biological, chemical, electro-mechanical, electro-chemical, electro-chemical
mechanical, bio-chemical, physical-chemical, bio-physical, bio-thermal, bio-optical, bio
physical mechanical, bio-mechanical, bio-electro-mechanical, bio-electro-chemical, bio
electro-chemical-mechanical, physical or mechanical property, or a combination thereof, of
the biological subject.
[64]     Yet still another set of apparatus for detecting a disease in a biological subject as
provided by this invention are those fabricated by a method comprising: providing a substrate;
sequentially depositing a first material and a second material as two layers onto the substrate
to form a material stack; patterning the second material to form a first desired feature;
depositing a third material onto the material stack to cover the second material; optionally
patterning the first material and third material to form a second desired feature; and
                                                  12

optionally depositing a fourth material onto the material stack; wherein the detection device
is capable of interacting with the biological subject to generate a response signal. If desired,
in order to enhance functionality of the apparatus, density of the components such as
detectors in the apparatus, and measurement speed of the apparatus, one or more of the above
steps can be repeated. In one embodiment, the above flow can be repeated to create vertically
stacked, multiple layers of such features (components) which allow simultaneous
measurements of many biologic samples to significantly increase the measurement speed and
efficiency. This will be useful, e.g., for detecting circulating tumor cells (CTCs) which
typically exist at a very low concentration (e.g., one part per billion).
[65]    In some embodiments, in these methods used for fabricating the apparatus, the second
material can be patterned by microelectronic processes.
[66]    In some embodiments, in these methods used for fabricating the apparatus, the first
material and third material can be the same or different.
[67]    In some embodiments, in these methods used for fabricating the apparatus, the first
material and third material are patterned by lithography and etch processes selective to the
second material to form at least one type of trench feature in the layers of the third material
and first material.
[68]    In some embodiments, in these methods used for fabricating the apparatus, the
fabrication method may further comprise capping the top of the material stack to form an
enclosed trench. The enclosed trench can, e.g., be used to observe and record features and
behaviors of the biological subject. The capping can comprise, e.g., placing a second device
on the top of the material stack, and the second device can be a device identical to the
detection device being capped, a piece of glass or crystal, or a functional device selected from
the group consisting of an imaging device, a sensor (e.g., an optical sensor), a memory
storage, a signal transmission, a logic processing component, a circuit for data storage, signal
transmission, signal receiving, and signal processing.
[69]    In some embodiments, in these methods used for fabricating the apparatus, the first
feature or second feature is selected from the group consisting of partitioned chambers,
chambers connected with channels, channels, probe generator (probe), detection probes,
electrically connective interconnection lines, optical transmission lines, piezo-photonic lines,
piezo-electrical photronic lines, and piezo-electrical lines. For example, the partitioned
chambers can be for pre-processing of the biological subject for initial screening and
enhancement of concentration of diseased biological subject for further testing, chambers
connected with channels are for pre-processing and detection, channels can be for biological
subject to flow through, the probe generator (probe) can be utilized for generating probe and
                                                 13

disturb signal onto the biological subject for triggering a response signal, the detection probe
can be for measuring properties of the biological subject and the response signal, the
electrically connective interconnection lines can be for transmitting signals, the optical
transmission lines can be for transmitting signals, and piezo-electrical lines can be for using
piezo-electrical effect to probe biological subjects.
[70]    In some embodiments, in these methods used for fabricating the apparatus, the second
material is patterned using lithography and etch processes selective to the first material to
form a desired component such as a detection probe.
[71]    In some embodiments, in these methods used for fabricating the apparatus, the first
and third materials are patterned using lithography and etch processes selective to the second
material to form at least one type of trench feature in the layers of the third and first materials,
with the second material reasonably aligned with the wall of the trench.
[72]    In some embodiments, in these methods used for fabricating the apparatus, the
thickness of the fourth material is thinner than that of the third material.
[73]    In some embodiments, the second and the fourth materials form detection probes.
[74]    In some embodiments, the second and the fourth materials form a probe and a
detector, respectively.
[75]    In some embodiments, the apparatus may further include an imaging device for
observing and recording properties and behaviors of the biological subject.
[76]    In some embodiments, the apparatus may further include a pre-processing unit with
chambers for pre-screening and enhancing a diseased biological subject for further testing,
channels for carrying fluidic sample to flow through, probes for probing and disturbing the
biological subject being tested for generating response signals, detection probes for
measuring properties and response signals of the biological subject, and an imaging device, a
camera, a viewing station, an acoustic detector, a thermal detector, an ion emission detector,
or a thermal recorder for observing and recording properties and behaviors of the biological
subject.
[77]    In some embodiments, the apparatus may further include a memory storage unit, a
signal transmission component, a logic processing component, or a circuit for data storage,
signal transmission, signal receiving, or signal processing. These additional devices can be
fabricated by microelectronics processes on the substrate where the first material is deposited.
[78]    In some embodiments, the apparatus may have typical channel dimensions ranging
from about 2 microns x 2 microns to about 100 microns x 100 microns in cross sectional area
for a square-shaped channel, a rectangle-shaped channel, a radius ranging from about 1
micron to about 20 microns in cross sectional area for a circular shaped channel, and a typical
                                                 14

probe dimension ranging from about 0.5 micron x 0.5 micron to about 20 microns x 20
microns in cross sectional area for a square-shaped probe.
[79]     In some embodiments, the apparatus may have typical channel dimensions ranging
from about 6 microns x 6 microns to about 14 microns x 14 microns in cross sectional area
for a square-shaped channel, a radius ranging from about 3 microns to about 8 microns in
cross sectional area for a circular shaped channel, and a typical probe dimension ranging
from about 0.5 micron x 0.5 micron to about 10 microns x 10 microns in cross sectional area
for a square shaped probe.
[80]     In some embodiments, the first material and the fourth material each comprise un
doped oxide (SiO 2 ), silicon nitride, doped oxide, a polymer material, glass, or an insulating
material. Optionally, the above mentioned materials can be coated with at least one coating
material for improving compatibility (between biological sample and the surface of the
apparatus in contact with the biological sample), easiness to clean, and apparatus reliability
and lifetime.
[81]     In some embodiments, the second material and third material each comprise an
electrically conductive material, aluminum, an aluminum alloy, copper, a copper alloy,
tungsten, a tungsten alloy, gold, a gold alloy, silver, a silver alloy, conductive polymer,
carbon nano-tube or a piezo-electrical material. Examples of the piezo-electrical material
include, but are not limited to, quartz, berlinite, gallium, orthophosphate, GaPO 4 , tourmaline,
ceramics, barium, titanate, BatiO 3, lead zirconate, titanate PZT, zinc oxide, aluminum nitride,
and a polyvinylidene fluoride.
[82]     In yet some other embodiments, the second material and fourth material each
comprise an electrically conductive material or a piezo-electrical material. Examples of the
electrically conductive material include, but are not limited to, aluminum, an aluminum alloy,
copper, a copper alloy, tungsten, a tungsten alloy, gold, a gold alloy, silver, a silver alloy;
whereas examples of the piezo-electrical material include, but are not limited to, quartz,
berlinite, gallium, orthophosphate, GaPO 4, tourmaline, ceramics, barium, titanate, BatiO 3,
lead zirconate, titanate PZT, zinc oxide, aluminum nitride, and a polyvinylidene fluoride.
[83]     In some embodiments of the apparatus, the detection device comprises at least one
probe, at least one detector, or at least one pair of probe and detector, the probe generates a
probing or disturbing signal onto the biological subject to give a response signal, and the
detector measures the response signal thus generated.
[84]     In some embodiments of the apparatus, the second material is patterned by
microelectronic processes to form a first desired feature; the first material and third material
                                                  15

are optionally patterned by microelectronic processes to form a second desired feature; and
the first material and third material can be the same or different.
[85]     In some embodiments, the methods for fabricating the apparatus further include
capping the top of the material stack to form an enclosed trench, with such trench used for
test sample transportation or detection site.
[86]     One of the key novel aspects of this patent application is the design and fabrication
process flows of micro-devices and methods of using the micro-devices for contacting and
measuring properties, at microscopic levels and in a three dimensional space, of a biological
subject (e.g., a single cell or a single biological molecule such as DNA or RNA). The micro
devices have micro-probes arranged in a three dimensional manner with feature sizes as small
as a cell, a DNA, and a RNA and capable of trapping, sorting, probing, measuring,
communicating, moving, contacting, slicing, cutting, manipulating, or modifying biological
subjects.
[87]     Another aspect of this invention relates to methods for fabricating a micro-device.
The methods include depositing various materials on a substrate and, in the interims of
depositing every two materials, pattern the materials by microelectronic technology and
associated processes, wherein the micro-device is capable of measuring at the microscopic
level the electrical, magnetic, electromagnetic, thermal, optical, photo-electrical, piezo
electrical, piezo-photonic, piezo-electrical photronic, acoustical, biological, mechanical,
chemical, physical, physical-chemical, bio-chemical, bio-physical, bio-mechanical, bio
electrical, bio-thermal, bio-optical, bio-chemical mechanical, bio-electro-mechanical, bio
electro-chemical mechanical, electro-chemical mechanical, micro-electro-mechanical
property, or a combination thereof, of a biologic subject that the micro-device is to contact.
[88]     Still another aspect of this invention relates to methods for fabricating a micro-device,
which include depositing a first material on the substrate, pattering the first material by a
microelectronic process to give rise to at least one patterned residual and leaving part of the
substrate surface uncovered by the first material, depositing a second non-conductive material
atop the processed first material and the substrate, creating an opening in the second material
and exposing part of the patterned residual of the first material, filling up the opening in the
second material with a third material. In some embodiments, the microelectronic process
comprises thin film deposition, photolithography, etching, cleaning, or chemical mechanical
polishing.
[89]     Yet in still another aspect, the invention provides methods for fabricating a micro
device, which include the first step of depositing a first material onto a substrate; the second
step of depositing a second material onto the first material and then patterning the second
                                                  16

material with a microelectronic technology or process; and repeating the second step at least
once with a material that can be the same as or different from the first or second material.
The materials used in the repeated steps can be the same as or different from the first or
second material. In some embodiments, at least one of the materials used in fabricating the
micro-device is a piezo-electrical material or a conductive material.
[90]    In some embodiments, multiple fabricated micro-devices can be coupled, joined,
connected, and integrated by physical or electrical method to constitute the more advanced
devices.
[91]    In some embodiments, the apparatuses of this invention can be integrated on a single
device (e.g., by using a semiconductor processing technology) or assembled on a board (e.g.,
by using a computer packaging technology).
[92]    In some embodiments, fabrication is done by a microelectronic process (e.g.,
chemical vapor deposition, physical vapor deposition, or atomic layer deposition to deposit
various materials on a substrate as an insulator or conductor or semiconductor; lithography
and etch or chemical mechanical polishing to transfer patterns from design to structure;
chemical mechanical planarization, chemical cleaning for particle removal; thermal spiking
anneal to reduce the crystal defects; diffusion or ion implantation for doping elements into
specific layers). In some embodiments, patterning is planarization by chemical polishing,
mechanical polishing, or chemical mechanical polishing.
[93]    In some other embodiments, the methods further include removal of a stack of
multiple layers of materials by wet etch, plasma etch, or by vapor etch.
[94]    In some embodiments, the micro-device can move in any direction. For instance, two
micro-devices can move in opposite directions.
[95]    In some embodiments, the micro-device thus fabricated is so patterned that it is
capable of trapping, sorting, probing, measuring, communicating, manipulating, contacting,
moving, slicing, cutting, or modifying a biological subject; or that it can piece through the
membrane of a cell.
[96]    Still another aspect of the invention relates to methods for fabricating a device or
apparatus for detecting disease in a biological subject, which include providing a substrate,
sequentially depositing a first material and a second material as two different layers onto the
substrate to form a material stack, patterning the second material by microelectronic
processes to form a first desired feature, depositing a third material onto the material stack,
optionally patterning the first and third materials by microelectronic processes to form a
second desired feature, and optionally depositing a fourth material onto the material stack.
One, some, or all of the above processes and flows can be repeated to form additional
                                                 17

identical, variations, or different structures including but not limited to channels to transport
biological sample, chambers for processing, treating, or measuring biological samples,
probers, detectors and other components.
[97]    In some embodiments, the methods further include steps of fabricating (utilizing
processes including but not limited to depositing, patterning, polishing, and cleaning)
additional components onto the substrate before sequentially depositing the first material and
the second material as layers onto the substrate, wherein the additional components comprise
a data storage component, a signal processing component, a memory storage component, a
signal transmitting component (receiving and sending signals), a logic processing component,
or an RF (radio-frequency) component.
[98]    In some other embodiments, the methods further include steps of fabricating at least a
circuit onto the substrate before sequentially depositing the first material and the second
material as layers onto the substrate, wherein the circuit comprises a data storage circuit, a
signal processing circuit, a memory storage circuit, a signal transmitting circuit, or a logic
processing circuit.
[99]    In still some other embodiments, the methods of this invention further include a step
of planarizing the third material using chemical mechanical polishing process or an etch back
process, after the step of depositing the third material onto the material stack and before the
step of patterning the first and the third materials.
[100]   Examples of the suitable microelectronic processes include, but are not limited to, thin
film deposition, lithography, etch, polishing, cleaning, ion implantation, diffusion, annealing,
and packaging as typically used in microelectronics.
[101]   The first and third materials can be the same or different. They can be, for example,
electrically insulating material, such as oxide, doped oxide, silicon nitride, or a polymer.
[102]   The second material can be an electrically conductive material, a piezo-electrical
material, a piezo-photronic material, a piezo-electro-photronic material, a semiconductor
material, a thermal sensitive material, an optical material, a pressure sensitive material, an ion
emission sensitive material, or any combination thereof. For example, the second material
can be copper, aluminum, tungsten, gold, silver, glass, an aluminum alloy, a copper alloy, a
tungsten alloy, a gold alloy, a silver alloy, quartz, berlinite, gallium, orthophosphate, GaPO 4,
tourmaline, ceramics, barium, titanate, BatiO 3, lead zirconate, titanate PZT, zinc oxide,
aluminum nitride, and a polyvinylidene fluoride.
[103]   In some embodiments, the first desired feature can be a probe, whereas the second
desired feature can be a recessed form, or a trench form in the layers of the first and third
materials.
                                                  18

[104] In yet some other embodiment, the methods of this invention further comprise
depositing a fourth material onto the material stack and then patterning the fourth material to
form a recessed area such as a hole at a selected location. Further, optionally, additional
materials and layers can be added and processed to form additional features and components.
[105]   In still another embodiment, the methods of this invention further comprise a step of
removing the third material from the material stack by wet or vapor etch to form a detection
chamber between the fourth material and the substrate. Furthermore, they may also include a
step of removing the first material from the material stack by wet etch or vapor etch to form a
channel. The channel can connect the formed detection chamber with additional chambers,
and for transporting biological samples.
[106]   In yet still another embodiment, the methods of this invention further include a step of
sealing or capping the top of the material stack to form an enclosed trench. In one example
of this step, the top of the material stack is sealed or capped with an additional device onto
the material stack. Examples of such an additional device include, but are not limited to, an
imaging device, a communication device, and a detecting probe. The above said device on
top of the material stack comprises of optical device, imaging device, camera, viewing station,
acoustic detector, piezo-electrical detector, piezo-photronic detector, piezo-electro photronic
detector, electrical sensor, thermal detector, ion emission detector, and thermal recorder.
[107]   In another aspect, the invention provides micro-devices for detecting or treating a
disease, each comprising a first micro sensor for detecting a property of the biological sample
at the microscopic level, and an interior wall defining a channel, wherein the micro sensor is
located in the interior wall of the micro-device and detects the property of the biological
sample in the microscopic level, and the biological sample is transported within the channel.
The size of the channel can range from 0.5 micron to 80 microns in radius for a circular
shaped channel, from 1 micron to 100 microns in length for each side for a rectangle shaped
channel. The property to be measured, e.g., can be an electrical, magnetic, electromagnetic,
thermal, optical, acoustical, biological, chemical, electro-mechanical, electro-chemical,
electro-chemical-mechanical, bio-chemical, bio-mechanical, bio-physical, bio-electrical, bio
optical, bio-thermal, bio-electromagnetic, bio-electro-mechanical, bio-electro-chemical, bio
electro-chemical-mechanical, physical, or mechanical property, or a combination thereof.
[108]   In some embodiments, the first micro sensor or micro-device is fabricated by
microelectronics technologies. For example, the first micro sensor can be fabricated to be an
integral part of an interior wall of the micro-device, or the first micro sensor is fabricated
separately from and bonded to the interior wall of the micro-device.
                                                  19

[109] In some embodiments, each of the micro-devices may further comprise a read-out
circuitry which is connected to the micro sensor and transfers data from the first micro sensor
to a recording device. The connection between the read-out circuit and the first micro sensor
is digital (e.g., with code or decoding technology), analog (e.g., through electron or proton
movement or radio), optical, electrical, or mechanical (e.g., with a nano-sized wire).
[110]    In some embodiments, each of the micro-devices may further comprises at least one
additional micro sensor in proximity with the first micro sensor and located on the same
interior wall, wherein the at least one additional micro sensor is fabricated in micro
technologies process. For instance, each micro-device may further comprises at least three
(e.g., 5, 8, or 15) additional micro sensors in proximity with the first micro sensor and located
on the same interior wall as the first micro sensor, wherein the at least three additional micro
sensors are fabricated in micro-technologies process. These micro sensors can be arranged in
one group or at least two groups (in a certain geometrical order).
[1111]   In some embodiments, every two of the micro sensors can detect the same or different
properties of the biological sample, or they can perform the same or different functions. For
example, at least one of the micro sensors can be a probing sensor and apply a disturbing
signal to the biological sample, while at least another micro sensor only detects a signal or
property at the microscopic level of the biological sample (whether or not it has been probed
or disturbed by a probing sensor).
[112]    In some embodiments, the micro-sensors are fabricated on a flat panel and exposed to
the channel defined by the interior walls of the micro-device.
[113]    In some embodiments, each micro-device of this invention has a symmetric interior or
exterior configuration. For example, the micro-device can have an oval, circular, hexagon,
triangular, square, or rectangular interior configuration or channel.
[114]    In some embodiments, a micro-device of this invention has a square, oval, circular,
hexagon, triangular, or rectangular interior channel and four sides of interior walls. In some
of these embodiments, all the micro sensors can be located on one side or two opposite sides
of the interior wall.
[115]    In some embodiments, a micro-device of this invention comprises two panels, at least
one of the panels is fabricated by micro-electronic technologies and comprises the micro
sensors and a read-out circuitry, with micro sensors located in the interior wall of the panel
which with other interior walls of the micro-device defines the interior channel of the micro
device.
[116]    In some other embodiments, a micro-device of this invention further comprises two
micro-cylinders that are placed between and bonded with the two panels, wherein each of the
                                                 20

micro-cylinders is solid, hollow, or porous, and optionally fabricated by microelectronics
technologies. For instance, the micro-cylinders can be solid and at least one of them
comprises a micro sensor fabricated by microelectronics technologies. The micro sensor in
the micro-cylinder can detect the same or different property as a micro sensor in a panel of
the micro-device. For example, a micro sensor in the micro-cylinder can be a probing sensor
and applies a probing or disturbing signal to the biological sample to be tested, whereas a
micro sensor in a panel does not provide a disturbing signal and only detects a property of the
biological sample at the microscopic level.
[117]   In some embodiments, at least one of the micro-cylinders comprises at least two
micro sensors fabricated by microelectronics technologies, and every two of the at least two
micro sensors are so located in the cylinder that an array of micro sensors in a panel at
position between every two micro sensors in the micro cylinder. For example, at least one of
the panels comprises at least two micro sensors that are arranged in at least two arrays each
separated by at least a micro sensor in a cylinder. Alternatively, at least one array of the
micro sensors in the panel can comprise two or more (e.g., 4, 9, or 16) micro sensors.
[118]   The two sensors in the micro cylinder can be apart by a distance ranging from 0.1
micron to 500 microns, from 0.1 micro to 50 microns, from 1 micro to 100 micros, from 2.5
micros to 100 microns, from 5 microns to 250 micros.
[119]   In some embodiments, a micro-device of this invention comprises two panels each
comprising at least one micro sensor and a read-out circuitry, the micro-sensors are located in
the interior wall of each panel which with other interior walls of the micro-device defines the
interior channel of the micro-device. For example, each panel may comprise at least two
micro sensors arranged in an array.
[120]   The micro-device may further comprise two micro-cylinders that are placed between
and bonded with the two panels, wherein each of the micro-cylinders can be solid, hollow, or
porous, and optionally fabricated by microelectronics technologies. For example, the micro
cylinders can be solid and at least one of them comprises a micro sensor fabricated by
microelectronics technologies.
[121]   The micro sensor in the micro-cylinder can detect the same or different property as a
micro sensor in a panel of the micro-device. For example, a micro sensor in the micro
cylinder can apply a probing signal to the biological sample to be tested and cause the
biological sample to respond by generating a signal.
[122]   In some other embodiments, at least one of the micro-cylinders comprises at least two
micro sensors fabricated by microelectronics technologies, and every two of the at least two
                                                21

micro sensors are so located in the cylinder that an array of micro sensors in a panel at
position between the every two micro sensors in the micro cylinder.
[123]   In some other embodiments, at least one of the panels comprises at least two micro
sensors that are arranged in at least two arrays each separated by at least a micro sensor in a
cylinder. In some of these embodiments, at least one array of the micro sensors in the panel
comprises two or more micro sensors.
[124]   In some further embodiments, each micro-device of this invention comprises:
        two panels at least one of which is fabricated by microelectronics technologies and
comprises the micro sensors and a read-out circuitry, and the micro sensors are located in the
interior wall of the panel which, with other interior walls of the micro-device, defines the
interior channel of the micro-device;
        two micro-cylinders that are placed between and bonded with the two panels, wherein
each of the micro-cylinders is solid, hollow, or porous, and optionally fabricated by
microelectronics technologies; and
        an application specific integrated circuit chip which is internally bonded to or
integrated into one of the panels or a micro-cylinder and, together with other components of
the micro-device defines the internal channel of the micro-device.
[125]   In these embodiments, a micro-device may further comprises an optical device, a
piezo-electrical detector, a piezo-photronic detector, a piezo-electro photronic detector, an
electrical detector, imaging device, camera, viewing station, acoustic detector, thermal
detector, ion emission detector, or thermal recorder, each of which is integrated into the a
panel or a micro cylinder.
[126]   Each micro sensor can be a thermal sensor, an electrical sensor, an electro-magnetic
sensor, piezo-electrical sensor, piezo-photronic sensor, piezo-optical electronic sensor, image
sensor, optical sensor, radiation sensor, mechanical sensor, magnetic sensor, bio-sensor,
chemical sensor, bio-chemical sensor, or acoustic sensor.
[127]   Examples of micro sensor include a thermal sensor, piezo-electrical sensor, piezo
photronic sensor, piezo-optical electronic sensor, an electrical sensor, an electro-magnetic
sensor, image sensor, optical sensor, radiation sensor, mechanical sensor, magnetic sensor,
bio-sensor, chemical sensor, bio-chemical sensor, and acoustic sensor. Examples of thermal
sensor comprise a resistive temperature micro-sensor, a micro-thermocouple, a thermo-diode
and thermo-transistor, and a surface acoustic wave (SAW) temperature sensor. Examples of
an image sensor include a charge coupled device (CCD) and a CMOS image sensor (CIS).
Examples of a radiation sensor include a photoconductive device, a photovoltaic device, a
pyro-electrical device, or a micro-antenna. Examples of a mechanical sensor comprise a
                                                22

pressure micro-sensor, micro-accelerometer, micro-gyrometer, and micro flow-sensor.
Examples of a magnetic sensor comprise a magneto-galvanic micro-sensor, a magneto
resistive sensor, a magneto-diode, and magneto-transistor. Examples of a bio-chemical
sensor include a conductive-metric device and a potentio-metric device.
[128]    In still some other embodiments, a micro-device of this invention may further include
a read-out device for receiving or transferring data collected by the micro sensor on the
measured property of the biological sample.
[129]    Associated with the micro-devices described above are methods for fabricating a
micro-device for detecting or treating a disease. Each of the methods can include the steps of:
fabricating a first panel by microelectronics technologies, fabricating at least one micro
sensor by microelectronics technologies and integrating it to the first panel, optionally
providing or fabricating at least one micro-cylinder and a second panel, bonding the first
panel and the optional second panel and the optional micro-cylinder whereby the interior
walls of the panels and optional micro-cylinder define an internal channel of the micro-device
and the micro sensor is exposed in the internal channel. In some examples of these methods,
the at least one micro sensor is fabricated as an internal part of and at the same time as the
first panel. In some other examples, fabricating the first panel also gives rise to a read-out
circuitry which is connected to the micro sensors in a panel by a digital, analog, or
mechanical means.
[130]    Also associated with the micro-devices described above are methods for detecting a
disease in a subject in need thereof, each comprising the steps of: taking a biological sample
from the subject and taking a biological sample from disease-free subject, analyzing the two
biological samples to measure a property thereof at the microscopic level with a micro-device
of any of claims 1-45, and comparing the measured property of the two biological samples.
The property to be measured can be, e.g., an electrical, magnetic, electromagnetic, piezo
electrical, piezo-photronic, piezo-electro photronic, thermal, optical, acoustical, biological,
chemical, electro-mechanical, electro-chemical, electro-chemical-mechanical, bio-chemical,
bio-mechanical, bio-physical, bio-thermal, bio-optical, bio-electro-mechanical, bio-electro
chemical, bio-electro-physical, bio-electro-thermal, bio-electro-optical, bio-electro-chemical
mechanical, physical, or mechanic property, or a combination thereof, of the biological
sample.
[131]    In yet another aspect, the present invention provides methods for fabricating a device
for detecting disease in a biological subject, which include providing a substrate, sequentially
depositing a first and a second materials as layers onto the substrate to form a material stack,
patterning the second material, optionally by lithography and etch processes or by direct
                                                23

writing process, to form a recessed area in the layer of the second material, depositing a third
material onto the material stack, removing a portion of the third material above the second
material by etching back and/or polishing process (etching back, etching back followed by
polishing, or by polishing process), patterning the third material, optionally by lithography
and etch processes or by direct-writing process, to form at least a portion of recessed area in
the layer of the third material, depositing a fourth material onto the material stack, and
removing the portion of the fourth material above the third material by etch back or polishing
process to keep at least a portion of the second and fourth material in the same layer.
[132]   If desired, more layers of different materials can be deposited, patterned, cleaned, or
planarized to form additional structures with more features, components, layers,
functionalities, and complexities.
[133]   The first and third materials used in the methods of this invention can be the same or
different. In some embodiments, they are the same. They can be, e.g., an electrically
insulating material. Examples of the first and third materials include, but are not limited to,
oxide, doped oxide, silicon nitride, or a polymer.
[134]   In some embodiments, following the deposition and processing of the third or fourth
material, at least one more material is deposited and processed to form a top layer with a
detection chamber or channels formed underneath.
[135]   Examples of the second material include, but are not limited to, electrically
conductive materials, piezo-electrical materials, piezo-electro photronic materials,
semiconductor materials, thermal sensitive materials, a pressure sensitive material, an ion
emission sensitive material, optical materials, or any combinations thereof.
[136]   In some embodiments, a novel detection apparatus comprising a detection chamber
and/or channels for test sample transport is formed by methods that include the steps of:
depositing a first material, patterning the first material ("material A") to form at least a
recessed area, depositing a second material ("material B"), removing the second material
("material B") from areas above the first material ("material A") by using polishing and/or
etch back processes, leaving the second material ("material B") in the recessed area in the
first material layer, depositing a third material ("material C") to cover the first material
("material A") and the second material ("material B"), patterning the third material ("material
C") to form at least a hole smaller than the recessed area(s) in the third material layer and
above it, removing the second material ("material B") optionally by using vapor etch or wet
etch or heating, forming an enclosed cavity in the first material layer.
[137]   In addition to novel micro-devices and manufacturing process for fabricating them,
packaging of such devices are also critical (a) in ensuring its proper function and (b) how to
                                                  24

incorporate (transport it into the micro-device) biological sample into the micro-device for
processing, sorting, detection, probing, communicating, and possibly manipulating,
modifying and treating such biological subjects. Specifically, after being fabricated, the
micro-devices typically need to be packaged for protection from outside environment and for
configuration for connection with the outside world (e.g., by electrical connection).
[138] In this application, a set of novel designs, configurations, processes, and materials are
disclosed, with the goals of protecting the micro-devices, connecting to the outside world,
and transporting biological samples into the micro-devices properly and effectively. In some
embodiments relating to this aspect, after being fabricated, a micro-device can be wrapped
with a packaging material that forms a protective or packaging layer around the micro-device.
The packaging process may also allow for forming lead pins on the packaging material for
connections (e.g., magnetic or electrical connection) with outside devices, e.g., for data
transmissions and instruction communications. The packaging material can be an organic
polymeric material, an inorganic polymeric material, or a molding compound.
[139]   In some other embodiments, a novel cavity can be formed in the packaging or
protective layer, which has at least one opening connecting to the inlet of the micro-device
and at least one other opening connecting to an outside device such as an injection device. In
this way, a biological sample can be injected into the cavity through the opening (e.g., by
connecting to an injector) and transported into the micro-device through the other opening
connecting to the micro-device inlet.
[140]   In still some other applications, an outside device such as an injection device can be
directly connected to an inlet of, or fitted into, the micro-device for transporting a biological
sample. In this case, it is important that the inlet is leak free at both ends connected to the
micro-device and to the outside device (such as an injector). To achieve this, a first material
with substantially high viscosity can be used first to seal seams and cracks between the inlet
and the micro-device, or between the outside device and the micro-device. It could be a solid
material or a material with very high viscosity. To secure its stability and resolve possible
adhesion issues with the first material and the device, a second material (e.g., a material that
has a lower viscosity and is sticky in nature, when melt or solution) can be applied.
Examples of such a material include epoxies, adhesives, and glues. To speed up the drying
process of the second material when it is in a solution, heat can be applied (for example, an
air flow at a temperature of 40 *C or higher).
[141]   In yet some other embodiments, a novel detection apparatus can be integrated with at
least one micro-injector and at least one detector, in which the micro-injector can inject a
                                                  25

desired object into the biological subject to be tested to generate a response by the biological
subject and the detector detects the response thus generated by the biological subject.
[142]    The invention further provides methods for detecting a biological subject's dynamic
response to a signal. These methods include providing an apparatus comprising two micro
devices of which one is a probing micro-device and the other is a detecting micro-device and
positioned with a distance from the probing micro-device; contacting the biological subject
with the probing micro-device whereby the probing micro-device measures a property of the
biological subject at the microscopic level or sends a stimulating (disturbing) signal to the
biological subject; and the detecting micro-device measures the response of the biological
subject through measuring properties of the biological subject at the microscopic level.
Optionally, the detecting micro-device contacts the biological subject during the
measurements. How the above stated stimulating (disturbing) signal is applied (for example,
the speed with which it is applied) and its magnitude can be important to obtain the best
and/or largest response from the biological sample being tested. For example, when a
thermal wave is used as a stimulating (a disturbing) signal, how fast it ramps up from its
initial value to its final value (for example, from 30 *C to 40 *C) could have important effects
on maximizing its response signal from the biological sample.
[143]    In some embodiments, the stimulating (a disturbing) or response signal is an electrical,
magnetic, electromagnetic, piezo-electrical, piezo-photronic, piezo-electro photronic, thermal,
optical, acoustical, biological, chemical, electro-mechanical, electro-chemical, electro-optical,
electro-thermal, electro-chemical-mechanical, bio-chemical, bio-mechanical, bio-physical,
bio-optical, bio-thermal, bio-electro-mechanical, bio-electro-chemical, bio-electro-chemical
mechanical, physical, or mechanical signal, or a combination thereof.
[144]    In some other embodiments, the property at the microscopic level is an electrical,
magnetic, electromagnetic, piezo-electrical, piezo-photronic, piezo-electro photronic, thermal,
optical, acoustical, biological, chemical, electro-mechanical, electro-chemical, electro-optical,
electro-thermal, electro-chemical-mechanical, bio-chemical, bio-chemical-physical, bio
mechanical, bio-electro-mechanical, bio-electro-chemical, bio-physical, bio-optical, bio
thermal, bio-electro-chemical-mechanical, physical, or mechanical property, or a combination
thereof.
[145]    For both stimulating (a disturbing) and response signal, examples of the electrical
properties include, but are not limited to, surface charge, surface potential, resting potential,
electrical current, electrical field distribution, electrical dipole, electrical quadruple, three
dimensional electrical and/or charge cloud distribution, electrical properties at telomere of
DNA and chromosome (also called sticky end or DNA end) capacitance, or impedance.
                                                   26

Examples of the thermal properties include temperature, and vibrational frequency of
biological item and molecules. Examples of the optical properties include optical absorption,
optical transmission, optical reflection, optical-electrical properties, brightness, and
fluorescent emission. Examples of the chemical properties include pH value, chemical
reaction, bio-chemical reaction, bio-electro-chemical reaction, reaction speed, reaction energy,
speed of reaction, oxygen concentration, oxygen consumption rate, ionic strength, catalytic
behavior, added chemical components, and bonding strength. Examples of the physical
properties include density, and geometric shape and size (volume and surface area).
Examples of the acoustic properties include frequency, speed of acoustic waves, acoustic
frequency and intensity spectrum distribution, acoustic intensity, acoustical absorption, and
acoustical resonance. Examples of the mechanical property include internal pressure, flow
rate, viscosity, hardness, shear strength, elongation strength, fracture stress, adhesion,
mechanical resonance frequency, elasticity, plasticity, and compressibility. Examples of
biological properties include a biological subject's surface properties (such as surface shape,
surface area, surface charge, and surface biological and chemical properties) and properties of
solutions in which a biological subject resides (such as pH, electrolyte, ionic strength,
resistivity, cell concentration, and biological, electrical, physical properties, and chemical
properties). The data from measuring one or more of the properties at the microscopic level
can be used for detecting diseases, e.g., cancer at its early stage, or for estimating the life
expectancy of the carrier of the biological subject.
[146] In some other embodiments, the apparatus further includes a third micro-device that is
different from the probing micro-device and the detecting micro-device; and the third micro
device measures the same or a different property of the biological subject as the probing
micro-device and the detecting micro-device do.
[147]    In still some other embodiments, the apparatus further includes a clock micro-device
that is different from the probing micro-device and the detecting micro-device; and the type
of clock micro-device is placed at a fixed distance before the probing micro-devices and
detecting micro-devices with a distinctive signal when a biological subject passes it and acts
as a clock device.
[148]    Yet still in some embodiments, the data recorded by the detecting micro-device is
filtered by a phase lock-in technology to remove noise unsynchronized to the clock signal in
order to enhance signal to noise ratio and improve measurement sensitivity. For example, in
order to enhance measured response signal from the biological sample and reduce noise, a
simulating (disturbing) signal can be in a pulsed form (for example, a pulsed laser beam at a
desired frequency) or an alternating pattern (for example, an alternating current), and a lock
                                                 27

in amplifier can be utilized to only amplify the part of the measured response signal which is
synchronized to the frequency of the simulating (disturbing) signal.
[149] Another aspect of this invention relates to methods for detecting disease in a
biological subject, comprising providing an apparatus comprising a channel, a detection
probe, imaging device, a memory storage component, a signal transmitting component, a
signal receiving component, or a logic processing component, pre-processing the biological
subject to enhance its concentration, measuring the properties of the biological subject,
optionally contacting the biological subject with the probing component (probing micro
device or probing tip) through the channel to trigger or result in a response signal, using the
detection probe (e.g., detection micro-device or detection component) to detect the response
signal from the biological subject, optionally separating diseased biological subject from
healthy biological subject based on the response signal, optionally sending the separated,
suspected diseased biological subject on for further tests, and analyzing the response signal
and reaching a diagnosis conclusion. The biological subject can be a DNA, a sub-structure in
a cell, a cell, or a protein.
[150]    In some embodiments, the methods of this invention further include detection of the
response signal and behaviors of interaction or events occurred between at least two
biological subjects or at least one biological subject with at least one non-biological subject.
The at least two biological subject can be different or identical, in type of composition.
Examples of interactions or events occurred between at least two biological subjects include,
but are not limited to, a DNA colliding with another DNA, a cell smashing into another cell, a
DNA crashing into a cell, a protein colliding with another protein, or a DNA crashing into a
protein. Examples of interactions or events occurred between at least one biological subject
with at least one non-biological subject include, but not limited to, an inorganic particle
colliding with a biological subject, an organic particle colliding with a biological subject, or a
composite particle colliding with a biological subject.
[151]    Examples of the response signals include, but are not limited to, an electrical,
magnetic, electromagnetic, thermal, optical, piezo-electrical, piezo-electro photronic, piezo
photronic, acoustical, biological, chemical, electro-mechanical, electro-chemical, electro
physical, electro-thermal, electro-optical, electro-chemical-mechanical, bio-chemical, bio
physical, bio-optical, bio-thermal, bio-electromagnetic, bio-chemical-physical, bio
mechanical, bio-electro-mechanical, bio-electro-chemical, bio-electro-chemical-mechanical,
physical, and mechanical signal, or a combination thereof.
[152]    Anther aspect of the current invention relates to methods for detecting disease in a
biological subject. The methods include providing an apparatus comprising a pre-processing
                                                28

unit, at least one detection device, a partitioned chamber with channels connecting them, and
an injection device (for, e.g., injecting a probe material into the biological subject to be
tested), and measuring response signals from the biological subject, wherein the probe
material comprises an organic particle, an inorganic particle, a biological subject, or a
composite-based object.
[153]    Yet another aspect of the current invention relates to methods for detecting a disease
in a biological subject by interacting it with a probe object, comprising providing an
apparatus comprising a launching chamber, a detection unit, and channels, launching a probe
object onto the biological subject, causing a collision between the probe object and the
biological subject to give rise to a response signal, recording and detecting the response
signal during and after the collision. The probe object may comprise an organic particle, an
inorganic particle, a biological subject, or a composite-based object.
[154]    Still another aspect of this invention relates to methods for detecting a disease in early
stage in a biological subject. These methods include the steps of collecting a first sample
(including a cell or a biological molecule) of the biological subject's tissue or organ
potentially carrying the disease, collecting a second sample of the same tissue or organ from a
second subject free of the disease, separately contacting the first and second samples with a
disease detection apparatus of this invention, and comparing the data from the measurements
of the first and second samples. As mentioned above, a disease detection apparatus of this
invention includes a micro-device and a substrate supporting the micro-device, wherein the
micro-device is capable of measuring at the microscopic level the electrical, magnetic,
electromagnetic, thermal, optical, acoustical, biological, chemical, physical, or mechanical
property, or a combination thereof, of a biological sample.
[155]    Still a further aspect of this invention relates to a method of cellular communication.
The micro-device can generate artificial microscopic calcium (or other elements) oscillations
which simulate the intracellular biological communications. This artificial signal can be
coded to interact with cellular proteins, nucleus, and eventually regulates cell's determination
or fate, which in turn can result in communication, probing, modifying, manipulating, or
control of a biological subject at the cellular level, hence giving rise to diagnose or cure of
diseases at the cellular level or in their early stage.
[156]    Yet still a further aspect of this invention relates to methods for determining cellular
or molecular response to a signal. The methods include the step of contacting a cell or
biological molecule with a disease detection apparatus of this invention - which includes a
first micro-device, a second micro-device, and a first substrate supporting the first micro
device and second micro-device. The first micro-device in the apparatus is capable of
                                                   29

measuring at the microscopic level an electrical, magnetic, electromagnetic, thermal, optical,
piezo-electrical, piezo-photronic, piezo-electro photronic, acoustical, biological, chemical,
electro-mechanical, electro-chemical, electro-thermal, electro-optical, electro-chemical
mechanical, bio-chemical, bio-mechanical, bio-physical, bio-optical, bio-thermal, bio-electro
mechanical, bio-electro-chemical, bio-electro-chemical-mechanical, physical, or mechanical
property, or a combination thereof, of the cell; and the second micro-device contacts the cell
or biological molecule and stimulates it with a signal.
[157]   In some embodiments of these methods, the apparatus further comprises a third
micro-device that is capable of measuring at the microscopic level the same electrical,
magnetic, electromagnetic, thermal, optical, piezo-electrical, piezo-photronic, piezo-electro
photronic, acoustical, biological, chemical, electro-mechanical, electro-chemical, electro
thermal, electro-optical, electro-chemical-mechanical, bio-chemical, bio-mechanical, bio
physical, bio-optical, bio-thermal, bio-electro-mechanical, bio-electro-chemical, bio-electro
chemical-mechanical, physical, or mechanical property, or a combination thereof, of the cell
or biological molecule as the first micro-device is.
[158]   In some other embodiments, the cell contacts the first micro-device, second micro
device, and third micro-device in the order.
[159]   In some further embodiments, the signal is an electrical, magnetic, electromagnetic,
thermal, optical, piezo-electrical, piezo-photronic, piezo-electro photronic, acoustical,
biological, chemical, electro-mechanical, electro-chemical, electro-thermal, electro-optical,
electro-chemical-mechanical, bio-chemical, bio-mechanical, bio-physical, bio-optical, bio
thermal, bio-electro-mechanical, bio-electro-chemical, bio-electro-chemical-mechanical,
physical, or mechanical signal, or a combination thereof.
[160]   In some embodiments of the apparatus of this invention, the system for delivering the
biological subject includes at least one channel inside which the biological subject to be
detected travels in a certain direction; the probing and detecting device includes at least one
probing micro-device and at least one detecting micro-device, at least one probing micro
device is located before at least one detecting micro-device relative to the direction in which
the biological subject travels, and the probing micro-device and the detecting micro-device
can be attached to the interior or exterior wall of the channel. In some other embodiments,
multiple channels with different geometries are utilized.
[161]   In some examples of these embodiments, the probing and detecting device includes at
least two detecting micro-devices capable of measuring at the micro-level the same or
different properties of the biological subject. Examples of the electrical properties include,
but are not limited to, surface charge, surface potential, resting potential, electrical current,
                                                 30

electrical field distribution, electrical dipole, electrical quadruple, three-dimensional electrical
and/or charge cloud distribution, electrical properties at telomere of DNA and chromosome,
capacitance, or impedance; examples of the thermal properties include temperature, and
vibrational frequency of biological item and molecules; examples of the optical properties
include optical absorption, optical transmission, optical reflection, optical-electrical
properties, brightness, and fluorescent emission; examples of the chemical properties include
pH value, chemical reaction, bio-chemical reaction, bio-electro-chemical reaction, reaction
speed, reaction energy, speed of reaction, oxygen concentration, oxygen consumption rate,
ionic strength, catalytic behavior, and bonding strength; examples of the physical properties
include density and geometric size; examples of biological properties include a biological
subject's surface properties (such as surface shape, surface area, surface charge, and surface
biological and chemical properties) and properties of solutions in which biological subject
resides (such as pH, electrolyte, ionic strength, resistivity, cell concentration, and biological,
electrical, physical properties, and chemical properties); examples of the acoustic properties
include frequency, speed of acoustic waves, acoustic frequency and intensity spectrum
distribution, acoustic intensity, acoustical absorption, and acoustical resonance; and examples
of the mechanical property include internal pressure, hardness, flow rate, viscosity, shear
strength, elongation strength, fracture stress, adhesion, mechanical resonance frequency,
elasticity, plasticity, and compressibility. For instance, the detecting micro-devices are
capable of measuring at the microscopic level the surface charge, electrical potential,
brightness, fluorescent emission, geometric size, shape, frequency, internal pressure, or
temperature of the biological subject.
[162]    In some other embodiments, the shapes and sizes of different sections of the channel
can be the same or different; the width of the channel can be about 1 nm ~1 mm (e.g., 1 ~
750 nm, 1 ~ 600 nm; 100 ~ 800 nm, 200 ~ 750 nm, or 400 ~650 nm); the channel can be
straight, curved, or angled; the interior wall of the channel defines a circular, oval, or polygon
(e.g., rectangular) space.
[163]    An example of a suitable channel is a circular carbon nano-tube, which can have a
diameter of, e.g., about 0.5 ~ 100 nm, or a length of, e.g., about 5.0 nm ~ 10 mm.
[164]    In some embodiments, the interior wall of the channel has at least one concave that
may be in the same section as a probing or detecting micro-device. The concave groove can
be, e.g., a cubic space or an angled space. It can have a depth of, e.g., about 10 nm ~1 mm.
[165]    In some other embodiments, a distribution fluid can be injected into the channel,
either before or after the biological subject passes a probing micro-device, to aid the traveling
or separation of the biological subject inside the channel. A suitable distribution fluid is a
                                                   31

biocompatible liquid or solution, e.g., water or saline. The distribution fluid can be injected
into the channel through a distribution fluid channel connected to an opening in the channel
wall. Utilizing such a distribution fluid allows, among others, preparation of the surface of
the channel (in which the biological subject travels), cleaning of the channel, disinfection of
the apparatus, and enhancing the measurement sensitivity of the apparatus.
[166] In yet some other embodiments, a cleaning fluid can be used to clean an apparatus of
this invention, particularly narrow and small spaces in the apparatus wherein biological
residues and deposits (e.g., dried blood or protein when it is used as or contained in a sample
to be tested by the apparatus) are likely to accumulate and block such spaces. Desired
properties of such a cleaning fluid include low viscosity and ability to dissolve the biological
residues and deposits. For example, when an apparatus of this invention is used for detecting
a disease, certain biological samples, such as blood, could result in blockage to narrow, small
spaces in the apparatus such as narrow channels when the blood is allowed to dry. The
cleaning solution is expected to address this issue by dissolve the biological samples.
[167]    In still some other embodiments, the apparatus of this invention can be for detecting
the diseases of more than one biological subject, and the channel comprises a device located
therein for separating or dividing the biological subjects based on different levels of a same
property of the biological subjects. An example of such a separating or dividing device is a
slit that can, e.g., separate or divide biological subjects based on their surface charges, surface
chemistry, surface biological features and properties, their density, their size, or other
properties such as electrical, thermal, optical, chemical, physical, biological, acoustical,
magnetic, electromagnetic, and mechanical properties. Examples of the electrical properties
include, but are not limited to, surface charge, surface potential, resting potential, electrical
current, electrical field distribution, electrical dipole, electrical quadruple, three-dimensional
electrical and/or charge cloud distribution, electrical properties at telomere of DNA and
chromosome, capacitance, or impedance; examples of the thermal properties include
temperature, and vibrational frequency of biological item and molecules; examples of the
optical properties include optical absorption, optical transmission, optical reflection, optical
electrical properties, brightness, and fluorescent emission; examples of the chemical
properties include pH value, chemical reaction, bio-chemical reaction, bio-electro-chemical
reaction, reaction speed, reaction energy, speed of reaction, oxygen concentration, oxygen
consumption rate, ionic strength, catalytic behavior, and bonding strength; examples of
biological properties include biological item's surface properties including surface shape,
surface area, surface charge, and surface biological and chemical properties, and properties of
solutions in which biological matter resides (pH, electrolyte, ionic strength, resistivity, cell
                                                   32

concentration, and biological, electrical, physical, and chemical properties); examples of the
physical properties include density, shape, and geometric size (volume and surface area);
examples of the acoustic properties include frequency, speed of acoustic waves, acoustic
frequency and intensity spectrum distribution, acoustic intensity, acoustical absorption, and
acoustical resonance; and examples of the mechanical property include internal pressure,
flow rate, viscosity, hardness, shear strength, elongation strength, fracture stress, adhesion,
mechanical resonance frequency, elasticity, plasticity, and compressibility.
[168] In yet still some other embodiments, the apparatus of this invention can further
include a filtering device for removing irrelevant objects from the biologic subject for
detection.
[169]    In another aspect, the invention provides methods for obtaining dynamic information
of a biologic material, each comprising contacting the biological subject (e.g., including but
not limited to a cell, substructure of a cell such as cell membrane, a DNA, a RNA, a protein,
or a virus) with an apparatus comprising a first micro-device, a second micro-device, and a
first substrate supporting the first micro-device and second micro-device, wherein the first
micro-device is capable of measuring at the microscopic level an electrical, magnetic,
electromagnetic, thermal, optical, acoustical, biological, chemical, physical, or mechanical
property, or a combination thereof, of the biological subject, and the second micro-device
contacts the biological subjects and stimulates it with a signal.
[170]    In yet another embodiment, the micro-device in the detection apparatus can
communicate with biological subjects such as cells, DNA, RNA, virus, tissue, or protein.
Further, the micro-device can trap, sort, analyze, treat, and modify biological subjects such as
cells, DNA, RNA, virus, tissue, or protein. Specifically, an array of micro-devices arranged
in a desired manner can trap, sort, probe, detect, communicate, manipulate, move, contact,
and modify DNA structures.
[171]    In some embodiments, the apparatus further comprising a third micro-device that is
capable of measuring at the microscopic level the same electrical, magnetic, electromagnetic,
thermal, optical, acoustical, biological, chemical, bio-chemical, bio-physical, bio-electrical,
bio-mechanical, bio-optical, bio-thermal, bio-magnetic, bio-electromagnetic, bio-electro
mechanical, bio-electro-chemical, bio-electro-physical, bio-electro-optical, bio-electro
thermal, bio-chemical-mechanical, physical, or mechanical property, or a combination
thereof, of the cell as the first micro-device is. In some other embodiments, the cell contacts
the first micro-device, second micro-device, and third micro-device in the order. In still some
other embodiments, the signal is an electrical signal, a magnetic signal, an electromagnetic
signal, a thermal signal, an optical signal, an acoustical signal, a biological signal, a chemical
                                                  33

signal, a physical signal, an electro-optical signal, an electro-chemical signal, an electro
mechanical signal, a bio-chemical signal, or a bio-chemical-mechanical signal.
[172]    In another aspect, this invention provides alternative methods for detecting a
biological subject's dynamic information. The methods each include providing an apparatus
comprising a clock micro-device, a probing micro-device, and a first detection micro-device,
with the probing micro-device being placed between the clock micro-device and the detection
micro-device; contacting the biological subject with the clock micro-device whereby the
clock micro-device registers the arrival of the biological subject, and optionally measures a
property of the biological subject at the microscopic level; contacting the biological subject
with the probe device with a periodic probe signal delivered onto the biological subject; using
the detecting micro-device to detect response signal from the biological subject; and
processing the detected signal by the detection micro-device using phase lock-in technology
to filter out signal components un-synchronized to the frequency of the probe signal, and
amplify the signal synchronized to the probe signal.
[173]    In some embodiments of these methods, there is a distance of at least 10 angstroms
between the clock micro-device and the first detecting micro-device.
[174]    In some other embodiments, the response signal is an electrical, magnetic,
electromagnetic, thermal, optical, acoustical, biological, chemical, electro-mechanical,
electro-optical, electro-thermal, electro-chemical, electro-chemical-mechanical, bio-chemical,
bio-electrical, bio-optical, bio-thermal, bio-physical, bio-mechanical, bio-electro-mechanical,
bio-electro-chemical, bio-electro-optical, bio-electro-thermal, bio-electro-chemical
mechanical, physical, or mechanical signal, or a combination thereof.
[175]    In some other embodiments, the first probing micro-device optionally measures the
same property of the biological subject at the microscopic level as the first detecting micro
device does.
[176]    In still some other embodiments, the apparatus used in the methods further comprises
a second probing micro-device capable of sending a stimulating signal to the biological
subject that is different from the signal sent by the first probing micro-device.
[177]    In still some other embodiments, the apparatus used in the methods further comprise a
second detecting micro-device capable of measuring the same property of the biological
subject at the microscopic level as the first detecting micro-device does.
[178]    In yet still some other embodiments, the electrical property is surface charge, surface
potential, resting potential, electrical current, electrical field distribution, electrical dipole,
electrical quadruple, three-dimensional electrical or charge cloud distribution, electrical
properties at telomere of DNA and chromosome, capacitance, or impedance; the thermal
                                                  34

property is temperature, or vibrational frequency of biological item or molecules; the optical
property is optical absorption, optical transmission, optical reflection, optical-electrical
property, brightness, or fluorescent emission; the chemical property is pH value, chemical
reaction, bio-chemical reaction, bio-electro-chemical reaction, reaction speed, reaction energy,
oxygen concentration, oxygen consumption rate, ionic strength, catalytic behavior, or
bonding strength; the physical property is density, shape, or geometric size (volume and
surface area); examples of biological properties include a biological subject's surface
properties (such as surface shape, surface area, surface charge, and surface biological and
chemical properties) and properties of solutions in which a biological subject resides (such as
pH, electrolyte, ionic strength, resistivity, cell concentration, and biological, electrical,
physical properties, and chemical properties); the acoustic property is frequency, speed of
acoustic waves, acoustic frequency and intensity spectrum distribution, acoustic intensity,
acoustical absorption, or acoustical resonance; and the mechanical property is internal
pressure, hardness, flow rate, viscosity, shear strength, elongation strength, fracture stress,
adhesion, mechanical resonance frequency, elasticity, plasticity, or compressibility.
[179]    In some embodiments, the data recorded by the first detecting micro-device is filtered
by a phase lock-in technology to remove noise unsynchronized to the data recorded by the
first probing micro-device or the clock micro-device. The filtered data may have a higher
signal to noise ratio.
[180]    Another innovative aspect of the present invention is the use of micro-devices for
obtaining real time data and information at the cellular structure level, such as using a micro
voltage comparator, four-point probe and other circuitry designs to measure cell surface or
bulk electrical properties including resting potential, local and global electrical field
distribution, local and global electronic could distribution, capacitance, and surface charge for
differentiating normal cells and cancer cells.. The cell surface charge differentiation can be
an important factor in deciding the healthy or unhealthy status of a cell and, accordingly, the
proper treatment thereof.
[181]    For example, in a time of flight approach to obtain dynamic information on a
biological subject (e.g., a cell, a substructure of a cell, a DNA or RNA molecule, or a virus), a
first micro-device is first used to send a signal to perturb the biological subject to be
diagnosed, and then a second micro-device is employed to accurately measure the response
from the biological subject. In one arrangement, the first micro-device and the second device
are positioned at a desired distance L apart, with a biological subject to be measured flowing
from the first micro-device towards the second micro-device. When the biological subject
sample passes the first micro-device, the micro-device sends a simulating (disturbing) signal
                                                  35

to the passing biological sample, and then the second micro-device detects the response or
retention of the perturbation signal on the biological entity. From the distance between the
two micro-devices, time interval, the nature of perturbation by the first micro-device, and
measured changes on the biological subject during the time of flight, microscopic and
dynamic properties of the biological subject can be measured and data obtained. In another
arrangement, a first micro-device is used to probe the biological subject by first applying a
signal (such as a charge) and then detecting the response from the biological subject with a
second micro-device as a function of time.
[182]   Another novel area of this application is the invention of micro-indentation probes
and micro-probes for measuring a range of physical properties (such as mechanical properties)
of biological subjects. Examples of such physical properties include but not limited to
hardness, shear strength, elongation strength, fracture stress, and properties related to cell
membranes as the membranes may be a critical component in disease diagnosis.
[183]    Still yet another aspect of this invention is the design, fabrication, and integration of
the various components in the disease detection apparatus. These components include, e.g., a
sample containment and delivery unit; an array of sample delivery channels; a central disease
detection unit comprising multiple detection probes, a central control unit comprising a logic
processing unit, a memory unit, a sensor, a signal transmitter, a signal receiver, and an
application specific chip; and a waste sample treatment unit in which used sample can be
treated, recycled, processed for reuse, or disposed.
[184]   Another key novel aspect of the current application is the design, integration, and
fabrication process flow of micro-devices capable of making highly sensitive and advanced
measurements on very weak signals in biological systems for disease detection under
complicated environment with very weak signal and relatively high noise background. Those
novel capabilities using the class of micro-devices disclosed in this invention for disease
detection include, e.g., making dynamic measurements, real time measurements (such as time
of flight measurements, and combination of using probe signal and detecting response signal),
phase lock-in technique to reduce background noise, and 4-point probe techniques to measure
very weak signals, and unique and novel probes to measure various electronic,
electromagnetic and magnetic properties of biological samples at the single cell, biological
subject (e.g., virus) or molecule (e.g., DNA or RNA) level. For example, for making
dynamic measurements to further enhance measurement sensitivity, during measurements, at
least one of the parameters applied to the biological sample being measured or at least one of
the properties in the surrounding media (in which the biological sample resides) is
intentionally changed from a static state (constant value) to a dynamic state (for example, a
                                                  36

pulsed value or an alternating value), or from one value to a new value. As a novel example,
in a measurement, a DC current applied to a biological sample is intentionally changed to an
AC current. In another novel example, a constant temperature applied to a biological sample
is changed to a higher temperature, or a pulsed heat wave (for example, from 30 *C to 50 *C,
then from 50 *C back to 30 *C).
[185]   Finally, another aspect of this invention relates to apparatus for detecting disease in a
biological subject. The apparatus includes a detection device fabricated by a method
comprising: providing a substrate; sequentially depositing a first material and a second
material as two layers onto the substrate to form a material stack; patterning the second
material by microelectronics processes to form a first desired feature; depositing a third
material onto the material stack to cover the second material; optionally patterning the first
and third materials by microelectronic processes to form a second desired feature; and
optionally depositing a fourth material onto the material stack. The first material and third
material can be the same or different. The detection device is capable of probing the
biological subject to be detected and giving rise to a response signal.
[186]   In some embodiments, the fabrication method further comprises capping the top of
the material stack to form an enclosed trench.
[187]   In some other embodiments, the capping comprises sealing or capping the top of the
material stack with an imaging device onto the material stack.
[188]   In still some other embodiments, the apparatus further includes a pre-processing unit
(chambers) for pre-screening and enhancing a diseased biological subject for further testing,
channels for carrying fluidic sample to flow through, probes for probing and disturbing the
biological subject being tested for generating response signals, detection probes for
measuring properties and response signals of the biological subject, or an imaging device for
observing and recording properties and behaviors of the biological subject.
[189]   In yet some other embodiments, the detection device has typical channel dimensions
ranging from about 2 microns x 2 microns to about 100 microns x 100 microns in cross
sectional area for a square-shaped channel, a radius ranging from about 0.5 micron to about
80 microns in cross sectional area for a circular shaped channel, and a typical probe
dimension ranging from about 0.5 micron x 0.5 micron to about 20 microns x 20 microns in
cross sectional area for a square-shaped probe. Alternatively, the detection device has typical
channel dimensions ranging from about 6 microns x 6 microns to about 80 microns x 80
microns in cross sectional area for a square-shaped channel, a radius ranging from about 3
microns to about 60 microns in cross sectional area for a circular shaped channel, and a
                                                37

typical probe dimension ranging from about 0.5 micron x 0.5 micron to about 10 microns x
10 microns in cross sectional area for a square shaped probe.
[190] In yet still some embodiments, the first and the fourth materials each comprise un
doped oxide (SiO 2 ), doped oxide, silicon nitride, a polymer material, glass, or an electrically
insulating material; the second and third materials each comprise an electrically conductive
material, aluminum, an aluminum alloy, copper, a copper alloy, tungsten, a tungsten alloy,
gold, a gold alloy, silver, a silver alloy, an optical material, an thermal sensitive material, a
magnetic material, an electromagnetic material, an electro-optical material, a pressure
sensitive material, a mechanical stress sensitive material, an ion emission sensitive material, a
piezo-electrical material, a piezo-photronic material, a piezo-electro photronic material.
[191]    In yet still some other embodiments, where the second and fourth materials can be
fabricated at the same level as detectors, or as probes and detectors, the first and the third
materials each comprise un-doped oxide (SiO 2 ), doped oxide, silicon nitride, silicon carbide,
a polymer material, glass, or an electrically insulating material; the second and fourth
materials each comprise an electrically conductive material (e.g., aluminum, an aluminum
alloy, copper, a copper alloy, tungsten, a tungsten alloy, gold, a gold alloy, silver, or a silver
alloy, refractory metals, carbon nano- tube), an optical material (e.g., anisotropic optical
material, glass, glass-ceramic, laser gain media, nonlinear optical material, fluorescent
materials, phosphor and scintillator, transparent material), an thermal sensitive material, a
magnetic material, an electromagnetic materials, a pressure sensitive material, a mechanical
stress sensitive material, an ion emission sensitive material, and a piezo-electrical material
(e.g., quartz, berlinite, gallium, orthophosphate, GaPO 4 , tourmaline, ceramics, barium,
titanate, BatiO 3, lead zirconate, titanate PZT, zinc oxide, aluminum nitride, a polyvinylidene
fluoride), piezo-photronic materials, piezo-electro photronic materials, electro-optical
materials, electro-thermal materials.
[192]    In further embodiments, the detection device comprises at least one probe, at least one
detector, at least one pair of probe and detector in which the probe generates a probing or
disturbing (stimulating) signal onto the biological subject to give a response signal and the
detector measures the response signal thus generated.
[193]    In other aspects, the present invention provides methods for fabricating micro-devices
or micro-detectors of this invention by microelectronic process which may include deposition,
lithography, etch, cleaning, direct writing, molecular self assembly, laser oblation, electron
beam writing, x-ray writing, diffusion, annealing, ion implantation, cleaning, polishing,
planarization, or packaging.
                                                  38

[194] In some embodiments, the methods fabricating a micro-device or micro-detector
include depositing various materials on a substrate and, in the interims of depositing every
two materials, patterning some or all of the deposited materials by a microelectronic process.
The micro-device or micro-detector thus fabricated is capable of measuring at the
microscopic level an electrical, magnetic, electromagnetic, thermal, optical, acoustical,
biological, chemical, electro-mechanical, electro-chemical, electro-optical, electro-thermal,
electro-physical, electro-chemical-mechanical, bio-chemical, bio-physical, bio-mechanical,
bio-electrical, bio-optical, bio-thermal, bio-magnetic, bio-electromagnetic, bio-physical
chemical, bio-chemical-mechanical, bio-electro-mechanical, bio-electro-chemical, bio
electro-optical, bio-electro-thermal, bio-electromagnetic-optical, bio-mechanical-optical, bio
chemical-optical, bio-electro-chemical-mechanical, bio-chemical-mechanical-optical, bio
electro-mechanical-optical, bio-electro-chemical-optical, physical, or mechanical property, or
a combination thereof, of a biologic subject with which the micro-device or micro-detector is
to contact.
[195]   The electrical property may include surface charge, surface potential, resting potential,
action potential, electrical voltage, electrical current, electrical field distribution, electrical
charge distribution, electrical dipole, electrical quadruple, three-dimensional electrical or
charge cloud distribution, electrical properties at telomere of DNA and chromosome,
dynamic changes in electrical properties, dynamic changes in potential, dynamic changes in
surface charge, dynamic changes in current, dynamic changes in electrical field, dynamic
changes in electrical voltage, dynamic changes in electrical distribution, dynamic changes in
electronic cloud distribution, capacitance, or impedance; the thermal property may include
temperature, or vibrational frequency of biological item or molecules; the optical property
may include optical absorption, optical transmission, optical reflection, optical-electrical
property, brightness, or fluorescent emission; the chemical property may include pH value,
chemical reaction, bio-chemical reaction, bio-electro-chemical reaction, reaction speed,
reaction energy, speed of reaction, oxygen concentration, oxygen consumption rate, ionic
strength, catalytic behavior, chemical additives to trigger enhanced signal response, bio
chemical additives to trigger enhanced signal response, biological additives to trigger
enhanced signal response, chemicals to enhance detection sensitivity, bio-chemicals to
enhance detection sensitivity, biological additives to enhance detection sensitivity, or bonding
strength; the physical property may include density, shape, or geometric size (volume and
surface area); examples of biological properties include a biological subject's surface
properties (such as surface shape, surface area, surface charge, and surface biological and
chemical properties) and properties of solutions in which a biological subject resides (such as
                                                  39

pH, electrolyte, ionic strength, resistivity, cell concentration, and biological, electrical,
physical properties, and chemical properties); the acoustic property may include frequency,
speed of acoustic waves, acoustic frequency and intensity spectrum distribution, acoustic
intensity, acoustical absorption, or acoustical resonance; and the mechanical property may
include internal pressure, hardness, flow rate, viscosity, shear strength, elongation strength,
fracture stress, adhesion, mechanical resonance frequency, elasticity, plasticity, or
compressibility.
[196]   In some other embodiments, the fabrication methods each include the steps of:
        providing a substrate;
        depositing a first material onto the substrate;
        depositing a second material onto the first material and then patterning the second
material by a microelectronic process; and
        repeating the second step at least once with a material that can be the same as or
different from any of the previously deposited materials.
[197]   The methods may further include removal of a stack of multiple layers of materials by
wet etch, dry etch, vapor etch, direct writing, oblation such as laser oblation, or selective
removal (for example, using local heating, local bombardment by ions, or localized sonic
energy).
[198]   In these methods, the materials used in the repeated steps can be the same as or
different from the first or second material. At least one of the materials used in fabricating
the micro-device is a biological material, a bio-chemical material, a bio-inorganic compound
material, a polymer, a piezo-electrical material, a piezo-photronic material, a piezo-electro
photronic material, a thermal material, an optical material, an electro-optical material, a
semiconductor material, an electrically insulating material, or an electrically conductive
material.
[199]   The micro-device thus fabricated can have one or more characters or functions of the
following: moving in any direction; being capable of sorting, probing, measuring, detecting,
manipulating, moving, cutting, slicing, communicating, or modifying a biological subject.
[200]   Still, the methods may further include one or more of the following steps:
        depositing a third material on the second material and then patterning the third
material by a planarization process;
        depositing a fourth material on the third material and patterning the fourth material by
microelectronic processes;
        patterning the third material using a microelectronic process with the fourth material
serving as a hardmask;
                                                  40

         coupling two devices that are thus fabricated and symmetric to form a detecting
device with channels or to form a probing device capable to sending a signal to a biological
subject and resulting in a response;
         integrating three or more micro-devices to give an enhanced device with an array of
the channels.
[201]    Still further, the methods may include the steps of:
         before depositing the second material, patterning the first material by a
microelectronic process to give rise to at least one patterned residual and leaving part of the
substrate surface uncovered by the first material;
         creating an opening in the second material to expose part of the patterned residual of
the first material;
         filling up the opening in the second material with a third material; wherein the second
material is a non-electrically conductive material;
         optionally planarizing the third material, with third material remaining in the recessed
area of the second material;
         optionally depositing a fourth material;
         optionally creating an opening in the fourth material;
         optionally selectively removing substantially the third material, with the first material,
the second material, and the fourth material substantially remaining; and
         optionally sealing the opening in the fourth material by depositing a fifth material.
[202]    In the above process flow, planarization of the third material can be carried out by
etching back, etching back followed by polishing, or polishing process. In addition, the
removal of the third material following the deposition of the fourth material can be carried
out using wet etching, vapor etching, or heating (if evaporation temperature of the third
material is higher than those of the other materials).
[203]    The micro-device thus obtained may include a micro-trench (or channel) having side
walls and a probe embedded in the micro-trench or channel's sidewalls. Each channel's
entrance may be optionally bell-mouthed; the shape of each channel's cross-section is
rectangle, ellipse, circle, oval, or polygon. The dimension of the micro-trench may range
from about 0.1 um to about 500 um.
[204]    The micro-trench of the micro-device can be capped with a flat panel or coupling two
micro-trenches to form one or more channels. The flat panel may comprise silicon, SiGe,
SiO 2 , A12 0 3, acrylate polymer, AgInSbTe, synthetic alexandrite, arsenic triselenide, arsenic
trisulfide, barium fluoride, CR-39, cadmium selenide, caesium cadmium chloride, calcite,
calcium fluoride, chalcogenide glass, gallium phosphide, GeSbTe, germanium, germanium
                                                 41

dioxide, glass code, hydrogen silsesquioxane, Iceland spar, liquid crystal, lithium fluoride,
lumicera, METATOY, magnesium fluoride, magnesium oxide, negative index metamaterials,
neutron super mirror, phosphor, picarin, poly(methyl methacrylate), polycarbonate,
potassium bromide, sapphire, scotophor, spectralon, speculum metal, split-ring resonator,
strontium fluoride, yttrium aluminum garnet, yttrium lithium fluoride, yttrium orthovanadate,
ZBLAN, zinc selenide, zinc sulfide, fluorescent materials, phosphorous materials, or electro
optical materials.
[205]   In some other embodiments, the methods for fabricating a micro-device or micro
detector of this invention include the steps of:
        providing a substrate;
         sequentially depositing a first material and a second material as two layers onto the
substrate to form a material stack;
        patterning the second material by microelectronic processes to form a first desired
feature; depositing a third material onto the material stack;
        optionally patterning the first and third materials by microelectronic processes to form
a second desired feature; and
        optionally depositing a fourth material onto the material stack.
[206]   They may further include:
        fabricating at least an additional component onto the substrate before sequentially
depositing the first material and the second material as layers onto the substrate, wherein the
additional component comprises a data storage component, a signal processing component, a
memory storage component, a signal receiver, a signal transmitting component, a logic
processing component, a data decoder, an application specific chip component, or an RF
component; or
        fabricating at least an integrated circuit onto the substrate before sequentially
depositing the first material and the second material as layers onto the substrate, wherein the
integrated circuit comprises a data storage circuit, a signal processing circuit, a memory
storage circuit, a signal transmitting circuit, a sensor, or a logic processing circuit.
Alternatively, the above mentioned components (the additional component comprises a data
storage component, a signal processing component, a memory storage component, a signal
receiver, a signal transmitting component, a logic processing component, a data decoder, an
application specific chip component, or an RF component) can be fabricated on a separate
substrate as a chip and it then can be bonded with or integrated with the substrate containing
the material stack (which comprises chambers, channels, and detection components). This
                                                  42

can be accomplished utilizing such technologies as flip chip, wafer bonding, and Through
Silicon Via (TSV) technologies.
[207]    In some instances, the first material and the third material are the same; the first
material and the third material are electrically insulating (e.g., an oxide, doped oxide, silicon
nitride, silicon carbide, or a polymer); the first material and the fourth material are the same;
the first material and the fourth material are electronically insulating; the second material or
the third material is an electrical conductive material, a magnetic material, an electro
magnetic material, an optical material, a thermal sensitive material, a pressure sensitive
material, an ion emission sensitive material, a piezo-electrical material, piezo-electro
photronic material, piezo-photronic material, an electro-optical material, an electro-thermal
material, a bio-chemical material, a bio-mechanical material, or a bio-inorganic material.
[208]    In some other instances, the second material is an electrically conductive material, a
piezo-electrical material, a piezo-electrical material, piezo-electro photronic material, piezo
photronic material, an electro-optical material, an electro-thermal material, a bio-chemical
material, a bio-mechanical material, a bio-inorganic material, a semiconductor material, a
thermal sensitive material, a magnetic material, a pressure sensitive material, a mechanical
stress sensitive material, an ion emission sensitive material, an optical material, or a
combination thereof. For example, it may include copper, aluminum, tungsten, gold, silver,
refractive metals, fluorescent materials, phosphorous materials, the alloys thereof, or glass.
[209]    The detector thus fabricated may be capable of probing or disturbing (simulating) a
biological subject to be measured; and it may have a recessed form, or a trench form in the
layers of the third and first materials. In the detector, the second material may be aligned
with the wall of the trench form in the layers of the third and first materials.
[210]    In some instances, the methods may further include the step of capping the top of the
material stack to cover the third material and form an enclosed trench. As an example, the
capping may include sealing or capping the top of the material stack with a layer of material,
an imaging device, a camera, a viewing station, an acoustic detector, a thermal detector, an
ion emission detector, a piezo-electrical detector, a piezo-photronic detector, a piezo-electro
photronic detector, an electro-optical detector, or a thermal recorder onto the material stack.
[211]    In some other instances, the methods may still further include one or more of the
following steps:
         fabricating at least one integrated circuit onto the substrate before sequentially
depositing the first material and the second material as layers onto the substrate, wherein the
circuit comprises a data storage circuit, a signal processing circuit, a memory storage circuit,
a sensor, a signal transmitting circuit, a sensor, or a logic processing circuit;
                                                  43

        planarizing the third material using a chemical mechanical polishing process or an
etch back process after depositing the third material onto the material stack and before
patterning the first and the third materials;
        planarizing the third material using a chemical mechanical polishing process or an
etch back process to form a detector capable of detecting a response signal from the
biological subject;
        patterning the fourth material to form a hole at a selected location after depositing the
fourth material onto the material stack;
        removing the third material from the material stack by wet or vapor etch to form a
detection chamber between the fourth material and the substrate;
        removing the first material from the material stack by wet etch or vapor etch or
heating to form a channel;
        capping the top of the material stack to form an enclosed trench or channel;
         sealing or capping the top of the material stack with a fifth material to form an
enclosed channel capable of observing and recording the biological subject; or
         sealing or capping the top of the material stack with an imaging device, a detector, an
optical sensor, a camera, a viewing station, an acoustic detector, a thermal detector, an
electrical detector, an ion emission detector, a piezo-electrical detector, a piezo-photronic
detector, a piezo-electro photronic detector, an electro-optical detector, or a thermal recorder
onto the material stack.
[212]   In still some embodiments, the methods for fabricating a micro-device of this
invention include the steps of:
        providing a substrate;
         sequentially depositing a first material and a second material as layers onto the
substrate to form a material stack;
        patterning the second material by microelectronic processes to form at least a portion
of a recessed area in the second material (e.g., to form a probe, a detector or an integrated unit
with sub-component for detection);
        depositing a third material onto the material stack to cover the second material, and
removing the portion of the third material above the second material by etch back or
polishing process;
        patterning the third material by lithography and etch processes to remove at least a
portion of the third material;
                                                 44

         depositing a fourth material onto the material stack to cover the second and third
material, and removing the portion of the fourth material above the second and third material
by etch back or polishing process; and
         optionally, depositing a fifth material and repeating the above process sequence used
for the third material.
[213]    In some instances, they may further include one or more steps of the following:
         fabricating at least an additional component onto the substrate before sequentially
depositing the first material and the second material as layers onto the substrate, wherein the
additional component comprises a data storage component, a signal processing component, a
memory storage component, a signal transmitting component, a logic processing component,
a data decoder, an application specific chip component, or an RF component; and
         fabricating at least one integrated circuit onto the substrate before sequentially
depositing the first material and the second material as layers onto the substrate, wherein the
integrated circuit comprises a data storage circuit, a signal processing circuit, a memory
storage circuit, a signal transmitting circuit, a sensor, a data decoder, an application specific
chip component, or a logic processing circuit.
[214]    The substrate can be silicon, polysilicon, silicon nitride, or polymer material; the first
material is oxide, doped oxide, silicon nitride, silicon carbide, or polymer material. The
second and the fourth materials can be the same (e.g., both being an electrical conductive
material, semiconductor material, piezo-electrical material, piezo-electro photronic material,
piezo-photronic material, an electro-optical material, an electro-thermal material, a bio
chemical material, a bio-mechanical material, a bio-inorganic material, thermal sensitive
material, an ion emission sensitive material, a magnetic material, a pressure sensitive material,
a mechanical stress sensitive material, or optical material). Specific examples of suitable
materials include aluminum, copper, tungsten, gold, silver, refractory metals, the alloys
thereof, quartz, berlinite, gallium, orthophosphate, GaPO 4, tourmalines, ceramics, barium,
titanate, BatiO 3, lead zirconate, titanate PZT, zinc oxide, aluminum nitride, polyvinylidene
fluoride, fluorescent materials, phosphorous materials, electro-optical materials, bio-optical
materials, bio-electro optical materials.
[215]    In still a further aspect, the invention provides piezo-electrical, piezo-photronic, and
piezo-electro photronic micro-detectors. Each of these micro-detectors comprises a substrate,
a piezo-electrical material, piezo-photronic material, piezo-electro photronic material, an
electronically conductive material, a material that is neither piezo-electrical nor electronically
conductive, wherein the piezo-electrical material, the piezo-photronic material, or the piezo
electro photronic material, is placed between the electronically conductive material and the
                                                   45

material that is neither piezo-electrical, nor piezo-photronic, nor piezo-electro photronic
material, nor electronically conductive, and the material that is neither piezo-electrical, nor
piezo-photronic, nor piezo-electro photronic, nor electronically conductive is placed between
the substrate and the piezo-electrical material, piezo-photronic material, or piezo-electro
photronic material wherein the micro-detector is capable of detecting, at the microscopic
level, a property of an object to be detected.
[216]    In some embodiments, a portion of the piezo-electrical material, the piezo-photronic
material, or the piezo-electro photronic material is projecting out of the other part of the
micro-detector and is not supported or surrounded by the other materials in the micro
detector. The projecting piezo-electrical material, piezo-photronic material, or piezo-electro
photronic material can be, e.g., in the shape of a layer or a stick and can have a minimum
length of one angstrom.
[217]    In some embodiments, the projecting piezo-electrical material, piezo-photronic
material, or piezo-electro photronic material has an axel that is essentially parallel to the
surface of the substrate.
[218]    The projecting piezo-electrical material, piezo-photronic material, or piezo-electro
photronic material is capable of detecting, at the microscopic level, a property of the object to
be detected. The property can be an electrical, magnetic, electromagnetic, thermal, optical,
acoustical, biological, chemical, electro-mechanical, electro-chemical, electro-optical,
electro-thermal, electro-chemical-mechanical, electro-mechanical-optical, electro
mechanical-thermal, electro-thermal-optical, bio-chemical, bio-mechanical, bio-optical, bio
thermal, bio-physical, bio-electro-mechanical, bio-electro-chemical, bio-electro-optical, bio
electro-thermal, bio-electro-chemical-mechanical, bio-mechanical-optical, bio-mechanical
thermal, bio-chemical-mechanical, physical, or mechanical property, or a combination
thereof, of the object to be detected. For example, the electrical property can be surface
charge, surface potential, resting potential, electrical current, electrical field distribution,
electrical dipole, electrical quadruple, three-dimensional electrical or charge cloud
distribution, electrical properties at telomere of DNA and chromosome, capacitance, or
impedance; the thermal property can be temperature, or vibrational frequency of biological
item or molecules; the optical property can be optical absorption, optical transmission, optical
reflection, optical-electrical property, brightness, or fluorescent emission; the chemical
property can be pH value, chemical reaction, bio-chemical reaction, bio-electro-chemical
reaction, reaction speed, reaction energy, oxygen concentration, oxygen consumption rate,
ionic strength, catalytic behavior, chemicals added to enhance detection sensitivity, bio
chemicals added to enhance detection sensitivity, biological additives added to enhance
                                                 46

detection sensitivity, or bonding strength; the physical property can be density, shape, or
geometric size (volume and surface area); examples of biological properties include
biological item's surface properties including surface shape, surface area, surface charge, and
surface biological and chemical properties, and properties of solutions in which biological
matter resides (pH, electrolyte, ionic strength, resistivity, cell concentration, and biological,
electrical, physical, and chemical properties); the acoustic property can be frequency, speed
of acoustic waves, acoustic frequency and intensity spectrum distribution, acoustic intensity,
acoustical absorption, or acoustical resonance; and the mechanical property can be internal
pressure, hardness, flow rate, viscosity, shear strength, elongation strength, fracture stress,
adhesion, mechanical resonance frequency, elasticity, plasticity, or compressibility.
[219]    In some embodiments, the electronically conductive material is connected to the
piezo-electrical material, the piezo-photronic material, or the piezo-electro photronic material,
and capable of delivery signal from the piezo-electrical material, the piezo-photronic material,
or the piezo-electro photronic material, to a measuring or recording device.
[220]    In some embodiments, the piezo-electrical material, the piezo-photronic material, or
the piezo-electro photronic material expands when it detects an electrical property from the
object to be tested, or the piezo-electrical material, the piezo-photronic material, or the piezo
electro photronic material gives rise to an electrical currency when it detects a mechanical
stress.
[221]    The piezo-electrical material comprises a crystal, a ceramics, zinc oxide, aluminum
nitride, polyvinylidene fluoride, lithium tantalite, lanthanum gallium silicate, or potassium
sodium tartrate. Examples of suitable crystals include tourmaline, tourmaline, topaz, quartz,
Rochelle salt, Berlinite, and gallium orthophosphate; while examples of suitable ceramics
include BaTiO 3, KNbO 3, Ba 2NaNb5O5 , LiNbO 3, SrTiO 3, Pb(ZrTi)0 3, Pb 2KNb5 Oi5 , LiTaO 3,
BiFeO 3 , and NaxWO 3.
[222]    In some embodiments, the electronically conductive material comprises an electrical
conductor or semiconductor. The electrical conductor may include a metal or graphite, and
the semiconductor may include a crystal or a ceramics.
[223]    In some embodiments, the material that is neither piezo-electrical, nor piezo-photronic,
nor piezo-electro photronic, nor electronically conductive, is a wet etching stop material.
[224]    The piezo-electrical, piezo-photronic, or piezo-electro photronic micro-detectors
described above can be fabricated by a process comprising microelectronics technologies.
Accordingly, the invention further provides methods for fabricating a piezo-electrical, piezo
photronic, or piezo-electro photronic micro-detector. Each method includes the following
steps:
                                                47

        providing a substrate;
        depositing a first material onto the substrate;
        optionally planarizing the first material;
        depositing a second material onto the optionally planarized first material; wherein the
second material is neither piezo-electrical, nor piezo-photronic, nor piezo-electro photronic,
nor electrically conductive;
        patterning the second material to create at least one recessed area in the second
material;
        depositing a third, piezo-electrical material, piezo-photronic material, or piezo-electro
photronic material on the second material to fill its recessed area in the second material and
cover the second material;
        patterning the third, piezo-electrical material, piezo-photronic material, or piezo
electro photronic material to create at least one recessed area in the piezo-electrical material,
piezo-photronic material, or piezo-electro photronic material;
        depositing a fourth material onto the third, piezo-electrical material, piezo-photronic
material, or piezo-electro photronic material to fill its recessed area and optionally to cover
the third, piezo-electrical material, piezo-photronic material, or piezo-electro photronic
material; wherein the fourth material can be the same as or different from the second material,
and the fourth material is neither piezo-electrical, nor piezo-photronic, nor piezo-electro
photronic, nor electrically conductive;
        optionally patterning the fourth material to give it a certain configuration;
        optionally depositing a fifth material onto the optionally patterned fourth material,
wherein the fifth material can be the same as or different from the second material, the fifth
material is different from the fourth material, and the fifth material is neither piezo-electrical,
nor piezo-photronic, nor piezo-electro photronic, nor electrically conductive;
        patterning the fourth material and optional fifth material to create an opening that
exposes the third, piezo-electrical material, piezo-photronic material, or piezo-electro
photronic material;
        depositing a sixth, electrically conductive material to fill the opening in the fourth
material and optional fifth material, and optionally covering part of the fifth material; and
        patterning all the materials above the substrate to expose all the materials, and
        patterning the second and fourth materials sandwiching the piezo-electrical material,
piezo-photronic material, or piezo-electro photronic material, to expose at least part of the
piezo-electrical material.
                                                48

[225]   If desired, additional material layers (e.g., seventh material layer, or seventh and
eighth material layers) can be deposited, patterned, cleaned, or planarized to form additional
structures with more features, functionalities, and complexities.
[226]   In some embodiments, the second material or the fifth material is a wet etch stop
material.
[227]   In some embodiments, the patterning process comprises lithography and etching.
[228]   In some embodiments, a portion of the patterned piezo-electrical material, piezo
photronic material, or piezo-electro photronic material is projecting from the other material(s)
with which it is connected, and the projecting piezo-electrical material, piezo-photronic
material, or piezo-electro photronic material is in the shape of a layer or a stick. For example,
the projecting piezo-electrical material, piezo-photronic material, or piezo-electro photronic
material has an axel that is essentially parallel to the surface of the substrate.
[229]   Yet in another aspect, the invention provides methods for detecting, at the
microscopic level, a mechanical or electrical property of a biological subject. Each method
includes the steps of: providing a piezo-electrical, piezo-photronic, or piezo-electro
photronic micro-detector comprising a substrate, a piezo-electrical material, a piezo
photronic material, a piezo-electro photronic material, an electronically conductive material,
a material that is neither piezo-electrical, nor piezo-photronic, nor piezo-electro photronic,
nor electronically conductive, wherein the piezo-electrical material, piezo-photronic material,
or piezo-electro photronic material is placed between the electronically conductive material
and the material that is neither piezo-electrical, nor piezo-photronic, nor piezo-electro
photronic, nor electronically conductive, and the material that is neither piezo-electrical, nor
piezo-photronic, nor piezo-electro photronic, nor electronically conductive is placed between
the substrate and the piezo-electrical material, piezo-photronic material, or piezo-electro
photronic material; contacting the piezo-electrical, piezo-photronic, or piezo-electro
photronic micro-detector with the biological subject to be detected, wherein the piezo
electrical, piezo-photronic, or piezo-electro photronic micro-detector detects the mechanical,
optical, or electrical property of the biological subject upon the contact and converts the
mechanical, optical, or electrical property to generate an electrical, optical, or mechanical
property, and transferring the electrical, optical, or mechanical property thus generated
through the electrically conductive material to a recording device.
[230]   As used herein, the term "or" is meant to include both "and" and "or". It may be
interchanged with "and/or."
[231]   As used herein, a singular noun is meant to include its plural meaning. For instance, a
micro device can mean either a single micro device or multiple micro-devices.
                                                 49

[232]    As used herein, the term "patterning" means shaping a material into a certain physical
form or pattern, including a plane (in which case "patterning" would also mean
"planarization.")
[233]    As used herein, the term "a biological subject" or "a biological sample" for analysis
or test or diagnosis refers to the subject to be analyzed by a disease detection apparatus. It
can be a single cell, a single biological molecular (e.g., DNA, RNA, or protein), a single
biological subject (e.g., a single cell or virus), any other sufficiently small unit or
fundamental biological composition, or a sample of a subject's organ or tissue that may
having a disease or disorder.
[234]    As used herein, the term "disease" is interchangeable with the term "disorder" and
generally refers to any abnormal microscopic property or condition (e.g., a physical condition)
of a biological subject (e.g., a mammal or biological species).
[235]    As used herein, the term "subject" generally refers to a mammal, e.g., a human person.
[236]    As used herein, the term "microscopic level" refers to the subject being analyzed by
the disease detection apparatus of this invention is of a microscopic nature and can be a single
cell, a single biological molecular (e.g., DNA, RNA, or protein), a single biological subject
(e.g., a single cell or virus), and other sufficiently small unit or fundamental biological
composition.
[237]    As used herein, a "micro-device" or "micro device" can be any of a wide range of
materials, properties, shapes, and degree of complexity and integration. The term has a
general meaning for an application from a single material to a very complex device
comprising multiple materials with multiple sub units and multiple functions. The
complexity contemplated in the present invention ranges from a very small, single particle
with a set of desired properties to a fairly complicated, integrated unit with various functional
units contained therein. For example, a simple micro-device could be a single spherical
article of manufacture of a diameter as small as 100 angstroms with a desired hardness, a
desired surface charge, or a desired organic chemistry absorbed on its surface. A more
complex micro device could be a 1 millimeter device with a sensor, a simple calculator, a
memory unit, a logic unit, and a cutter all integrated onto it. In the former case, the particle
can be formed via a fumed or colloidal precipitation process, while the device with various
components integrated onto it can be fabricated using various integrated circuit
manufacturing processes.
[238]    A micro device used in the present invention can range in size (e.g., diameter) from
on the order of about 1 angstrom to on the order of about 5 millimeters. For instance, a
micro-device ranging in size from on the order of about 10 angstroms to on the order of 100
                                                  50

microns can be used in this invention for targeting biological molecules, entities or
compositions of small sizes such as cell structures, DNA, and bacteria. Or, a micro-device
ranging in size from on the order of about one micron to the order of about 5 millimeters can
be used in the present invention for targeting relatively large biological matters such as a
portion of a human organ. As an example, a simple micro device defined in the present
application can be a single particle of a diameter less than 100 angstroms, with desired
surface properties (e.g., with surface charge or a chemical coating) for preferential absorption
or adsorption into a targeted type of cell.
[239]    The present invention further provides an apparatus for detecting a disease in a
biological subject, which comprises a pre-processing unit, a probing and detecting unit, a
signal processing unit, and a disposal processing unit.
[240]    In some embodiments of the apparatus, the pre-processing unit includes a sample
filtration unit, a recharging unit, a constant pressure delivery unit, and a sample pre-probing
disturbing unit. This increases the contraction ratio of certain substance of interests (such as
cancer cells) and therefore makes the apparatus more effective and efficient in detecting the
targeted biological subject (such as cancer cells).
[241]    In some embodiments, the filtration unit can filter off unwanted substance by physical
filtration (e.g., based on the electronic charge or size of the substance) or separation by
chemical reaction (thereby completely removing the undesirable substances), biochemical
reaction, electro-mechanical reaction, electro-chemical reaction, or biological reaction.
[242]    In some embodiments, the sample filtration unit can include an entrance channel, a
disturbing fluid channel, an accelerating chamber, and a slit. The slit and the interior walls of
the entrance channel define two channels (e.g., a top channel and a bottom channel) wherein
the biological subject can be separated due to the differences in its property (e.g., electrical or
physical property).
[243]    In some embodiments, a bio-compatible fluid can be injected into the disturbing fluid
channel to separate the biological subject. For example, the bio-compatible fluid can be
injected from the entrance of the disturbing fluid channel and deliver to an opening in the
entrance channel wall. The bio-compatible fluid can be liquid or semi-liquid, and can include
saline, water, plasma, an oxygen-rich liquid, or any combination thereof.
[244]    In some other embodiments, the angle between the entrance channel and the
disturbing fluid channel ranges from about 00 to about 1800 (e.g., from about 300 to about
1500, from about 600 to about 1200, or from about 750 to about 1050, or about 90).
[245]    In some other embodiments, the width of each channel can range from about 1 nm to
about 1 mm (e.g., from about 2 nm to about 0.6 mm or from about 10 nm to about 0.2 mm).
                                                  51

[246]   In some other embodiments, at least one of the channels comprises one probing
device attached to the channel's sidewall, and the probing device is capable of measuring at
the microscopic level an electrical, magnetic, electromagnetic, thermal, optical, acoustical,
biological, chemical, electro-mechanical, electro-chemical, electro-optical, electro-thermal,
electro-chemical-mechanical, bio-chemical, bio-mechanical, bio-optical, bio-thermal, bio
physical, bio-electro-mechanical, bio-electro-chemical, bio-electro-optical, bio-electro
thermal, bio-mechanical-optical, bio-mechanical thermal, bio-thermal-optical, bio-electro
chemical-optical, bio-electro-mechanical optical, bio-electro-thermal-optical, bio-electro
chemical-mechanical, physical or mechanical property, or a combination thereof, of the
biological subject. Examples of the electrical property include surface charge, surface
potential, resting potential, electrical current, electrical field distribution, electrical dipole,
electrical quadruple, three-dimensional electrical or charge cloud distribution, electrical
properties at telomere of DNA and chromosome, capacitance, and impedance. Examples of
the thermal property include temperature and vibrational frequency. Examples of the optical
property include optical absorption, optical transmission, optical reflection, optical-electrical
property, brightness, and fluorescent emission. Examples of the chemical property include
pH value, chemical reaction, bio-chemical reaction, bio-electro-chemical reaction, reaction
speed, reaction energy, speed of reaction, oxygen concentration, oxygen consumption rate,
ionic strength, catalytic behavior, chemical additives to trigger enhanced signal response, bio
chemical additives to trigger enhanced signal response, biological additives to trigger
enhanced signal response, chemicals to enhance detection sensitivity, bio-chemicals to
enhance detection sensitivity, biological additives to enhance detection sensitivity, and
bonding strength. Examples of the physical property include density, shape, and geometric
size (volume and surface area). Examples of biological properties include biological item's
surface properties including surface shape, surface area, surface charge, and surface
biological and chemical properties, and properties of solutions in which biological matter
resides (pH, electrolyte, ionic strength, resistivity, cell concentration, and biological,
electrical, physical, and chemical properties). Examples of the acoustic property include
frequency, speed of acoustic waves, acoustic frequency and intensity spectrum distribution,
acoustic intensity, acoustical absorption, and acoustical resonance. Examples of the
mechanical property include internal pressure, hardness, flow rate, viscosity, shear strength,
elongation strength, fracture stress, adhesion, mechanical resonance frequency, elasticity,
plasticity, and compressibility.
[247]   In some embodiments, at least one of the channels comprises at least two probing
devices attached to the channel's sidewalls, and the probing devices are capable of measuring
                                                  52

at the microscopic level an electrical, magnetic, electromagnetic, thermal, optical, acoustical,
biological, chemical, electro-mechanical, electro-chemical, electro-optical, electro-thermal,
electro-chemical-mechanical, bio-chemical, bio-mechanical, bio-optical, bio-thermal, bio
physical, bio-electro-mechanical, bio-electro-chemical, bio-electro-optical, bio-electro
thermal, bio-mechanical-optical, bio-mechanical thermal, bio-thermal-optical, bio-electro
chemical-optical, bio-electro-mechanical optical, bio-electro-thermal-optical, bio-electro
chemical-mechanical, physical or mechanical property, or a combination thereof, of the
biological subject. The probing devices measure the same or different properties at the same
time or different times.
[248]   The two or more probing devices can be placed with a desired distance between each
other (at least 10 angstroms). Examples of the desired distance include from about 5 nm to
about 100 mm, from about 10 nm to about 10 mm, from about 10 nm to about 5 mm, from
about 10 nm to about 1 mm, from about 15 nm to about 500 nm.
[249]   In some embodiments, the micro-device of this invention comprises at least one probe
and at least one detector. The probe can be utilized to launch a probing (disturbing or
simulating) signal to probe (i.e., disturb or stimulate) the biological subject, and the detector
can detect the biological subject's response (signal) to the probing signal. As an example, a
micro-device with at least one acoustic probe (such as an acoustic transducer or microphone)
and at least one detector (such as an acoustic signal receiver) is utilized for biological subject
detection, wherein the acoustic probe and detector may be constructed with, among others,
one or more piezo-electrical materials. In this example, an acoustic signal is first launched,
and scanned across its frequency range (e.g., from sub Hz to over MHz) by the probe. The
response signal to the launched acoustic signal by the probe is then collected by the detector,
and subsequently recorded, amplified (e.g., by a lock-in amplifier), and analyzed. The
response signal contains characteristic information of a biological subject that is tested. For
example, depending on certain properties of the tested biological subject, the detected
acoustic resonant frequency, intensity, frequency versus intensity spectrum, or intensity
distribution by the detector may indicate characteristic information about the tested biological
subject. Such information includes density, density distribution, absorption properties, shape,
surface properties, and other static and dynamic properties of the biological subject.
[250]   In some embodiments, the sample filtration unit can include an entrance channel, a
biocompatible filter, an exit channel, or any combination thereof. When a biological subject
passes through the entrance channel toward the exit channel, the biological subject of a size
larger than the filter hole will be blocked against the exit channel, resulting in the smaller
biological subject being flushed out through the exit channel. A biocompatible fluid is
                                                 53

injected from the exit to carry the biological subject accumulated around the filter and flush
out from the channel. The biological subject with a large size is then filtered for further
analysis and detection in the detecting component or unit of the apparatus.
[251]   In some embodiments, the sample pre-probing disturbing unit can include one micro
device with a channel, a slit located inside the channel, and optionally two plates outside the
channel. The two plates can apply a signal, e.g., an electronic voltage, to the biological
subject traveling through the channel and separates it based on the electronic charge the
biological subject carries. The slit and the interior channels of the channel define two
channels where the separated biological subjects enter and optionally are detected for its
property at the microscopic level.
[252]   In some embodiments, the sample pre-probing disturbing unit applies to the biological
subject an electrical, magnetic, electromagnetic, thermal, optical, acoustical, biological,
chemical, electro-mechanical, electro-chemical, electro-optical, electro-thermal, electro
chemical-mechanical, bio-chemical, bio-mechanical, bio-optical, bio-thermal, bio-physical,
bio-electro-mechanical, bio-electro-chemical, bio-electro-optical, bio-electro-thermal, bio
mechanical-optical, bio-mechanical thermal, bio-thermal-optical, bio-electro-chemical
optical, bio-electro-mechanical optical, bio-electro-thermal-optical, bio-electro-chemical
mechanical, physical or mechanical signal, or a combination thereof. The signal can be
applied, e.g., with the two plates described above or in other means (depending on the nature
of the signal). The signal as applied can be pulsed or constant.
[253]   In some embodiments, the recharging unit recharges nutrient or respiring gas (such as
oxygen) to the biological subject. Alternatively, it can also clean up the metabolite of the
biological subject. With such a recharging unit, the life stability of the biological subject in
the sample is sustained and its use is extended, thereby giving more accurate and reliable
detecting results. Examples of nutrient include biocompatible strong or weak electrolyte,
amino acid, mineral, ions, oxygen, oxygen-rich liquid, intravenous drip, glucose, and protein.
Another example of the nutrient is a solution containing nano-particles that can be selectively
absorbed by certain biological subjects (e.g., cells or viruses).
[254]   The recharging system can be separate from and outside of the other components of
the apparatus. Alternatively, it can also be installed within one of the other components, e.g.,
the probing and detecting unit or the disposal processing unit.
[255]   In some other embodiments, the signal processing unit comprises an amplifier (e.g., a
lock-in amplifier), an A/D (alternate/direct electrical current or analog to digital) converter, a
micro-computer, a manipulator, a display, and network connections.
                                                54

[256]   In some instance, the signal processing unit collects more than one signal (i.e.,
multiple signals), and the multiple signals can be integrated to cancel out noise or to enhance
the signal to noise ratio. The multiple signals can be signals from multiple locations or from
multiple times.
[257]   The invention further provides a method for detecting a disease with enhanced
sensibility in a subject in need thereof, which comprises: taking a biological sample from the
subject and taking a biological sample from a disease-free subject; optionally placing the
biological sample in a biocompatible media; analyzing the two biological samples to measure
a property thereof at the microscopic level with a micro-device which comprises a first micro
sensor for detecting a property of the biological samples at the microscopic level, and an
interior wall defining a channel, wherein the micro sensor is located in the interior wall of the
micro-device and detects the property of the biological samples at the microscopic level, and
the biological sample is transported within the channel; and comparing the measured property
of the two biological samples.
[258]   In some embodiments, the micro-device further comprises a second micro sensor for
applying a probing signal on the biological samples or on the optional media, thereby
changing and optimizing (enhancing) the nature or value of the property to be detected at the
microscopic level. This process would result in amplified or enhanced value of the property
to be detected, which in turn makes the property easier to detect and measure, thus increasing
the sensibility of the detection and measure.   The probing signal and the property to be
detected can be of the same type or different types. For example, the probing signal and the
property to be detected can both be an electrical property or an optical property or a
mechanical property or a thermal property. Or, the probing signal and the property to be
detected can be, e.g., an optical property and an electrical property, an optical property and a
magnetic property, an electrical property and a mechanic property, a mechanical property and
an electrical property, a chemical property and a biological property, a physical property and
an electrical property, an electrical property and a thermal property, a bio-chemical property
and a physical property, a bio-electro-mechanical property and a thermal property, a bio
chemical property and an electrical property, a bio-chemical property and an optical property,
a bio-chemical property and a thermal property, a bio-chemical property and a chemical
property, a biological property and an electrical property, a biological property and an optical
property, and a biological property and a thermal property, respectively.
[259]   Each of the probing signal and the property to be detected can be an electrical,
magnetic, electromagnetic, thermal, optical, acoustical, biological, chemical, electro
mechanical, electro-chemical, electro-optical, electro-thermal, electro-chemical-mechanical,
                                                55

bio-chemical, bio-mechanical, bio-optical, bio-thermal, bio-physical, bio-electro-mechanical,
bio-electro-chemical, bio-electro-optical, bio-electro-thermal, bio-mechanical-optical, bio
mechanical thermal, bio-thermal-optical, bio-electro-chemical-optical, bio-electro-mechanical
optical, bio-electro-thermal-optical, bio-electro-chemical-mechanical, physical or mechanical
property of the biological subject, or a combination thereof. For instance, the electrical
property can be surface charge, surface potential, resting potential, electrical current,
electrical field distribution, electrical dipole, electrical quadruple, three-dimensional electrical
or charge cloud distribution, electrical properties at telomere of DNA and chromosome,
capacitance, or impedance; the thermal property can be temperature or vibrational frequency;
the optical property can be optical absorption, optical transmission, optical reflection, optical
electrical property, brightness, or fluorescent emission; the chemical property can be pH
value, chemical reaction, bio-chemical reaction, bio-electro-chemical reaction, reaction speed,
reaction energy, speed of reaction, oxygen concentration, oxygen consumption rate, ionic
strength, catalytic behavior, chemical additives to trigger enhanced signal response, bio
chemical additives to trigger enhanced signal response, biological additives to trigger
enhanced signal response, chemicals to enhance detection sensitivity, bio-chemicals to
enhance detection sensitivity, biological additives to enhance detection sensitivity, or bonding
strength; the physical property can be density, shape, volume, or surface area; the biological
property can be surface shape, surface area, surface charge, surface biological property,
surface chemical property, pH, electrolyte, ionic strength, resistivity, cell concentration, or
biological, electrical, physical, or chemical property of solution; the acoustic property can be
frequency, speed of acoustic waves, acoustic frequency and intensity spectrum distribution,
acoustic intensity, acoustical absorption, or acoustical resonance; the mechanical property can
be internal pressure, hardness, flow rate, viscosity, shear strength, elongation strength,
fracture stress, adhesion, mechanical resonance frequency, elasticity, plasticity, or
compressibility.
[260]   In some embodiments, the change of the property is from a static state to a dynamic or
pulse state, or from a lower value to a higher value.
[261]   In some other embodiments, the probing signal or at least one of the parameters of the
environmental setting in which the biological subject to be measured resides is changed from
one value to a new value, or from a static state to a dynamic state, in order to further enhance
the property to be detected and thus optimize the measure sensibility of the micro-device.
Such parameters or probing signal include, but are not limited to, electrical, electro-magnetic,
optical, thermal, bio-chemical, chemical, mechanical, physical, acoustical, bio-electrical, bio
optical, electro-optical, or a combination thereof. Specifically, examples of the probing
                                                   56

signal and a property of the media include, but are not limited to, laser intensity, temperature,
catalyst concentration, acoustic energy, bio-marker concentration, electrical voltage,
electrical current, fluorescent dye concentration, the amount of agitation in the biological
samples, and fluid flow rate.
[262]    Specifically, in order to enhance measurement sensitivity and maximize the difference
in signals between normal biological samples and diseased biological samples, applied
probing (disturbing) signal and/or at least one of the parameters of the environmental
surrounding in which the biological sample resides is intentionally changed from one value to
a new value, or from a static value (DC value) to a pulsed value (AC value). The new value
can be optimized to trigger maximum response from the biological sample. The new value
can also be optimized to obtain enhanced difference in measured signals between the normal
biological sample and diseased sample, resulting in enhanced measurement sensitivity. For
example, for making dynamic measurements to further enhance measurement sensitivity,
during measurements, at least one of the parameters applied to the biological sample being
measured or at least one of the properties in the surrounding media (in which the biological
sample resides) is intentionally changed from a static state (constant value) to a dynamic state
(for example, a pulsed value or an alternating value), or from one value to a new value. As a
novel example, in a measurement, a DC current applied to a biological sample is intentionally
changed to an AC current. In another novel example, a constant temperature applied to a
biological sample is changed to a higher temperature, or a pulsed heat wave (for example,
from 30 *C to 50 *C,then from 50 *C back to 30 *C). The above disclosed inventive method
(the utilization of dynamic probing (disturbing or stimulating) signal, optimized probing
(disturbing or stimulating) value and probing signal ramp-up speed) can also be used in
conjunction with various lock-in techniques including but not limited to phase lock-in
technique and/or the use of pulsed or alternating probing signal with signal amplification
synchronized to the frequency of the probing signal.
[263]    Biological subjects that can be detected by the apparatus include, e.g., blood, urine,
saliva, tear, and sweat. The detection results can indicate the possible occurrence or presence
of a disease (e.g., one in its early stage) in the biological subject.
[264]    As used herein, the term "absorption" typically means a physical bonding between the
surface and the material attached to it (absorbed onto it, in this case). On the other hand, the
word "adsorption" generally means a stronger, chemical bonding between the two. These
properties are very important for the present invention as they can be effectively used for
targeted attachment by desired micro devices for measurement at the microscopic level.
                                                   57

[265]   As used herein, the term "contact" (as in "the first micro-device contacts a biologic
entity") is meant to include both "direct" (or physical) contact and "non-direct" (or indirect or
non-physical) contact. When two subjects are in "direct" contact, there is generally no
measurable space or distance between the contact points of these two subjects; whereas when
they are in "indirect" contact, there is a measurable space or distance between the contact
points of these two subjects.
[266]   As used herein, the term "probe" or "probing," in addition to its dictionary meaning,
could mean applying a signal (e.g., an electrical, acoustic, magnetic or thermal signal) to a
subject and thereby stimulating the subject and causing it to have some kind of intrinsic
response.
[267]   As used herein, the term "electrical property" refers to surface charge, surface
potential, electrical field, charge distribution, electrical field distribution, resting potential,
action potential, or impedance of a biological subject to be analyzed.
[268]   As used herein, the term "magnetic property" refers to diamagnetic, paramagnetic, or
ferromagnetic.
[269]   As used herein, the term "electromagnetic property" refers to property that has both
electrical and magnetic dimensions.
[270]   As used herein, the term "thermal property" refers to temperature, freezing point,
melting point, evaporation temperature, glass transition temperature, or thermal conductivity.
[271]   As used herein, the term "optical property" refers to reflection, optical absorption,
optical scattering, wave length dependent properties, color, luster, brilliance, scintillation, or
dispersion.
[272]   As used herein, the term "acoustical property" refers to the characteristics found
within a structure that determine the quality of sound in its relevance to hearing. It can
generally be measured by the acoustic absorption coefficient. See, e.g., United States Patent
No. 3,915,016, for means and methods for determining an acoustical property of a material;
T.J. Cox et al., Acoustic Absorbers andDiffusers, 2004, Spon Press.
[273]   As used herein, the term "biological property" is meant to generally include chemical
and physical properties of a biological subject.
[274]   As used herein, the term "chemical property" refers to pH value, ionic strength, or
bonding strength within the biological sample.
[275]   As used herein, the term "physical property" refers to any measurable property the
value of which describes a physical system's state at any given moment in time. The
physical properties of a biological sample may include, but are not limited to absorption,
albedo, area, brittleness, boiling point, capacitance, color, concentration, density, dielectrical,
                                                  58

electrical charge, electrical conductivity, electrical impedance, electrical field, electrical
potential, emission, flow rate, fluidity, frequency, inductance, intrinsic impedance, intensity,
irradiance, luminance, luster, malleability, magnetic field, magnetic flux, mass, melting point,
momentum, permeability, permittivity, pressure, radiance, solubility, specific heat, strength,
temperature, tension, thermal conductivity, flow rate, velocity, viscosity, volume, surface
area, shape, and wave impedance.
[276]   As used herein, the term "mechanical property" refers to strength, hardness, flow rate,
viscosity, toughness, elasticity, plasticity, brittleness, ductility, shear strength, elongation
strength, fracture stress, or adhesion of the biological sample.
[277]   As used herein, the term "conductive material" (or its equivalent "electrical
conductor") is a material which contains movable electrical charges. A conductive material
can be a metal (e.g., copper, silver, or gold) or non-metallic (e.g., graphite, solutions of salts,
plasmas, or conductive polymers). In metallic conductors, such as copper or aluminum, the
movable charged particles are electrons (see electrical conduction). Positive charges may
also be mobile in the form of atoms in a lattice that are missing electrons (known as holes), or
in the form of ions, such as in the electrolyte of a battery.
[278]   As used herein, the term "electrically insulating material" (also known as "insulator"
or "dielectric") refers to a material that resists the flow of electrical current. An insulating
material has atoms with tightly bonded valence electrons. Examples of electrically insulating
materials include glass or organic polymers (e.g., rubber, plastics, or Teflon).
[279]   As used herein, the term "semiconductor" (also known as "semiconducting material")
refers to a material with electrical conductivity due to electron flow (as opposed to ionic
conductivity) intermediate in magnitude between that of a conductor and an insulator.
Examples of inorganic semiconductors include silicon, silicon-based materials, and
germanium. Examples of organic semiconductors include such aromatic hydrocarbons as the
polycyclic aromatic compounds pentacene, anthracene, and rubrene; and polymeric organic
semiconductors such as poly(3-hexylthiophene), poly(p-phenylene vinylene), polyacetylene
and its derivatives. Semiconducting materials can be crystalline solids (e.g., silicon),
amorphous (e.g., hydrogenated amorphous silicon and mixtures of arsenic, selenium and
tellurium in a variety of proportions), or even liquid.
[280]   As used herein, the term "biological material" has the same meaning of "biomaterial"
as understood by a person skilled in the art. Without limiting its meaning, biological
materials or biomaterials can generally be produced either in nature or synthesized in the
laboratory using a variety of chemical approaches utilizing organic compounds (e.g., small
organic molecules or polymers) or inorganic compounds (e.g., metallic components or
                                                   59

ceramics). They generally can be used or adapted for a medical application, and thus
comprise whole or part of a living structure or biomedical device which performs, augments,
or replaces a natural function. Such functions may be benign, like being used for a heart
valve, or may be bioactive with a more interactive functionality such as hydroxyl-apatite
coated hip implants. Biomaterials can also be used every day in dental applications, surgery,
and drug delivery. For instance, a construct with impregnated pharmaceutical products can
be placed into the body, which permits the prolonged release of a drug over an extended
period of time. A biomaterial may also be an autograft, allograft, or xenograft which can be
used as a transplant material. All these materials that have found applications in other
medical or biomedical fields can also be used in the present invention.
[281]    As used herein, the term "microelectronic technology or process" generally
encompasses the technologies or processes used for fabricating micro-electronic and optical
electronic components. Examples include lithography, etching (e.g., wet etching, dry etching,
or vapor etching), oxidation, diffusion, implantation, annealing, film deposition, cleaning,
direct-writing, polishing, planarization (e.g., by chemical mechanical polishing), epitaxial
growth, metallization, process integration, simulation, or any combinations thereof.
Additional descriptions on microelectronic technologies or processes can be found in, e.g.,
Jaeger, Introduction to Microelectronic Fabrication, 2 Ed., Prentice Hall, 2002; Ralph E.
Williams, Modem GaAs Processing Methods,          2 nd Ed., Artech House, 1990; Robert F. Pierret,
Advanced Semiconductor Fundamentals,        2 nd Ed., Prentice Hall, 2002; S. Campbell, The
Science and Engineering of Microelectronic Fabrication,       2 nd Ed., Oxford University Press,
2001, the contents of all of which are incorporated herein by reference in their entireties.
[282]    As used herein, the term "selective" as included in, e.g., "patterning material B using
a microelectronics process selective to material A", means that the microelectronics process
is effective on material B but not on material A, or is substantially more effective on material
B than on material B (e.g., resulting in a much higher removal rate on material B than on
material A and thus removing much more material B than material A).
[283]    As used herein, the term "carbon nano-tube" generally refers to as allotropes of
carbon with a cylindrical nanostructure. See, e.g., Carbon Nanotube Science, by P.J.F. Harris,
Cambridge University Press, 2009, for more details about carbon nano-tubes.
[284]    Through the use of a single micro-device or a combination of micro-devices
integrated into a disease detection apparatus, the disease detection capabilities can be
significantly improved in terms of sensitivity, specificity, speed, cost, apparatus size,
functionality, and ease of use, along with reduced invasiveness and side-effects. A large
number of micro-device types capable of measuring a wide range of microscopic properties
                                                 60

of biological sample for disease detection can be integrated and fabricated into a single
detection apparatus using micro-fabrication technologies and novel process flows disclosed
herein. While for the purposes of demonstration and illustration, a few novel, detailed
examples have been shown herein on how microelectronics or nano-fabrication techniques
and associated process flows can be utilized to fabricate highly sensitive, multi-functional,
and miniaturized detection devices, the principle and general approaches of employing
microelectronics and nano-fabrication technologies in the design and fabrication of high
performance detection devices have been contemplated and taught, which can and should be
expanded to various combination of fabrication processes including but not limited to thin
film deposition, patterning (lithography and etch), planarization (including chemical
mechanical polishing), ion implantation, diffusion, cleaning, various materials, and various
process sequences and flows and combinations thereof.
                                 Brief Descriptions of the Fi2ures
[285]    Figure 1 (a) is a perspective illustration of a disease detection apparatus of this
invention in which a biological sample placed in it or moving through it can be tested. Figure
1(b) and Figure 1(c) illustrate the apparatus which comprises multiple individual detection
micro-devices.
[286]    Figure 2 (a) is a perspective, cross-sectional illustration of a disease detection
apparatus of this invention with multiple micro-devices. A biological sample is placed in the
apparatus or moving through it while one or more microscopic properties of this biological
sample are measured with the multiple micro-devices. Figures 2(b)-2(l) are perspective
illustration of the novel process flow for fabricating the micro-device. Figures 2(m)-2(n) are
cross-sectional views of an apparatus comprising multiple individual micro-devices.
[287]    Figure 3 is a perspective, cross-sectional illustration of a disease detection apparatus
of this invention with multiple micro-devices of different detection probes. A biological
sample is placed in the apparatus or moving through it and one or more microscopic
properties of this sample are measured with the multiple micro-device.
[288]    Figure 4 is a perspective illustration of a disease detection apparatus of this invention.
It includes two slabs separated by a narrow spacing with a biological sample to be analyzed
placed between the slabs, with multiple micro-devices placed at the inner surfaces of the
slabs to measure one or more desired parameters of the sample at microscopic levels.
[289]    Figure 5 illustrates a novel process flow for fabricating a disease detection apparatus
of this invention utilizing microelectronics technologies.
                                                   61

[290]    Figure 6 is a perspective illustration of a disease detection apparatus fabricated by a
method of this invention. The apparatus is capable of probing a single cell and measuring its
microscopic properties.
[291]    Figure 7 is a perspective, cross-sectional illustration of a disease detection apparatus
of this invention with multiple micro-devices placed at a desired distance for time of flight
measurements with enhanced sensitivity, specificity, and speed, including time dependent or
dynamic information.
[292]    Figure 8 is a perspective illustration of a novel set of microscopic probes, included in
a disease detection apparatus of this invention, for detecting various electronic or magnetic
states, configurations, or other properties of a biological sample (e.g., a cell, a DNA or RNA
molecule, a telomere of DNA or chromosome, a virus, or a tissue sample).
[293]    Figure 9 is a perspective illustration of a novel four-point probe, included in a disease
detection apparatus of this invention, for detecting weak electronic signal in a biological
sample (e.g., a cell, a DNA or RNA molecule, a telomere of DNA or chromosome, a virus, or
a tissue sample).
[294]    Figure 10 illustrates a novel process flow for fabricating a class of micro-devices
capable of trapping, sorting, probing, measuring, and modifying a biological subject (e.g., a
cell, a DNA or RNA molecule, a telomere of DNA or chromosome, a virus, or a tissue
sample) at the microscopic level and in a three-dimensional space.
[295]    Figure 11 illustrates a novel process flow for fabricating a class of micro-devices
capable of measuring physical properties of a biological subject (e.g., a cell, a DNA or RNA
molecule, a telomere of DNA or chromosome, a virus, or a tissue sample) such as mechanical
properties (e.g., hardness, shear strength, elongation strength, fracture stress) and other
properties related to cell membrane.
[296]    Figure 12 illustrates how a micro-device with two micro-probes capable of moving in
opposite directions when a force is applied can be utilized to probe properties of a biological
subject (e.g., mechanical properties of a cell membrane).
[297]    Figure 13 illustrates a novel time of flight detection arrangement for disease detection
applications, in which both clock signal generator and signal detection probes are used, along
with schematically recorded clock signal, probe signal (signal detected by probing micro
device), and processed and enhanced signal after signal filtering using phase lock-in
processing technique to enhance the detected signal.
[298]    Figure 14 illustrates yet another time of flight disease detection arrangement in which
clock signal generators, a probe signal generator, and signal detection probes are used, along
with schematically recorded clock signal, detected signal by probing micro-device in
                                                  62

response to probe signal, and processed and enhanced signal after signal filtering using phase
lock-in processing technique to enhance the detected signal showing detected response signal
as a function of time (response signal delays over time in this case).
[299]   Figure 15 illustrates another novel time of flight disease detection application, in
which a set of novel micro-filters are utilized to detect biological subjects via separation of
biological subjects by their various, specific properties such as size, weight, shape, electrical
properties, or surface properties.
[300] Figure 16 illustrates a fluid delivery system, which is a pretreatment part for the
disease detection apparatus, and it delivers a sample or auxiliary material at a desired
pressure and speed into a device.
[301]   Figures 17(b)-17(c) illustrate a novel device which can engage in cellular
communications at the single cell level by simulating cellular signals and receiving the cell's
responses which can be a signal of electrical, magnetic, electromagnetic, thermal, optical,
acoustical, biological, chemical, electro-mechanical, electro-chemical, electro-chemical
mechanical, bio-chemical, bio-mechanical, bio-electro-mechanical, bio-electro-chemical, bio
electro-chemical-mechanical, physical, or mechanical property, or a combination thereof.
Figure 17(a) illustrates how the signal is processed and responded in a single cell.
[302]   Figure 18 illustrates a system block diagram of a disease detection apparatus,
comprising various functional modules.
[303]   Figure 19 illustrates a micro-device capable of communicating, trapping, sorting,
analyzing, treating, or modifying a DNA and measuring the DNA's various properties (e.g.,
electrical, magnetic, electromagnetic, thermal, optical, acoustical, biological, chemical,
electro-mechanical, electro-chemical, electro-chemical-mechanical, bio-chemical, bio
mechanical, bio-electro-mechanical, bio-electro-chemical, bio-electro-chemical-mechanical,
physical, or mechanical properties, or a combination thereof).
[304]   Figure 20 illustrates an apparatus of this invention that can detect the surface charge
on biological subjects and separate them by a slit based on the charge.
[305]   Figure 21 illustrates another apparatus of this invention that can detect the optical
properties of the biological subject with a set of optical sensors.
[306]   Figure 22 illustrates another apparatus of this invention that can separate biological
subjects of different geometric size and detect their properties respectively.
[307]   Figure 23 illustrates an apparatus of this invention that can measure the acoustic
property of a biological subject.
[308]   Figure 24 illustrates an apparatus of this invention that can measure the internal
pressure of a biological subject.
                                                63

[309]     Figure 25 illustrates an apparatus of this invention that has concaves between the
probe couples, in the bottom or ceiling of the channel.
[310]     Figure 26 illustrates another apparatus of this invention that has concaves of a
different shape from those illustrated in Figure 25.
[311]     Figure 27 illustrates an apparatus of this invention that has a stepped channel.
[312]     Figure 28 illustrates an apparatus of this invention that has a set of thermal meters.
[313]     Figure 29 illustrates an apparatus of this invention that includes a carbon nano-tube as
the channel with DNA contained therein.
[314]     Figure 30 illustrated an integrated apparatus of this invention that includes a detecting
device and an optical sensor.
[315]     Figure 31 illustrated an integrated apparatus of this invention that includes a detecting
device and a logic circuitry.
[316]     Figure 32 illustrates an apparatus of this invention that includes a detecting device and
a filter.
[317]     Figure 33 illustrates how micro-devices of this invention can be used to measure the
geometric factors of DNA.
[318]     Figure 34 illustrates a process for fabricating a micro-device of this invention with a
cover atop the trench to form a channel.
[319]     Figure 35 is a diagram of an apparatus of this invention for detecting a disease in a
biological subject.
[320]     Figure 36 shows an example of a sample filtration unit.
[321]     Figure 37 shows another example of a sample filtration unit.
[322]     Figure 38 is a diagram of a pre-processing unit of an apparatus of this invention.
[323]     Figure 39 is a diagram of an information processing unit of an apparatus of this
invention.
[324]     Figure 40 shows the integration of multiple signals which results in cancellation of
noise and enhancement of signal/noise ratio.
[325]     Figure 41 shows one embodiment of the fabrication process of this invention for
manufacturing a detection device with at least one detection chamber and at least one detector.
[326]     Figure 42 shows another embodiment of a process of this invention for manufacturing
a detection device with enclosed detection chambers, detectors, and channels for transporting
biological samples such as fluidic samples.
[327]     Figure 43 shows a novel disease detection method in which at least one probe object
is launched at a desired speed and direction toward a biological subject, resulting in a
collision.
                                                   64

[328]    Figure 44 illustrates a novel fabrication process of this invention for forming multiple
components with different materials at the same device level.
[329]    Figure 45 shows a process of this invention for detecting a biological subject using a
disease detection device.
[330]    Figure 46 shows another embodiment of disease detection process wherein diseased
and healthy biological subjects are separated and the diseased biological subjects are
delivered to further test.
[331]    Figure 47 is an arrayed biological detecting device wherein a series of detecting
devices are fabricated into an apparatus.
[332]    Figure 48 shows another embodiment of a disease detection device of the current
invention including inlet and outlet of the device, the channel where the biological subject
passes through, and detection devices aligned along the walls of the channel.
[333]    Figure 49 shows a schedule for fabricating a piezo-electrical micro-detector of this
invention.
[334]    Figure 50 shows an example of the micro-device of this invention packaged and ready
for use.
[335]    Figure 51 shows another example of the micro-device of this invention that is
packaged and ready for use.
[336]    Figure 52 shows yet another example of the micro-device of this invention that is
packaged and ready for use.
[337]    Figure 53 shows a micro-device of this invention that has a channel (trench) and an
array of micro sensors.
[338]    Figure 54 shows another micro-device of this invention that comprises 2 panels one of
which has an array of micro sensors and two micro cylinders.
[339]    Figure 55 shows a micro-device of this invention that comprises 2 panels one of
which has an array of micro sensors and two micro cylinders both of which have a probing
sensor.
[340]    Figure 56 shows another micro-device of this invention comprising several "sub
devices."
[341]    Figure 57 shows an example of the micro-devices of this invention which includes an
application specific integrated circuit (ASIC) chip with 1/0 pads.
                              Detailed Description of the Invention
[342]    One aspect of the present invention relates to apparatus for detecting disease in a
biological subject in vivo or in vitro (e.g., human being, an organ, a tissue, or cells in a
                                                 65

culture). Each apparatus includes a biological fluid delivering system and a probing and
detecting device. The apparatus is capable of measuring microscopic properties of a
biological sample. By the constant pressure fluid delivery system, microscopic biological
subjects can be delivered onto or into the diagnostic micro-device of the apparatus.
Compared to traditional detection apparatus or technologies, the apparatus provided by this
invention are advantageous in providing enhanced detection sensitivity, specificity, and speed,
with reduced costs and size. The apparatus can further include a biological interface, a
probing controlling and data analysis circuitry, or a system reclaiming or treating medical
waste. Additional micro-devices, e.g., a second detection device, can also be included or
integrated into the apparatus for enhanced detection capabilities.
[343]   As a key component of the apparatus, the micro-device should include means to
perform at least the function of addressing, controlling, forcing, receiving, amplifying, or
storing information from each probing address. As an example, such means can be a central
control unit that includes a controlling circuitry, an addressing unit, an amplifier circuitry, a
logic processing circuitry, a memory unit, an application specific chip, a signal transmitter, a
signal receiver, or a sensor.
[344]   In some embodiments, the fluid delivering system comprises a pressure generator, a
pressure regulator, a throttle valve, a pressure gauge, and distributing kits. As examples of
these embodiments, the pressure generator can include a motor piston system and a bin
containing compressed gas; the pressure regulator (which can consist of multiple regulators)
can down-regulate or up-regulate the pressure to a desired value; the pressure gauge feeds
back the measured value to the throttle valve which then regulates the pressure to approach
the target value.
[345]   The biological fluid to be delivered can be a sample of a biological subject to be
detected for disease or something not necessarily to be detected for disease. In some
embodiment, ; the fluid to be delivered is liquid (e.g., a blood sample, a urine sample, or a
saline) or gas (e.g., nitrogen, argon, helium, neon, krypton, xenon, or radon). The pressure
regulator can be a single pressure regulator or multiple pressure regulators which are placed
in succession to either down-regulate or up-regulate the pressure to a desired level,
particularly when the initial pressure is either too high or too low for a single regulator to
adjust to the desired level or a level that is acceptable for an end device or target.
[346] In some other embodiments, the system controller includes a pre-amplifier, a lock-in
amplifier, an electrical meter, a thermal meter, a switching matrix, a system bus, a nonvolatile
storage device, a random access memory, a processor, or a user interface. The interface can
                                                  66

include a sensor which can be a thermal sensor, a flow meter, a piezo-meter, or another
sensor.
[347]    In still some other embodiments, apparatus of this invention further include a
biological interface, a system controller, a system for reclaiming or treatment medical waste.
The reclaiming and treatment of medical waste can be performed by the same system or two
different systems.
[348] Another aspect of this invention provides apparatus for interacting with a cell, which
include a device for sending a signal to the cell and optionally receiving a response to the
signal from the cell.
[349]    In some embodiments, the interaction with the cell can be probing, detecting,
communicating with, treating, or modifying with a coded signal that can be an electrical,
magnetic, electromagnetic, thermal, optical, acoustical, biological, chemical, electro
mechanical, electro-chemical, electro-chemical-mechanical, bio-chemical, bio-mechanical,
bio-electro-mechanical, bio-electro-chemical, bio-electro-chemical-mechanical, physical, or
mechanical signal, or a combination thereof.
[350]    In some other embodiments, the device contained in the apparatus can include
multiple surfaces coated with one or more elements or combinations of elements, and a
control system for releasing the elements. In some instances, the control system can cause
release of the elements from the device surface via thermal energy, optical energy, acoustic
energy, electrical energy, electro-magnetic energy, magnetic energy, radiation energy, or
mechanical energy in a controlled manner. The energy can be in the pulsed form at desired
frequencies.
[351]    In some other embodiments, the device contained in the apparatus include a first
component for storing or releasing one element or a combination of elements onto the surface
of the cell or into the cell; and a second component for controlling the release of the elements
(e.g., a circuitry for controlling the release of the elements). The elements can be a biological
component, a chemical compound, Ca, C, Cl, Co, Cu, H, I, Fe, Mg, Mn, N, 0, P, F, K, Na, S,
Zn, or a combination thereof. The signal, pulsed or constant, can be in the form of a released
element or combination of elements, and it can be carried in a liquid solution, gas, or a
combination thereof. In some instances, the signal can be at a frequency ranging from about
1x10~4 Hz to about 100 MHz or ranging from about 1x10~4 Hz to about 10 Hz, or at an
oscillation concentration ranging from about 1.0 nmol/L to about 10.0 mmol/L. Also, the
signal comprises the oscillation of a biological component, a chemical compound, Ca, C, Cl,
Co, Cu, H, I, Fe, Mg, Mn, N, 0, P, F, K, Na, S, Zn, or a combination thereof, e.g., at desired
oscillating frequencies.
                                                  67

[352]    In some embodiments, the signal to be sent to the cell can be in the form of oscillating
element, compound, or an oscillating density of a biological component, and a response to the
signal from the cell is in the form of oscillating element, compound, or an oscillating density
of a biological component.
[353]    In some embodiments, the device can be coated with a biological film, e.g., to
enhance compatibility between the device and the cell.
[354]    In some other embodiments, the device can include components for generating a
signal to be sent to the cell, receiving a response to the signal from the cell, analyzing the
response, processing the response, and interfacing between the device and the cell.
[355]    Still another aspect of this invention provides devices each including a micro-filter, a
shutter, a cell counter, a selector, a micro-surgical kit, a timer, and a data processing circuitry.
The micro-filter can discriminate abnormal cells by a physical property (e.g., e.g., dimension,
shape, or velocity), mechanical property, electrical property, magnetic property,
electromagnetic, thermal property (e.g., temperature), optical property, acoustical property,
biological property, chemical property, or bio-chemical property. The devices each can also
include one or more micro-filters. Each of these micro-filters can be integrated with two cell
counters, one of which is installed at the entrance of each filter well, while the other is
installed at the exit of each filter well. The shape of the micro-filter's well is rectangle,
ellipse, circle, or polygon; and the micro-filter's dimension ranges from about 0.1 pm to
about 500 pm or from about 5 um to about 200 um. As used herein, the term "dimension"
means the physical or feature size of the filter opening, e.g., diameter, length, width, or height.
The filter can be coated with a biological or bio-compatible film, e.g., to enhance
compatibility between the device and the cell.
[356]    In some embodiments of these devices, the shutter sandwiched by two filter
membranes can be controlled by a timer (thus time shutter). The timer can be triggered by
the cell counter. For instance, when a cell passes through the cell counter of the filter
entrance, the clock is triggered to reset the shutter to default position, and moves at a preset
speed towards the cell pathway, and the timer records the time as the cell pass through the
cell counter at the exit.
[357]    Still a further aspect of this invention provides methods for fabricating a micro-device
with micro-trench and probe embedded in the micro-trench's sidewalls. A micro-trench is an
unclosed tunnel (see, e.g., Figure 2(i), 2030), which can be coupled with another upended
symmetric trench (see, e.g., Figure 2(k), 2031) to form a closed channel (see, e.g., Figure 2(1),
2020). The method may include chemical vapor deposition, physical vapor deposition, or
atomic layer deposition to deposit various materials on a substrate; lithography or etch to
                                                   68

transfer patterns from design to structure; chemical mechanical planarization for surface
planarization, chemical cleaning for particle removal, diffusion or ion implantation for
doping elements into specific layers; or thermal anneal to reduce the crystal defects and
activate diffused ions. An example of such method includes: depositing a first material onto
a substrate; depositing a second material onto the first material and patterning the second
material by a microelectronic process (e.g., lithography or etch) to form a detecting tip;
depositing a third material on the second material and then patterning the second material by
a planarization process; depositing a fourth material on the third material and patterning the
fourth material first by a microelectronic process (e.g., lithography or etch) and then by a
microelectronic process (e.g., another etch) in which the fourth material serves as a hardmask.
A hardmask generally refers to a material (e.g., inorganic dielectrical or metallic compound)
used in semiconductor processing as an etch mask in lieu of polymer or other organic "soft"
materials.
[358]     In some embodiments, the method further includes coupling two devices that are thus
fabricated and symmetric (i.e., a flipped mirror) to form a detecting device with channels.
The entrance of each channel can be optionally bell-mouthed, e.g., such that the size of
channel's opening end (the entrance) is larger than the channel's body, thereby making it
easier for a cell to enter the channel. The shape of each channel's cross-section can be
rectangle, ellipse, circle, or polygon. The micro-trenches of the coupled two micro-devices
can be aligned by the module of alignment marks designed on the layout of the micro-device.
The dimension of the micro-trench can range from about 0.1 um to about 500 um.
[359]     Alternatively, the method can also include covering the micro-trench of the micro
device with a flat panel. Such a panel can comprise or be made with silicon, SiGe, SiO 2 ,
A12 0 3 , or other optical materials. Examples of other potentially suitable optical materials
include acrylate polymer, AgInSbTe, synthetic alexandrite, arsenic triselenide, arsenic
trisulfide, barium fluoride, CR-39, cadmium selenide, caesium cadmium chloride, calcite,
calcium fluoride, chalcogenide glass, gallium phosphide, GeSbTe, germanium, germanium
dioxide, glass code, hydrogen silsesquioxane, Iceland spar, liquid crystal, lithium fluoride,
lumicera, METATOY, magnesium fluoride, agnesium oxide, negative index metamaterials,
neutron super mirror, phosphor, picarin, poly(methyl methacrylate), polycarbonate,
potassium bromide, sapphire, scotophor, spectralon, speculum metal, split-ring resonator,
strontium fluoride, yttrium aluminum garnet, yttrium lithium fluoride, yttrium orthovanadate,
ZBLAN, zinc selenide, and zinc sulfide.
[360]     In other embodiments, the method can further include integrating three or more
micro-devices thus fabricated to yield an enhanced device with an array of the channels.
                                                 69

[361] Yet still another aspect of this invention relates to micro-devices each including a
micro-trench, a probe embedded aside the trench's side walls or bottom floor, a supporting
structure to move the probe, and a controlling circuitry, wherein the micro-device is capable
of trapping, sorting, or modifying a DNA and measuring its properties (e.g., electrical,
thermal, or optical properties). The micro-trench can be utilized to encase the DNA double
helix.
[362]    In some embodiments, the width of the micro-trench ranges from about 1 nm to about
10 pm, the depth of the micro-trench ranges from about 1 nm to about 10 pm, or the length of
the micro-trench ranges from about 1 nm to about 10 mm. The probe can include or be made
of a conductive material and, optionally, a flexible supporting structure to extend or contract
the probe. The probe can also have a tip aside the trench and the tip matches spatially with
either a major groove or a minor groove of the DNA. The tip can match spatially with
interlaced grooves of the DNA, which can be variable. The tip of can also match the end of
each strand of the DNA helix. In some examples, the tip's diameter can range from about 1
angstrom to about 10 pm.
[363]    In some other embodiments, the micro-device can further include an array of trenches,
e.g., to enhance the efficiency.
[364]    Another aspect of this invention relates to a set of novel process flows for fabricating
micro-devices (including micro-probes and micro-indentation probes) for their applications in
disease detection by measuring microscopic properties of a biological sample. The micro
devices can be integrated into a disease detection apparatus of this invention to measure one
or more properties at microscopic levels.
[365]    Another aspect of this invention is to involve in cellular communications and regulate
cellular decision or response (such as differentiation, dedifferentiation, cell division and cell
death) with fabricated signals. This could be further employed to detect and treat diseases.
[366]    To further enhance measurement capabilities, multiple micro-devices can be
implemented into a piece of detection apparatus employing the time of flight technique, in
which at least one probing micro-device and one sensing micro-device placed at a preset,
known distance. The probing micro-device can apply a signal (e.g., a voltage, a charge, an
electrical field, a laser beam, or an acoustic wave) to the biological sample to be measured,
and the detection (sensing) micro-device can measure response from or of the biological
sample after the sample has traveled a known distance and a desired period of time. For
instance, a probing micro-device can apply an electrical charge to a cell first, and then a
detection (sensing) micro-device subsequently measures the surface charge after a desired
period of time (T) has lapsed and the cell has traveled a certain distance (L).
                                                 70

[367]   The micro-devices contained in the apparatus of this invention can have a wide range
of designs, structures, functionalities, and applications due to their diverse properties, high
degree of flexibilities, and ability of integration and miniaturization. They include, e.g., a
voltage comparator, a four point probe, a calculator, a logic circuitry, a memory unit, a micro
cutter, a micro hammer, a micro shield, a micro dye, a micro pin, a micro knife, a micro
needle, a micro thread holder, micro tweezers, a micro optical absorber, a micro mirror, a
micro wheeler, a micro filter, a micro chopper, a micro shredder, micro pumps, a micro
absorber, a micro signal detector, a micro driller, a micro sucker, a micro tester, a micro
container, a signal transmitter, a signal generator, a friction sensor, an electrical charge sensor,
a temperature sensor, a hardness detector, an acoustic wave generator, an optical wave
generator, a heat generator, a micro refrigerator and a charge generator.
[368]   Further, it should be noted that advancements in manufacturing technologies have
now made fabrications of a wide range of micro-devices and integration of various functions
onto the same device highly feasible and cost effective. The typical human cell size is about
10 microns. Using state-of-the-art integrated circuit fabrication techniques, the minimum
feature size defined on a micro-device can be as small as 0.1 micron or below. Thus, it is
ideal to utilize the disclosed micro-devices for biological applications.
[369]   In terms of materials for the micro-devices, the general principle or consideration is
the material's compatibility with a biological subject. Since the time in which a micro-device
is in contact with a biological sample (e.g., a cell; a biological molecule such as DNA, RNA,
or protein; or a tissue or organ sample) may vary, depending on its intended application, a
different material or a different combination of materials may be used to make the micro
device. In some special cases, the materials may dissolve in a given pH in a controlled
manner and thus may be selected as an appropriate material. Other considerations include
cost, simplicity, ease of use and practicality. With the significant advancements in micro
fabrication technologies such as integrated circuit manufacturing technology, highly
integrated devices with minimum feature size as small as 0.1 micron can now be made cost
effectively and commercially. One good example is the design and fabrication of micro
electro mechanical devices (MEMS), which now are being used in a wide variety of
applications in the integrated circuit industry.
[370]   Set forth below are several illustrations or examples of apparatus of this invention
containing a class of innovative micro-devices that are integrated into the disease detection
apparatus of this invention, and of their fabrication process.
[371]   Figure 1 is a perspective illustration of a disease detection apparatus of this invention
111 in which a biological sample 211 such as a blood sample placed in it or moving through
                                                  71

it is tested. In this figure, an example of disease detection apparatus 111 is in the form of a
cylinder, in which a biological sample 211 flowing through it (from the left side to the right
side in the figure) can be tested for one or more properties at the microscopic levels.
[372]     To enhance detection speed and sensitivity, a large number of micro-devices can be
integrated into a single disease detection apparatus of this invention, such as the apparatus
illustrated in Figure 1(b) and Figure 1(c) with the micro-devices spaced to measure a large
number of desired entities (such as cells, DNAs, RNAs, proteins, etc.) in the biological
sample. To achieve the above requirements, the detection apparatus should be optimized
with its surface area maximized to contact the biological sample and with large number of
micro-devices integrated on the maximized surface.
[373]     Figure 2 (a) is a perspective, cross-sectional illustration of a disease detection
apparatus of this invention 122 with multiple identical micro-devices 311. A biological
sample such as a blood sample 211 placed in it or moving through it can be tested for one or
more properties at the microscopic levels including, e.g., electrical properties (such as surface
charge, surface potential, current, impedance, other electrical properties), magnetic properties,
electromagnetic properties, mechanical properties (such as density, hardness, shear strength,
elongation strength, fracture tress, and adhesion), biological features, chemical properties
(e.g., pH or ionic strength), biochemical properties, thermal properties (e.g., temperature),
and optical properties.
[374]     Instead of measuring a single property of a biological subject for disease diagnosis,
various micro-devices can be integrated into a detection apparatus to detect multiple
properties. Figure 3 is a perspective, cross-sectional illustration of a disease detection
apparatus of this invention 133 with multiple micro-devices 311, 312, 313, 314, and 315, of
different detection probes in which a sample 211 such as a blood sample placed in it or
moving through it can be tested for multiple properties including but not limited to electrical
properties (e.g., surface charge, surface potential, and impedance), magnetic properties,
electromagnetic properties, mechanical properties (e.g., density, hardness and adhesion),
thermal properties (e.g., temperature), biological properties, chemical properties (e.g., pH),
physical properties, acoustical properties, and optical properties.
[375]     Figures 2(b)-2(n) illustrate a process flow of this invention for fabricating micro
devices for trapping, sorting, probing, measuring, and modifying biological subjects (e.g., a
single cell, a DNA or RNA molecule). First, a material 2002 (e.g., a non-conducting material)
and another material 2003 (e.g., a conducting material) are sequentially deposited on a
substrate 2001 (see Figure 2(b) and Figure 2(c)). The first material 2003 is then subsequently
patterned by the lithography and etch processes (see Figure 2(d)). Another material 2004 is
                                                   72

then deposited (as shown in Figure 2(e)) and planarized (as shown in Figure 2(f)). Another
layer of material 2005 is deposited (as shown in Figure 2(g)) and patterned as a hard mask (as
shown in Figure 2(h)), then followed by etch (as shown in Figure 2(j)), which is stopped on
the substrate 2001. Figure 2(i) is a perspective illustration of the device, while Figure 26) is
a vertical illustration of the device.
[376]   As shown in Figure 2(k), the device 2080 and a mirrored or symmetric device 2081
can be coupled together (as shown in Figure 2(1)). As such, the apparatus having the pathway
with probe embedded in the sidewall is fabricated.
[377]   As illustrated in Figure 2(m) and Figure 2(n), a large number of detection micro
devices can be integrated together to enhance the detection efficiency.
[378]   As illustrated herein, it is desirable to optimize the detection apparatus design to
maximize measurement surface area, since the greater the surface area, the greater number of
micro-devices that can be placed on the detection apparatus to simultaneously measure the
sample, thereby increasing detection speed and also minimizing the amount of sample needed
for the test. Figure 4 is a perspective illustration of a disease detection apparatus of this
invention 144. It includes two slabs separated by a narrow spacing with a sample such as a
blood sample to be measured placed between the slabs, with multiple micro-devices placed at
the inner surfaces of the slabs to measure one or more properties of the sample at microscopic
levels.
[379]   Yet another aspect of this invention relates to a set of novel fabrication process flows
for making micro-devices for disease detection purposes. Figure 5 illustrates a novel process
flow for fabricating a disease detection apparatus utilizing microelectronics technologies and
processes. First, a material 412 is deposited on a substrate 411 (Figure 5(a)). It is then
patterned by photolithography and etching processes (Figure 5(b)). Following the deposition,
material 413 is planarized using chemical mechanical polishing as shown in Figure 5(d).
Recessed areas, in the form of hole pattern, are next formed in material 413 using
photolithography and etch processes, as shown in Figure 5(e), followed by the deposition of
material 414 (Figure 5(f)). Material 414 above the surface of material 413 is removed by
chemical mechanical polishing (Figure 5(g), followed by deposition of material 415.
Material 415 is next patterned using photolithography and etching processes (Figure 5(i)).
Material 414 is next deposited and its excess material above its substrate 415 is removed by
chemical mechanical polishing (Figure 5(j) and (k)). Finally, a light etch or short chemical
mechanical polishing to material 415 is carried out to recess material 415, selective to
material 414 (Figure 5(1)), resulting in slight protruding of material 414. Material 412 can be
a piezo-electrical material. When a voltage is applied to it in the right direction, it will
                                                  73

expand and push up, resulting in upward motion in middle tip in material 414. Thus, a micro
device with two probes capable of measuring a range of properties (including mechanical and
electrical properties) of biological samples is fabricated, using the above novel fabrication
process flow.
[380]    Detection apparatus integrated with micro-devices disclosed in this application is fully
capable of detecting pre-chosen properties on a single cell, a single DNA, a single RNA, or
an individual, small sized biological matter level. Figure 6 is a perspective illustration of a
micro-device 555 fabricated by a novel process flow disclosed in this patent application (e.g.,
novel process flow illustrated in Figure 5 above) and how such a device is capable of probing
a single cell 666 and measuring the cell for collecting intended parameters. Figure 6(a)
illustrated a perspective, cross-section of a micro-device 555 with a pair of micro probes 531
and 520, where micro probe 531 is in the form of a tip and micro probe 520 is in the form of
a ring. Both of micro probes 531 and 520 can be conductive and they can serve as a pair of
probes to measure electrical properties of a biological sample. Micro probe 531 is in contact
with a base 518 which can be a piezo-electrical material. When a voltage is applied to the
base 518 made of a piezo-electrical material, the base 518 can expand and push micro probe
tip 531 upward, which can be useful in measuring various properties of a biological sample
such as a single cell. In Figure 6(b), micro-device 555 is shown to measure a single cell 666,
using probe tip 531 penetrating through cell membrane 611 and into the cell's inner space
622, while probe ring 520 making contact with cell membrane 611 at the outside surface of
the membrane. This way, the micro-device 555 can make various measurements on the cell,
including its electrical properties (e.g., electrical potential, current across the cell membrane,
surface charge on the membrane, and impedance), mechanical properties (e.g., hardness when
probe tip 531 is designed as a micro-indentation probe), thermal properties (e.g., temperature),
physical properties, and chemical properties (e.g., pH).
[381]    In another further aspect, the invention provides the design, integration, and
fabrication process flow of micro-devices capable of making highly sensitive and advanced
measurements on very weak signals in biological systems for disease detection under
complicated environment with very weak signal and relatively high noise background. Those
novel capabilities using the class of micro-devices disclosed in this invention for disease
detection include but not limited to making dynamic measurements, real time measurements
(such as time of flight measurements, and combination of using probe signal and detecting
response signal), phase lock-in technique to reduce background noise, and 4-point probe
techniques to measure very weak signals, and unique and novel probes to measure various
electronic, electromagnetic and magnetic properties of biological samples at the single cell
                                                   74

(e.g., a telomere of DNA or chromosome), single molecule (e.g., DNA, RNA, or protein),
single biological subject (e.g., virus) level.
[382]    For example, in a time of flight approach to obtain dynamic information on the
biological sample (e.g., a cell, a substructure of a cell, a DNA, a RNA, or a virus), a first
micro-device is first used to send a signal to perturb the biological subject to be diagnosed,
and then a second micro-device is employed to accurately measure the response from the
biological subject. In one embodiment, the first micro-device and the second micro-device
are positioned with a desired or pre-determined distance L apart, with a biological subject to
be measured flowing from the first micro-device towards the second micro-device. When the
biological subject passes the first micro-device, the first micro-device sends a signal to the
passing biological subject, and then the second micro-device detects the response or retention
of the perturbation signal on the biological subject. From the distance between the two
micro-devices, time interval, the nature of perturbation by the first micro-device, and
measured changes on the biological subject during the time of flight, microscopic and
dynamic properties of the biological subject can be obtained. In another embodiment, a first
micro-device is used to probe the biological subject by applying a signal (e.g., an electronic
charge) and the response from the biological subject is detected by a second micro-device as
a function of time.
[383]    To further increase detection sensitivity, a novel detection process for disease
detection is used, in which time of flight technique is employed. Figure 7 is a perspective,
cross-sectional illustration of detection apparatus 155 with multiple micro-devices 321 and
331 placed at a desired distance 700 for time of flight measurements to attain dynamic
information on biological sample 211 (e.g., a cell) with enhanced measurement sensitivity,
specificity, and speed. In this time of flight measurement, one or more properties of the
biological sample 211 are first measured when the sample 211 passes the first micro-device
321. The same properties are then measured again when the sample 211 passes the second
micro-device 331 after it has travelled the distance 700. The change in properties of sample
211 from at micro-device 321 to at micro-device 331 indicates how it reacts with its
surrounding environment (e.g., a particular biological environment) during that period. It
may also reveal information and provide insight on how its properties evolve with time.
Alternatively, in the arrangement shown in Figure 7, micro-device 321 could be used first as
a probe to apply a probe signal (e.g., an electrical charge) to sample 211 as the sample passes
the micro-device 321. Subsequently, the response of the sample to the probe signal can be
detected by micro-device 331 as the sample passes it (e.g., change in the electrical charge on
the sample during the flight). Measurements on biological sample 211 can be done via
                                                 75

contact or non-contact measurements. In one embodiment, an array of micro-devices can be
deployed at a desired spacing to measure properties of the biological subject over time.
[384] The utilization of micro-devices (e.g., made by using the fabrication process flows of
this invention) as discussed above and illustrated in Figure 7 can be helpful for detecting a set
of new, microscopic properties of a biological sample (e.g., a cell, a cell substructure, or a
biological molecule such as DNA or RNA or protein) that have not been considered in
existing detection technologies. Such microscopic properties can be electrical, magnetic,
electromagnetic, thermal, optical, acoustical, biological, chemical, electro-mechanical,
electro-chemical, electro-chemical-mechanical, bio-chemical, bio-mechanical, bio-electro
mechanical, bio-electro-chemical, bio-electro-chemical-mechanical, physical, or mechanical
properties, or a combination thereof, of a biological sample that is a single biological subject
(such as a cell, a cell substructure, a biological molecule - e.g., DNA, RNA, or protein - or a
sample of a tissue or organ). It is known that biological matters includes from basic bonding
such as OH, CO, and CH bonding, to complex, three dimensional structures such as DNA
and RNA. Some of them have a unique signature in terms of its electronic configuration.
Some of them may have unique electrical, magnetic, electromagnetic, thermal, optical,
acoustical, biological, chemical, electro-mechanical, electro-chemical, electro-chemical
mechanical, bio-chemical, bio-mechanical, bio-electro-mechanical, bio-electro-chemical, bio
electro-chemical-mechanical, physical, or mechanical properties and configurations, or a
combination thereof. Normal biological subject and diseased biological subject may carry
different signatures with respective to the above said properties. However, none of the above
stated parameters or properties have been routinely used as a disease detection property.
Using a disease detection apparatus including one or more micro-devices of this invention,
those properties can be detected, measured, and utilized as useful signals for disease detection,
particularly for early stage detection of serious diseases such as cancer.
[385]   Figure 8 is a perspective illustration of a novel set of microscopic probes 341, 342,
343, 344, 345, 346, and 347 designed and configured to detect various electronic, magnetic,
or electromagnetic states, configurations, or other properties at microscopic level on
biological samples 212, 213, 214, and 215, which can be a single cell, DNA, RNA, and tissue
or sample. As an example, in terms of measuring electronic properties, the shapes of
biological samples 212, 213, 214, and 215 in Figure 8 may represent electronic monopole
(sample 212), dipole (samples 213 and 214), and quadruple (sample 215). The micro-devices
341, 342, 343, 344, 345, 346, and 347 are optimized to maximize measurement sensitivity of
those said parameters including but not limited to electronic states, electronic charge,
electronic cloud distribution, electrical field, and magnetic and electromagnetic properties,
                                                  76

and the micro-devices can be designed and arranged in three dimensional configurations. For
some diseases such as cancer, it is likely that electronic states and corresponding electronic
properties differ between normal and cancerous cells, DNA, RNA, and tissue. Therefore, by
measuring electronic, magnetic and electromagnetic properties at microscopic levels
including at cell, DNA, and RNA levels, disease detection sensitivity and specificity can be
improved.
[386]    In addition to the above examples in measuring electrical properties (e.g., charge,
electronic states, electronic charge, electronic cloud distribution, electrical field, current, and
electrical potential, and impedance), mechanical properties (e.g., hardness, density, shear
strength, and fracture strength) and chemical properties (e.g., pH) in a single cell, and in
Figure 8 for measuring electrical, magnetic or electromagnetic states or configurations of
biological samples at cell and biological molecular (e.g., DNA, RNA, and protein) levels,
other micro-devices are disclosed in this application for sensitive electrical measurements.
[387]    Figure 9 is a perspective illustration of a four-point probe for detecting weak
electronic signal in a biological sample such as a cell, where a four point probe 348 is
designed to measure electrical properties (impedance and weak electrical current) of a
biological sample 216.
[388]    One of the key aspects of this invention is the design and fabrication process flows of
micro-devices and methods of use the micro-devices for catching and/or measuring biological
subjects (e.g., cells, cell substructures, DNA, and RNA) at microscopic levels and in three
dimensional space, in which the micro-devices have micro-probes arranged in three
dimensional manner with feature sizes as small as a cell, DNA, or RNA, and capable of
trapping, sorting, probing, measuring, and modifying biological subjects. Such micro
devices can be fabricated using state-of-the-art microelectronics processing techniques such
as those used in fabricating integrated circuits. Using thin film deposition technologies such
as molecular epitaxy beam (MEB) and atomic layer deposition (ALD), film thickness as thin
as a few monolayers can be achieved (e.g., 4 A to 10 A). Further, using electron beam or x
ray lithography, device feature size on the order of nanometers can be obtained, making
micro-device capable of trapping, probing, measuring, and modifying a biological subject
(e.g., a single cell, a single DNA or RNA molecule) possible.
[389]    Figure 10 illustrates a process flow of this invention for fabricating micro-devices for
trapping, sorting, probing, measuring, and modifying biological subjects (e.g., a single cell, a
DNA or RNA molecule). In this process flow, microelectronics processes are utilized to
fabricate micro-devices designed to achieve the above stated unique functions. Specifically,
a first material 712 (typically a conducting material) is first deposited on a substrate 711
                                                  77

(Figure 10(a) and Figure 10(b)). The first material 712 is subsequently patterned by using
lithography and etch processes (Figure 10(c)). A second material 713 is then deposited and
planarized using chemical mechanical polishing process to remove overburden of the second
material 713 above the first material 712 (as shown in Figure 10(e)). Another layer of
material 714 is deposited and patterned, followed by deposition and planarization by
chemical mechanical polishing of another layer of 712 (Figure 10(f)). Next, a third material
715 is deposited and patterned, using lithography and etch processes (Figure 10(g) and Figure
10(h)), followed by deposition and planarization of a fourth material 716, typically a
sacrificial material (Figure 10(i) and Figure 10(j)). Repeating the process flow of deposition
of patterning material 712 or material 715 alternatively, and deposition of material 716 and
planarization by chemical mechanical polishing (Figure 10(k)-(m)), a film stack featuring
multiple layers with alternating material 712 (e.g., a conducting material) and material 715
(e.g., an insulating material) in at least portions of the device is formed. Finally, material 716
between film stacks 771 and 772 is removed by wet etch, dry etch (which may require
lithography process), or vapor etch, selective to all other materials (Figure 10(n)). As
illustrated in Figure 10(o), in the case of 712 being a conductive material connected to an
electrical circuit or an electrical source (e.g., a charge source), each probe tip formed by 712
on the stack (e.g., 781 and 782) can have a charge or an electrical field at the surface (e.g.,
781 and 782), which (each probe tip) can be selected to have a positive charge or a negative
charge, or a positive electrical field or negative electrical field. Conversely, such probe tip
can also sense various properties of biological subject being measured (e.g., electronic cloud,
field, charge, or temperature when the probe tip is a thermal detector, or light emission when
the probe tip is an optical sensor). Using electrical circuit or electrical source, various
combinations of electrical charge distribution or electrical field can be placed on the micro
device, as shown in Figure 10(o) and Figure 10(p), which can be used to sort and trap various
biological subjects such as a cell and a DNA molecule. For instance, a biological subject
with a charge distribution inverse of that in Figure 10(p) can be trapped by the micro-device
shown in Figure 10(p). An array of micro-devices with various charge distributions or
electrical field distributions can trap their respective biological subjects in a high speed,
which can serve as a sorting device. Figure 10(q) illustrates the use of a micro-device
capable of trapping a DNA or measuring various properties (e.g., electrical, thermal, or
optical properties) of a DNA, with each probe tip matched up spatially with either a major
groove or minor groove of a double helix DNA. Figure 10(r) illustrates how the probe tips
are connected to electrical circuit, where only electrical wiring is shown. It should be noted
that the micro-device shown in this example can be integrated onto a single chip with one
                                                   78

billion or more such micro-devices to trap and/or sort cells, DNAs, RNAs, proteins, and other
biological subject in a high speed.
[390] Another aspect of this invention relates to micro-indentation probes and micro-probes
for measuring a range of physical properties (such as mechanical properties) of biological
subjects. Examples of the mechanical properties include hardness, shear strength, elongation
strength, fracture stress, and other properties related to cell membrane which is believed to be
a critical component in disease diagnosis.
[391]    Figure 11 illustrates a novel fabrication process flow for micro-devices capable of
probing a range of properties of biological subjects, such as mechanical properties of cell
membrane (e.g., mechanical strength of a cell membrane). In this process flow, a material
812 is first deposited onto a substrate 811, followed by the deposition of another material 813
(Figure 11(a)). Following patterning of material 813 using lithography and etch processes, a
material 814 is deposited (Figure 11(b)) and planarized (Figure 11(c)). Another layer of
material 813 is next deposited and patterned using lithography and etch processes to remove
portions of the material 813, followed by the deposition and planarization of a material 815
(which can be a piezo-electrical material and can serve as a driver) (Figure 11(d)). A layer of
material 813 is next deposited, followed by deposition and patterning of yet another layer of
813, and deposition and planarization of material 816 (Figure 11(e)). Next, material 816 is
etched back to a reduced thickness, and patterned, followed by patterning of triple- layer of
material 813 (Figure 11(f)). Another layer of 814 is deposited (Figure 11(g)) and planarized
by chemical mechanical polishing (Figure 11(h)), and patterned (Fig 11(i)). Finally, multiple
layers of 813 are removed by wet etch, plasma etch, or vapor etch (Figure 11(j)). Figure 11(k)
is a perspective, cross-sectional illustration of the micro-device in a plane perpendicular to
that in Figure 11(j) (90-degree rotation from Figure 11(j)). Figure 11(1) illustrates a micro
device with two micro-tips 871 and 872 which can move in opposite directions when a
voltage is applied to piezo-electrical drivers 881 and 882, which can be used to probe
biological subjects such as cells.
[392]    Figure 12 is an illustration of how micro-devices fabricated using the novel
manufacturing process shown in Figure 11 work. In Figure 12, a micro-device 850 with two
micro-probes 866 and 855 can move in opposite directions upon a force being applied (Figure
12(a)). When the tips of the two probes are penetrated into a cell 870, as the distance
between the two micro-probes is increased with the increasing applied force, the cell is
stretched. Finally, as the applied force is reached a critical value, the cell is broken into two
pieces (Figure 12(b)). The dynamic response of the cell to the applied force provides
information on the cell, particularly on the mechanical properties (e.g., elasticity) of cell
                                                 79

membrane. The force at the point in which the cell is torn apart reflects the strength of the
cell and it may be called a breaking point: the greater the mechanical strength of the cell
membrane is, the greater the force is at the breaking point.
[393]    Another novel approach provided by this invention is the use of phase lock-in
measurement for disease detection, which reduces background noise and effectively enhances
signal to noise ratio. Generally, in this measurement approach, a periodic signal is used to
probe the biological sample and response coherent to the frequency of this periodic probe
signal is detected and amplified, while other signals not coherent to the frequency of the
probe signal is filtered out, which thereby effectively reduces background noise. In one of
the embodiments in this invention, a probing micro-device can send a periodic probe signal
(e.g., a pulsed laser team, a pulsed thermal wave, or an alternating electrical field) to a
biological subject, response to the probe signal by the biological subject can be detected by a
detecting micro-device. The phase lock-in technique can be used to filter out unwanted noise
and enhance the response signal which is synchronized to the frequency of the probe signal.
The following two examples illustrate the novel features of time of flight detection
arrangement in combination with phase lock-in detection technique to enhance weak signal
and therefore detection sensitivity in disease detection measurements.
[394]    Figure 13 is an illustration of a novel time of flight detection arrangement for disease
detection applications. Specifically, Figure 13(a) shows a set-up for measuring biological
subject 911 using detection probe 933 and clock generator 922, and Figure 13(b) contains
recorded signal 921 due to structure 922, signal 931 recorded by signal probe 933, and
processed signal 941 using a phase lock-in technique to filter out noise in recorded signal 931,
where only response synchronized to clock signal 921 is retained. In the setup shown in
Figure 13(a), when a biological subject such as a cell 911 passes a structure 922, it triggers a
clear signal (e.g., a light scattering signal if 922 is a light source, or a sharp increase in
voltage if 922 is an orifice structure in a resistor). Therefore, 922 can be used to register the
arrival of the biological subject, and as a clock when multiple structures of 922 are placed at a
periodic distance as shown in recorded signal trace 921 in Figure 13(b). In addition, when
922 is placed at a known distance in front of a probe 933, it marks the arrival of a biological
subject coming towards 933 and signal response recorded at 933 is delayed by a time t from
the signal triggered by 922 where t equals distance between 922 and 933 divided by traveling
speed of the biological subject. As illustrated in Figure 13(b), signal 921 due to structure 922
is clear and periodic with periodicity proportional to distance between structure 922s, while
signal measured by probe 933 has a high noise level and relatively weak signal related to the
biological subject. With the utilization of phase lock-in technique to filter out noise in
                                                   80

recorded signal 931 by the detection probe 933 un-synchronized to clock signal 921, signal to
noise ratio can be greatly enhanced as shown in processed signal 941 in Figure 13(b).
[395]    Figure 14 illustrates yet another time of flight disease detection arrangement in which
a clock signal generator 922, a probe signal generator 944, and a signal detection probe 955
are used, along with schematically recorded clock signal 921, total recorded response signal
951 (except clock signal), and processed signal 952 using phase lock-in technique. In this
arrangement, a probe signal generator 944 is used to perturb the biological subject 911 (e.g.,
heating 911 up using an optical beam, or adding an electrical charge to 911), and response to
the probe signal is subsequently measured as a function of time using an array of detection
probes 955. The filtered signal in 952 shows dynamic response to probe signal by 944 as it
decays over time. Since normal cell and abnormal cell may respond differently to the probe
signal, this arrangement with proper micro-probes can be utilized to detect diseases such as
cancer. In another embodiment utilizing this set-up (shown in Figure 14), the probe signal
generator 944 can send a periodic signal to the biological subject 911, detected response
signal from the biological subject by the detection probe 955 can be processed using the
phase lock-in technique, with noise un-synchronized to the frequency of the probe signal
filtered out and signal synchronized to the probe signal frequency amplified.
[396]    Figure 15 is a perspective illustration of the novel multi-property micro-filter. A
timed shutter 1502 is sandwiched between 2 pieces of filter membrane 1501 with wells.
When a biological subject 1511 moves through the pathway of the well, it is first detected by
the counter 1512, which triggers the clock of the barrier panel 1502. Then the larger cells
will be filtered out, or blocked, by the filter's holes 1001, while only the specific subjects
with enough speed are able to get through the pathway 1503 before the timed shutter 1502
closes the filter pathway (see Figure 15(b)). Otherwise it will be held back as the timed
shutter 1502 moves to block the pathway as shown in Figure 15(c).
[397]     Figure 16 illustrates a fluid delivery system that includes a pressure generator, a
pressure regulator, a throttle valve, a pressure gauge, and distributing kits. The pressure
generator 1605 sustains fluid with desired pressure, and the pressure is further regulated by
the regulator 1601 and then accurately manipulated by the throttle valve 1602. Meanwhile,
the pressure is monitored at real time and fed back to the throttle valve 1602 by the pressure
gauge 1603. The regulated fluid is then in parallel conducted into the multiple devices where
a constant pressure is needed to drive the fluid sample.
[398]    Figure 17 illustrates how a micro-device in a disease detection apparatus of this
invention can communicate, probe, detect, and optionally treat and modify biological subjects
at a microscopic level. Figure 17(a) illustrates the sequence of cellular events from signal
                                                  81

recognition to cell fates determination. First, as the signals 1701 are detected by receptors
1702 on the cell surface, the cell will integrate and encode the signals into a biologically
comprehensible message, such as calcium oscillation 1703. Consequently, corresponding
proteins 1704 in the cell will interact with the message, then be modified and transform into
ion-interacted proteins 1705 accordingly. Through the translocation, these modified proteins
1705 will pass the carried message to the nuclear proteins, and the controlled modification on
nuclear proteins will modulate the expression of gene 1707 which includes transcription,
translation, epigenetic processes, and chromatin modifications. Through messenger RNA
1709, the message is in turn passed to specific proteins 1710, thereby changing their
concentration - which then determines or regulates a cell's decision or activities, such as
differentiation, division, or even death.
[399]    Figure 17(b) illustrates an apparatus of this invention which is capable of detecting,
communicating with, treating, modifying, or probing a single cell, by a contact or non-contact
means. The apparatus is equipped with micro-probes and micro-injectors which are
addressed and modulated by the controlling circuitry 1720. Each individual micro-injector is
supplied with a separate micro-cartridge, which carries designed chemicals or compounds.
[400]    To illustrate how an apparatus of this invention can be used to simulate an
intracellular signal, calcium oscillation is taken as an example mechanism. First, a C2+_
release-activated channel (CRAC) has to be opened to its maximal extent, which could be
achieved by various approaches. In an example of the applicable approaches, a biochemical
material (e.g., thapsigargin) stored in the cartridge 1724 is released by an injector 1725 to the
cell, and the CRAC will open at the stimulus of the biological subject. In another example of
the applicable approaches, the injector 1724 forces a specific voltage on cell membrane,
which causes the CRAC to open as well.
[401]    The Ca2 + concentration of a solution in the injector 1728 can be regulated as it is a
desirable combination of a Ca 2+-containing solution 1726, and a Ca2 + free solution 1727.
While the injector 1730 contains a Ca 2+ free solution, then injectors 1728 and 1730 are
alternately switched on and off at a desired frequency. As such, the Ca 2+ oscillation is
achieved and the content inside the cell membrane are then exposed to a Ca2 + oscillation.
Consequently, the cell's activities or fate is being manipulated by the regulated signal
generated by the apparatus.
[402]    Meanwhile, the cell's response (e.g., in the form of an electrical, magnetic,
electromagnetic, thermal, optical, acoustical, mechanical property, or a combination thereof)
can be monitored and recorded by the probes integrated in this apparatus.
                                                 82

[403]   Figure 17(c) illustrates another design of apparatus which is able to setup
communication with a single cell. The apparatus is equipped with micro-probes which are
coated with biologically compatible compounds or elements, e.g., Ca, C, Cl, Co, Cu, H, I, Fe,
Mg, Mn, N, 0, P, F, K, Na, S, or Zn. These probes can generate oscillating chemical signals
with such an element or compound to interact with the cell, and results into a response that
affects the cell's activities or eventual fate as describe above. Likewise, this apparatus can
probe and record the cell's response (e.g., in the form of an electrical, magnetic,
electromagnetic, thermal, optical, acoustical, biological, chemical, electro-mechanical,
electro-chemical, electro-chemical-mechanical, bio-chemical, bio-mechanical, bio-electro
mechanical, bio-electro-chemical, bio-electro-chemical-mechanical, physical, mechanical
property, or a combination thereof) as well.
[404]   Figure 18 illustrates the system block diagram of a disease detection apparatus of this
invention. This example includes a fluid delivering system 1801, biological interface 1802, a
probing and detecting device 1803, a system controller 1805, a medical waste reclaiming and
treating system 1804. A biological sample or material is transported to the interface 1802 by
the fluid delivery system 1801, meanwhile the fluid parameters (or properties) are reported to
the system controller 1805 which comprises a logic processing unit, a memory unit, an
application specific chip, a sensor, a signal transmitter, and a signal receiver; and then the
system controller 1805 can give further command to the system. The interface 1802 is an
assembly which bridges a fluid sample and the detecting device, and further monitors the
parameters or properties of the biological sample (e.g., pressure, temperature, stickiness, or
flow rate) and then reports the date to the system controller 1805 while distributing the
biological sample to the probing and detecting device 1803 with a specified speed or pressure
(which can be commanded by the system controller 1805).
[405]   The system controller 1805 is the central commander and monitor of the entire system
(or apparatus), where all the parameters and information from various modules is processed
and exchanged and the instructions are given out, and where the command is dispatched. The
system controller 1805 can include, e.g., a pre-amplifier, an electrical meter, a thermal meter,
a switching matrix, a system bus, a nonvolatile storage device, a random access memory, a
processor, and a user interface through which the user of the apparatus can manipulate,
configure the apparatus, and read the operating parameters and final result. The pre-amplifier
can process the raw signal to a recognizable signal for the meters. The meters can force and
measure corresponding signals which can be, e.g., electrical, magnetic, electromagnetic,
thermal, optical, acoustical, biological, chemical, electro-mechanical, electro-chemical,
electro-chemical-mechanical, bio-chemical, bio-mechanical, bio-electro-mechanical, bio
                                                  83

electro-chemical, bio-electro-chemical-mechanical, physical, or mechanical signals, or
combinations thereof. The switching matrix can switch the testing terminals of different
arrays of the probe sub-apparatus. The user interface includes input and output assemblies
and is an assembly which seals the fluid delivery system and the probing and detecting device
together.
[406]   The probing and detecting device 1803 is the core functional module of the disease
detection apparatus of this invention as it is the unit that probes the biological sample and
collects related cellular signals (or responses). The waste reclaiming and treating system
1804 reclaims the waste biological sample to protect the privacy of its biological host, and
keeps it away from polluting the environment.
[407]   Figures 19(b)-(n) illustrate a process flow for fabricating a micro-device for trapping,
sorting, probing, measuring, treating, or modifying a biological subject (e.g., a single cell, a
DNA or RNA molecule). A first material 1902 (e.g., a piezo-electrical conducting material)
and a second material 1903 (e.g., a conducting material) are sequentially deposited on a
substrate 1901 (see Figures 19(b) and 19(c)). The second material 1903 is subsequently
patterned by lithography and etch processes (see Figure 19(d)). A third material 1904 is next
deposited (as shown in Figure 19(e)) and planarized (see Figure 19(f)). A layer of a fourth
material 1905 is subsequently deposited (see Figure 19(g)) and patterned as a hard mask (see
Figure 19(h)), followed by etch to remove the third and first materials from desired areas,
which stops on the substrate 1901. Figure 19(i) is a perspective illustration of the device,
while Figure 19(j) is a vertical illustration of the same device.
[408]   Figure 19 (k) illustrates the use of a micro-device capable of trapping a DNA 1920
and measuring various properties (e.g., electrical, magnetic, physical, thermal, chemical,
biological, bio-chemical, or optical properties) of a DNA. Each probe tip 1912 matches up
spatially with either a major groove or minor groove of a double helix DNA. Meanwhile,
two probes (1911 and 1910) configured at the end of the trench can force or measure signals
to each strand end of the DNA's double helix. The probes can be made of a conducting
material with optionally a piezo-electrical support structure, which can stretch forward and
backward at a desired distance. All the probes are numbered, addressed, and controlled by a
controlling circuitry.
[409]   Figure 19(1) shows a simplified form of the device illustrated in Figure 19(k). In this
device, probe tips match spatially with interlaced grooves of a double helix DNA. The
number of groove intervals between the adjacent probes is variable. If required, either DNA
can be moved (for example, by pulling by probes 1910 and 1911) or the probes can move
along the trench direction, mapping out properties in a full or partial DNA.
                                                  84

[410]   Figure 20 illustrates an apparatus of this invention that is capable of detecting or
measuring the surface charge of a biological subject 2010. It includes a channel, a pair of
plates 2022, and a slit 2030 which separates the channel into a top channel 2041 and a bottom
channel 2051. When a biological subject 2010 carrying a surface charge (positive charge
shown in Figure 20(a)) passes through the channel, under the influence of the voltage applied
on the plates 2022 (with positive voltage at the top plate and negative at the bottom plate), it
will move towards the bottom plate as shown in Figure 20(b). Thus, the biological subject
2010 will pass through the bottom channel 2051 when it reaches slit 2030. (If the biological
subject 2010 carries a negative charge, it would pass through the top channel 2041.) This
way, a biological subject with unknown charge type (negative or positive) can be determined
by using this apparatus.
[411]   This device comprises at least 2 parts of channel, one of which is channel 2060 where
the biological subject is charged or modified, and the other comprises at least one plate or slit
to separate the biological subjects (e.g., where the biological subjects are separated).
[412]   As surface charge will affect the shape of a biological subject, by using novel and
multiple plates, information on the shape and charge distribution of biological subjects can be
obtained. The general principle and design of the micro-device can be extended to a broader
scope, thereby making it possible to obtain other information on the biological subject via
separation by applying other parameters such as ion gradient, thermal gradient, optical beam,
or another form of energy.
[413]   Figure 21 illustrates another apparatus of this invention for detecting or measuring
microscopic properties of a biological subject 2110 by utilizing a micro-device that includes a
channel, a set of probes 2120, and a set of optical sensors 2132 (see, Figure 21(a)). The
detected signals by probes 2120 can be correlated to information including images collected
by the optical sensors 2132 to enhance detection sensitivity and specificity. The optical
sensors can be, e.g., a CCD camera, a florescence light detector, a CMOS imaging sensor, or
any combination.
[414]   Alternatively, a probe 2120 can be designed to trigger optical emission such as
florescence light emission 2143 in the targeted biological subject such as diseased cells,
which can then be detected by an optical probe 2132 as illustrated in Figure 21(c).
Specifically, biological subjects can be first treated with a tag solution which can selectively
react to diseased cells. Subsequently, upon reacting (contact or non-contact) with probe 2120,
optical emissions from diseased cells occur and can be detected by optical sensors 2132. This
novel process using the micro-devices of this invention is more sensitive than such
conventional methods as traditional florescence spectroscopy as the emission trigger point is
                                                 85

directly next to the optical probe and the triggered signal 2143 can be recorded in real time
and on-site, with minimum loss of signal.
[415]    Figure 22 illustrates another embodiment of the apparatus of this invention, which can
be used to separate biological subjects of different geometric size and detect their properties
respectively. It includes at least an entrance channel 2210, a disturbing fluid channel 2220,
an accelerating chamber 2230, and two selecting channels 2240 and 2250. The angle
between 2220 and 2210 is between 00 and 1800. The biological subject 2201 flows in the x
direction from 2210 to 2230. The biocompatible distribution fluid 2202 flows from 2220 to
2230. Then the fluid 2202 will accelerate 2201 in y-direction. However, the acceleration
correlates with the radius of the biological subjects and the larger ones are less accelerated
than the small ones. Thus, the larger and smaller subjects are separated into different
channels. Meanwhile, probes can be optionally assembled aside the sidewall of 2210, 2220,
2230, 2240, and 2250. They could detect electrical, magnetic, electromagnetic, thermal,
optical, acoustical, biological, chemical, physical, mechanical properties, or combinations
thereof at the microscopic level. In the mean time, if desired, a cleaning fluid can also be
injected into the system for dissolving and/or cleaning biological residues and deposits (e.g.,
dried blood and protein) in the narrow and small spaces in the apparatus, and ensuring
smooth passage of a biological subject to be tested through the apparatus.
[416]    The channel included in the apparatus of this invention can have a width of, e.g., from
1 nm to 1 mm. The apparatus should have at least one inlet channel and at least two outlet
channels.
[417]    Figure 23 shows another apparatus of this invention with an acoustic detector 2320
for measuring the acoustic property of a biological subject 2301. This apparatus includes a
channel 2310, and at least an ultrasonic emitter and an ultrasonic receiver installed along the
sidewall of the channel. When the biological subject 2301 passes through the channel 2310,
the ultrasonic signal emitted from 2320 will be received after carrying information on 2301
by the receiver 2330. The frequency of the ultrasonic signal can be, e.g., from 2 MHz to 10
GHz, and the trench width of the channel can be, e.g., from 1 nm to 1 mm. The acoustic
transducer (i.e., the ultrasonic emitter) can be fabricated using a piezo-electrical material (e.g.,
quartz, berlinite, gallium, orthophosphate, GaPO 4, tourmalines, ceramics, barium, titanate,
BatiO 3,  lead zirconate, titanate PZT, zinc oxide, aluminum nitride, and polyvinylidene
fluorides).
[418]    Figure 24 shows another apparatus of this invention that includes a pressure detector
for biological subject 2401. It includes at least one channel 2410 and whereon at least one
piezo-electrical detector 2420. When the biologic subject 2401 passes through the channel,
                                                 86

the piezo-electrical detector 2420 will detect the pressure of 2401, transform the information
into an electrical signal, and send it out to a signal reader. Likewise, the trench width in the
apparatus can be, e.g., from 1 nm to 1 mm, and the piezo-electrical material can be, e.g.,
quartz, berlinite, gallium, orthophosphate, GaPO 4, tourmalines, ceramics, barium, titanate,
BatiO 3, lead zirconate, titanate PZT, zinc oxide, aluminum nitride, or polyvinylidene
fluorides.
[419]    Figure 25 shows another apparatus of this invention that include a concave groove
2530 between a probe couple, in the bottom or ceiling of the channel. When a biological
subject 2510 passes through, the concave 2530 can selectively trap the biological subject with
particular geometric characteristics and makes the probing more efficiently. The shape of
concave's projection can be rectangle, polygon, ellipse, or circle. The probe could detect
electrical, magnetic, electromagnetic, thermal, optical, acoustical, biological, chemical,
physical, mechanical properties, or combinations thereof. Similarly, the trench width can be,
e.g., from 1 nm to 1 mm. Figure 25(a) is an up-down view of this apparatus, Figure 25(b) is a
side view, whereas Figure 25(c) is a perspective view.
[420]    Figure 26 is another apparatus of this invention that also includes concave grooves
2630 (of a different shape from those shown in Figure 25) on the bottom or ceiling of the
channel. When a biological subject 2610 passes through, the concave grooves 2630 will
generate a turbulent fluidic flow, which can selectively trap the micro-biological subjects
with particular geometric characteristics. The probe could detect, e.g., electrical, magnetic,
electromagnetic, thermal, optical, acoustical, biological, chemical, physical, mechanical
properties, or a combination thereof. The depth of the concave groove can be, e.g., from 10
nm to 1 mm, and the channel width can be, e.g., from 1 nm to 1 mm.
[421]    Figure 27 illustrated an apparatus of this invention with a stepped channel 2710.
When a biological subject 2701 passes through the channel 2710, probe couples of different
distances can be used to measure different microscopic properties, or even the same
microscopic at different sensitivity at various steps (2720, 2730, 2740) with probe aside each
step. This mechanism can be used in the phase lock-in application so that signal for the same
microscopic property can be accumulated. The probes can detect or measure microscopic
electrical, magnetic, electromagnetic, thermal, optical, acoustical, biological, chemical,
physical, mechanical properties, or combinations thereof.
[422]    Figure 28 illustrates another apparatus of this invention with thermal meters 2830. It
includes a channel, a set of probes 2820, and a set of thermal meters 2830. The thermal
meters 2830 can be an infrared sensor, a transistor sub-threshold leakage current tester, or
thermister.
                                                  87

[423]    Figure 29 illustrates a specific apparatus of this invention which includes carbon a
nano-tube 2920 with a channel 2910 inside, probes 2940 which can detect at the microscopic
level an electrical, magnetic, electromagnetic, thermal, optical, acoustical, biological,
chemical, physical, or mechanical property, or a combination thereof. The carbon nano-tube
2920 as shown contains a double-helix DNA molecule 2930. The carbon nano-tube can force
and sense electrical signals by the probes 2940 aside. The diameter of the carbon nano tube
diameter can be, e.g., from 0.5 nm to 50 nm, and its length can range from, e.g., 5 nm to 10
mm.
[424]    Figure 30 shows an integrated apparatus of this invention that includes a detecting
device (shown in Figure 30(a)) and an optical sensor (shown in Figure 30(b)) which can be,
e.g., a CMOS image sensor (CIS), a Charge-Coupled Device (CCD), a florescence light
detector, or another image sensor. The detecting device comprises at least a probe and a
channel, and the image device comprises at least 1 pixel. Figure 30(c-1) and Figure 30(c-2)
illustrate the device with the detecting device and optical sensor integrated. As illustrated in
Figure 30(d), when biological subjects 3001, 3002, 3003 pass through, the probe 3010 in the
channel 3020, its electrical, magnetic, electromagnetic, thermal, optical, acoustical, biological,
chemical, physical, mechanical property or a combination thereof could be detected by the
probe 3010 (see Figure 30(e)), meanwhile its image could be synchronously recorded by the
optical sensor (Figure 30(f)). Both the probed signal and image are combined together to
provide a diagnosis and enhanced detection sensitivity and specificity. Such a detecting
device and an optical sensing device can be designed in a system-on-chip or be packaged into
one chip.
[425]    Figure 31 shows an apparatus with a detecting micro-device (Figure 31(a)) and a logic
circuitry (Fig 31(b)). The detecting device comprises at least a probe and a channel, and the
logic circuitry comprises an addressor, an amplifier, and a RAM. When a biological subject
3101 passes through the channel, its property could be detected by the probe 3130, and the
signal can be addressed, analyzed, stored, processed, and plotted in real time. Figure 31 (c-1)
and Figure 31 (c-2) illustrate the device with detecting device and Circuitry integrated.
Similarly, the detecting device and the integrated circuit can be designed in a System-on-Chip
or be packaged into one chip.
[426]    Figure 32 shows an apparatus of this invention that comprises a detecting device
(Figure 32(a)) and a filter (Figure 32(b)). When a biological subject 3201 passes through the
device, a filtration is performed in the filter, and irrelevant objects can be removed. The
remaining subjects' property can then be detected by the probe device (Figure 31(a)). The
                                                  88

filtration before probing will enhance the precision of the device. The width of the channel
can also range, e.g., from 1 nm to 1 mm.
[427]    Figure 33 shows the geometric factors of DNA 3330 such as spacing in DNA's minor
groove (3310) have an impact on spatial distribution of electrostatic properties in the region,
which in turn may impact local biochemical or chemical reactions in the segment of this
DNA. By probing, measuring, and modifying spatial properties of DNA (such as the spacing
of minor groove) using the disclosed detector and probe 3320, one may detect properties such
as defect of DNA, predict reaction/process at the segment of the DNA, and repair or
manipulate geometric properties and therefore spatial distribution of electrostatic field/charge,
impacting biochemical or chemical reaction at the segment of the DNA. For example, tip
3320 can be used to physically increase spacing of minor groove 3310.
[428]    Figure 34 shows the fabrication process for a micro-device of this invention that has a
flat cover atop of trench to form a channel. This will eliminate the need for coupling two
trenches to form a channel, which can be tedious for requiring perfect alignment. The cover
can be transparent and allow observation with a microscope. It can comprise or be made of
silicon, SiGe, SiO2, various types of glass, or A12 0 3.
[429]    Figure 35 is a diagram of an apparatus of this invention for detecting a disease in a
biological subject. This apparatus includes a pre-processing unit, a probing and detecting
unit, a signal processing, and a disposal processing unit.
[430]    Figure 36 shows an example of a sample filtration sub-unit in the pre-processing unit,
which can separate the cells with different dimensions or sizes. This device comprises at
least one entrance channel 3610, one disturbing fluid channel 3620, one accelerating chamber
3630, and two selecting channels (3640 and 3650). The angle 3660 between 3620 and 3610
ranges from 00 to 1800.
[431]    The biological subject 3601 flows in the x direction from the entrance channel 3610 to
the accelerating chamber 3630. A bio-compatible fluid 3602 flows from disturbing fluid
channel 3620 to the accelerating chamber 3630, it then accelerates the biological subject 3601
in the y-direction. The acceleration correlates with the radius of the biological subject and
the larger ones are less accelerated than the smaller ones. Then, the larger and smaller
subjects are separated into different selecting channels. Meanwhile, probes can be optionally
assembled on the sidewalls of the channels 3610, 3620, 3630, 3640, and 3650. The probes
could detect, at the microscopic level, electrical, magnetic, electromagnetic, thermal, optical,
acoustical, biological, chemical, biochemical, electro-mechanical, electro-chemical, electro
chemical-mechanical, physical, mechanical properties, or combinations thereof.
                                                89

[432]    Figure 37 is a diagram of another example of a sample filtration unit in the apparatus
of this invention. 3701 represents small cells, while 3702 represents large cells. When a
valve 3704 is open and another valve 3703 is closed, biological subjects (3701 and 3702)
flow towards exit A. Large cells that have larger size than the filtration hole are blocked
against exit A, while small cells are flushed out through exit A. The entrance valve 3704 and
exit A valve 3707 are then closed, and a bio-compatible fluid is injected through the fluid
entrance valve 3706. The fluid carries big cells are flushed out from exit B. The larger cells
are then analyzed and detected in the detection part of the invention.
[433]    Figure 38 is a diagram of a pre-processing unit of an apparatus of this invention. This
unit includes a sample filtration unit, a recharging unit or system for recharging nutrient or
gas into the biological subject, a constant pressure delivery unit, and a sample pre-probing
disturbing unit.
[434]    Figure 39 is a diagram of an information or signal processing unit of an apparatus of
this invention. This unit includes an amplifier (such as a lock-in amplifier) for amplifying the
signal, an A/D converter, and a micro-computer (e.g., a device containing a computer chip or
information processing sub-device), a manipulator, a display, and network connections.
[435]    Figure 40 shows the integration of multiple signals which results in cancellation of
noise and enhancement of signal/noise ratio. In this figure, a biological 4001 is tested by
Probe 1 during At between t1 and t2, and by Probe 2 during At between t3 and t4. 4002 is
4001's tested signal from Probe 1, and 4003 is from Probe 2. Signal 4004 is the integration
result from signal 4002 and 4003. The noise cancels out each other in certain extent and
results in an improved signal strength or signal/noise ratio. The same principle can be
applied to data collected from more than more than 2 micro-devices or probing units.
[436]    Figure 41 shows one embodiment of the fabrication processes flow of this invention
for manufacturing a detection device with at least one detection chamber and at least one
detector. In this example, following an optional process flow of fabricating data storage, data
processing and analyzing components (including transistors, memory devices, logic circuits,
and RF devices), a material 4122 is first deposited onto a substrate 4111, followed by the
deposition of another material 4133 (material for future detectors). Material 4133 can be
selected from electrically conductive materials, piezo-electrical materials, semiconductor
materials, thermal sensitive materials, ion emission sensitive materials, pressure sensitive
materials, mechanical stress sensitive materials, or optical materials. Optionally, it can also
consist of composite materials or a desired material stack. If required, an integrated detector
with a set of sub-components can be placed at this level. Material 4133 is next patterned
using lithography and etch processes, forming a set of desired features shown in Figure 4 1(c).
                                                90

Another material 4144 is subsequently deposited, which can be the same as or different from
material 4122. Material 4122 can be an electrically insulating material such as oxide (SiO 2 ),
doped oxide, silicon nitride, or polymer material. Next, the material 4144 is optionally
planarized using polishing (e.g., using chemical mechanical polishing) or etch back process.
The material stack is then patterned using lithography and etch processes, stopping on
substrate 4111. Finally, as shown in Figure 41(g), a capping layer or the surface of another
component 4155 is placed on top of the material stack (thereby sealing or capping it),
forming an enclosed detection chamber 4166 with detector 4177 for biological sample
detection.
[437]   Figure 42 illustrates another embodiment of the fabricating method of this invention
for manufacturing a detection device with enclosed detection chambers, detectors, and
channels for transporting biological samples such as fluidic samples. In this embodiment,
following an optional process flow of fabricating data storage, data processing and analyzing
components (including transistors, memory devices, logic circuits, and RF devices), a
material 4222 is first deposited onto a substrate 4211, followed by the deposition of another
material 4233 (material for future detectors). Material 4233 can be selected from electrical
conductive materials, piezo-electrical materials, semiconductor materials, thermal sensitive
materials, ion emission sensitive materials, pressure sensitive materials, mechanical stress
sensitive materials, or optical materials. Optionally, it can also include composite materials
or a desired material stack. If required, an integrated detector with a set of sub-components
can be placed at this level.
[438]   Materials 4222 and 4233 are subsequently patterned using lithography and etch
processes (Figure 42(c)). These two layers (4222 and 4233) can be patterned in separate
patterning processes sequentially, or can be patterned in the same process, pending on device
design, types of materials and etch chemistries. Substrate 4211 is next etched as shown in
Figure 42(d), forming a recessed area (cavity) in 4211, in which stacks 4222 and 4233 can be
used as a hard mask during the etch process.
[439]   A material 4244 is deposited into the recessed area, and the portion of the material
4244 above the material 4233 is removed using a polishing (chemical or mechanical) or etch
back process. Material 4244 can be selected from oxide, doped oxide, silicon nitride, and
polymer materials. A layer 4255 is then deposited onto material 4244 and patterned to form
small holes at selected locations. A wet or vapor etch is utilized next to remove material
4244, forming an enclosed detection chamber 4266.
[440]   Optionally, as shown in Figure 42(i), the material 4222 is also removed using wet or
vapor etch process, forming channels 4288 connecting various detection chambers, thus
                                                 91

forming detection chambers with a detector 4277 lined with the walls of the detection
chamber and with gaseous or fluidic biological samples flowing through the chambers.
Finally, the top surface of the detection chamber is sealed with another layer of material (e.g.,
4255).
[441] Figure 43 shows a novel disease detection method of this invention in which at least
one probe object is launched at a desired speed and direction toward a biological subject,
resulting in a collision. The response(s) by the biological subject during and/or after the
collision is detected and recorded, which can provide detailed and microscopic information
on the biological subject such as weight, density, elasticity, rigidity, structure, bonding
(between different components in the biological subject), electrical properties such as
electrical charge, magnetic properties, structural information, and surface properties. For
example, for a same type of cell, it is expected that a cancerous cell will experience a smaller
traveling distance after the collision than that of a normal cell due to its denser, greater
weight, and possibly larger volume. As shown in Figure 43(a), a probe object 4311 is
launched towards a biological subject 4322. After the collision with the probe object 4311,
the biological subject 4322 may be pushed (scattered) out a distance depending on its
properties as shown Figure 43(b).
[442]   Figure 43(c) shows a schematic of a novel disease detection device with a probe
object launch chamber 4344, an array of detectors 4333, a probe object 4322 and a biological
subject to be tested 4311. In general, a test object can be an inorganic particle, an organic
particle, a composite particle, or a biological subject itself. The launch chamber comprises a
piston to launch the object, a control system interfaced to an electronic circuit or a computer
for instructions, and a channel to direct the object.
[443]   Figure 44 illustrates a novel fabrication process for forming multiple components with
different materials at the same device level. First, a first material 4422 is deposited onto a
substrate 4411 (see Figure 44(a)), followed by the deposition of a second material 4433. The
second material 4433 is next patterned to form at least a portion of recessed area in the layer
4433, using lithography and etch processes (see Figure 44(c)). A third material 4444 is
subsequently deposited. The third material can be the same as or different from the second
material 4422.
[444]   The third material directly above the second material is removed via etch back and/or
polishing (such as chemical mechanical polishing) processes (see Figure 44(e)). Optionally,
the third material is next patterned to form at least a portion of recessed area in layer 4444
(Figure 44(f)). A fourth material 4455 is then deposited. Optionally, the portion of the fourth
material 4455 directly above the third material 4444 or above both the second and third
                                                 92

materials is removed via etch back and/or polishing (such as chemical mechanical polishing).
The above process can keep repeating to form multiple features with the same or different
materials at the same device level. Hence, this process flow forms at least two components
4466 and 4477 with different materials or the same materials at the same device level. For
example, in one embodiment, one component can be used as a prober and the other can be
used as a detector.
[445]   Figure 45 illustrates a method for detecting a disease in a biological subject. A
biological subject 4501 passes through the channel 4531 at a speed v, and probe 4511 is a
probe which can grossly detect the properties of the biological subject at high speed.
[446]   Probe 4512 is a fine probing device which is coated by a piezo-electrical material.
There is a distance AL between probe 4511 and probe 4512.
[447]   When the biological subjects are tested when getting through 4511, if the entity is
identified to be a suspected abnormal one, the system would trigger the piezo-electrical probe
4512 to stretch into the channel and probe particular properties after a time delay of A t. And
probe 4512 retracts after the suspected entity passed through.
[448]   The probing device is capable of measuring at the microscopic level an electrical,
magnetic, electromagnetic, thermal, optical, acoustical, biological, chemical, electro
mechanical, electro-chemical, electro-chemical-mechanical, bio-chemical, bio-mechanical,
bio-electro-mechanical, bio-electro-chemical, bio-electro-chemical-mechanical, physical or
mechanical property, or a combination thereof, of the biological subject.
[449]   The width of the micro-channel can range from about 1 nm to about 1 mm.
[450]   Figure 46 shows a process of detecting a disease in a biological subject. A biological
subject 4601 passes through the channel 4631 at a speed v. Probe 4611 is a probe which can
grossly detect the properties of the biological subject at high speed. 4621 and 4622 are piezo
electrical valves to control the micro-channel 4631 and 4632. 4612 is a fine probing device
which can probe biological properties more particularly. 4631 is flush channel to rush out
normal biological subjects. 4632 is detection channel where the suspected entities are fine
detected in this channel.
[451]   When a biological subject is tested while getting through 4611, if it is normal, the
valve 4621 of the flush channel is open, while the detection channel valve 4622 is closed, the
biological subject is flushed out without a time-consuming fine detection.
[452]   When the biological subject is tested while getting through 4611, if it is suspected to
be abnormal or diseased, the valve 4621 of the flush channel is closed, while the detection
channel valve 4622 is open, the biological subject is conducted to the detection channel for a
more particular probing.
                                                93

[453]    The width of the micro-channel can range from about 1 nm to about 1 mm.
[454]    The probing device is capable of measuring at the microscopic level an electrical,
magnetic, electromagnetic, thermal, optical, acoustical, biological, chemical, electro
mechanical, electro-chemical, electro-chemical-mechanical, bio-chemical, bio-mechanical,
bio-electro-mechanical, bio-electro-chemical, bio-electro-chemical-mechanical, physical or
mechanical property, or a combination thereof, of the biological subject.
[455]     Figure 47 illustrates an arrayed biological detecting device. As shown in Figure
47(a), 4701 are arrayed micro-channels which can get through the fluidics and biological
subjects. 4702 are probing devices embedded aside the channels. The sensors are wired by
bit-lines 4721 and word-lines 4722. The signals are applied and collected by the decoder
R\row-select 4742 and decoder column select 4741. As illustrated in Figure 47(b), the micro
channel arrayed biological detecting device 4700 can be embedded in a macro-channel 4701.
The micro-channel's dimension ranges from about 1 um to about 1 mm. The shape of the
micro-channel can be rectangle, ellipse, circle, or polygon.
[456]    The probing device is capable of measuring at the microscopic level an electrical,
magnetic, electromagnetic, thermal, optical, acoustical, biological, chemical, electro
mechanical, electro-chemical, electro-chemical-mechanical, bio-chemical, bio-mechanical,
bio-electro-mechanical, bio-electro-chemical, bio-electro-chemical-mechanical, physical or
mechanical property, or a combination thereof, of the biological subject.
[457]    Figure 48 illustrates a device of the current invention for disease detection. 4801 is
inlet of the detecting device, and 4802 is the outlet of the device. 4820 is the channel where
the biological subjects pass through. 4811 is the optical component of the detecting device.
[458]    As illustrated in Figure 48(b), the optical component 4811 consists of an optical
emitter 4812 and an optical receiver 4813. The optical emitter emits an optical pulse (e.g.
laser beam pulse), when the biological subject 4801 passing through the optical component,
and the optical sensor detects the diffraction of the optical pulse, then identify the
morphology of the entity.
[459]    Figure 49 shows a schedule for fabricating a piezo-electrical micro-detector of this
invention. Particularly, in Figure 49(a), a substrate 4901 is deposited sequentially with a wet
etching stop layer 4902 of material A, and with a sacrificial layer 4903 of material B. The
sacrificial layer 4903 is then patterned by the lithography and etching processes. Shown in
Figure 49(b), a layer 4904 of piezo-electrical material C is then deposited onto the surface of
the sacrificial layer 4903, and then planarized. As shown in Figure 49 (c), the layer 4904 is
then patterned by lithography and etching processes. A second sacrificial layer 4905 (which
can be the same as or different from material B) and a second wet etching stop layer 4906
                                                  94

(which can be the same as or different from material A) are subsequently deposited, as shown
in Figure 49(d) and Figure 49(e). A patterning process using lithography and etching is
performed through layers 4906 and 4905, and etching is stopped on the piezo-electrical layer
4904. It is followed by depositing a conductive layer 4907 of material D is deposited, and
then patterning the conductive layer. See Figure 49(g). A patterning process is then followed
and the etching stopped on the substrate, thereby forming a trench. See Figure 49(h). An
isotropic wet etch selective to material B is then followed, giving rise to a piezo-electrical
probe (a cantilever) 4908. See Figure 49(i).
[460]   Figure 50 shows an example of the micro-device of this invention packaged and ready
for integration with a sample delivery system and data recording device. As illustrated in
Figure 50(a), the device 5001 is fabricated by micro-electronics processes described herein
and has at least a micro-trench 5011, a probe 5022, and a bonding pad 5021. The surface of
the device's top layer can include SixOyNz, Si, SixOy, SixNy, or a compound containing the
elements of Si, 0, and N. Component 5002 is a flat glass panel. In Figure 50(b), the flat
panel 5002 is shown to be bonded with micro-device 5001 on the side of micro-trench. The
bonding can be achieved by a chemical, thermal, physical, optical, acoustical, or electrical
means, or any combination thereof. Figure 50(c) shows a conductive wire being bonded with
the bonding pad from the side of the pads. As illustrated in Figure 50(d), the device 5001 is
then packaged in a plastic cube with only conducting wires exposed. In Figure 50(e), a
conical channel 5020 is carved through packaging material and connecting the internal
channel of the device. As illustrated in Figure 50(f), the larger opening mouth of the conical
channel makes it operational and convenient to mount a sample delivery injector with the
device, thereby better enabling the delivery of sample from an injector with relatively large
size of injector needle into device with relatively small channels.
[461]   Figure 51 shows another example of the micro-device of this invention packaged and
ready for integration with a sample delivery system and data recording device. As shown in
Figure 51(a), a micro-device 5100 is fabricated by one or more micro-electronics processes as
described in International Application No. PCT/US2011/042637, entitled "Apparatus for
Disease Detection." The micro-device 5100 has at least a micro-trench 5104, a probe 5103, a
connecting port 5102, and a bonding pad 5105. On the top of the micro-device 5100, the
surface layer comprises SixOyNz, Si, SixOy, SixNy, or a compound consisting of Si, 0, and
N. The surface layer can be covered, and thus the micro-device 5100 is mounted, with a flat
glass panel 5101. See Figure 51(b). The mounting can be by a chemical, thermal, physical,
optical, acoustical, or electrical means. As shown in Figure 51(c), the conductive wire is
bonded with bonding pad from the side of the pads. Figure 51(d) illustrates that the micro
                                                95

device 5100 can then be packaged in a cube with only conducting wires exposed. The
packaging cube can comprise a packaging material such as plastic, ceramic, metal, glass, or
quartz. As shown in Figure 51(e), a tunnel 5141 is then drilled into the cube until the tunnel
reaches the connecting port 5102. Further, as shown in Figure 51(f), the tunnel 5141 is then
being connected to other pipes which can delivery a sample to be tested into the micro-device
5100, and flush out the sample after the sample is tested.
[462]    Figure 52 shows yet another example of the micro-device of this invention packaged
and ready for integration with a sample delivery system and data recording device. As
illustrated in Figure 52(a), device 5200 is a micro-fluidic device which has at least one micro
channel 5201. 5203 is a pipe that conducts a fluidic sample. The micro-channel 5201 and
the conducting pipe 5203 are aligned and submerged in a liquid, for example, water. Figure
52(b) illustrates that, when the temperature of the liquid in which the micro-device and
conducting pipe are submerged, is decreased to its freezing point or lower, the liquid
solidifies into a solid 5204. As illustrated in Figure 52(c), while the temperature of the liquid
is maintained below the freezing point, the combination (including the solid 5204, the
conducting pipe 5203, and the device 5200) is enclosed into a packaging material 5205
whose melting temperature is higher than that of the solid 5204, with only the conducting
pipe exposed. Figure 52(d) shows that, after the temperature is increased above the melting
point of the solid 5204, the solid material 5204 melts and becomes a liquid and is then
exhausted from the conducting pipe 5203. The space 5206 wherein the solid material 5204
once filled is now available or empty, and the channel 5201 and the conducting pipe 5203 are
now connected through and sealed in the space 5206.
[463]    Figure 53 shows a micro-device of this invention that has a channel (trench) and an
array of micro sensors. In Figure 53(a), 5310 is a device fabricated by microelectronics
techniques; 5310 comprises micro-sensor array 5301 and addressing and read-out circuitry
5302. The micro-sensor array can include thermal sensors, piezo-electrical sensors, piezo
photronic sensors, piezo-optical electronic sensors, image sensors, optical sensors, radiation
sensors, mechanical sensors, magnetic sensors, bio-sensors, chemical sensors, bio-chemical
sensors, acoustic sensors, or a combination of them. Examples of thermal sensors include
resistive temperature micro-sensors, micro-thermocouples, thermo-diodes and thermo
transistors, and SAW(surface acoustic wave) temperature sensor. Examples of image sensors
include CCD (Charge Coupled Device) and CIS (CMOS image sensor). Examples of
radiation sensors include photoconductive devices, photovoltaic devices, pyro-electrical
devices, and micro-antennas. Examples of mechanical sensors include pressure micro
sensors, micro-accelerometers, micro-gyrometers, and micro flow-sensors. Examples of
                                                 96

magnetic sensors include magneto-galvanic micro-sensors, magneto-resistive sensors,
magneto diodes and magneto-transistors. Examples of biochemical sensors comprise
conductimetric devices and potentiometric devices. Figure 53(b) shows a micro-device 5320
that includes a micro-trench 5321. As illustrated in Figure 53(c), 5310 and 5320 are bonded
together to form the new micro-device 5330 which include a trench or channel 5331. The
micro-sensor array 5301 is exposed in the channel 5331.
[464]    Figure 54 shows another micro-device of this invention that comprises two panels one
of which has an array of micro sensors and two micro cylinders. Particularly, Figure 54(a)
shows a micro-device 5430 fabricated by micro-electronic techniques, which comprises a
micro-sensor array 5431 and a read-out circuitry 5432, 5410 is another micro-sensor array
chip, and 5420 is a micro-cylinder. As illustrated in Figure 54(b), a micro-sensor array chip
5430 and two micro-cylinders 5420 are bonded to form a micro-trench with micro-sensor
array exposed. In the micro-device illustrated in Figure 54(c), 5410 is flipped bonded onto
the micro-trench device 5431 and forms the device 5450. Device 5450 has a channel with
micro-sensor array embedded on top and bottom sides. Figure 54(d) illustrates the X-cross
section of the micro-device while Figure 54(e) illustrates the y-cross-section of the micro-.
[465]    Figure 55 shows a micro-device of this invention that comprises two panels one of
which has an array of micro sensors and two micro cylinders both of which have a probing
sensor. Particularly, in Figure 55(a), device 5510 is fabricated by microelectronics
techniques, which comprises a channel 5511, probe 5513 aside the channel, and a read-out
circuitry 5512. Figure 55(b) illustrates the X-cross-section of the device, while figure 55(c)
illustrates the y-cross-section of the device. Probe 5513 can apply a disturbing signal to the
entities passing through the channel 5511.
[466]    Figure 56 shows another micro-device of this invention comprising several "sub
devices." Particularly, as illustrated in Figure 56(a), the device 5610 composes "sub-devices"
5611, 5612, 5613, and 5614, among which 5611 and 5613 are devices which can apply
disturbing signals, and 5612 and 5614 are micro-sensor arrays. Figure 56(b) illustrates the
functioning diagram of the device 5610, when biological samples 5621 under the test are
passing through the channel 5610, they are disturbed by signal A applied by 5611, then being
tested and recorded by detecting sensor array 1 of 5612. These biological samples are then
disturbed by disturb probe 5613 of array 2, and being tested by detecting sensor 5614 of array
2. Disturbing probe 5611 of array 1 and disturbing probe 5613 of array 2 can apply the same
or different signals. Likewise, detecting sensor 5612 of array 1 and detecting sensor 5614 of
array 2 can sense or detect the same or different properties.
                                                97

[467]    Figure 57 shows an example of the micro-devices of this invention which includes an
application specific integrated circuit (ASIC) chip with 1/0 pads. Specifically, as illustrated
in Figure 57, 5710 is a micro-device with a micro-fluidic channel 5712 and 1/0 pads 5711.
5720 is an Application Specific Integrated Circuit (ASIC) chip with 1/0 pads 5721. 5720 and
5710 can be wired together through the bonding of 1/0 pads. As such, with an ASIC circuitry
5720, the micro-fluidic detecting device 5710 can perform more complicated computing and
analytical functions.
[468]    While for the purposes of demonstration and illustration, the above cited novel,
detailed examples show how microelectronics and/or nano-fabrication techniques and
associated process flows can be utilized to fabricate highly sensitive, multi-functional,
powerful, and miniaturized detection devices, the principle and general approaches of
employing microelectronics and nano-fabrication technologies in the design and fabrication
of high performance detection devices have been contemplated and taught, which can and
should be expanded to various combination of fabrication processes including but not limited
to thin film deposition, patterning (lithography and etch), planarization (including chemical
mechanical polishing), ion implantation, diffusion, cleaning, various materials, combination
of processes and steps, and various process sequences and flows. For example, in alternative
detection device design and fabrication process flows, the number of materials involved can
be fewer than or exceed four materials (which have been utilized in the above example), and
the number of process steps can be fewer or more than those demonstrated process sequences,
depending on specific needs and performance targets. For example, in some disease
detection applications, a fifth material such as a biomaterial-based thin film can be used to
coat a metal detection tip to enhance contact between the detection tip and a biological
subject being measured, thereby improving measurement sensitivity.
[469]    Applications for the detection apparatus and methods of this invention include
detection of diseases (e.g., in their early stage), particularly for serious diseases like cancer.
Since cancer cell and normal cell differ in a number of ways including differences in possible
microscopic properties such as electrical potential, surface charge, density, adhesion, and pH,
novel micro-devices disclosed herein are capable of detecting these differences and therefore
applicable for enhanced capability to detect diseases (e.g., for cancer), particularly in their
early stage. In addition micro-devices for measuring electrical potential and electrical charge
parameters, micro-devices capable of carrying out mechanical property measurements (e.g.,
density) can also be fabricated and used as disclosed herein. In mechanical property
measurement for early stage disease detection, the focus will be on the mechanical properties
that likely differentiate disease or cancerous cells from normal cell. As an example, one can
                                                  98

differentiate cancerous cells from normal cells by using a detection apparatus of this
invention that is integrated with micro-devices capable of carrying out micro-indentation
measurements.
[470]   Although specific embodiments of this invention have been illustrated herein, it will
be appreciated by those skilled in the art that any modifications and variations can be made
without departing from the spirit of the invention. The examples and illustrations above are
not intended to limit the scope of this invention. Any combination of detection apparatus,
micro-devices, fabrication processes, and applications of this invention, along with any
obvious their extension or analogs, are within the scope of this invention. Further, it is
intended that this invention encompass any arrangement, which is calculated to achieve that
same purpose, and all such variations and modifications as fall within the scope of the
appended claims.
[471]   All publications or patent applications referred to above are incorporated herein by
reference in their entireties. All the features disclosed in this specification (including any
accompanying claims, abstract and drawings) may be replaced by alternative features serving
the same, equivalent or similar purpose, unless expressly stated otherwise. Thus, unless
expressly stated otherwise, each feature disclosed is one example of a generic series of
equivalent or similar features.
                                       Other Embodiments
[472]   It is to be understood that while the invention has been described in conjunction with
the detailed description thereof, the foregoing description is intended to illustrate and not
limit the scope of the invention, which is defined by the scope of the appended claims. Other
aspects, advantages, and modifications are within the scope of the following claims. All
publications referenced herein are incorporated by reference in their entireties.
 [473] There follows a list of numbered clauses defining particular embodiments of the diclosure.
  Where a numbered clause refers to an earlier numbered clause then those clauses may be
 considered in combination.
                                                 99

Clause 1. A micro-device for detecting or treating a disease, comprising a first micro
sensor for detecting a property of the biological sample at the microscopic level, and an
interior wall defining a channel, wherein the micro sensor is located in the interior wall
of the micro-device and detects the property of the biological sample in the microscopic
level, and the biological sample is transported within the channel.
Clause 2. The micro-device of clause 1 , wherein the first micro sensor or micro-device
is fabricated by microelectronics technologies.
Clause 3. The micro-device of clause 2, wherein the first micro sensor is fabricated to
be integral part of an interior wall of the micro-device, or the first micro sensor is
fabricated separately from and bonded to the interior wall of the micro-device.
Clause 4. The micro-device of clause 1 , further comprising a read-out circuitry which
is connected to the micro sensor and transfers data from the first micro sensor to a
recording device.
Clause 5. The micro-device of clause 4, wherein the connection between the read-out
circuit and the first micro sensor is digital, analog, optical, thermal, piezo-electrical,
piezo-photronic, piezo-electrical photronic, opto-electrical, electro-thermal, opto
thermal, electromagnetic, electro-mechanical, or mechanical.
Clause 6. The micro-device of clause 1, further comprising at least one additional micro
sensor in proximity with the first micro sensor and located on the same interior wall,
wherein the at least one additional micro sensor is fabricated in micro-technologies
process.
Clause 7. The micro-device of clause 1, further comprising at least three additional
micro sensors in proximity with the first micro sensor and located on the same interior
wall as the first micro sensor, wherein the at least three additional micro sensors are
fabricated in micro-technologies process.
Clause 8. The micro-device of clause 7, wherein all the micro sensors are arranged in
one group.
Clause 9. The micro-device of clause 7, wherein all the micro sensors are arranged in at
least two groups.
                                              100

Clause 10. The micro-device of clause 6, wherein the at least two micro sensors detect
different properties of the biological sample, and each of the different properties is
independently an electrical, magnetic, electromagnetic, thermal, optical, acoustical,
biological, chemical, electro-mechanical, electro-chemical, electro-optical, electro
thermal, electro-chemical-mechanical, bio-chemical, bio-mechanical, bio-optical, bio
thermal, bio-physical, bio-electromechanical, bio-electro-chemical, bio-electro-optical,
bio-electro-thermal, bio-mechanical-optical, bio-mechanical thermal, bio-thermal
optical, bio-electro-chemical-optical, bio- electro-mechanical optical, bio-electro
thermal-optical, bio-electro-chemical-mechanical, physical or mechanical property, or a
combination thereof, of the biological subject; or the at least two micro sensors perform
different functions.
Clause 11. The micro-device of clause 10, wherein the electrical property is surface
charge, surface potential, resting potential, electrical current, electrical field
distribution, electrical dipole, electrical quadruple, three-dimensional electrical or
charge cloud distribution, electrical properties at telomere of DNA and chromosome,
capacitance, or impedance; the thermal property is temperature or vibrational
frequency; the optical property is optical absorption, optical transmission, optical
reflection, optical-electrical property, brightness, or fluorescent emission; the chemical
property is pH value, chemical reaction, bio-chemical reaction, bio-electro-chemical
reaction, reaction speed, reaction energy, speed of reaction, oxygen concentration,
oxygen consumption rate, ionic strength, catalytic behavior, chemical additives to
trigger enhanced signal response, bio-chemical additives to trigger enhanced signal
response, biological additives to trigger enhanced signal response, chemicals to
enhance detection sensitivity, bio-chemicals to enhance detection sensitivity, biological
additives to enhance detection sensitivity, or bonding strength; the physical property is
density, shape, volume, or surface area; the biological property is surface shape, surface
area, surface charge, surface biological property, surface chemical property, pH,
electrolyte, ionic strength, resistivity, cell concentration, or biological, electrical,
physical, or chemical property of solution; the acoustic property is frequency, speed of
acoustic waves, acoustic frequency and intensity spectrum distribution, acoustic
intensity, acoustical absorption, or acoustical resonance; the mechanical property is
                                               101

internal pressure, hardness, flow rate, viscosity, shear strength, elongation strength,
fracture stress, adhesion, mechanical resonance frequency, elasticity, plasticity, or
compressibility.
Clause 12. The micro-device of clause 10, wherein at least one of the micro sensors is a
probing sensor and can apply a disturbing signal to the biological sample.
Clause 13. The micro-device of clause 1, wherein the micro-sensors are fabricated on a
flat panel and exposed to the channel defined by the interior walls of the micro-device.
Clause 14. The micro-device of clause 1, wherein the micro-device has a symmetric
interior channel or exterior configuration.
Clause 15. The micro-device of clause 14, wherein the micro-device has an oval,
circular, triangular, square, or rectangular interior channel or exterior configuration.
Clause 16. The micro-device of clause 15, where the micro-device has a square or
rectangular interior channel and 4 sides of interior walls.
Clause 17. The micro-device of clause 16, wherein all the micro sensors are located on
one side or two opposite sides of the interior wall.
Clause 18. The micro-device of clause 16, wherein the micro-device comprises two
panels, at least one of the panels is fabricated by microelectronic technologies and
comprises the micro sensors and a read-out circuitry, the micro sensors are located in
the interior wall of the panel which with other interior walls of the micro-device defines
the interior channel of the micro-device.
Clause 19. The micro-device of clause 18, further comprising two micro-cylinders that
are placed between and bonded with the two panels, wherein each of the micro
cylinders is solid, hollow, or porous, and optionally fabricated by microelectronics
technologies.
Clause 20. The micro-device of clause 19, wherein the micro-cylinders are solid and at
least one of them comprises a micro sensor fabricated by microelectronics
technologies.
Clause 21. The micro-device of clause 20, wherein the micro sensor in the micro
cylinder detects the same or different property as a micro sensor in a panel of the
micro-device.
                                              102

Clause 22. The micro-device of clause 20, wherein the micro sensor in the micro
cylinder apply a probing signal to the biological sample to be tested.
Clause 23. The micro-device of clause 20, wherein at least one of the micro-cylinders
comprises at least two micro sensors fabricated by microelectronics technologies, and
every two of the at least two micro sensors are so located in the cylinder that an array
of micro sensors in a panel at position between every two micro sensors in the micro
cylinder.
Clause 24. The micro-device of clause 23, wherein the two sensors in the micro
cylinder are apart by a distance ranigng from 0.1 micron to 500 microns, from 0.1
micro to 50 microns, from 1 micro to 100 micros, from 2.5 micros to 100 microns,
from 5 microns to 250 micros.
Clause 25. The micro-device of clause 24, wherein at least one of the panels comprises
at least two micro sensors that are arranged in at least two arrays each separated by at
least a micro sensor in a cylinder.
Clause 26. The micro-device of clause 24, wherein at least one array of the micro
sensors in the panel comprises two or more micro sensors.
Clause 27. The micro-device of clause 16, wherein the micro-device comprises two
panels each comprising at least one micro sensor and a read-out circuitry, the micro
sensors are located in the interior wall of each panel which with other interior walls of
the micro-device defines the interior channel of the micro-device.
Clause 28. The micro-device of clause 27, wherein each panel comprises at least two
micro sensors arranged in an array.
Clause 29. The micro-device of clause 28, further comprising two micro-cylinders that
are placed between and bonded with the two panels, wherein each of the micro
cylinders is solid, hollow, or porous, and optionally fabricated by microelectronics
technologies.
Clause 30. The micro-device of clause 29, wherein the micro-cylinders are solid and at
least one of them comprises a micro sensor fabricated by microelectronics
technologies.
                                             103

Clause 31. The micro-device of clause 30, wherein the micro sensor in the micro
cylinder detects the same or different property as a micro sensor in a panel of the
micro-device, wherein each property is independently an electrical, magnetic,
electromagnetic, thermal, optical, acoustical, biological, chemical, electro-mechanical,
electro-chemical, electro-optical, electro-thermal, electro-chemical-mechanical, bio
chemical, bio-mechanical, bio-optical, bio-thermal, bio-physical, bio-electro
mechanical, bio-electro-chemical, bio-electro-optical, bio-electro-thermal, bio
mechanical-optical, bio-mechanical thermal, bio-thermal-optical, bio-electro-chemical
optical, bio-electro-mechanical optical, bio-electro-thermal-optical, bio-electro
chemical-mechanical, physical or mechanical property, or a combination thereof, of the
biological subject.
Clause 32. The micro-device of clause 31, wherein the electrical property is surface
charge, surface potential, resting potential, electrical current, electrical field
distribution, electrical dipole, electrical quadruple, three-dimensional electrical or
charge cloud distribution, electrical properties at telomere of DNA and chromosome,
capacitance, or impedance; the thermal property is temperature or vibrational
frequency; the optical property is optical absorption, optical transmission, optical
reflection, optical-electrical property, brightness, or fluorescent emission; the chemical
property is pH value, chemical reaction, bio-chemical reaction, bio-electro-chemical
reaction, reaction speed, reaction energy, speed of reaction, oxygen concentration,
oxygen consumption rate, ionic strength, catalytic behavior, chemical additives to
trigger enhanced signal response, bio-chemical additives to trigger enhanced signal
response, biological additives to trigger enhanced signal response, chemicals to
enhance detection sensitivity, bio-chemicals to enhance detection sensitivity, biological
additives to enhance detection sensitivity, or bonding strength; the physical property is
density, shape, volume, or surface area; the biological property is surface shape, surface
area, surface charge, surface biological property, surface chemical property, pH,
electrolyte, ionic strength, resistivity, cell concentration, or biological, electrical,
physical, or chemical property of solution; the acoustic property is frequency, speed of
acoustic waves, acoustic frequency and intensity spectrum distribution, acoustic
                                               104

intensity, acoustical absorption, or acoustical resonance; the mechanical property is
internal pressure, hardness, flow rate,
viscosity, shear strength, elongation strength, fracture stress, adhesion, mechanical
resonance frequency, elasticity, plasticity, or compressibility.
Clause 33. The micro-device of clause 31, wherein the micro sensor in the micro
cylinder applies a probing signal to the biological sample to be tested and causes the
biological sample to respond by generating a signal.
Clause 34. The micro-device of clause 33, wherein at least one of the micro-cylinders
comprises at least two micro sensors fabricated by microelectronics technologies, and
every two of the at least two micro sensors are so located in the cylinder that an array
of micro sensors in a panel at position between the every two micro sensors in the
micro cylinder.
Clause 35. The micro-device of clause 34, wherein at least one of the panels comprises
at least two micro sensors that are arranged in at least two arrays each separated by at
least a micro sensor in a cylinder.
Clause 36. The micro-device of clause 35, wherein at least one array of the micro
sensors in the panel comprises two or more micro sensors.
Clause 37. The micro-device of clause 1, wherein the channel has a rectangle shape and
a length ranging from 1 micron to 100 microns.
Clause 38. The micro-device of clause 1 , wherein the channel has a diameter or height
or width ranging from 0.5 micron to 5 microns, from 1 micron to 2.5 microns, from 5
microns to 25 microns, from 5 microns to 50 microns, from 25 microns to 50 microns,
or from 50 micron to 80 microns.
Clause 39. The micro-device of clause 1, wherein the micro-device comprises:
         two panels at least one of which is fabricated by micro-electronic technologies
and comprises the micro sensors and a read-out circuitry, and the micro sensors are
located in the interior wall of the panel which, with other interior walls of the micro
device, defines the interior channel of the micro-device;
                                             105

        two micro-cylinders that are placed between and bonded with the two panels,
wherein each of the micro-cylinders is solid, hollow, or porous, and optionally
fabricated by microelectronics technologies; and
        an application specific integrated circuit chip which is internally bonded to or
integrated into one of the panels or a micro-cylinder and, together with other
components of the micro-device defines the internal channel of the micro-device.
Clause 40. The micro-device of clause 39, further comprising an optical device,
imaging device, camera, viewing station, acoustic detector, piezo-electrical detector,
piezo-photronic detector, piezo-electro photronic detector, electro-optical detector,
electro-thermal detector, bio-electrical detector, bio-marker detector, bio-chemical
detector, chemical sensor, thermal
detector, ion emission detector, or thermal recorder, each of which is integrated into the
a panel or a micro cylinder.
Clause 41. The micro-device of clause 39, wherein each micro sensor is independently
an electrical sensor, magnetic sensor, electromagnetic sensor, thermal sensor, optical
sensor, acoustical sensor, biological sensor, chemical sensor, electro-mechanical
sensor, electrochemical sensor, electro-optical sensor, electro-thermal sensor, electro
chemical-mechanical sensor, bio-chemical sensor, bio-mechanical sensor, bio-optical
sensor, bio-thermal sensor, bio-physical sensor, bio-electro-mechanical sensor, bio
electro-chemical sensor, bio-electro-optical sensor, bio-electro-thermal sensor, bio
mechanical-optical sensor, bio-mechanical thermal sensor, bio-thermal-optical sensor,
bio-electro-chemical-optical sensor, bio-electro-mechanical optical sensor, bio-electro
thermal-optical sensor, bio-electro-chemical-mechanical sensor, physical sensor,
mechanical sensor, piezo-electrical sensor, piezo-electro photronic sensor, piezo
photronic sensor, piezo-electro optical sensor, bio-electrical sensor, bio-marker sensor,
image sensor, or radiation sensor.
Clause 42. The micro-device of clause 1, wherein the micro sensor is an electrical
sensor, magnetic sensor, electromagnetic sensor, thermal sensor, optical sensor,
acoustical sensor, biological sensor, chemical sensor, electro-mechanical sensor,
electro-chemical sensor, electro-optical sensor, electro-thermal sensor, electro
chemical-mechanical sensor, biochemical sensor, bio-mechanical sensor, bio-optical
                                             106

sensor, bio-thermal sensor, bio-physical sensor, bio-electro-mechanical sensor, bio
electro-chemical sensor, bio-electro-optical sensor, bio-electro-thermal sensor, bio
mechanical-optical sensor, bio-mechanical thermal sensor, bio-thermal-optical sensor,
bio-electro-chemical-optical sensor, bio-electro-mechanical optical sensor, bio-electro
thermal-optical sensor, bio-electro-chemical-mechanical sensor, physical sensor,
mechanical sensor, piezo-electrical sensor, piezo-electro photronic sensor, piezo
photronic sensor, piezo-electro optical sensor, bio-electrical sensor, bio-marker sensor,
image sensor, or radiation sensor.
Clause 43. The micro-device of clause 42, wherein the thermal sensor comprises a
resistive temperature micro-sensor, a micro-thermocouple, a thermo-diode and thermo
transistor, and a surface acoustic wave (SAW) temperature sensor.
Clause 44. The micro-device of clause 42, wherein the image sensor comprises a
charge coupled device (CCD) or a CMOS image sensor (CIS).
Clause 45. The micro-device of clause 42, wherein the radiation sensor comprises a
photoconductive device, a photovoltaic device, a pyro-electrical device, or a micro
antenna.
Clause 46. The micro-device of clause 42, wherein mechanical sensor comprises a
pressure micro-sensor, micro-accelerometer, flow meter, viscosity measurement tool,
micro-gyrometer, or micro flow-sensor.
Clause 47. The micro-device of clause 42, wherein the magnetic sensor comprises a
magneto-galvanic micro-sensor, a magneto-resistive sensor, a magneto diode, or
magneto-transistor.
Clause 48. The micro-device of clause 42, wherein the biochemical sensor comprises a
conductimetric device or a potentiometric device.
Clause 49. The micro-device of clause 1, further comprising a read-out device for
receiving or transferring data collected by the micro sensor on the measured property of
the biological sample.
Clause 50. The micro-device of clause 1 , wherein the property to be measured is an
electrical, magnetic, electromagnetic, thermal, optical, acoustical, biological, chemical,
electromechanical, electro-chemical, electro-optical, electro-thermal, electro-chemical
                                            107

mechanical, bio-chemical, bio-mechanical, bio-optical, bio-thermal, bio-physical, bio
electro-mechanical, bio-electro-chemical, bio-electro-optical, bio-electro-thermal, bio
mechanical-optical, bio-mechanical thermal, bio-thermal-optical, bio-electro-chemical
optical, bio-electro-mechanical optical, bio-electro-thermal-optical, bio-electro
chemical-mechanical, physical or mechanical property, or a combination thereof, of the
biological sample.
Clause 51. The method of clause 50, wherein the electrical property is surface charge,
surface potential, resting potential, electrical current, electrical field distribution,
electrical dipole, electrical quadruple, three-dimensional electrical or charge cloud
distribution, electrical properties at telomere of DNA and chromosome, capacitance, or
impedance; the thermal property is temperature or vibrational frequency; the optical
property is optical absorption, optical transmission, optical reflection, optical-electrical
property, brightness, or fluorescent emission; the chemical property is pH value,
chemical reaction, bio-chemical reaction, bio-electro-chemical reaction, reaction speed,
reaction energy, speed of reaction, oxygen concentration, oxygen consumption rate,
ionic strength, catalytic behavior, chemical additives to trigger enhanced signal
response, bio-chemical additives to trigger enhanced signal response, biological
additives to trigger enhanced signal response, chemicals to enhance detection
sensitivity, bio-chemicals to enhance detection sensitivity, biological additives to
enhance detection sensitivity, or bonding strength; the physical property is density,
shape, volume, or surface area; the biological property is surface shape, surface area,
surface charge, surface biological property, surface chemical property, pH, electrolyte,
ionic strength, resistivity, cell concentration, or biological, electrical, physical, or
chemical property of solution; the acoustic property is frequency, speed of acoustic
waves, acoustic
frequency and intensity spectrum distribution, acoustic intensity, acoustical absorption,
or acoustical resonance; the mechanical property is internal pressure, hardness, flow
rate, viscosity, shear strength, elongation strength, fracture stress, adhesion, mechanical
resonance frequency, elasticity, plasticity, or compressibility.
Clause 52. A method for fabricating a micro-device for detecting or treating a disease,
comprising fabricating a first panel by microelectronics technologies, fabricating at
                                              108

least one micro sensor by microelectronics technologies and integrating it to the first
panel, optionally providing or fabricating at least one micro-cylinder and a second
panel, bonding the first panel and the optional second panel and the optional micro
cylinder whereby the interior walls of the panels and optional micro-cylinder define an
internal channel of the micro-device and the micro sensor is exposed in the internal
channel.
Clause 53. The method of clause 52, wherein the at least one micro sensor is fabricated
as an internal part of and at the same time as the first panel.
Clause 54. The method of clause 52, wherein fabricating the first panel also gives rise
to a readout circuitry which is connected to the micro sensors in a panel by a digital,
analog, optical, thermal, piezo-electrical, piezo-photronic, piezo-electrical photronic,
opto-electrical, electrothermal, opto-thermal, electromagnetic, electro-mechanical, or
mechanical means.
Clause 55. A method for detecting a disease in a subject in need thereof, comprising
taking a biological sample from the subject and taking a biological sample from a
disease- free subject, analyzing the two biological samples to measure a property
thereof at the microscopic level with a micro-device of any of clauses 1-48, and
comparing the measured property of the two biological samples.
Clause 56. The method of clause 55, wherein the property to be measured is an
electrical, magnetic, electromagnetic, thermal, optical, acoustical, biological, chemical,
electromechanical, electro-chemical, electro-optical, electro-thermal, electro-chemical
mechanical, bio-chemical, bio-mechanical, bio-optical, bio-thermal, bio-physical, bio
electro-mechanical, bio-electro-chemical, bio-electro-optical, bio-electro-thermal, bio
mechanical-optical, bio-mechanical thermal, bio-thermal-optical, bio-electro-chemical
optical, bio-electro-mechanical optical, bio-electro-thermal-optical, bio-electro
chemical-mechanical, physical or mechanical property, or a combination thereof, of the
biological sample.
Clause 57. The method of clause 56, wherein the electrical property is surface charge,
surface potential, resting potential, electrical current, electrical field distribution,
electrical dipole, electrical quadruple, three-dimensional electrical or charge cloud
distribution, electrical properties at telomere of DNA and chromosome, capacitance, or
                                              109

impedance; the thermal property is temperature or vibrational frequency; the optical
property is optical absorption, optical transmission, optical reflection, optical-electrical
property, brightness, or fluorescent emission; the chemical property is pH value,
chemical reaction, bio-chemical reaction, bio-electro-chemical reaction, reaction speed,
reaction energy, speed of reaction, oxygen concentration, oxygen consumption rate,
ionic strength, catalytic behavior, chemical additives to trigger enhanced signal
response, bio-chemical additives to trigger enhanced signal response, biological
additives to trigger enhanced signal response, chemicals to enhance detection
sensitivity, bio-chemicals to enhance detection sensitivity, biological additives to
enhance detection sensitivity, or bonding strength; the physical property is density,
shape, volume, or surface area; the biological property is surface shape, surface area,
surface charge, surface biological property, surface chemical property, pH, electrolyte,
ionic strength, resistivity, cell concentration, or biological, electrical, physical, or
chemical property of solution; the acoustic property is frequency, speed of acoustic
waves, acoustic frequency and intensity spectrum distribution, acoustic intensity,
acoustical absorption, or acoustical resonance; the mechanical property is internal
pressure, hardness, flow rate, viscosity, shear strength, elongation strength, fracture
stress, adhesion, mechanical resonance frequency, elasticity, plasticity, or
compressibility.
Clause 58. A method for detecting a disease with enhanced sensibility in a subject in
need thereof, comprising:
         taking a biological sample from the subject and taking a biological sample from
a disease-free subject,
         optionally placing the biological sample in a biocompatible media;
         analyzing the two biological samples to measure a property thereof at the
microscopic level with a micro-device which comprises a first micro sensor for
detecting a property of the biological samples at the microscopic level, and an interior
wall defining a channel, wherein the micro sensor is located in the interior wall of the
micro-device and detects the property of the biological samples at the microscopic
level, and the biological sample is transported within the channel; and
         comparing the measured property of the two biological samples.
                                              110

Clause 59. The method of clause 58, wherein the micro-device further comprises a
second micro sensor for applying a probing signal on the biological samples or on the
optional media, thereby changing the nature or value of the property to be detected.
Clause 60. The method of clause 59, wherein the probing signal and the property to be
detected are of the same type.
Clause 61. The method of clause 60, wherein the probing signal is an electrical,
magnetic, electromagnetic, thermal, optical, acoustical, biological, chemical, electro
mechanical, electro-chemical, electro-optical, electro-thermal, electro-chemical
mechanical, bio-chemical, bio-mechanical, bio-optical, bio-thermal, bio-physical, bio
electro-mechanical, bio-electrochemical, bio-electro-optical, bio-electro-thermal, bio
mechanical-optical, bio-mechanical thermal, bio-thermal-optical, bio-electro-chemical
optical, bio-electro-mechanical optical, bio-electro-thermal-optical, bio-electro
chemical-mechanical, physical or mechanical property, or a combination thereof, of the
biological subject.
Clause 62. The method of clause 61, wherein the electrical property is surface charge,
surface potential, resting potential, electrical current, electrical field distribution,
electrical dipole, electrical quadruple, three-dimensional electrical or charge cloud
distribution, electrical properties at telomere of DNA and chromosome, capacitance, or
impedance; the thermal property is temperature or vibrational frequency; the optical
property is optical absorption, optical transmission, optical reflection, optical-electrical
property, brightness, or fluorescent emission; the chemical property is pH value,
chemical reaction, bio-chemical reaction, bio-electro-chemical reaction, reaction speed,
reaction energy, speed of reaction, oxygen concentration, oxygen consumption rate,
ionic strength, catalytic behavior, chemical additives to trigger enhanced signal
response, bio-chemical additives to trigger enhanced signal response, biological
additives to trigger enhanced signal response, chemicals to enhance detection
sensitivity, bio-chemicals to enhance detection sensitivity, biological additives to
enhance detection sensitivity, or bonding strength; the physical property is density,
shape, volume, or surface area; the biological property is surface shape, surface area,
surface charge, surface biological property, surface chemical property, pH, electrolyte,
ionic strength, resistivity, cell concentration, or biological, electrical, physical, or
                                              111

chemical property of solution; the acoustic property is frequency, speed of acoustic
waves, acoustic frequency and intensity spectrum distribution, acoustic intensity,
acoustical absorption, or acoustical resonance; the mechanical property is internal
pressure, hardness, flow rate, viscosity, shear strength, elongation strength, fracture
stress, adhesion, mechanical resonance frequency, elasticity, plasticity, or
compressibility.
Clause 63. The method of clause 59, wherein the probing signal and the property to be
detected are of different types.
Clause 64. The method of clause 63, wherein the probing signal and the property to be
detected are each independently an electrical, magnetic, electromagnetic, thermal,
optical, acoustical, biological, chemical, electro-mechanical, electro-chemical, electro
optical, electro-thermal, electro-chemical-mechanical, bio-chemical, bio-mechanical,
bio-optical, bio-thermal, biophysical, bio-electro-mechanical, bio-electro-chemical,
bio-electro-optical, bio-electrothermal, bio-mechanical-optical, bio-mechanical
thermal, bio-thermal-optical, bio-electro
chemical-optical, bio-electro-mechanical optical, bio-electro-thermal-optical, bio
electrochemical-mechanical, physical or mechanical signal or property.
Clause 65. The method of clause 64, wherein the electrical property is surface charge,
surface potential, resting potential, electrical current, electrical field distribution,
electrical dipole, electrical quadruple, three-dimensional electrical or charge cloud
distribution, electrical properties at telomere of DNA and chromosome, capacitance, or
impedance; the thermal property is temperature or vibrational frequency; the optical
property is optical absorption, optical transmission, optical reflection, optical-electrical
property, brightness, or fluorescent emission; the chemical property is pH value,
chemical reaction, bio-chemical reaction, bio-electro-chemical reaction, reaction speed,
reaction energy, speed of reaction, oxygen concentration, oxygen consumption rate,
ionic strength, catalytic behavior, chemical additives to trigger enhanced signal
response, bio-chemical additives to trigger enhanced signal response, biological
additives to trigger enhanced signal response, chemicals to enhance detection
sensitivity, bio-chemicals to enhance detection sensitivity, biological additives to
enhance detection sensitivity, or bonding strength; the physical property is density,
                                              112

shape, volume, or surface area; the biological property is surface shape, surface area,
surface charge, surface biological property, surface chemical property, pH, electrolyte,
ionic strength, resistivity, cell concentration, or biological, electrical, physical, or
chemical property of solution; the acoustic property is frequency, speed of acoustic
waves, acoustic frequency and intensity spectrum distribution, acoustic intensity,
acoustical absorption, or acoustical resonance; the mechanical property is internal
pressure, hardness, flow rate, viscosity, shear strength, elongation strength, fracture
stress, adhesion, mechanical resonance frequency, elasticity, plasticity, or
compressibility.
Clause 66. The method of clause 59, wherein the probing signal is changed from a
static value to a dynamic value or to a pulsed value, or from a lower value to a higher
value.
Clause 67. The method of clause 59, wherein at least one of the properties of the media
is changed from a static value to a dynamic value or to a pulsed value, or from a lower
value to a higher value.
Clause 68. The method of clause 59, wherein the probing signal or a property of the
media is laser intensity, temperature, catalyst concentration, acoustic energy, bio
marker concentration, electrical voltage, electrical current, fluorescent dye
concentration, the amount of agitation of the biological samples, or fluid flow rate.
                                              113

   THE CLAIMS DEFINING THE INVENTION ARE AS FOLLOWS:
   1.      A micro-device for detecting a disease, comprising:
 5         a first micro sensor for detecting a property of the biological sample at the
   microscopic level,
           a probe comprising a piezo-electric or piezo-photronic transducer for applying
   an electrical, acoustical or optical disturbing signal to the biological sample, wherein
   said disturbing signal invokes an intrinsic response from the biological sample to the
10 disturbing signal, which response can be detected by the first micro-sensor, and
           an interior wall defining a channel,
           wherein the first micro sensor and the probe are each located in the interior wall
   of the micro-device and the biological sample is transported within the channel.
15 2.      The micro-device of claim 1, wherein the first micro sensor or micro-device is
   fabricated by microelectronics technologies, and/or
           wherein the first micro sensor is fabricated to be an integral part of the interior
   wall of the micro-device, or
           wherein the first micro sensor is fabricated separately from and bonded to the
20 interior wall of the micro-device.
   3.      The micro-device of claim 1 or claim 2, further comprising read-out circuitry
   which is connected to the first micro sensor and transfers data from the first micro
   sensor to a recording device.
25
   4.      The micro-device of any one of the preceding claims, further comprising at least
   one additional micro sensor in proximity to the first micro sensor and located on the
   same interior wall, wherein the at least one additional micro sensor is fabricated using
   microelectronics technologies.
30
   5.      The micro-device of claim 4, wherein the at least one additional micro sensor
   detect different properties of the biological sample, and each of the different properties
   is independently an electrical, magnetic, electromagnetic, thermal, optical, acoustical,
   biological, chemical, electro-mechanical, electro-chemical, electro-optical, electro
35 thermal, electro-chemical-mechanical, bio-chemical, bio-mechanical, bio-optical, bio
   thermal, bio-physical, bio-electromechanical, bio-electro-chemical, bio-electro-optical,
                                                114

   bio-electro-thermal,    bio-mechanical-optical,    bio-mechanical   thermal, bio-thermal
   optical,   bio-electro-chemical-optical,    bio-electro-mechanical    optical,  bio-electro
   thermal-optical, bio-electro-chemical-mechanical, physical or mechanical property, or a
   combination thereof, of the biological sample; or the at least two micro sensors perform
 5 different functions.
   6.      The micro-device of claim 5, wherein the electrical property is surface charge,
   surface potential, resting potential, electrical current, electrical field distribution,
   electrical dipole, electrical quadruple, three-dimensional electrical or charge cloud
10 distribution, electrical properties at telomere of DNA and chromosome, capacitance, or
   impedance; the thermal property is temperature or vibrational frequency; the optical
   property is optical absorption, optical transmission, optical reflection, optical-electrical
   property, brightness, or fluorescent emission; the chemical property is pH value,
   chemical reaction, bio-chemical reaction, bio-electro-chemical reaction, reaction speed,
15 reaction energy, speed of reaction, oxygen concentration, oxygen consumption rate,
   ionic strength, catalytic behaviour, chemical additives to trigger enhanced signal
   response, bio-chemical additives to trigger enhanced signal response, biological
   additives to trigger enhanced signal response, chemicals to enhance detection
   sensitivity, bio-chemicals to enhance detection sensitivity, biological additives to
20 enhance detection sensitivity, or bonding strength; the physical property is density,
   shape, volume, or surface area; the biological property is surface shape, surface area,
   surface charge, surface biological property, surface chemical property, pH, electrolyte,
   ionic strength, resistivity, cell concentration, or biological, electrical, physical, or
   chemical property of solution; the acoustic property is frequency, speed of acoustic
25 waves, acoustic frequency and intensity spectrum distribution, acoustic intensity,
   acoustical absorption, or acoustical resonance; the mechanical property is internal
   pressure, hardness, flow rate, viscosity, shear strength, elongation strength, fracture
   stress,   adhesion,    mechanical     resonance    frequency,   elasticity,  plasticity,  or
   compressibility.
30
   7.      The micro-device of any one of the preceding claims, wherein the micro
   sensor(s) are fabricated on a flat panel and exposed to the channel defined by the
   interior walls of the micro-device; and/or
           the micro-device has a symmetric interior channel or exterior configuration,
35 and/or
                                                115

           the interior cross-section of the channel and exterior cross-section of the micro
   device is oval, circular, triangular or square; and/or
           micro sensors are located on one side or two opposite walls of the interior
   channel.
 5
   8.      The micro-device of any one of the preceding claims, wherein the micro-device
   comprises two panels, at least one of the panels is fabricated by microelectronic
   technologies and comprises additional micro sensors and read-out circuitry, such that
   the additional micro sensors are located in an interior wall of the panel which with
10 other interior walls of the micro-device defines the interior channel of the micro-device.
   9.      The micro-device of claim 8, further comprising two micro-cylinders that are
   placed between and bonded with the two panels, wherein each of the micro-cylinders is
   solid, hollow, or porous, and optionally fabricated by microelectronics technologies.
15
   10.     The micro-device of claim 9, wherein the micro-cylinders are solid and at least
   one of them comprises a micro sensor fabricated by microelectronics technologies.
   11.     The micro-device of claim 10, wherein the micro sensor in the micro-cylinder
20 detects the same or different property as a micro sensor in a panel of the micro-device.
   12.     The micro-device of claim 11, wherein at least one of the micro-cylinders
   comprises at least two micro sensors fabricated by microelectronics technologies, and
   every two of the at least two micro sensors are so located in the cylinder that an array
25 of micro sensors is formed.
   13.     The micro-device of claim 12, wherein the two sensors in the micro cylinder are
   apart by a distance ranging from 0.1 micron to 500 microns, or from 0.1 micron to 50
   microns, or from 1 micron to 100 micros, or from 2.5 microns to 100 microns, or from
30 5 microns to 250 microns.
   14.     The micro-device of any one of the preceding claims, wherein the channel has a
   length ranging from 1 micron to 100 microns and/or
           the channel has a diameter or height or width ranging from 0.5 micron to 5
35 microns, or from 1 micron to 2.5 microns, or from 5 microns to 25 microns, or from 5
                                                116

   microns to 50 microns, or from 25 microns to 50 microns, or from 50 micron to 80
   microns.
   15.     The micro-device of claim 1, wherein the micro-device comprises:
 5         two panels at least one of which is fabricated by micro-electronic technologies
   and comprises additional micro sensors and read-out circuitry, and the micro sensors
   are located in the interior wall of the panel which, with other interior walls of the
   micro-device, defines the interior channel of the micro-device;
           two micro-cylinders that are placed between and bonded with the two panels,
10 wherein each of the micro-cylinders is solid, hollow, or porous, and optionally
   fabricated by microelectronics technologies; and
           an application specific integrated circuit chip which is internally bonded to or
   integrated into one of the panels or a micro-cylinder and, together with other
   components of the micro-device defines the internal channel of the micro-device.
15
   16.     The micro-device of any one of the preceding claims, further comprising a read
   out device for receiving or transferring data collected by the micro sensor on the
   measured property of the biological sample.
20 17.     A method for fabricating a micro-device for detecting a disease, comprising:
           fabricating a first panel by microelectronics technologies,
           fabricating at least one micro sensor by microelectronics technologies and
   integrating it to the first panel, wherein the at least one micro sensor comprises a micro
   sensor for detecting a property of the biological sample at the microscopic level, and
25         optionally providing or fabricating at least one micro-cylinder and a second
   panel,
           the method further comprising forming an internal channel of the micro-device
   comprising the first panel,
           the forming of the channel optionally comprising bonding the first panel and the
30 optional second panel and the optional micro-cylinder, whereby the interior walls of the
   panels and micro-cylinder define the internal channel of the micro-device, and
           the method further comprising fabricating a probe comprising a piezo-electric or
   piezo-photronic transducer and integrating it to the first panel, wherein the probe is
   adapted to apply an electrical, acoustical or optical disturbing signal to the biological
35 sample and wherein said disturbing signal invokes an intrinsic response from the
                                                117

   biological sample to the disturbing signal, which is detectable by the first micro sensor;
   wherein the first micro sensor and the probe are each exposed in the internal channel.
   18.     A method for detecting a disease in a subject in need thereof, comprising taking
 5 a biological sample from the subject and taking a biological sample from a disease- free
   subject, analyzing the two biological samples to measure a property thereof at the
   microscopic level with a micro-device of any one of claims 1 to 16, and comparing the
   measured property of the two biological samples.
10 19.     A method for detecting a disease with enhanced sensibility in a subject in need
   thereof, comprising:
           taking a biological sample from the subject and taking a biological sample from
   a disease-free subject,
           optionally placing the biological sample in biocompatible media;
15         analyzing the two biological samples to measure a property thereof at the
   microscopic level with a micro-device which comprises;
                 a first micro sensor for detecting a property of the biological samples at
   the microscopic level, and a probe comprising a piezo-electric or piezo-photronic
   transducer for applying an electrical, acoustical or optical disturbing signal to the
20 biological sample, wherein said disturbing signal invokes a detectable, intrinsic
   response from the biological sample to the disturbing signal, which can be detected by
   the first micro sensor;
                 at least one interior wall defining a channel,
                 wherein the first micro sensor is located in an interior wall of the micro
25 device and detects the property of the biological samples at the microscopic level, and
   the biological sample is transported within the channel, and
           comparing the measured property of the two biological samples.
   20.     The method of claim 19, wherein the property to be detected is a biological,
30 chemical, bio-chemical, bio-mechanical, bio-optical, bio-thermal, biophysical, bio
   electro-mechanical, bio-electro-chemical, bio-electro-optical, bio-electrothermal, bio
   mechanical-optical, bio-mechanical thermal, bio-thermal-optical, bio-electro-chemical
   optical,     bio-electro-mechanical        optical,    bio-electro-thermal-optical,   bio
   electrochemical-mechanical, physical or mechanical property.
                                                 118

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
