  ABSTRACT
        An illumination device for or in combination with apparel or other worn garments by a
  rider of a motorcycle or scooter for enhancing recognition of the motorcycle's presence by
  proximate vehicles. The device features lighting components engaged upon or part of the
5 clothing of the rider which illuminate the rider and human form in concert with one or more
  lights on the motorcycle. The resulting non constant illuminations provide a visual enhancement
  of the rider and motorcycle presence to adjacent drivers.

                                      Wireless Illuminated Apparel
   BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
    1. Field of the Invention
 5         This application claims priority to U.S. Nonprovisional Application Number 13/834149
   filed on March 15, 2013, which is incorporated herein in its entirety. The present application is a
   divisional application of Australian patent application 2014229022 which corresponds to
   PCT/US2014/029003, published as WO 2014/144544, the contents of which are incorporated
   herein for all purposes. The present invention relates generally to illuminated apparel. More
10 particularly, the invention relates to an illumination device for apparel or other worn garments to
   illuminate the user for improving the visibility of the user by others, especially when on a
   roadway. The device is configured with means for wireless communication to a remote
   communication source for syncing the illumination device with the remote communication
   source.
15        2. Prior Art
           Safety is a major concern for many motorcycle riders and cycle riders both off the highway
   and especially on the highway and roads. A contributing factor of unsafe riding conditions lies in
   the limited visibility of the bike or motorcycle rider due to the relatively small size of the
   motorcycle and rider compared to larger passenger vehicles on the road. Additionally, car and
20 truck drivers are inherently looking for other cars and trucks and not attuned to looking for
   motorcycle riders who may be riding in a parallel lane. Because they are not looking for a
   motorcycle or rider, and because of the relatively small size of a rider and motorcycle compared
   with a truck or car, drivers in passenger vehicles have difficulty spotting riders and their
   motorcycles when adjacent to motorcyclists or during an approach to a forward positioned
25 motorcyclist on the highway.
          This lack of cognisance of the presence of a motorcyclist and inherent inattention to their
   presence approaching a motorcyclist or adjacent thereto, can frequently cause car and truck
   drivers to incorrectly fail to anticipate a lane change by the motorcycle rider or the adjacent
   motorcycle rider passing their vehicle. Due to such inattention and a bias toward watching for
30 larger vehicles, even when the rider has the small signal light on their motorcycle or scooter
   activated their presence and their changing lanes legally is frequently missed.
                                                     1

          As such, the scooter or motorcycle rider can be riding with caution and legally passing and
   making legal lane changes with proper signaling, but can still be easily involved in a collision or
   other accident. For the car or truck driver striking a motorcycle and rider will have little effect
   and in some cases a glancing tap of the car against the motorcycle will actually be missed by the
 5 larger vehicle driver. However, for the unlucky motorcycle rider, who is riding and doing
   everything correctly, a tap of a car or truck, or a larger impact, can easily result in severe injury
   and even death.
          As a result, conventional solutions to the problem generally revolve around making the
   motorcycle more visible to other drivers. In some states adding lighting to the motorcycle, or
10 changing the lighting thereof is illegal and the rider is precluded from trying to increase
   visibility. In states where such is legal, proactive riders who value life and limb, tend to take
   action to increase visibility.
          For example, the motorcycle may have extra lights engaged to all sides of the motorcycle
   fairings which are always illuminated. In addition, is it well known that some motorcycle
15 headlights are always left illuminated when driving in both night and daylight conditions in order
   to make the rider and motorcycle more visible to adjacent drivers.
          However, this conventional solution of illuminating the motorcycle may not be possible for
   users having smaller or customized motorcycles which do not facilitate the addition of a plurality
   of such lights. Many
                                                    1A

    motorcycles and motor scooters lack sufficient electrical power and/or a suitable battery with sufficient power for
    maintaining such auxiliary lighting in an illuminated state.
              As such, because some states prohibit lighting changes, and because many motor scooters and motorcycles
    will not support additional wattage required for extra lighting, in order to employ illumination as a means for
 5  making the motorcycle and rider more than a shadow in the peripheral vision of car and truck drivers, the
    illumination of the rider, as opposed to the motorcycle, may provide a better solution to this problem. Such rider
    illumination would be especially advantageous since it is well known, that the human brain tends to more easily see
    and focus on, and thus naturally recognize, a human form. This cognisance of human form is known to be a reflex
    action due to the brain being hard wired to recognize and access the potential for an approaching friend or foe, more
10 readily than the abstract shape of an adjacent or approaching motorcycle. Thus making the human form of the rider
    more easily viewed and/or ascertained by adjacent and approaching drivers will enhance this natural bias of the
   human mind to recognize the presence of another person in their proximity.
              In addition, illuminated motorcycle rider helmets, such as US. Pat. No. 7,948,367, are known in the art
   which aim to try and make the motorcycle and rider more visible by illuminating headgear situated above the
15 motorcycle. However, the design of conventional helmets, and even those employing such illumination, tend to
   have a sleek and streamline shape, which strongly matches that of the motorcycle, rather than the human form.
   Further in the dark, the distance between the headgear and the motorcycle remains unlit, and does not provide a
   human form which is more easily visible. As can be easily ascertained, such helmets viewed by adjacent and
   approaching drivers who are biased toward looking for cars and trucks and the lighting thereon, are visually
20 comparable with the abstract shape of the motorcycle, and thus similarly fail to provide the advantage of
   highlighting a human form, when illuminated.
              As a result, there is a continuing unmet need for an illumination device for motorcycle, motor scooter, and
   even bicycle riders, which will enhance the projection of a human form to proximate car and truck drivers who are
   not mentally attuned to be on the lookout for cycle riders. Such a device should engage with apparel or other worn
25 garments, to illuminate the wearing user in a manner that enhances their human form, whether as a stick-figure or
   otherwise, for improving the perception of their presence, and thus their visibility, to adjacent and approaching car
   and truck drivers.
              In at least one preferred mode, the device should be adapted to engage with a rider to illuminate at least the
   limbs of the rider of a motor scooter or motorcycle. The device in this mode should advantageously provide a
30 means for wireless communication with the lighting system of the motorcycle, thereby allowing the illuminated
   apparel device to provide an extension of the turn signaling (i.e. blinker), hazards, and/or braking system of the
   motorcycle, incorporated into the rider apparel. This electrical communication with the motorcycle lighting will
   also automatically deactivate the apparel lighting when the rider turns off the motorcycle so the rider need not
   accidently walk into a restaurant or the like in an illuminated fashion.
35            Such a device should advantageously provide a means for substantially illuminating and projecting for
   view to adjacent and approaching car and truck drivers, the human form, such as the legs the feet and/or arms and
   torso. Such a device should also be adapted to conmunicate with other wireless enabled remote communication
   sources, such as computers, handheld electronics, music players, and the like, allowing the user to sync the
   illumination device being worn, with the desired source.
40            The forgoing examples of related art and limitation related therewith are intended to be illustrative and not
                                                                2

     exclusive, and they do not imply any limitations on the invention described and claimed herein.
     Various limitations of the related art will become apparent to those skilled in the art upon a
     reading and understanding of the specification below and the accompanying drawings.
     SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
  5          The device herein disclosed and described provides a solution to the shortcomings in prior
     art and achieves the above noted goals through the provision of an illumination device for
     apparel or other worn garments employing suitable elements adapted to the task of illumination
     and wireless communication. In some preferred modes, the illumination device is permanently
     engaged and is part of the apparel to provide an original equipment manufacturers (OEM) type
 10  product. However, other modes are envisioned wherein the illumination device is adapted for a
     removable engagement to existing apparel to allow users to retrofit, or wear their favorite
     clothing.
             It is briefly noted that term 'apparel' used in this disclosure may be employed to mean
     various types of apparel suitable for illumination purposes, which may include however without
 15  implying limitations, shoes, boot, gloves, helmet, hat, shirt, pants, headband, and socks. As such,
     in some of the preferred modes, the device may specifically call out a desired apparel type to be
     employed, for example a shoe, however it is to be understood that the features and advantages
     described can be employed with other apparel types, for the purpose of illuminating a rider and
    highlighting the human form.
20           Further, it is additionally noted that upon a reading of this disclosure, those skilled in the
     art will recognize various means for carrying out the intended features of the invention. As such
     it is to be understood that other devices, methods, and system of components may be configured
    to carry out these features, and are considered to be within the scope and intent of the present
    invention, and are anticipated.
25           The invention provides an illumination apparatus for apparel or other worn garments by a
    rider of a motorcycle or scooter, comprising; one or a plurality of illumination components
    engaged upon clothing of a rider; a power source in electrical communication with said
    illumination components through a switch; means for sensing a change in an illumination of one
    or a combination of lights, from a group of vehicle lights, including turn signal lights, brake
30  lights, headlights, daytime lights, hazard lights, and emergency vehicle colored lights, on said
    motorcycle and electrically communicating a signal representative of said change; a light
    frequency sensor optically communicating with one or a combination of lights, from a group of
    vehicle lights, including turn signal lights, brake lights, headlights, daytime lights, hazard lights,
    and emergency vehicle colored lights, on said motorcycle; a wireless receiver configured to
35  receive a wireless communication representative of said change in illumination from said light
    frequency sensor, said receiver in electrical communication with said switch to communicate
                                                        3

   said wireless communication thereto; said switch activating to engage or disengage said
   illumination components with said power source depending upon the communicated said change
   in illumination communicated from said receiver, whereby said illumination components are
   energized for illumination or de-energized by a said change in illumination of said one or both of
 5 a turn signal light or brake light.
          In accordance with a first particularly preferred mode of the invention, an illumination
   device is provided which includes an illuminated shoe device having one or a plurality of
   illumination components, such as LED's, HID's, fluorescent, spot lights, strobe lights, colored
   lights, or the like for the purpose of illuminating a motorcycle rider as outlined previously. The
10 device employs means for wireless communication with the electronics of the motorcycle, and
   more particularly the lighting, turn signal, hazard lighting, and/or braking systems of the
   motorcycle, such that one or a plurality of the illumination components of the device can be
   integrated as part of the lighting system of the motorcycle. It is noted that the terms 'lighting
   system', 'hazard lighting', 'braking system' and 'turn signal system' used herein may refer to
15 specific electronics of the motorcycle as well as the electronic circuitry of the motorcycle as a
   whole which may control the appropriate sub-systems and related components. Optionally, the
   device may employ a proximity sensor such as a small radar or sonar transceiver, which will
   sense adjacent vehicles and their movement or vehicles closing on the motorcycle. Engaged with
   a microprocessor when the rider reaches a particular determined distance from another vehicle,
20 the proximity sensor could cause a change in the lighting engaged to the rider, such as blinking,
   or lower and higher illumination patterns to catch the eye of the other motorist.
          With that being said it is the intent of the current mode to provide an extension of the
   motorcycle and motor scooter lighting system, engaged to the apparel of the rider, which is in
   communication therewith to be activated to illuminate or change illumination. This can occur in
25 an engagement on the riders shoes when signaling a turn, braking, illuminating hazard lights,
   and/or during emergency lighting such as for law enforcement officers. Extensions from the
   shoes up the legs, or on the arms and torso can also be employed. In addition, in at least one
                                                    3A

    preferred mode the device is configured to substantially illuminate the human form, including illumination of the
    users feet and legs. This provides utility over conventional solutions of rider illumination which simply aim to
    illuminate the motorcycle, and not the rider.
              In at least one preferred mode, the means for wireless communication between motorcycle and the device
 5  engaged with the rider, includes a receiver/transmitter and antenna configured for RF transmission via Bluetooth,
    WiFi, near field communication (NFC), or other communication network suitable for the task of wireless
    communication with the motorcycle electronics. This may require the user to configure the motorcycle's electronics
    with a n interface or switch which energizes a transmitter and RF transceiver antenna, for the purpose of
    cooperatively and actively communicating with the device to cause or change the illumination on the rider. For
10  example a remote wireless RF transceiver and antenna component intended for integration into the motorcycle
    electronics such as signal lighting and brake lights, is providable to the user, along with the device in a kit mode or
    as a sold separately product. In addition, other modes are envisioned wherein the transceiver for communication
   with the shoe device is built-in as part of the OEM motorcycle's circuitry.
              In another mode, the device may employ optical sensors as a means for communicating the actions of the
15 motorcycle lighting system to the activation circuit on the device engaged with the rider, These optical sensors, such
   as fiber optic cables leading to the lighting on the motorcycle from a switch or the transceiver, or, a sensing unit on
   the device on the rider, may be employed to sense the illumination of the motorcycles existing turn signals and/or
   brake lights. This can be done by sensing the wavelength of the turn signal and/or brake lights, and/or by optically
   sensing a blinking pattern of the signal lights, and the illumination of the brake for more than a minimum time.
20 Once sensed, a switch on the device in communication with the lighting device herein on the rider, will provide
   activation of the illumination components on the shoe device, and or the legs, torso, and arms, to a synchronized
   pattern of illumination. Thus, in this mode, configuring the motorcycles existing circuitry for communication with
   the device is not required.
             In accordance with at least one other particularly preferred mode of the invention, a removably engageable
25 illumination device is provided. This mode of the device may allow the user to engage the illumination device to
   any garment or apparel for purposes of user illumination. The means for removable engagement to apparel, can
   include, however without implying limitations; clips, snaps, magnets, elastic bands, straps, or other suitable
   removable fastener. In this mode it is intended that the removably engageable device, including one or a plurality
   of illumination components, such as LED's, as well as the power source and other suitable hardware, are configured
30 into a portable unit.
             Further, it is intended that the device can be configured to communicate with various other remote
   communication sources, to provide a synchronized illumination. For example the device can be configured to
   communicate with the user computer or smartphone, via Bluetooth or the like, allowing the user to sync the LED
   illumination with the beat of a song. As another example, the removably engageable mode of the device can be sold
35 or given away at a concert, and configured for communication with a DJ's computer having wireless
   communication means adapted for wireless communication with the device, to provide an interactive synchronized
   illumination of the device with the songs being played.
             In another mode of invention a light system including wireless communication means is provided and
   adapted for engagement to a pedal bicycle. The system is preferably configured to communicate with the
40 illuminated apparel device, thus, upon adapting a pedal bicycle with the light system, the user can employ the
                                                                4

     illuminated apparel device providing rider illumination during signaling, hazards, and braking.
               In all modes the device can include a replaceable or rechargeable power source, such as a battery.
               Finally, in another particularly preferred mode, a proximity sensor on the motorcycle or scooter may be
     engaged to the rider or the motorcycle and which is adapted for sensing vehicles which become proximate to the
  5  motorcycle at a determined distance proximate to motorcycle. The proximity sensor may be a laser or may be radar
     as is used in current automobiles for back up warning but adapted to emit radar or laser in substantially 180 degree
     arc around the motorcycle to the rear of the rider. A receiver for the broadcast radar or laser signal will determine
     the distance and/or closing rate of vehicles behind and to both sides of the rider. This determined distance may be
     immediately adjacent to on a side such as 5-10 feet, or to the front or rear of the motorcycle as a distance of for
10   example fifteen feet or less which is a shorter length of a normal four-wheeled vehicle and puts the motorcycle in
     the position with an adjacent vehicle where normally another vehicle would be positioned. This is the zone where a
     collision can easily take place if the adjacent vehicle does not see the motorcycle and a good place and time to
     become momentarily more visible.
               Once the proximity sensor is tripped by a vehicle in the determined distance it will communicate with the
15   switch on the lights engaged with the rider and cause a secondary active on the rider. This proximity zone can also
    be a range of between 5 to 60 feet or more, depending on a sensed closing rate between the vehicle proximate or
    becoming proximate to the motorcycle and the motorcycle. The closing rate is determined by the speed of the
    vehicle becoming proximate to the motorcycle, and calculated time of contact, where the lights of the device are
    illuminated at the distance appropriate in the range, to give the approaching driver time to see the motorcycle. 16.
20  The illumination device of claim 4 wherein said determined distanced is in a range between 5 and 60 feet of the
    motorcycle. In such case a vehicle bearing down upon the motorcycle sensed by the proximity sensor, would be
    flashed a warning at a distance calculated to give it time to slow down.
               Operation of the proximity sensor would employ a sonar, laser, or small radar device with transmitter and
    receiver, such as those used conventionally on backup sensors and parking sensors for cars, can provide the
25  proximity sensing. With software running on a small microprocessor, secondary switching to make the device
    lighting on the rider more visible can be activated if proximity becomes too close, or when the device senses the
    rider passing or being approached by a vehicle from behind.
               Additionally, with respect to the wirelessly activated clothing, in order to save power on the motorcycle if
    a light-emitting rider is not aboard, and to determine exactly what type of illuminated clothing the rider is wearing,
30  wireless identifiers can be employed with each component of clothing with illumination means. This may be done
    using RFID components engaged with each piece of clothing having means for illumination. The REID components
    will be activated by a RF signal from a transceiver on the motorcycle, once they are proximate to the motorcycle,
    such as sitting on it. Using RF to page the RFID's to answer, each would summit an answer in the form of an RF
    signal which carries an identifier for the clothing the RFID is engaged with, and the illumination means thereon. In
35  this fashion a microprocessor running software adapted to determine clothing types from returned RFID signals can
    be employed to determine how many different illuminated clothing components are being worn, and using that
    information, issue wireless signals making the lighting components to work together either concurrently or in
    sequence.
              For instance, if the motorcycle transmitter queries for RFID responses with a signal, and energizes them to
40  respond, and the component type identifiers broadcast by the RFIDs determine both shoes or boots and a jacket are
                                                                 5

     illuminated, the system employing software running on a processor may adjust illumination to have the jacket
     illumination means blink first and then have the boots blinks slightly later, to give viewers such as other drivers, a
     sequential illumination which is more noticeable.
               With respect to the above description, before explaining at least one preferred embodiment of the herein
  5  disclosed invention in detail, it is to be understood that the invention is not limited in its application to the details of
     construction and to the arrangement of the components in the following description or illustrated in the drawings.
     The invention herein described is capable of other embodiments and of being practiced and carried out in various
     ways which will be obvious to those skilled in the art. Also, it is to be understood that the phraseology and
     terminology employed herein are for the purpose of description and should not be regarded as limiting.
 10            As such, those skilled in the art will appreciate that the conception upon which this disclosure is based may
     readily be utilized as a basis for the designing of other structures, methods and systems for carrying out the several
     purposes of the present disclosed device. It is important, therefore, that the claims be regarded as including such
     equivalent construction and methodology insofar as they do not depart from the spirit and scope of the present
     invention.
15            As used in the claims to describe the various inventive aspects and embodiments, "comprising" means
    including, but not limited to, whatever follows the word "comprising".
    Thus, use of the term "comprising" indicates that the listed elements are required or mandatory, but that other
     elements are optional and may or may not be present. By "consisting of' is meant including, and limited to,
    whatever follows the phrase "consisting of'. Thus, the phrase "consisting of' indicates that the listed elements are
20  required or mandatory, and that no other elements may be present. By "consisting essentially of' is meant including
    any elements listed after the phrase, and limited to other elements that do not interfere with or contribute to the
    activity or action specified in the disclosure for the listed elements. Thus, the phrase "consisting essentially of'
     indicates that the listed elements are
    required or mandatory, but that other elements are optional and may or may not be present depending upon whether
25  or not they affect the activity or action of the listed elements.
              The objects, features, and advantages of the present invention, as well as the advantages thereof over
    existing prior art, which will become apparent from the description to follow, are accomplished by the
    improvements described in this specification and hereinafter described in the following detailed description which
    fully discloses the invention, but should not be considered as placing limitations thereon.
30
                                      BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF DRAWING FIGURES
              The accompanying drawings, which are incorporated herein and form a part of the specification, illustrate
    some, but not the only or exclusive, examples of embodiments and/or features. It is intended that the embodiments
35  and figures disclosed herein are to be considered illustrative rather than limiting. In the drawings:
              Figure 1 shows a side view of a first particularly preferred mode of the illumination device providing
    illumination components, wireless receiver, and battery permanently engaged to a illuminated shoe device for
    illuminating the feet of a motorcycle rider.
              Figure 2 shows a schematic drawing of the engagement of a wireless transceiver in communication with
40  the electronics of a motorcycle providing the means for wireless communication with device of figure 1, and a
                                                                  6

    proximity sensor for sensing vehicles.
              Figure 3 shows a view of yet another particularly preferred mode of the invention providing a removably
    engageable illumination device in the form of an elastic band.
              Figure 4 shows the device of figure 3 engaged to a shoe.
  5           Figure 5 shows the device of figure 3 engaged to a hat.
              Figure 6 shows a side view of yet another particularly preferred mode of the invention providing a
    removably engageable illumination device in the form of an clip-on device.
              Figure 7 shows a front view of the device of figure 6 showing additional illumination components.
              Figure 8 shows a side view of the device of figure 6 adapted for a clip-on engagement to the bill of a hat.
10            Figure 9 shows another mode of the invention providing a turn and braking signal light system having
    wireless communication means, which is adapted for an engagement to a peddle bicycle, for communicating with
    the illumination device.
              Figure 10 shows another preferred mode of the device configured to more substantially illuminate the
    human form, through the provision of leg engageable illumination means.
15            Figure 11 depicts the rear face of a jacket such as a motorcycle jacket having two arrays of LED's which
    may be illuminated in the system herein in sequence using an RFID component identifier as with other modes of the
    device.
              Figure 12 shows one of a pair of gloves having LED lighting thereon on one or both of a top surface and
    side surface,
20            Figure 13 shows a shoe having a plurality of LED's or other means for illumination thereon which may be
    employed alone or in combination with the other clothing herein.
              Other aspects of the present invention shall be more readily understood when considered in conjunction
    with the accompanying drawings, and the following detailed description, neither of which should be considered
    limiting.
25
                                     DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE PREFERRED
                                           EMBODIMENTS OF THE INVENTION
              In this description, the directional prepositions of up, upwardly, down, downwardly, front, back, top,
    upper, bottom, lower, left, right and other such terms refer to the device as it is oriented and appears in the drawings
30  and are used for convenience only; they are not intended to be limiting or to imply that the device has to be used or
    positioned in any particular orientation,
              Now referring to drawings in figures 1-13, wherein similar components are identified by like reference
    numerals, there is seen in FIG 1 and FIG 2 a first particularly preferred mode of the invention providing an
    illumination device 10 which may be worn such as when riding on a motorcycle or bicycle to enhance viewing of
35  the ridden vehicle rider to drivers, In figure 1 such a means for clothing illumination is shown in the form of an
    illuminated shoe 12 having one or a plurality of illumination components 22, such as LED's for the purpose of
    illuminating a vehicle rider such as a motorcycle rider.
              The device 10 employs means for wireless communication between the vehicle ridden, and one or a
    plurality of worn clothing components having means for illumination thereon. In such a system, wireless
40  communication is employed which communicates an activation or a deactivation signal to one or a combination of
                                                                 7

   means for illumination on clothing components, from lights on the ridden vehicle, from a group of vehicle lights,
   including the signal lights, brake lights, headlights, daytime lights, hazard lights, or emergency vehicle colored
   lights, and related electronics 24 of the motorcycle.
             More particularly, in a preferred mode of the system herein the lighting and turn signal system 26 of the
 5 motorcycle or vehicle would be extended by the means for illumination operatively engaged to one or a plurality of
   clothing components each of which would have a component identifier which can be transmitted such as by an
   activated RFID 27. In use, the illumination components 22 operatively engaged with clothing components with
   power and activation means, as depicted as various modes of the device 10, are wirelessly integrated to operate as
   part of the lighting system of the ridden vehicle such as a motorcycle.    The addition of one or a plurality of clothing
10 components having illumination components 22, which work in synchronisation with the ridden vehicle as well as
   each other, provides for better illumination of the rider. This provides for improved rider visibility to surrounding
   drivers and enhanced safety for the better-seen rider. Where used with emergency vehicles such as police
   motorcycles, rather than employing an onboard wireless control for activation of clothing illumination, activation or
   deactivation of the blue or other colored lights on the emergency vehicle which may be sensed by sensors, may
15 trigger the device 10 to illuminate.
             The means for wireless communication between the clothing having illumination components 22 and the
   ridden vehicle such as a motorcycle or bicycle, may comprise a transceiver with antenna 18, powered by a battery
    16 or other suitable power source. The transceiver may be one or a combination of wireless electronic
   communication components including such which is configured for RF transmission, including via Bluetooth, wifi,
20 near field communication (NFC) or wireless light-based communication such as infrared, or other wireless
   communication means operatively configured for wireless communication 32. It is this wireless communication 32
   which controls illumination of clothing components having illumination components 22 based on activation of one
   or more of the lights of using motorcycle electronics 24.
             The wireless transceiver antenna 28 may be provided configured for an operative engagement 30 to the
25 motorcycle electronics 24 which energize and de-energize various circuits on the motorcycle to activate and
   deactivate onboard lighting. Sensors or direct connections to any or all of the circuits controlling turn signal, brake
   light, and or hazard lights of the lighting systems 26, may be employed. The sensors when energized provide
   individual signals which may be sent to an onboard data processing unit or directly to a transceiver, for wirelessly
   communicating 32 activation signals to activate a switching circuit 19 operated by a switch or microprocessor,
30 which is operatively engaged to each of the different lights upon the device 10.
             As shown in the figures, each clothing component having illumination components 22 may also have an
   RFID 27 which can be employed to identify the type or item of clothing component to the system.
             However, other modes are envisioned wherein the wireless transceiver and antenna 28 energize, to
   communicated individual activation and deactivation signals, when a signal is communicated from switches or
35 sensors in electrical communication with the various operating lights of the lighting system 26. As each of the
   respective brake, signal, or running lights activates or deactivates, an engaged sensor or switch generates a signal
   which is communicated to the transceiver and antenna 28 which
   then transmits a wireless communication of the individual activation or deactivation signal of an individual lighting
   system.
40           The activation and deactivation signals transmitted for each occurrence, are received by the transceiver and
                                                               8

     engaged antenna 18 and electrically communicated to and interpreted by the switching circuit 19. The switching
     circuit 19 as well as the onboard system of figure 2 of the ridden vehicle such as a motorcycle, may have a
     microprocessor 21 operatively engaged with software configured to activate all or different lights of the various
     clothing component devices 10. The RFID 27 on each component can be activated by a local signal from the
  5  transceiver to broadcast an identifier of the type of clothing component device 10 to which it is engaged. The
     microprocessor 21 operating on the ridden vehicle such as a motorcycle, employing software to discern the signal
     broadcast by the RFIDs 27 from each clothing component, can then using software adapted to configure lighting
     schemes, have the system activate one or more clothing components to illuminate, and, can do so in a sequence
     rather than just concurrently. In that fashion for instance, the illumination components 22 on the rear of the jacket
 10  could during a right turn, illuminate from the center of the jacket to the distal end of the right sleeve, in sequence,
     and then, illumination components 22 on the boot or shoe could be activated at the end of the sequence in the jacket.
                Since each of the clothing component devices 10 can have its own RFID 27 with a unique identifier
     broadcast, the system using software and onboard electronic memory engaged with the microprocessor 21, can us a
     lookup table to discern the performance characteristics of the illumination components 22 of each type of clothing
 15  associated with the unique identifier broadcast by it's respective RFID 27.
                Using the received activation or deactivation signals from the wireless transceiver 28, the switching circuit
     19 on each clothing component having illumination components 22, activates engaged switches to energize or de
     energize the lights of the clothing component such as the shoe, or jacket mode of the device 10, or other clothing
     component devices 10 having lighting components 22. As noted, the motorcycle mounted control components such
20   as in figure 2 herein may be included original component as part of the OEM motorcycle's circuitry.
               In one preferred mode in the current depiction of figure 1, a battery 16, an a wireless transceiver 28
     engaged to an antenna 18, and the switching component 19, and illumination components 22 are all operatively
     engaged to the sole portion 14 of the shoe 12, however it is to be understood these components can be engaged to
    any location on the shoe 12 as deemed suitable by the designer, and should not be considered limited by the
25  depiction.
               In another mode, without the onboard system of figure 2, it is envisioned that the device 10 may also
    employ one or a plurality of optical sensors 20, and operatively engaged with a microprocessor 21 or other current
    switching means, as an optical sensor means for ascertaining illumination of the various motorcycle lights, such as
    with the brake and turn signals 26. The optical sensor 20 if employed may be worn on the rider's back or helmet or
30  boot, other clothing if necessary. These optical sensors 20 may be employed to sense the illumination of the
    motorcycles existing turn signals 26 or brakes, by sensing the different color wavelengths emitted from the turn
    signal, hazard lights, and brake lights, and/or by sensing the timing of a blinking pattern of the signaling lights, and
    the duration of illumination of the brake light, and thereby providing an activation of the switching 27 to activate
    the illumination components 22 on the shoe device 10 to a synchronized pattern of illumination, Thus, in this mode,
35  configuring the motorcycles existing circuitry with a wireless transmitter 28 for communication with the device 10
    such as in figure 2, is not required.
               It is noted and anticipated that although the device 10 is shown in various simple forms, various
    components and aspects of the device 10 may be differently shaped or slightly modified when forming the invention
    herein. As such those skilled in the art will appreciate the descriptions and depictions set forth in this disclosure or
40  merely meant to portray illustrative examples of preferred modes within the overall scope and intent of the
                                                                 9

    invention, and are not to be considered limiting in any manner.
             In accordance with another particularly preferred mode of the invention, and shown in FIG 3-5, a
    removably engageable illuminated clothing device 10 is provided. In the current mode as shown, the removably
    engageable illuminated clothing device 10 is provided by a an adjustable or elastic band 36 having the antenna 18,
 5  battery 16, and illumination components 22 engaged thereto and optionally and RFID 27. This mode of the device
    10 allows the user to render their own clothing to be illuminated by engagement of the band 36 to any garment or
    apparel for pu-poses of user illumination. FIG 3 and 4 show particularly preferred as-used modes of the illuminated
    clothing device 10, showing the band 36 being engaged to a user's existing shoe 100. FIG 5 shows another as-used
    mode wherein the band 36 is engaged over a users motorcycle helmet or a hat 102.
10           The band 36 can be an elastic band, or have elastic portions adapted to be stretched and secured over the
   desired apparel in compressed or biased and frictional fit, however, it is noted that other means for removable
    engagement may be employed and are anticipated. This can include, however without implying limitations; clips,
   snaps, magnets, straps, hook and loop fastener, or other suitable removable fastener.
             FIG 6-8 show yet another particularly preferred mode of the removably engageable illuminated clothing
15 device 10 provided by a clip-on component 38 for clothing having a clip 40 configured for compressed biased
   engagement to any desired apparel, including the bill 104 of a hat 102 (FIG 8), a belt, belt loop, shirt collar, or other
   location deemed suitable by the user. This mode provides a compact transportable unit having the antenna 18 and
   battery 16 preferably enclosed within a sealed housing, and having the illumination components 22 exposed for user
   illumination as needed. An RFID 27 may be included to broadcast a unique identifier to the system of figure 2 if
20 employed to allow individual, concurrent, or sequential illumination of the illumination components 22 along with
   other illumination components 22 on other clothing being worn and identified by an RFID 27.
             Further, as noted, it is intended that the illuminated clothing device 10 in all modes or configurations, can
   be configured to communicate with various other electronic components, to provide a synchronized illumination.
   For example the illumination device 10 and/or the control of figure 2 for instance, can be configured with software
25 operating on the microprocessor 21 to wirelessly or through USB connection communicate with a user's computer
   or smartphone. Wirelessly this may be done, via Bluetooth or WiFi or infrared or the like, or a direct USB
   connection, allowing the user to sync the LED illumination with the beat of a song. As another example, the
   removably engageable mode of the device 10 in clip or band format, can be sold or given away at a concert, and
   configured for wireless communication through operative wireless communication with the performer's computer
30 and wireless communication, allowing the performer to carry out an interactive synchronized illumination of the
   device with the songs being played.
             FIG 9 shows another preferred mode of the illuminated clothing device 10         invention, providing a turn
   and braking light system 11 adapted for an engagement to a conventional ridden vehicle such as a peddle bicycle
   200. The system 11 will operate in concert with one or a plurality of turn signal lights 42, one or a plurality of
35 brake signal lights 44, and a control module 46 similar to that of figure 2. The control module 46 preferable
   includes a power source, such as a battery, and a means for wireless communication with the device 10, such as a
   transceiver with RF antenna 47. The lights 42, 44 can be in a wired 48 or wireless communication with the control
   module 46 which will operate in concert with the shoe, boot, jacket, glove, or other modes of the illuminated
   clothing device 10 herein. If required in a retrofit to the bicycle, straps 50 or other means for removable
40 engagement employed on the lights 42, 44 and control module 46 as shown, may be employed to allow the user to
                                                                10

    engage a system I1 to any conventional bicycle 200 and operate it in concert with the noted clothing components.
    The straps 50 can employ hook and loop fabric, or may be elastic for engaging to the various parts of the bicycle
    200 as needed.
              FIG 10 shows another mode of the illuminated clothing device 10 operating in combination with a shoe or
  5 boot having illumination components 22. This mode includes leg-engageable illuminated clothing component 52
    including a plurality illumination components 22 engaged thereto. The leg engageable clothing component 52 may
    include straps or bands 54 allowing the user to engage the leg engageable means 52 to their leg (not shown) for a
    secured removable engagement. However other means for removable engagement can be employed, for example
    hook and loop fasteners, clips, and the like.
10            It is additionally noted and anticipated that in other modes the leg engageable clothing component 52 can
    be permanently integrated into pants, shorts, or other garments. Further the illuminated leg engageable clothing
    component 52 is best adapted to operate in concert with footwear having illumination components 22 and onboard
    power which may be communicated, such as shoe 12. As with all other illuminated clothing devices 10, an RFID
    27 may be included to broadcast the presence and type of clothing component to the system to allow concurrent or
15  sequential operation of the illumination components 22 with those of other clothing components. Operation of the
    illumination components 22 of the leg engageable clothing component would be through a wired or wireless
    removable engagement such as an electronic fastener, or other suitable fastener means electrically engage it to the
    footwear component such as the shoe 12 which would have onboard components such as shown in figure 1. Using
    the leg engageable component 52 with footwear such as the shoe 12 illumination components 22 of both may be
20  activated during use thereby giving lights to surrounding drivers that are both on the shoe 12 and go vertically up
    the leg of the rider which significantly enhances rider visibility.
              In another particularly preferred mode of the device and system herein, a proximity sensor 25 on the
    motorcycle or scooter or mounted on the rider's clothing, and operatively engaged with the microprocessor 21
    having software adapted to operate the proximity sensor 25, can be employed. The proximity sensor 25 is similar in
25  function to parking sensors used on many vehicles and may use sonar or radar to sense the presence and proximity
    of adjacent vehicles, and the closing rate of those proximate vehicles with the ridden vehicle such as a motorcycle
    or scooter.
              Employing software running on the microprocessor 21 engaged with the switching component 19 or the
    system as in figure 2, a switching of the various lights of the clothing device 10 depending on what and where worn,
30  can be activated by the sensing of a vehicle in a defined proximity or closing rate to the ridden vehicle occupied by
    the rider. Such a switching, such as momentarily brighter or flashing of the lights or LED's or illumination
    components 22, may be employed to render the rider more visible if proximity of another vehicle becomes too close
    or a closing rate with another vehicle is sensed as too fast, or when the the proximity sensor 25 communicates a
    signal to the microprocessor 21 which causes the software thereon to ascertain the rider is passing or being
35  approached by a vehicle from behind.
              Also employable alone or preferably in combination with the other illuminating clothing devices 10 herein,
    figure 11 depicts the rear face of jacket mode of the clothing device 10 such as a motorcycle jacket having two
    arrays of illumination components 22 such as LED's which may be illuminated in the system herein. As noted
    earlier, an RFID 21 may be included to allow the jacket to operate concurrently or sequentially with the illumination
40  components 22 of other illuminated clothing devices 10.
                                                                 11

               Shown in Figure 12 is one of a pair of gloves having illumination components 22 such as LED lighting
     thereon on one or both of a top surface 41 and side surface 45, The glove mode of the illuminated clothing device
     10 will have operative components onboard similar or the same as that for instance shown in figure 1. An RFID 27
    may be included to allow for identification of the glove presence, as well as concurrent or sequential illumination of
  5  the illumination components 22 as noted herein.
              As depicted in Figure 13 another mode of a shoe 12 is shown having a plurality of illumination
    components 22 such as LEDs or other low voltage and low current drawing means for illumination thereon. An
    RFID 27 is shown which may be included to identify the presence and type of the shoe 12 so the illumination
    components 22 thereon may be employed alone or in combination with the other illuminated clothing herein.
10            Thus, the current mode provides utility not yet accomplished in prior art by substantially illuminating the
    human form through the provision of illumination of the riders's torso, feet and legs, as opposed to the abstract
    shapes of the motorcycle or a conventional helmet. This invention has other applications, potentially, and one
    skilled in the art could discover these. The explication of the features of this invention does not limit the claims of
    this application; other applications developed by those skilled in the art will be included in this invention.
15            While all of the fundamental characteristics and features of the invention have been shown and described
    herein, with reference to particular embodiments thereof, a latitude of modification, various changes and
    substitutions are intended in the foregoing disclosure and it will be apparent that in some instances, some features of
    the invention may be employed without a corresponding use of other features without departing from the scope of
    the invention as set forth. It should also be understood that various substitutions, modifications, and variations may
20  be made by those skilled in the art without departing from the spirit or scope of the invention. Consequently, all
    such modifications and variations and substitutions are included within the scope of the invention as defined by the
    following claims.
                                                               12

   What is claimed:
          1. An illumination apparatus for apparel or other worn garments by a rider of a motorcycle
   or scooter, comprising; one or a plurality of illumination components engaged upon clothing of a
   rider;
 5        a power source in electrical communication with said illumination components through a
   switch;
          means for sensing a change in an illumination of one or a combination of lights, from a
   group of vehicle lights, including turn signal lights, brake lights, headlights, daytime lights,
   hazard lights, and emergency vehicle colored lights, on said motorcycle and electrically
10 communicating a signal representative of said change;
           a light frequency sensor optically communicating with one or a combination of lights,
   from a group of vehicle lights, including turn signal lights, brake lights, headlights, daytime
   lights, hazard lights, and emergency vehicle colored lights, on said motorcycle;
          a wireless receiver configured to receive a wireless communication representative of said
15 change in illumination       from said light frequency       sensor, said receiver in electrical
   communication with said switch to communicate said wireless communication thereto;
          said switch activating to engage or disengage said illumination components with said
   power source
          depending upon the communicated said change in illumination communicated from said
20 receiver, whereby said illumination components are energized for illumination or de-energized
   by a said change in illumination of said one or both of a turn signal light or brake light.
          2. The illumination device of claim 1 additionally comprising:
          a proximity sensor positioned upon one of said motorcycle or said rider;
          said proximity sensor adapted for sensing vehicles at a determined distance proximate to
25 said motorcycle; said proximity sensor configured for communicating a proximity signal to said
   one of said wireless receiver or said switch upon a said vehicle achieving said determined
   distance; and
          said proximity signal received by said switch causing a secondary activation thereof to
   engage or disengage said illumination components with said power source.
30        3. The illumination device of claim 2 wherein said determined distance is in a range
   between 5 and 60 feet of the motorcycle.
          4. The illumination device of claim 3 wherein said proximity sensor calculates a closing
   rate of an approaching vehicle wherein said determined distanced is in a range between 5 and 60
   feet of the motorcycle as a function of said closing rate.
                                                     13

         5. The illumination device of any one of claims I to 4 further comprising;
         said illumination components and said power source engaged to a shoe; and
         whereby said illumination components are energized for illumination or de-energized, to
 5 thereby render said shoe highly visible to proximate drivers of other vehicles.
         6. The illumination device of any one of claims 1 to 5 further comprising;
         leg-engaged said illumination components;
         whereby said rider has a stick figure human appearance upon an illumination of said
   illumination components rendering said rider more visible to proximate drivers of other vehicles.
10
                                                   14

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
