ABSTRACT
               A system for preparing a pharmaceutical compound comprises: a computing
device comprising a user interface providing an operator with instructions for preparing the
pharmaceutical compound and at least one processor operatively connected to the user
interface; a scale operatively connected to the at least one processor; and an image capture
device operatively connected to the at least one processor and the scale and positioned to
capture an image of at least one of a component used in preparing the pharmaceutical
compound and the pharmaceutical compound.
                                             -1 -

   2/40
23    29
25
           3
            27
          7
   FIG. 2

   SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR PREPARING A PHARMACEUTICAL COMPOUND
                     CROSS REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS
[0001]     This application is a divisional application of Australian Patent Application No.
2015315334,      which     is  a    national  phase   application   of  PCT     Application    No.
PCT/US2015/048940, filed September 8, 2015, and which claims priority to United States
Provisional Application Serial No. 62/047,325, filed September 8, 2014, entitled "Automated
Visual Documentation Feature with Minimal User Input", United States Provisional Application
Serial No. 62/072,160, filed October 29, 2014, entitled "Enhanced Pharmacist Review Module
for a System for Preparing a Pharmaceutical Compound", United States Provisional Application
Serial No. 62/072,054, filed October 29, 2014, entitled "Aerodynamically Streamlined Enclosure
for Input Devices of a Medication Preparation System", United States Provisional Application
Serial No. 62/078,067, filed November 11, 2014, entitled "Aerodynamically Streamlined
Enclosure for Input Devices of a Medication Preparation System", and United States Provisional
Application No. 62/077,968,        filed November    11,  2014, entitled "Enhanced Platen for
Pharmaceutical Compounding", the entire disclosures of each of which are hereby incorporated
by reference.
                              BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
Field of the Invention
[0002]     The present disclosure is generally directed to systems and methods for preparing and
administering a prescribed fluidic pharmaceutical compound, such as a chemotherapy compound
and, more specifically, to systems and methods that allow a physician to enter a prescription for a
patient that is subsequently verified for accuracy, prepared based on computer-aided instruction,
verified based on a measured weight, substantially automatically provided with visual
documentation, and administered to a patient.
Description of Related Art
[0003]     Many technical functions involving the preparation and distribution of drugs may be
performed in a pharmacy by a pharmacy technician or licensed nurse. When a non-pharmacist
performs such functions, a pharmacist must generally verify their work. Various systems have
been developed that take images of the various steps of the preparation of a pharmaceutical
compound by a non-pharmacist technician to allow a pharmacist to later review the preparation.
Such systems typically require the technician to take some type of active step in order to capture
an image of the drug preparation step. For instance, the user may be required to use a touch
screen or foot pedal to trigger image capture.
[0004]     However, since such systems require an active step by the non-pharmacist technician to
capture the appropriate image, errors may occur that prevent the supervising pharmacist from
                                                -1-

properly verifying the prescription. In addition, such prior art systems do not include any other
mechanism for verifying the prescription and rely solely on the images obtained during the
preparation of the prescription for verification.
[0005]      In addition, systems have also been developed that utilize gravimetric information,
checked by a methodology, to confirm the proper drug concentration. However, there is not a
current system that combines information from an image verification system and a gravimetric
verification system to ensure that a drug has been appropriately compounded.
[0006]      Accordingly, a need exists for a system that triggers an image capturing step when
certain criteria of the drug preparation have been met and moves to the next step of the drug
preparation without any additional user input. A further need exists for a system that displays
both image information and gravimetric measurements obtained during drug preparation steps
to a reviewing pharmacist in a clear and easily readable manner, such that the pharmacist can
quickly approve or reject a particular drug preparation.
                               SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
[0007]      According to one aspect of the invention, provided is a system for preparing a
pharmaceutical compound. The system comprises: a computing device comprising a user
interface providing an operator with instructions for preparing the pharmaceutical compound
and at least one processor operatively connected to the user interface; a scale operatively
connected to the at least one processor; and an image capture device operatively connected to
the at least one processor and the scale and positioned to capture an image of at least one of a
component used in preparing the pharmaceutical compound and the pharmaceutical compound.
In one embodiment, the scale may be configured to transmit a signal to the at least one
processor indicating that a weight detected thereby has changed when the at least one
component is placed thereon and, based on the signal, the at least one processor triggers the
image capture device to capture the image of the at least one component. Alternatively, the
scale may be configured to transmit a signal to the at least one processor to verify that a correct
amount of at least one component used in preparing the pharmaceutical compound has been
drawn by the operator based on a weight of the at least one component and the at least one
processor triggers the image capture device to capture the image of the at least one component
when the at least one processor verifies the correct amount of the at least one component.
[0008]      The image capture device may be triggered to capture the image of the at least one
component once the weight of the at least one component on the scale has stabilized. The image
of the at least one component may be displayed on the user interface for review by the operator.
                                               -2-

A removal of the at least one component from the scale may cause the at least one processor to
accept the image, associate the image with a data record, and provide instruction on the user
interface to allow the operator to move to a next step of the instructions for preparing the
pharmaceutical compound. The data record and images may be provided to a pharmacist for
verification. If the image is deemed to be unacceptable by the operator, the user interface may
be configured to provide the operator with the capability to recapture the image.
[0009]     An upper surface of the scale may be provided with a visual indication to the operator
of a center of an image produced by the image capture device. The visual indication may be a
cross recess formed in the upper surface of the scale. A scanner may be operatively coupled to
the user interface. The scanner may be configured to scan a barcode provided on the at least
one component and provide the user interface with information regarding the at least one
component.
[0010]     According to another aspect of the invention, provided is a system for preparing a
pharmaceutical compound. The system comprises: a computing device comprising a user
interface providing an operator with instructions for preparing the pharmaceutical compound
and at least one processor operatively connected to the user interface; a scale operatively
connected to the at least one processor; and an enclosure comprising an image capture device
having a field of view positioned to capture an image of an object positioned on the scale during
the preparation of the pharmaceutical compound. The image capture device is operatively
connected to the at least one processor. The scale transmits a signal to the at least one processor
to verify a correct amount of at least one component of the pharmaceutical compound based
on a weight of the at least one component. The image capture device captures an image of the
object positioned on the scale when the at least one processor verifies the correct amount of the
at least one component.
[0011]     The enclosure may be positioned above the scale, and may further comprise a barcode
scanner. The barcode scanner may be angled with respect to the scale. The barcode scanner
may include a sensor that is offset with respect to the scale. The enclosure may have a
streamlined shape to minimize flow disturbance within a flow hood.
[0012]     Another object of the system of the present disclosure is to allow a pharmacist to
accurately review the steps taken by a technician preparing a prescribed fluidic pharmaceutical
compound in which the system displays both image information and gravimetric measurements
obtained during drug preparation steps to the pharmacist in a clear and easily readable manner,
such that the pharmacist can quickly approve or reject a particular drug preparation. Overlaying
two different information types (i.e., image and gravimetric information) gives the pharmacist
                                               -3-

valuable insights regarding the compounding procedure and the opportunity to better judge
quality of preparations and technicians performing the preparations.
[0013]     Such a system guides a pharmacist or technician through the different compounding
steps to prepare a medication order in a pharmacy by giving step-by-step instructions on a
computer screen and verifying the different compounding steps by measuring the weight of the
compounded liquids with a scale. The measured weight is then analyzed with a mathematical
methodology which checks if the necessary compounding accuracy has been accomplished.
Every time an item is placed on the scale, a picture of the top of the scale is captured to create
a visual documentation trail of the compounding process. The pictures are stored together with
the recorded measurements from the scale and the methodology result in a log file. If a
measured weight of a drug is not in the predefined tolerance range of the expected weight, the
software generates instructions to change the amount of the drug to bring it within the
acceptable tolerance range. The software will not proceed to the next compounding step as long
as the required tolerance of the present step has not been accomplished.
[0014]     In particular, the system includes a pharmacist review module where the pharmacist
can review pictures of a particular drug preparation and either approve or disapprove the
preparation for the release to the patient. The captured images are shown with the
corresponding compounding instructions and an indication of whether the concentration of a
drug is inside or outside of the acceptable tolerance range as determined by the mathematical
methodology. Accordingly, the pharmacist review module provides visual information (i.e.,
the pictures of each step of the preparation) overlaid with quantitative measurements collected
with the scale and verified by the mathematical methodology to adhere to predefined
acceptance criteria.
[0015]     More particularly, provided is a system for reviewing a verifying preparation of a
pharmaceutical compound. The system comprises: a processor configured to receive
information regarding the preparation of the pharmaceutical compound. The information
comprises at least one image of at least one step of the preparation of the pharmaceutical
compound and gravimetric measurement information provided by a scale during at least one
step of the preparation of the pharmaceutical compound. The system also includes a user
interface operatively connected to the processor and configured to display, based on
instructions from the processor, the at least one image of the at least one step of the preparation
of the pharmaceutical compound and an indication of whether a concentration of the
pharmaceutical compound is within an acceptable tolerance range based on the gravimetric
measurement information.
                                                -4-

[0016]     The at least one image of the at least one step of the preparation of the pharmaceutical
compound may include an image of each step of the preparation of the pharmaceutical
compound, and that the user interface includes an area that displays thumbnail images of each
step. A graphical indication may be overlaid onto each of the thumbnail images to identify
whether the concentration of the pharmaceutical compound is within the acceptable tolerance
range for the step of the preparation of the pharmaceutical compound illustrated in each of the
thumbnail images. The user interface may also include an area that displays the instructions for
the preparation of the pharmaceutical compound that correspond to the at least one image of
the at least one step of the preparation of the pharmaceutical compound that is displayed.
[0017]     These and other features and characteristics of the present invention, as well as the
methods of operation and functions of the related elements of structures and the combination
of parts and economies of manufacture, will become more apparent upon consideration of the
following description and the appended claims with reference to the accompanying drawings,
all of which form a part of this specification, wherein like reference numerals designate
corresponding parts in the various figures. It is to be expressly understood, however, that the
drawings are for the purpose of illustration and description only and are not intended as a
definition of the limits of the invention. As used in the specification and the claims, the singular
form of "a", "an", and "the" include plural referents unless the context clearly dictates
otherwise.
                          BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
[0018]     FIG. 1 is a flow chart of sequential computer-implemented modules for preparing
and administering a prescribed fluidic pharmaceutical compound in accordance with the
present disclosure;
[0019]     FIG. 2 is a perspective view of a scale and enclosure housing in a flow hood in
accordance with an embodiment of the present disclosure;
[0020]     FIG. 3 is a perspective view of the scale and enclosure housing of FIG. 2 in
accordance with an embodiment of the present disclosure;
[0021]     FIG. 4 is a flow chart describing the manner in which a pharmaceutical compound is
prepared in accordance with an embodiment of the present disclosure;
[0022]     FIGS. 5A-5D, 6A-6D, 7A-7B, 8A-8D, 9A-9D, 10A-10C, 11A-11D, 12A-12C, and
13A-13C are exemplary screen shots provided at a user interface of the system of FIG. 3
provided during the preparation of a pharmaceutical compound;
                                                 -5-

[0023]     FIG. 14A is a flow chart describing the manner in which a pharmaceutical compound
is prepared in accordance with another embodiment of the present disclosure;
[0024]     FIG. 14B is a flow chart describing the manner in which a pharmaceutical compound
is prepared, which continues from FIG. 14A, in accordance with another embodiment of the
present disclosure;
[0025]     FIG. 15 is a schematic diagram of a pharmacy final verification module in
accordance with an embodiment of the present disclosure;
[0026]     FIG. 16 is an exemplary screen shot provided at the pharmacy final verification
module allowing a pharmacist to review the preparation of the pharmaceutical compound in
accordance with the present disclosure; and
[0027]     FIG. 17 is another exemplary screen shot provided at the pharmacy final verification
module in accordance with the present disclosure.
                              DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION
[0028]     For purposes of the description hereinafter, the terms "upper", "lower", "right",
"left", "vertical", "horizontal", "top", "bottom", "lateral", "longitudinal", and derivatives
thereof, shall relate to the invention as it is oriented in the drawing figures. However, it is to
be understood that the invention may assume various alternative variations, except where
expressly specified to the contrary.      It is also to be understood that the specific devices
illustrated in the attached drawings, and described in the following specification, are simply
exemplary embodiments of the invention.           Hence, specific dimensions and other physical
characteristics related to the embodiments disclosed herein are not to be considered as limiting.
[0029]     With reference to FIG. 1, the system of the present disclosure employs several
sequential computer-implemented modules for preparing and administering a prescribed
fluidic pharmaceutical compound, such as a chemotherapy compound. The modules each
include code allowing for input from a user, generating output, and calculating and determining
instructions for the preparation and administration of the pharmaceutical compound that may
be implemented on one or more processor(s) 101 of one or more suitable computing device(s).
More specifically, the system allows a physician to enter a prescription for a patient that is
subsequently verified for accuracy, prepared based on computer-aided instruction, verified
based on a measured weight, and administered to a patient. Such a system includes specific
modules described in detail below. The modules include: (A) a computerized physician
ordering entry (CPOE) module 100; (B) a pharmacist verification module 200; (C) a pharmacy
preparation module 300; (D) a pharmacy final verification module 400; and (E) a bedside (e.g.,
                                                 -6-

administration) module 500. These modules may each be implemented on a single processor
or multiple processors provided on a single computing device or may each be implemented on
an independent computing device having its own processor where data and information is
communicated between the computing devices using any suitable wired or wireless
communication protocol, such as, but not limited to Ethernet, WiFi, cellular, Bluetooth, or the
like.
[0030]     A.   CPOE Module
[0031]     The CPOE module 100 enables physicians to input prescribed treatment orders for
patients that include prescribed pharmaceuticals associated with particular patients.         In
particular, the physician enters prescription information for a patient into a computer, and the
data is transmitted over an intra-hospital network and stored for retrieval and use by the
subsequent modules described herein. The prescription information can include one or more
pharmaceuticals and the corresponding dosage/quantities for those pharmaceuticals. The
CPOE module 100 is an optional component and may not be utilized in every instance in which
the overall system is implemented.
[0032]     B.   Pharmacist Verification Module
[0033]     The pharmacist verification module 200 of the system enables pharmacists to view
the prescription information data input by the physician in the CPOE module 100 or from some
other source in circumstances when the CPOE module 100 is not utilized, and manually verify
the prescribed treatment for a particular patient. As discussed above, the pharmacist
verification module 200 may be implemented on the same computing device as the CPOE
module 100. Alternatively, the pharmacist verification module 200 may be implemented on a
computing device that is remote from the computing device that implements the CPOE module
100.
[0034]     C.   Pharmacy Preparation Module
[0035]     With reference to FIGS. 2 and 3, the pharmacy preparation module 300 includes
software and associated hardware, such as pharmacy preparation system 1, to guide a
pharmacist or non-pharmacist technician through the steps of preparing a prescribed fluidic
pharmaceutical compound, such as a chemotherapy compound. The pharmacy preparation
system 1 assists pharmacists or non-pharmacist technicians in preparing a syringe or
intravenous (IV) bag with one or more prescribed pharmaceutical compounds. The pharmacy
preparation system 1 is operatively connected to a computing device 4 that includes a user
interface 3 having a display 5 and a user input device 7, such as a keyboard, mouse, etc.
Optionally, the display 5 of the user interface 3 may be implemented as a small LED projector
                                               -7-

provided on a portion of the pharmacy preparation system 1 for projecting the displayed
information on a back wall of a laminar flow hood 25, thereby removing the need of a monitor
for the display 5 as shown in FIG. 2. A scale 9 having a scale output interface 11 may be
operatively connected to the user interface 3. The scale 9 may be implemented as any suitable
device for detecting a change in mass or weight when an object is placed thereon. Accordingly,
the scale 9 may simply be configured as a device that sends a signal when the mass or weight
of an object is greater or less than a predetermined threshold or a high-precision scale that
provides an accurate reading of the weight of an object placed thereon.
[0036]     In one embodiment, a barcode scanner 13 may be operatively connected to at least
one of the user interface 3 and the scale 9, such that the barcode scanner 13 may scan a
medication vial having a barcode that is placed onto a portion of the scale 9.        In another
embodiment, an image capture device 15 may be operatively connected to at least one of the
user interface 3 and the scale 9, such that the image capture device 15 may take a picture of an
item, such as a medication vial, IV bag, or syringe placed onto a portion of the scale 9. In one
embodiment, the image capture device 15 may capture a plurality of still images or running
video of items placed onto a portion of the scale 9 throughout the medication compounding
process for documentation and/or subsequent review of the medication compounding process.
[0037]     In still another embodiment, at least one of the barcode scanner 13 and the image
capture device 15 may be at least partially enclosed within an enclosure housing 17. In certain
configurations, the housing 17 may fully enclose the barcode scanner 13 and the image capture
device 15. Optionally, the housing 17 may include only one of the barcode scanner 13 and the
image capture device 15.
[0038]     The housing 17 may be positioned above a portion of the scale 9, such as supported
by a supporting arm 19. As shown in FIG. 2, the pharmacy preparation system 1 may be
positioned within a laminar flow hood 25 having an inlet air source 23 and an outlet air port 27
for creating a laminar flow of air within an interior 29 of the laminar flow hood 25. An exterior
surface 21 of the housing 17 may have a streamlined shape and/or profile which is optimized
to reduce disruption of the flow of air within the laminar flow hood 25.
[0039]     This aerodynamically streamlined housing 17 as shown in FIG. 3 is designed in such
a way to minimize the airflow disturbance that is created by having a device in a laminar airflow
stream. This configuration allows the device to be placed in the upstream vicinity of a scale
and still have an acceptable gravimetric accuracy (i.e. +/-0.05g) and stabilization time (i.e. no
more than 2 additional seconds) for verifying medication preparation purposes.
                                                -8-

[0040]     The smaller and/or more streamlined housing 17 results in a smaller flow disturbance
and therefore a higher likelihood of meeting accuracy and stability requirements.               The
streamlined housing 17 has a form that minimizes flow disruption and drag, allowing for stable
and accurate gravimetric readings that are required for medication preparation purposes. In
addition, housing 17 allows for required gravimetric scale accuracy and stability, while placing
the input devices (i.e., image capture device 15 and barcode scanner 13) in the upstream airflow
vicinity relative to the scale 9. Placing these objects within the scale 9 vicinity is typically the
ideal area for a number of reasons. A secondary advantage to the streamlined housing 17 is to
provide and maintain a clean working environment for the sterile preparation of medications.
In use, the purpose of the air stream in a flow hood is to create a clean zone for sanitary reasons.
A turbulent zone created by objects near, or upstream of the airflow, may result in a potential
contamination hazard during medication preparation. As a result, having an aerodynamically
shaped housing for input devices minimizes the amount of laminar airflow disruption and
decreases the chances of any type of contamination.
[0041]     With continued reference to FIG. 3, the scale 9 may include a platen 31, such as a
portion of the weighing surface of the scale 9, which may provide a visual indication, such as
a cross recess 35, to the technician of a center of an image to be captured by the image capture
device 15. This allows a technician to properly position drug compounding related medications
37 and related supplies within the field of view of the image capture device 15, such as the
image capture device enclosed within the housing 17 positioned above the platen 31 of the
scale 9. An upper surface 41 of the platen 31 may define a plurality of recessed grooves 39
and/or protrusions extending from a surface of the platen 31 to frictionally restrain drug
compounding related medications 37 and related supplies on the upper surface 41 of the platen
31. In another configuration, the upper surface 41 of the platen 31 may include a tackifier or
other frictionally enhancing surface to similarly restrain drug compounding related medications
37 and related supplies on the upper surface 41 of the platen 31. The arrangement of grooves
39 and/or protrusions may easily indicate to a user the center of the platen 31 which may be
arranged to coincide with the center of the field of view of the image capture device 15.
[0042]     The plurality of recessed grooves 39 and/or protrusions extending from a surface of
the platen 31 may be configured to restrain any liquid material that is accidentally spilled on
the upper surface 41 of the platen 31 during a drug compounding procedure. The plurality of
recessed grooves 39 may define a receiving well 47 which serves to collect and restrain
accidentally spilled material in a confined area within the platen 31 until proper disposal
techniques may be employed. The surface of the platen 31 may be coated with a durable
                                                -9-

composition that resists degradation caused by exposure to caustic agents, such as
chemotherapy compounds and drugs, as well as cleaning agents, such as bleach, isopropyl
alcohol, and the like. In certain configurations, the durable composition may be an epoxy or
epoxy-based paint or coating.
[0043]     With reference to FIGS. 4, 14A, and 14B, in operation, the pharmacist/technician is
prompted through a series of display screens provided on the display 5 of the user interface 3
as shown in one or more of FIGS. 5A-5D, 6A-6D, 7A-7B, 8A-8D, 9A-9D, 10A-10C, 11A
11D, 12A-12C, and 13A-13C to take the following steps to prepare the pharmaceutical
compound. FIG. 4 provides a flow chart of a first phase of the preparation in which an active
ingredient is reconstituted. First, the operator scans a first barcode with the barcode scanner 13
on a medication container including a drug to be reconstituted to prepare the prescribed
pharmaceutical compound (block 301) as shown in FIG. 5C. Then, the medication container
is placed on the scale 9 (block 302). A representation of this step is displayed on display 5 of
user interface 3 as shown in FIG. 6A. Once the weight stabilizes, the system verifies that the
measured weight is meeting the weight target plus/minus a predetermined tolerance. In
addition, the image capture device 15 takes an image of the medication container and displays
it to the user on the display 5 of the user interface 3 (block 304) as shown in FIG. 6B. The user
then removes the medication container and the image is saved to the data record of the drug
preparation (block 306).
[0044]     Next, the technician scans a second barcode of a fluid container of fluid that is to be
mixed with the drug to be reconstituted (block 308) as shown in FIG. 6C. The fluid container
is then placed on the scale 9 (block 310) and, once the weight stabilizes, the image capture
device 15 takes an image of the fluid container and displays it to the user on the display 5 of
the user interface 3 (block 312) as shown in FIG. 6D. The user then removes the fluid container
and the image is saved to the data record of the drug preparation (block 314).
[0045]     Thereafter, the user mixes the drug to be reconstituted with the fluid in the fluid
container by injecting the fluid from the fluid container into the medication container (block
316) as shown in FIG. 7A. The medication container is then returned to the scale 9 and the
weight of the medication container is verified (block 318) as shown in FIG. 7B. Once the
weight is stabilized and verified (block 320), the image capture device 15 automatically takes
an image of the medication container based on a signal received from the scale and displays
the image on the display 5 of the user interface 3 (block 322). If the technician decides the
image was not meeting certain requirements, there is the option to request a new or additional
image (block 324). Requesting another picture will automatically switch the image capture
                                                 -10-

device 15 into a "live video mode" displayed at the user interface 3 (block 326). The technician
can now move the medication container on the scale 9 to a preferred position and trigger the
image capture through the user interface 3 (block 328). As before, the captured image will be
shown at the user interface 3 and by removing the item from the scale 9, the technician accepts
the image and the system automatically moves to the next compounding step (block 330).
[0046]     Once the drug preparation is complete, the system prints a barcode label for
placement on the reconstituted drug preparation.
[0047]     With reference to FIGS. 14A and 14B, a second phase of the preparation of the
pharmaceutical compound using the pharmacy preparation module 300 will be described. First,
the operator scans a barcode with the barcode scanner 13 on the reconstituted drug preparation
(block 332) as shown in FIG. 8A. Then, the reconstituted drug preparation is placed on the
scale 9 (block 334) and an empty syringe is added to the scale 9 (block 336) as shown in FIG.
8C. Once the weight stabilizes, the system verifies that the measured weight is meeting the
weight target plus/minus a predetermined tolerance. In addition, the image capture device 15
takes an image of the medication container and displays it to the user on the display 5 of the
user interface 3 (block 338) as shown in FIG. 8D. The user then removes the reconstituted drug
preparation and the empty syringe and the image is saved to the data record of the drug
preparation (block 340).
[0048]     Next, the technician is instructed to withdraw a predetermined amount from the
reconstituted drug preparation with the syringe (block 342) as shown in FIG. 9A and places
the syringe back on the scale 9 (block 344). The weight is then verified (block 346) and an
image is captured (block 348) as shown in FIG. 9B. If the weight is determined to be too low
as shown in the flow chart of FIGS. 14A and 14B, the technician is instructed to remove the
syringe (block 350 and FIG. 9C) and withdraw an additional amount of the reconstituted drug
preparation (block 352 and FIG. 9D).
[0049]     Once the additional amount of the reconstituted drug preparation is withdrawn into
the syringe, the syringe is placed back on the scale 9 (block 354) as shown in FIG. 10A. The
weight is then verified (block 356) and an image is captured (block 358) as shown in FIG. 10B.
The syringe is then removed from the scale (block 360).
[0050]     The technician then scans a barcode of a fluid container having a saline solution
therein, such as an IV bag (block 362). The fluid container is then placed on the scale 9 (block
364) and, once the weight stabilizes, the image capture device 15 takes an image of the fluid
container and displays it to the user on the display 5 of the user interface 3 (block 366). If the
technician decides the image was not meeting certain requirements, there is the option to
                                              - 11 -

request a new or additional image (block 368). Requesting another picture will automatically
switch the camera into a "live video mode" displayed at the user interface 3 (block 370). The
technician can now move the medication container on the scale 9 to a preferred position and
trigger the image capture through the user interface 3 (block 372). As before, the captured
image will be shown at the user interface 3 and by removing the item from the scale 9, the
technician accepts the image (block 374) and the system automatically awaits authorization
from a pharmacist to precede (block 376). The screen shots in FIGS. 11A-11C illustrate this
procedure.
[0051]     Once pharmacist authorization has been provided (block 378), the user injects the
contents of the syringe into the fluid container (block 380) as shown in FIG. 12A. The
medication container is then returned to the scale 9 and the weight of the medication container
is verified (block 382). Once the weight is stabilized and verified (block 384) as shown in FIG.
12B, the image capture device 15 automatically takes an image of the medication container
based on a signal received from the scale and displays the image on the display 5 of the user
interface 3 (block 386) as shown in FIG. 12C. As before, the captured image will be shown at
the user interface 3 and by removing the item from the scale 9, the technician accepts the image
(block 388). Once the drug preparation is complete, the system prints a barcode label for
placement on the completed drug preparation that includes encoded information representing
the name of the pharmaceutical and patient information.
[0052]     The pharmacy preparation module 300 also includes software instructions that cause
the processor of the computing device 4 to perform the following actions during the drug
preparation: (i) retrieve the prescription information data input by the physician in the CPOE
module 100 from the intra-hospital network; (ii) verify that the scanned barcode corresponds
with the prescription information; (iii) determine if the weight of the syringe and/or IV bag is
within a predetermined threshold accuracy level for the amount of the pharmaceutical to be
administered; (iv) determine what adjustments must be made if the weight is not accurate; and
(v) transmit data relating to the weight of the syringe and/or IV bag back to the intra-hospital
network.
[0053]     D.   Pharmacy Final Verification Module
[0054]     Subsequent to preparing the prescribed pharmaceutical, the pharmacy final
verification module 400 allows the pharmacist to review the data and/or documentation created
by the pharmacy preparation module 300 including the images taken by the image capture
device 15 and either approve or disapprove the preparation for the release to the patient. As
described hereinabove, the pharmacist final verification module 400 may be implemented on
                                               - 12 -

the same computing device as the pharmacy preparation module 300. Alternatively, the
pharmacist final verification module 400 may be implemented on a computing device that is
remote from the computing device of the pharmacy preparation module 300. Such a remote
configuration is illustrated schematically in FIG. 15. With reference to FIG. 15, the pharmacist
final verification module 400 includes a system 401 having a processor 402 configured to
receive information from the pharmacy preparation module 300 regarding the preparation of
the pharmaceutical compound. The information comprises at least one image of at least one
step of the preparation of the pharmaceutical compound and gravimetric measurement
information provided by the scale 9 during at least one step of the preparation of the
pharmaceutical compound. The system 401 also includes a user interface 403 operatively
connected to the processor 402 and configured to display, based on instructions from the
processor 402, the at least one image of the at least one step of the preparation of the
pharmaceutical compound and an indication of whether a concentration of the pharmaceutical
compound is within an acceptable tolerance range based on the gravimetric measurement
information.
[0055]     An exemplary screen shot provided at the pharmacy final verification module 400 is
provided in FIG. 16. On this exemplary screen, the captured images are shown with the
corresponding compounding instructions and an indication of whether the concentration of a
drug is inside or outside of the acceptable tolerance range as determined by the mathematical
methodology. Accordingly, the pharmacy final verification module 400 provides visual
information (i.e., the pictures of each step of the preparation) overlaid with quantitative
measurements collected with the scale and verified by the mathematical methodology to adhere
to predefined acceptance criteria.
[0056]     As illustrated in FIGS. 16 and 17, the pharmacy final verification module 400
includes a review window 420 having a first portion 422 that displays a selected image 424 of
a particular drug preparation step, a second portion 426 that displays thumbnail images of each
of the drug preparation steps, and a third portion 428 that displays the compounding
instructions for the particular drug preparation step along with the result of the quantitative
measurement provided by the scale, and an indication provided by the mathematical
methodology that the concentration of a drug is either inside or outside of the acceptable
tolerance. In addition, an icon 430 may be associated with the thumbnail of the particular drug
preparation step to provide an indication to the pharmacist that the tolerance requirements of
the particular drug preparation step were met. For instance, a green check mark may be
provided if the tolerance requirements were met or a red exclamation point may be provided if
                                               - 13 -

the tolerance requirements were not met. The review window 420 may also include a fourth
portion 432 that displays icons 434 allowing the pharmacist to either confirm or reject the drug
preparation.
[0057]     With continued reference to FIGS. 16 and 17, the mouse pointer was hovering over
the fifth thumbnail from the left in the second portion 426 of the review window 420. For this
particular thumbnail, the enlarged picture is shown above the thumbnail row in the first portion
422 of the review window 420 and below the thumbnails, the corresponding compounding
instructions 435 along with the result of the quantitative measurement 436 and methodology
check 438 (see also the exemplary screenshot provided in FIG. 2) are shown in the third portion
428 of the review window 420. The third portion 428 may also include other statistical
information regarding the drug preparation such as, but not limited to, how often compounding
steps had to be repeated to meet tolerance targets or if particular compounding steps took more
time than usual compared to other cases.
[0058]     Additionally, the icon 430 in the thumbnail indicates if the tolerance requirements of
the particular compounding step were met, giving the pharmacist a quick guidance to where in
the compounding procedure problems occurred. A gray box (not shown) around multiple
thumbnails provides an indication to the pharmacist that the image representing this
compounding step was retaken.
[0059]     The overlay of a captured image with verification information generated by a
mathematical methodology from gravimetric data allows the pharmacist to quickly review very
different types of information. The visual information content of the image allows the
pharmacist to check very apparent information such as, but not limited to, the drug color, the
syringe type, or whether the system was used improperly (e.g., the user used an additional
object to generate the necessary weight to pass the tolerance requirements of the methodology).
The icon 430 in the thumbnail representing the methodology check outcome is binary
information telling the pharmacist that the amount of drug was either inside or outside of the
tolerance requirements for the particular compounding step. An accumulation of icons 430 on
thumbnails in the form of red exclamation marks provides a quick indication to the pharmacist
that the technician needed several iterations to meet tolerance requirements and may trigger
additional scrutiny when reviewing such a drug preparation.
[0060]     E.   Bedside Module
[0061]     Prior to administering the prescribed pharmaceutical to a patient, the bedside module
500 allows for a final verification. A barcode scanner located proximate to a patient is used by
a nurse or other technician to scan the barcode label on the syringe and/or IV bag. The barcode
                                               - 14 -

scanner is in communication with a computer, which verifies the information encoded on the
second barcode with patient information and/or prescription information retrieved from the
intra-hospital network.
[0062]    While specific embodiments of the invention have been described in detail, it will be
appreciated by those skilled in the art that various modifications and alternatives to those details
could be developed in light of the overall teachings of the disclosure. Accordingly, the
particular arrangements disclosed are meant to be illustrative only and not limiting as to the
scope of invention which is to be given the full breadth of the claims appended and any and all
equivalents thereof.
                                                - 15 -

                                                Claims:
                 1. A system for preparing a pharmaceutical compound comprising:
                a computing device comprising a user interface providing an operator with
instructions for preparing the pharmaceutical compound and at least one processor operatively
connected to the user interface;
                a scale operatively connected to the at least one processor; and
                an image capture device operatively connected to the at least one processor and the
scale and positioned to capture an image of at least one of a component used in preparing the
pharmaceutical compound and the pharmaceutical compound,
                wherein the scale transmits a signal to the at least one processor indicating that a
weight detected thereby has changed when the at least one component is placed thereon and, based
on the signal, the at least one processor triggers the image capture device to capture the image of
the at least one component.
                2. The system of claim 1, wherein the image of the at least one component is
displayed on the user interface for review by the operator.
                3. The system of claim 2, wherein a removal of the at least one component from the
scale causes the at least one processor to accept the image, associate the image with a data record,
and provide instruction on the user interface to allow the operator to move to a next step of the
instructions for preparing the pharmaceutical compound.
                4. The system of claim 3, wherein the data record and images are provided to a
pharmacist for verification.
                5. The system of claim 4, wherein, if the image is deemed to be unacceptable by
the operator, the user interface is configured to provide the operator with the capability to recapture
the image.
                6. The system of claim 1, further comprising a scanner operatively coupled to the
user interface.
                7. The system of claim 6, wherein the scanner is configured to scan a barcode
provided on the at least one component and provide the at least one processor with information
regarding the at least one component.
                                                   16

                 8. A system for preparing a pharmaceutical compound comprising:
                 a computing device comprising a user interface providing an operator with
instructions for preparing the pharmaceutical compound and at least one processor operatively
connected to the user interface;
                 a scale operatively connected to the at least one processor; and
                 an image capture device operatively connected to the at least one processor and the
scale and positioned to capture an image of at least one of a component used in preparing the
pharmaceutical compound and the pharmaceutical compound,
                 wherein the scale transmits a signal to the at least one processor to verify that a
correct amount of at least one component used in preparing the pharmaceutical compound has
been drawn by the operator based on a weight of the at least one component and the at least one
processor triggers the image capture device to capture the image of the at least one component
when the at least one processor verifies the correct amount of the at least one component.
                 9. The system of claim 8, wherein the image of the at least one component is
displayed on the user interface for review by the operator.
                 10. The system of claim 9, wherein a removal of the at least one component from
the scale causes the at least one processor to accept the image, associate the image with a data
record, and provide instruction on the user interface to allow the operator to move to a next step
of the instructions for preparing the pharmaceutical compound.
                 11. The system of claim 10, wherein the data record and images are provided to a
pharmacist for verification.
                 12. The system of claim 11, wherein, if the image is deemed to be unacceptable by
the operator, the user interface is configured to provide the operator with the capability to recapture
the image.
                 13. The system of claim 8, further comprising a scanner operatively coupled to the
user interface.
                                                   17

               14. The system of claim 13, wherein the scanner is configured to scan a barcode
provided on the at least one component and provide the at least one processor with information
regarding the at least one component.
                                             18

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
