                                      ABSTRACT
     A method for power allocation, the method comprising: transmitting, with a first
power, first uplink control information (UCI) on a first uplink channel in a first
subframe of a first cell group (CG1); and transmitting, with a second power, second
UCI on a second uplink channel in a second subframe of a second cell group (CG2),
wherein the first power and the second power are allocated based on a type of
information included in the first UCI, a type of information included in the second
UCI, a type of the CG1, and a type of the CG2, wherein the first subframe of the CG1 is
overlapped in time with the second subframe of the CG2,wherein the type of the CG1
or the type of the CG2 is related to a primary cell group or a secondary cell group, and
wherein the CG 1 and the CG2 are related to dual connectivity.

                               9/14
                                       '800
         UCI for 1st CG                    UCI for 2nd CG
     Aprocedure to select              A procedure to select
802 and multiplex UCI on a            and multiplex UCI on a 804
     single'PUCCHformat                single PUCCH format
    PUCCH for ist CG                      PUCCH for 2"d CG
                        Sect a PUCCH to80
                            transmit86
                       Trnsmit the selected
                            PUCCH                  808
                        FIG.8

                                            -I
  UPLINK CONTROL INFORMATION TRANSMISSIONS/RECEPTIONS IN
                               WIRELESS NETWORKS
         Related Application
        This application is a divisional application of Australian Application No.
2014205832, the disclosure of which is incorporated herein by reference. Most of the
disclosure of that application is included herein. However, reference may be made to
the specification of that application as filed to gain further understanding of the
invention claimed herein.
        1. Field of the Invention
        The present application relates generally to selecting physical uplink channels
and, more specifically, to prioritizing power allocation to physical uplink channels.
        2. Background
        A Physical uplink control channel procedures are discussed in Release 10 of the
3GPP Long Term Evolution (LTE) standard, as described in 3GPP Technical
Specification No. 36.213 version               10.1.0 Release     10, "Physical layer
procedures." Coordinated multi-point (CoMP) transmission and reception have been
considered for LTE-Advanced as a way to improve the coverage of high data rates, to
improve cell-edge throughput, and to increase system throughput.
        PUCCH transmissions for the two carrier groups (CGs) are independently
configured, and hence the user equipment (UE) may be scheduled to transmit two
physical uplink control channels (PUCCHs) on the two uplink (UL) primary cells in
the two CGs in a subframe.
                          SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
        In an embodiment, there is provided a method for power allocation, the method
comprising:
     transmitting, with a first power, first uplink control information (UCI) on a first
uplink channel in a first subframe of a first cell group (CG 1); and
     transmitting, with a second power, second UCI on a second uplink channel in a
second subframe of a second cell group (CG2),
     wherein the first power and the second power are allocated based on a type of
information included in the first UCI, a type of information included in the second
UCI, a type of the CG1, and a type of the CG2,
     wherein the first subframe of the CG1 is overlapped in time with the second
subframe of the CG2,
     wherein the type of the CG1 or the type of the CG2 is related to a primary cell
group or a secondary cell group, and

      wherein the CG 1 and the CG2 are related to dual connectivity.
         In an embodiment, an apparatus provides there is provided a terminal for power
allocation, the terminal comprising:
      a transceiver configured to:
           transmit, with a first power, first uplink control information (UCI), on a first
uplink channel in a first subframe of a first cell group (CG 1); and
           transmit, with a second power, second UCI on a second uplink channel in a
second subframe of a second cell group (CG2),
      wherein the first power and the second power are allocated based on a type of
information included in the first UCI, a type of information included in the second
UCI, a type of the CG1, and a type of the CG2,
      wherein the first subframe of the CG 1 is overlapped in time with the second
subframe of the CG2,
      wherein the type of the CG1 or the type of the CG2 is related to a primary cell
group or a secondary cell group, and
      wherein the CG 1 and the CG2 are related to dual connectivity.
         In an embodiment, there is provided a method for power allocation, the method
comprising:
      receiving first uplink control information (UCI) on a first uplink channel in a first
subframe of a first cell group (CG 1), the first UCI being transmitted with a first power;
and
      receiving second UCI on a second uplink channel in a second subframe of a
second cell group (CG2), the second UCI being transmitted with a second power,
      wherein the first power and the second power are allocated based on a type of
information included in the first UCI, a type of information included in the second
UCI, a type of the CG1, and a type of the CG2,
      wherein the first subframe of the CG 1 is overlapped in time with the second
subframe of the CG2, and
      wherein the type of the CG1 or the type of the CG2 is related to a primary cell
group or a secondary cell group, and
      wherein the CG 1 and the CG2 are related to dual connectivity.
         In an embodiment, there is provided a base station for power allocation, the
base station comprising:
      a transceiver configured to:
           receive first uplink control information (UCI) on a first uplink channel in a
first subframe of a first cell group (CG1), the first UCI being transmitted with a first
power; and
           receive a second UCI on a second uplink channel in a second subframe of a
second cell group (CG2), the second UCI being transmitted with a second power,
      wherein the first power and the second power are allocated based on a type of
information included in the first UCI, a type of information included in the second
UCI, a type of the CG1, and a type of the CG2,

      wherein the first subframe of the CG1 is overlapped in time with the second
subframe of the CG2,
      wherein the type of the CG1 or the type of the CG2 is related to a primary cell
group or a secondary cell group, and
      wherein the CG 1 and the CG2 are related to dual connectivity.
         Before undertaking the DETAILED DESCRIPTION below, it may be
advantageous to set forth definitions of certain words and phrases used throughout this
patent document: the terms "include" and "comprise," as well as derivatives thereof,
mean inclusion without limitation; the term "or," is inclusive, meaning and/or; the
phrases "associated with" and "associated therewith," as well as derivatives thereof,
may mean to include, be included within, interconnect with, contain, be contained
within, connect to or with, couple to or with, be communicable with, cooperate with,
interleave, juxtapose, be proximate to, be bound to or with, have, have a property of, or
the like; and the term "controller" means any device, system or part thereof that
controls at least one operation, such a device may be implemented in hardware,
firmware or software, or some combination of at least two of the same. It should be
noted that the functionality associated with any particular controller may be centralized
or distributed, whether locally or remotely. Definitions for certain words and phrases
are provided throughout this patent document, those of ordinary skill in the art should
understand that in many, if not most instances, such definitions apply to prior, as well
as future uses of such defined words and phrases.
                    BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
         For a more complete understanding of the present disclosure and its
advantages, reference is now made to the following description taken in conjunction
with the accompanying drawings, in which like reference numerals represent like parts:
         FIGURE 1 illustrates an example wireless network according to this disclosure;
         FIGURES 2A and 2B illustrate example high-level diagrams of a wireless
transmit path and a wireless receive path according to this disclosure;
         FIGURE 3 illustrates an example user equipment according to this disclosure;
         FIGURE 4 illustrates an example deployment scenario of small cells and macro
cells 404 according to this disclosure;
         FIGURES 5A and 5B illustrate an example quasi-cell, new carrier type (NCT)
cell, and backward compatible cell according to this disclosure. In some embodiments,
the quasi-cell is co-channel-deployed on a carrier (or a carrier frequency) together with
cells and;
         FIGURES 6A through 6D illustrate example inter-eNB CA and CoMP systems
according to this disclosure;
         FIGURES 7A-7B illustrate a primary CA group (PCG) and a secondary CA
group (SCG) according to an advantageous embodiment of the present disclosure;

         FIGURE 8 illustrates an example process for Collision handling when multiple
PUCCHs are scheduled in a subframe according to an embodiment of this disclosure;
         FIGURE 9 illustrates an example process for Collision handling when multiple
PUCCHs are scheduled in a subframe according to an embodiment of this disclosure;
         FIGURE 10 illustrates an example process for overall CG prioritization rule for
UCI transmissions according to an embodiment of this disclosure;
         FIGURE 11 illustrates an example process for overall CG prioritization rule for
UCI transmissions according to an embodiment of this disclosure; and
         FIGURES 12A-12B illustrate example processes for rule based prioritization
on duplexing scheme/frame structure type according to an embodiment of this
disclosure.
   DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF EMBODIMENTS OF THE INVENTION
         FIGURES 1 through 12B discussed below, and the various embodiments used
to describe the principles of the present disclosure in this patent document are by way
of illustration only and should not be construed in any way to limit the scope of the
disclosure. Those skilled in the art will understand that the principles of the present
disclosure may be implemented in any suitably arranged method and apparatus.
         For convenience of description, the following abbreviations used in this patent
document are defined.
    * eNB = enhanced node B
    * UE = user equipment
    * CA = carrier aggregation
    * CoMP = coordinated multi-point
    * UL = uplink
    e    DL = downlink
    e    PDSCH = physical downlink shared channel
    * PUSCH = physical uplink shared channel
    * PUCCH = physical uplink control channel
    * PDCCH = physical downlink control channel
    * ePDCCH = enhanced PDCCH
    * RS = reference signal
    * CSI-RS = channel-state-information reference signal
    * CRS = cell-specific reference signal
    * DMRS = demodulation reference signal
    * HARQ = Hybrid Automatic repeat-reqest
    * ACK = Acknowledgement signal
    * DCI = downlink control information
    * TPC = transmit power control
    * PCell = primary serving cell
    e    SCell = secondary serving cell

     *   RRC = radio resource control (layer)
     e   TM = transmission mode
     * SR = scheduling request
     e   QoS = Quality of Service
         The following documents and standards descriptions are hereby incorporated
into the present disclosure as if fully set forth herein:
     " REFI - 3GPP TS 36.211 v10.5.0, "E-UTRA, Physical channels and
         modulation";
     " REF2 - 3GPP TS 36.212 v10.5.0, "E-UTRA, Multiplexing and Channel
         coding";
     * REF3 - 3GPP TS 36.213 v10.5.0, "E-UTRA, Physical Layer Procedures"; and
     * REF4 - Draft 3GPP TR 36.932 vO. 1.0, "Scenarios and Requirements for Small
         Cell Enhancement for E-UTRA and E-UTRAN".
         FIGURE 1 illustrates an example wireless network 100 according to this
disclosure. As shown in FIGURE 1, the wireless network 100 includes an eNodeB
(eNB) 101, eNB 102, and eNB 103. The eNB 101 communicates with eNB 102 and
eNB 103. The eNB 101 also communicates with Internet protocol (IP) network 130,
such as the Internet, a proprietary IP network, or other data network.
         FIGURE 1 illustrates an example wireless network 100 according to this
disclosure. The embodiment of the wireless network 100 shown in FIGURE 1 is for
illustration only. Other embodiments of the wireless network 100 could be used
without departing from the scope of this disclosure.
         As shown in FIGURE 1, the wireless network 100 includes an eNodeB (eNB)
101, an eNB 102, and an eNB 103. The eNB 101 communicates with the eNB 102 and
the eNB 103. The eNB 101 also communicates with at least one Internet Protocol (IP)
network 130, such as the Internet, a proprietary IP network, or other data network.
         The eNB 102 provides wireless broadband access to the network 130 for a first
plurality of user equipments (UEs) within a coverage area 120 of the eNB 102. The
first plurality of UEs includes a UE 111, which may be located in a small business
(SB); a UE 112, which may be located in an enterprise (E); a UE 113, which may be
located in a WiFi hotspot (HS); a UE 114, which may be located in a first residence
(R); a UE 115, which may be located in a second residence (R); and a UE 116, which
may be a mobile device (M) like a cell phone, a wireless laptop, a wireless PDA, or the
like. The eNB 103 provides wireless broadband access to the network 130 for a second
plurality of UEs within a coverage area 125 of the eNB 103. The second plurality of
UEs includes the UE 115 and the UE 116. In some embodiments, one or more of the
eNBs 101-103 may communicate with each other and with the UEs 111-116 using 5G,
LTE, LTE-A, WiMAX, or other advanced wireless communication techniques.
         Depending on the network type, other well-known terms may be used instead
of "eNodeB" or "eNB," such as "base station" or "access point." For the sake of
convenience, the terms "eNodeB" and "eNB" are used in this patent document to refer
to network infrastructure components that provide wireless access to remote terminals.

Also, depending on the network type, other well-known terms may be used instead of
"user equipment" or "UE," such as "mobile station," "subscriber station," "remote
terminal," "wireless terminal," or "user device." For the sake of convenience, the terms
"user equipment" and "UE" are used in this patent document to refer to remote wireless
equipment that wirelessly accesses an eNB, whether the UE is a mobile device (such as
a mobile telephone or smartphone) or is normally considered a stationary device (such
as a desktop computer or vending machine).
         Dotted lines show the approximate extents of the coverage areas 120 and 125,
which are shown as approximately circular for the purposes of illustration and
explanation only. It should be clearly understood that the coverage areas associated
with eNBs, such as the coverage areas 120 and 125, may have other shapes, including
irregular shapes, depending upon the configuration of the eNBs and variations in the
radio environment associated with natural and man-made obstructions.
         As described in more detail below, one or more of the eNBs 101-103 includes
processing circuitry configured to receive the UCI on the prioritized PUxCH. The UE
is power-limited, wherein the UE is scheduled to transmit uplink control information
(UCI) to the CG1 on one or more physical uplink channels (PUxCHs). The UE
prioritized a PUxCH in response to being power limited.
         Although FIGURE 1 illustrates one example of a wireless network 100, various
changes may be made to FIGURE 1. For example, the wireless network 100 could
include any number of eNBs and any number of UEs in any suitable arrangement.
Also, the eNB 101 could communicate directly with any number of UEs and provide
those UEs with wireless broadband access to the network 130. Similarly, each eNB
102-103 could communicate directly with the network 130 and provide UEs with direct
wireless broadband access to the network 130. Further, the eNB 101, 102, and/or 103
could provide access to other or additional external networks, such as external
telephone networks or other types of data networks.
         FIGURES 2A and 2B illustrate example wireless transmit and receive paths
according to this disclosure. In the following description, a transmit path 200 may be
described as being implemented in an eNB (such as eNB 102), while a receive path 250
may be described as being implemented in a UE (such as UE 116). However, it will be
understood that the receive path 250 could be implemented in an eNB and that the
transmit path 200 could be implemented in a UE. In some embodiments, the transmit
path 200 and receive path 250 are configured to receive the UCI on the prioritized
PUxCH. The UE is power-limited, wherein the UE is scheduled to transmit uplink
control information (UCI) to the CG1 on one or more physical uplink channels
(PUxCHs). The UE prioritized a PUxCH in response to being power limited.
         The transmit path 200 includes a channel coding and modulation block 205, a
serial-to-parallel (S-to-P) block 210, a size N Inverse Fast Fourier Transform (IFFT)
block 215, a parallel-to-serial (P-to-S) block 220, an add cyclic prefix block 225, and
an up-converter (UC) 230. The receive path 250 includes a down-converter (DC) 255,
a remove cyclic prefix block 260, a serial-to-parallel (S-to-P) block 265, a size N Fast

Fourier Transform (FFT) block 270, a parallel-to-serial (P-to-S) block 275, and a
channel decoding and demodulation block 280.
         In the transmit path 200, the channel coding and modulation block 205 receives
a set of information bits, applies coding (such as a low-density parity check (LDPC)
coding), and modulates the input bits (such as with Quadrature Phase Shift Keying
(QPSK) or Quadrature Amplitude Modulation (QAM)) to generate a sequence of
frequency-domain modulation symbols. The serial-to-parallel block 210 converts
(such as de-multiplexes) the serial modulated symbols to parallel data in order to
generate N parallel symbol streams, where N is the IFFT/FFT size used in the eNB 102
and the UE 116. The size N IFFT block 215 performs an IFFT operation on the N
parallel symbol streams to generate time-domain output signals. The parallel-to-serial
block 220 converts (such as multiplexes) the parallel time-domain output symbols
from the size N IFFT block 215 in order to generate a serial time-domain signal. The
add cyclic prefix block 225 inserts a cyclic prefix to the time-domain signal. The
up-converter 230 modulates (such as up-converts) the output of the add cyclic prefix
block 225 to an RF frequency for transmission via a wireless channel. The signal may
also be filtered at baseband before conversion to the RF frequency.
         A transmitted RF signal from the eNB 102 arrives at the UE 116 after passing
through the wireless channel, and reverse operations to those at the eNB 102 are
performed at the UE 116. The down-converter 255 down-converts the received signal
to a baseband frequency, and the remove cyclic prefix block 260 removes the cyclic
prefix to generate a serial time-domain baseband signal. The serial-to-parallel block
265 converts the time-domain baseband signal to parallel time domain signals. The size
N FFT block 270 performs an FFT algorithm to generate N parallel frequency-domain
signals. The parallel-to-serial block 275 converts the parallel frequency-domain signals
to a sequence of modulated data symbols. The channel decoding and demodulation
block 280 demodulates and decodes the modulated symbols to recover the original
input data stream.
         Each of the eNBs 10 1-103 may implement a transmit path 200 that is analogous
to transmitting in the downlink to UEs 111-116 and may implement a receive path 250
that is analogous to receiving in the uplink from UEs 111-116. Similarly, each of UEs
111-116 may implement a transmit path 200 for transmitting in the uplink to eNBs
101-103 and may implement a receive path 250 for receiving in the downlink from
eNBs 101-103.
         Each of the components in FIGURES 2A and 2B can be implemented using
only hardware or using a combination of hardware and software/firmware. As a
particular example, at least some of the components in FIGURES 2A and 2B may be
implemented in software, while other components may be implemented by
configurable hardware or a mixture of software and configurable hardware. For
instance, the FFT block 270 and the IFFT block 215 may be implemented as
configurable software algorithms, where the value of size N may be modified
according to the implementation.

                                            -0
         Furthermore, although described as using FFT and IFFT, this is by way of
illustration only and should not be construed to limit the scope of this disclosure. Other
types of transforms, such as Discrete Fourier Transform (DFT) and Inverse Discrete
Fourier Transform (IDFT) functions, could be used. It will be appreciated that the
value of the variable N may be any integer number (such as 1, 2, 3, 4, or the like) for
DFT and IDFT functions, while the value of the variable N may be any integer number
that is a power of two (such as 1, 2, 4, 8, 16, or the like) for FFT and IFFT functions.
         Although FIGURES 2A and 2B illustrate examples of wireless transmit and
receive paths, various changes may be made to FIGURES 2A and 2B. For example,
various components in FIGURES 2A and 2B could be combined, further subdivided,
or omitted and additional components could be added according to particular needs.
Also, FIGURES 2A and 2B are meant to illustrate examples of the types of transmit
and receive paths that could be used in a wireless network. Any other suitable
architectures could be used to support wireless communications in a wireless network.
         FIGURE 3 illustrates an example UE 116 according to this disclosure. The
embodiment of the UE 116 illustrated in FIGURE 3 is for illustration only, and the UEs
111-115 of FIGURE 1 could have the same or similar configuration. However, UEs
come in a wide variety of configurations, and FIGURE 3 does not limit the scope of
this disclosure to any particular implementation of a UE.
         As shown in FIGURE 3, the UE 116 includes an antenna 305, a radio frequency
(RF) transceiver 310, transmit (TX) processing circuitry 315, a microphone 320, and
receive (RX) processing circuitry 325. The UE 116 also includes a speaker 330, a main
processor 340, an input/output (I/O) interface (IF) 345, a keypad 350, a display 355,
and a memory 360. The memory 360 includes a basic operating system (OS) program
361 and one or more applications 362.
         The RF transceiver 310 receives, from the antenna 305, an incoming RF signal
transmitted by an eNB of the network 100. The RF transceiver 310 down-converts the
incoming RF signal to generate an intermediate frequency (IF) or baseband signal. The
IF or baseband signal is sent to the RX processing circuitry 325, which generates a
processed baseband signal by filtering, decoding, and/or digitizing the baseband or IF
signal. The RX processing circuitry 325 transmits the processed baseband signal to the
speaker 330 (such as for voice data) or to the main processor 340 for further processing
(such as for web browsing data).
         The TX processing circuitry 315 receives analog or digital voice data from the
microphone 320 or other outgoing baseband data (such as web data, e-mail, or
interactive video game data) from the main processor 340. The TX processing circuitry
315 encodes, multiplexes, and/or digitizes the outgoing baseband data to generate a
processed baseband or IF signal. The RF transceiver 310 receives the outgoing
processed baseband or IF signal from the TX processing circuitry 315 and up-converts
the baseband or IF signal to an RF signal that is transmitted via the antenna 305.
         The main processor 340 can include one or more processors or other processing
devices and execute the basic OS program 361 stored in the memory 360 in order to

control the overall operation of the UE 116. For example, the main processor 340 could
control the reception of forward channel signals and the transmission of reverse
channel signals by the RF transceiver 310, the RX processing circuitry 325, and the TX
processing circuitry 315 in accordance with well-known principles. In some
embodiments, the main processor 340 includes at least one microprocessor or
microcontroller.
        The main processor 340 is also capable of executing other processes and
programs resident in the memory 360, such as operations for selecting a physical
uplink channel (PUxCH) as described herein. The main processor 340 can move data
into or out of the memory 360 as required by an executing process. In some
embodiments, the main processor 340 is configured to execute the applications 362
based on the OS program 361 or in response to signals received from eNBs or an
operator. The main processor 340 is also coupled to the I/O interface 345, which
provides the UE 116 with the ability to connect to other devices such as laptop
computers and handheld computers. The I/O interface 345 is the communication path
between these accessories and the main controller 340.
        The main processor 340 is also coupled to the keypad 350 and the display unit
355. The operator of the UE 116 can use the keypad 350 to enter data into the UE 116.
The display 355 may be a liquid crystal display or other display capable of rendering
text and/or at least limited graphics, such as from web sites.
        The memory 360 is coupled to the main processor 340. Part of the memory 360
could include a random access memory (RAM), and another part of the memory 360
could include a Flash memory or other read-only memory (ROM).
        Although FIGURE 3 illustrates one example of UE 116, various changes may
be made to FIGURE 3. For example, various components in FIGURE 3 could be
combined, further subdivided, or omitted and additional components could be added
according to particular needs. As a particular example, the main processor 340 could be
divided into multiple processors, such as one or more central processing units (CPUs)
and one or more graphics processing units (GPUs). Also, while FIGURE 3 illustrates
the UE 116 configured as a mobile telephone or smartphone, UEs could be configured
to operate as other types of mobile or stationary devices.
        FIGURE 4 illustrates an example deployment scenario 400 of small cells 402
and macro cells 404 according to this disclosure. In some embodiments, regarding
small cell enhancement, 3GPP TR 36.932 REF4 describes the target scenarios of a
small-cell study. Small cell enhancement may target with and without macro coverage,
outdoor and indoor small cell deployments, and ideal and non-ideal backhaul. Both
sparse and dense small cell deployments may be considered.
        In various embodiments with and without macro coverage, as shown in
FIGURE 4, small cell enhancement can target the deployment scenario in which small
cell nodes are deployed under the coverage of one or more overlaid E-UTRAN
macro-cell layer(s) in order to boost the capacity of the already-deployed cellular
network. In various embodiments, example scenarios can include:

         1) where the UE is in coverage of both the macro cell and the small cell
simultaneously; and
        2) where the UE is not in coverage of both the macro cell and the small cell
simultaneously.
        FIGURE 4 also shows the scenario where small cell nodes, such as the small
cell node in an area 406, are not deployed under the coverage of one or more overlaid
E-UTRAN macro-cell layer(s) 408. This scenario may also be the target of the small
cell enhancement SI.
        FIGURES 5A and 5B illustrate an example quasi-cell 502, new carrier type
(NCT) cell 504, and backward compatible cell 506 according to this disclosure. In
some embodiments, the quasi-cell 502 is co-channel-deployed on a carrier (or a carrier
frequency) together with cells 504 and 506. The quasi-cell 502 and the cells 504 and
506 may have been placed in two geographically separated locations. Quasi-cell 502 is
identified by a quasi-cell specific discovery signal (and discovery identifier or "ID").
An advanced UE can identify quasi-cell 502 by detecting a quasi-cell specific
discovery signal, while a legacy UE may not identify quasi-cell 502.
        The network can make use of the quasi-cell 502 to transmit physical downlink
shared channel (PDSCH) data to both the legacy UE and the advanced UE. When the
advanced UE receives PDSCH data from quasi-cell 502, the advanced UE may be
aware that it is receiving the PDSCH data from quasi-cell 502. Even when the legacy
UE receives PDSCH data from quasi-cell 502, the operation of quasi-cell 502 is
transparent to the legacy UE, and the legacy UE does not know the existence of
quasi-cell 502 as it operates according to the legacy specification where no specific
protocols are defined for the quasi-cells. In some embodiments, quasi-cell 502 may not
be a traditional cell, as it does not carry PSS/SSS to be used for identifying the cell and
physical cell ID (PCI).
        In some embodiments, in 3GPP LTE, there may be a number of downlink (DL)
assignment downlink control information (DCI) formats, which convey scheduling
information, such as set of scheduled physical resource blocks (PRB)s, transmission
rank, set of antenna port numbers, modulation and coding scheme, transmit power
control (TPC) command for PUCCH, and the like. Example DL assignment DCI
formats can be found in 36.212 REF2, which include DCI format
1A/1C/2/2A/2B/2C/2D. In this disclosure, the phrase "DL assignment DCI format" is
used for referring to these DCI formats and variants of them.
        In some embodiments, in the legacy RAN2 specification (36.331 v1O.5.0),
Pcell, Scell and serving cell may be defined in the following manner:
     0 Primary Cell (Pcell): The cell, operating on the primary frequency, in which the
UE either performs the initial connection establishment procedure or initiates the
connection re-establishment procedure, or the cell indicated as the primary cell in the
handover procedure.
     * Secondary Cell (Scell): A cell, operating on a secondary frequency, which may
be configured once an RRC connection is established and which may be used to

provide additional radio resources.
     * Serving Cell: For a UE in RRCCONNECTED not configured with CA, there is
only one serving cell comprising of the primary cell. For a UE in RRCCONNECTED
configured with CA, the term "serving cells" is used to denote the set of one or more
cells including the primary cell and all secondary cells.
        In some embodiments, in the media access control/radio resource control
(MAC/RRC) layer perspective (RAN2), the Pcell (macro) handles mobility and initial
access of the UE, while the Scell is used for data transmission/reception. This way, too
frequent handover between multiple pico cells can be avoided.
        In physical (PHY) layer specifications (RAN1), in some embodiments, the
terms Pcell and Scell are adopted to define UE behaviors associated with UL/DL
control signaling. Some examples are: PUCCHs are transmitted only in the Pcell; when
only the Pcell transmits PDSCH to a UE configured with multiple serving cells, the UE
transmits the corresponding HARQ-ACK using PUCCH format la/lb; when an Scell
transmits PDSCH to the UE, the UE transmits the corresponding HARQ-ACK using
PUCCH format 3 (as in Table 1); and common DL control signaling
(PDCCH/ePDCCH common search space) is transmitted only in the Pcell.
        In various embodiments of this disclosure, the Pcell is defined in Rel-10/1 1 as
the legacy Pcell.
        FIGURES 6A through 6D illustrate example inter-eNB CA and CoMP systems
600a-600d according to this disclosure. In FIGURES 6A through 6D, communications
occur between a UE 606a-606d and two eNBs, namely eNB 602a-602d and eNB
604a-604d. The eNBs are operating in the same carrier frequency in FIGURES 6C and
6D and in two different carrier frequencies in FIGURES 6A and 6B.
        In FIGURES 6A through 6D, one of the two eNBs (cell 1) is a macro eNB,
while the other eNB (cell 2) is a pico eNB. However, the concepts in this disclosure can
generally apply to two eNBs of any types. The eNBs may be connected with a slow
backhaul, where one message transmission from one eNB to the other eNB (or
signaling delay between two eNBs) may take more than a few milli-seconds, such as
tens of milli-seconds (or subframes).
        FIGURE 6A illustrates a frequency division duplex (FDD) inter-eNB CA
system 600a. The system 600a includes eNBs 602a and 604a and UE 606a. In system
600a, UE 606a is configured with two serving cells on two different carrier
frequencies. The UE 606a transmits and receives signals to/from the macro eNB 602a
on carrier frequencies fl-DL and fl-UL, respectively. The UE 606a transmits and
receives signals to/from the pico eNB 604a on carrier frequencies f2-DL and f2-UL,
respectively.
        FIGURE 6B illustrates a time division duplex (TDD) inter-eNB CA system
600b. The system 600b includes eNBs 602b and 604b and UE 606b. In some
embodiments, in system 600b, UE 606b is configured with two serving cells on two
different carrier frequencies. The UE 606b transmits and receives signals to/from the
macro eNB 602b on carrier frequencies F1, and the UE 606b transmits and receives

signals to/from the pico eNB 604b on carrier frequencies F2.
         FIGURE 6C illustrates an FDD inter-eNB CoMP system 600c. The system
600c includes eNBs 602c and 604c and UE 606c. In some embodiments, the UE 606c
is configured to support simultaneous reception of 2 PDSCHs from two serving cells
(such as the macro and pico cells) on the same carrier frequency, fl -DL for DL and
fl-UL for UL.
         FIGURE 6D illustrates a TDD inter-eNB CoMP system 600d. The system 600d
includes eNBs 602d and 604d and UE 606d. In some embodiments, the UE 606d is
configured with a transmission mode (TM) supporting reception of 2 PDSCHs from
two serving cells (such as the macro and pico cells) on the same carrier frequency, F 1.
         For the operations described in FIGURES 6A through 6D, in some
embodiments, the UE may be configured with two serving cells (operating in two
carrier frequencies in the cases of FIGURES 6A and 6B or in the same carrier
frequency in the cases of FIGURES 6C and 6D) according to 3GPP LTE Rel-10
carrier-aggregation specifications. In the Rel- 10 carrier aggregation, the assumption is
that two cells are either co-located in a single site or, while not co-located, the backhaul
delay is negligible (or the signaling delay between the two cells is significantly less
than one subframe) so that the two cells in two different sites can operate as if they are
in a single site. In such an example, the downlink/uplink scheduling information (such
as for PDSCH and PUSCH) of the two cells are dynamically available at each of the
two cells.
         There are several Rel-10 carrier aggregation operations that rely on the
assumption of the dynamically available scheduling information. One such example is
PUCCH HARQ-ACK transmissions. In Rel-10, PUCCH can be transmitted only on
the primary cell (Pcell) out of the two cells. A PUCCH resource in response to
dynamically scheduled PDSCHs is determined by at least one of the dynamically
available information, such as a CCE index of a PDCCH scheduling the PDSCH in the
Pcell, a state of a TPC field in the PDCCH scheduling the secondary cell's (Scell's)
PDSCH, and/or the like.
         FIGURES 7A-7B illustrate a primary CA group (PCG) 702 and a secondary
CA group (SCG) 704 according to an advantageous embodiment of the present
disclosure. In an embedment, the association of cell(s) with the special cell(s) can be
realized by grouping cells configured to the UE into one or more CA groups. A CA
group can contain one or more than one cells. The cells that are grouped into a CA
group are associated with a particular eNodeB (e.g. either serving eNodeB or drift
eNodeB). The Uplink Control Information (UCI) (e.g. HARQ-ACK, CSI) for the
SCell(s) in one CA group, is transmitted to the cell(s) belonging to the same CA group.
In other words, the UCI for cell(s) in one CA group may never be transmitted to the
cell(s) in another CA group.
         In an embodiment, the CA group comprising of the PCell may be referred to as
the Primary CA group (PCG) and the CA group not comprising of the PCell may be
referred to as the Secondary CA group (SCG). There may be one PCG but there can be

zero, one, or more than one SCG. In an embodiment, the eNodeB handling the PCG
may be referred to as the PCG eNodeB, and the eNodeB handling the SCG may be
referred to as the SCG eNodeB.
        In an embodiment, FIG. 7A illustrates a configuration of primary 702a and
secondary 704a CA groups (CG) for inter-eNB CA scenarios. Primary CG 702a and
second CG 704a are sometimes called CG1 and CG2, respectively. Assuming
coordination over X2 interface, Rel-10/ 11 basic CA framework can be maintained but
enhanced with eNB-centric procedures:
     " 'Main' RRC connection to the macro cell (cell 1), 'sub'-RRC connection to the
        small cell (or pico, or cell 2).
            (a) Still only one real RRC connection, i.e. RAN node having a signaling
                 connection to the CN.
     " Carriers are grouped based on their associations with eNBs: Primary Carrier
        Group (PCG) and one or more Secondary Carrier Group (SCG).
     " No cross carrier scheduling possible between CGs. Cross carrier scheduling
        within each CG is still possible .
     e  The UL carriers of respective CG should belong to different Timing Advance
        Groups (TAG).
     * Random access procedures performed fully in respective CG.
     * UCIs belonging to different CG are transmitted in the UL carrier(s) of
respective CG.
        In an embodiment, FIG. 7B illustrates a configuration of 1st 702b and 2 704b
primary CA groups for inter-eNB CA scenarios. 1st PCG 702b and the 2nd PCG 704b
are sometimes called CG1 and CG2, respectively. Assume no coordination over X2
interface (however coordination may be possible over S1), each CG is independently
RRC connected (dual RRC connections).
     * RRC connection state of each cell at a given time can be different.
            (a) If both RRC connected, two C-RNTIs
            (b) Amount of traffic going through each eNB is controlled at S-GW.
        In an embodiment, it is also possible to define a CG to be the same as a Timing
Advance Group (TAG) with the properties as described above for CG.
        Physical channels to carry UCI:
        Aperiodic CSI is carried on a PUSCH, regardless of whether HARQ-ACK/SR
is fed back in the same subframe or not for the same CG.
        HARQ-ACK/SR is carried on PUCCH format 1/la/lb/3 and PUCCH format lb
with channel selection if not multiplexed with periodic CSI and if no PUSCH is
scheduled in the same CG; on PUCCH format 2a/2b/3 if multiplexed with periodic CSI
and if no PUSCH is scheduled in the same CG; on PUSCH if at least one PUSCH is
scheduled in the same CG.
        Periodic CSI is carried in PUCCH format 2 if no PUSCH is scheduled in the
same CG; on PUSCH if at least one PUSCH is scheduled in the same CG.
        Periodic CSI prioritization/dropping rule

       REF3 describes the following on the periodic CSI feedback.
       The following CQI/PMI and RI reporting types with distinct periods and offsets
are supported for the PUCCH CSI reporting modes given in Table 7.2.2-3:
    e   Type 1 report supports CQI feedback for the UE selected sub-bands
    e   Type la report supports subband CQI and second PMI feedback
    * Type 2, Type 2b, and Type 2c report supports wideband CQI and PMI feedback
    * Type 2a report supports wideband PMI feedback
    * Type 3 report supports RI feedback
    * Type 4 report supports wideband CQI
    * Type 5 report supports RI and wideband PMI feedback
    * Type 6 report supports RI and PTI feedback
Table 1 represents PUCCH Reporting Type Payload size per PUCCH Reporting Mode
and Mode State:

                                                       PUCCH Reporting Modes
PUCCH                                               Mode     Mode      Mode    Mode
Reporting Reported             Mode State            1-1       2-1      1-0     2-0
  Type                                              (bits/   (bits/   (bits/  (bits/
                                                     BP)     BP)      BP)     BP)
                                  RI = 1             NA       4+L      NA       4+L
    1     Sub-band
              CQI                 RI> 1              NA       7+L      NA       4+L
          Sub-band       8 antenna ports RI = 1      NA       8+L      NA       NA
               QI /   8 antenna ports I < RI < 5     NA       9+L      NA       NA
     a
             second      8 antenna ports RI > 4      NA       7+L      NA       NA
              PMa
                        2 antenna ports RI =1         6         6      NA       NA
                        4 antenna ports RI = 1        8         8      NA       NA
    2     Wideband
          CQI/PMI       2 antenna ports RI > 1        8         8      NA       NA
                        4 antenna ports RI > 1        11        11     NA       NA
                                          RI < 3     NA         4      NA       NA
          Wideband       8 antenna ports
   2a      first PMI  8 antenna ports 2   < RI <8    NA         2      NA       NA
                         8 antenna ports  RI = 8     NA         0      NA       NA
          Wideband       8 antenna ports  RI = 1      8         8      NA       NA
                      8 antenna ports 1 < RI < 4      11        11     NA       NA
   2b         CQI /
             second      8 antenna ports RI = 4       10        10     NA       NA
              PMI        8 antenna ports RI > 4       7         7      NA       NA
          Wideband       8 antenna ports RI = 1       8       NA       NA       NA
          CQI / first 8 antenna ports 1 < RI s 4      11      NA       NA       NA
   2c        PMI /    8 antenna ports 4 < RI s 7      9       NA       NA       NA
             second
              PMI        8 antenna ports RI= 8        7       NA       NA       NA
                      2/4 antenna ports, 2-layer       1
                          spatial multiplexing
                        8 antenna ports, 2-layer       1      NA       NA       NA
                          spatial multiplexing
    3          RI      4 antenna ports, 4-layer       2         2        2       2
                          spatial multiplexing
                        8 antenna ports, 4-layer      2       NA       NA       NA
                          spatial multiplexing
                             8-layer spatial          3       NA       NA       NA
                              multiplexing
    4     Wideband           RI= 1 or RI>1           NA       NA         4       4
              CQI
                        8 antenna ports, 2-layer
                                                      4
            RI! first      spatial multiplexing
              PMI        8 antenna ports, 4 and               NA       NA       NA
                             8-layer spatial          5
                              multiplexing
                        8 antenna ports, 2-layer     NA         2      NA       NA
                          spatial multiplexing
    6       RIPTI       8 antenna ports, 4-layer     NA         3      NA       NA
                          spatial multiplexing
                        8 antenna ports, 8-layer     NA         4      NA       NA
                          spatial multiplexing    I        I        I        I_      I

                                             -I"
         In case of collision of a CSI report with PUCCH reporting type 3, 5, or 6 of one
serving cell with a CSI report with PUCCH reporting type 1, la, 2, 2a, 2b, 2c, or 4 of
the same serving cell the latter CSI report with PUCCH reporting type (1, la, 2, 2a, 2b,
2c, or 4) has lower priority and is dropped.
         For a serving cell and UE configured in transmission mode 10, in case of
collision between CSI reports of same serving cell with PUCCH reporting type of the
same priority, and the CSI reports corresponding to different CSI processes, the CSI
reports corresponding to all CSI processes except the CSI process with the lowest
CSIProcessIndex are dropped.
         If the UE is configured with more than one serving cell, the UE transmits a CSI
report of only one serving cell in any given subframe. For a given subframe, in case of
collision of a CSI report with PUCCH reporting type 3, 5, 6, or 2a of one serving cell
with a CSI report with PUCCH reporting type 1, 1a, 2, 2b, 2c, or 4 of another serving
cell, the latter CSI with PUCCH reporting type (1, 1a, 2, 2b, 2c, or 4) has lower priority
and is dropped. For a given subframe, in case of collision of CSI report with PUCCH
reporting type 2, 2b, 2c, or 4 of one serving cell with CSI report with PUCCH reporting
type 1 or 1a of another serving cell, the latter CSI report with PUCCH reporting type 1,
or 1a has lower priority and is dropped.
         For a given subframe and UE configured in transmission mode 1-9 for all
serving cells, in case of collision between CSI reports of different serving cells with
PUCCH reporting type of the same priority, the CSI of the serving cell with lowest
ServCellIndex is reported, and CSI of all other serving cells are dropped.
         For a given subframe and serving cells with UE configured in transmission
mode 10, in case of collision between CSI reports of different serving cells with
PUCCH reporting type of the same priority and the CSI reports corresponding to CSI
processes with same CSIProcessIndex, the CSI reports of all serving cells except the
serving cell with lowest ServCellIndex are dropped.
         For a given subframe and serving cells with UE configured in transmission
mode 10, in case of collision between CSI reports of different serving cells with
PUCCH reporting type of the same priority and the CSI reports corresponding to CSI
processes with different CSIProcessIndex, the CSI reports of all serving cells except
the serving cell with CSI reports corresponding to CSI process with the lowest
CSIProcessIndex are dropped.
         For a given subframe, in case of collision between CSI report of a given serving
cell with UE configured in transmission mode 1-9, and CSI report(s) corresponding to
CSI process(es) of a different serving cell with the UE configured in transmission
mode 10, and the CSI reports of the serving cells with PUCCH reporting type of the
same priority, the CSI report(s) corresponding to CSI process(es) with
CSIProcessIndex > 1 of the different serving cell are dropped.
         For a given subframe, in case of collision between CSI report of a given serving
cell with UE configured in transmission mode 1-9, and CSI report corresponding to

                                           -1 /
CSI process with CSIProcessIndex = 1 of a different serving cell with the UE
configured in transmission mode 10, and the CSI reports of the serving cells with
PUCCH reporting type of the same priority, the CSI report of the serving cell with
highest ServCellIndex is dropped.
         In REF 3, the prioritization of one type of periodic CSI over another is
described in a way that the de-prioritized CSI is always dropped. However, in some
embodiments of the current disclosure, the de-prioritized CSI is differently handled
even if the same prioritization rules are considered.
         When the UE in FIG. 6 operates in one of the configurations in FIG. 7, the
PUCCH transmissions for the two CGs are independently configured, and hence the
UE may be scheduled to transmit two PUCCHs on the two UL Pcells in the two CGs in
a subframe. The UE's transmitting two PUCCHs in one subframe can be problematic,
because the UE may experience power limitation in the subframe. When the UE is
power limited, the UE cannot transmit the two PUCCHs with fully configured power,
and the UE may have to reduce the power of at least one of the PUCCHs to meet the
UE's power class (e.g., the UE's total transmission power cannot exceed 23 dBm, or
Pcmax < 23dBm). When the power-reduced PUCCH is received together with other
full-power PUCCH at an eNB, the power-reduced PUCCH may not be as reliably
received as the full-power PUCCH, especially when the power-reduced PUCCH and
the full-power PUCCH are transmitted in a same pair of PRBs. This issue is similar to
near-far effects happening in CDMA systems.
         To resolve the "near-far" effects, it is proposed that at least in case of power
limitation, the UE drops one PUCCH out of the two scheduled PUCCHs and transmits
only one PUCCH according to a PUCCH prioritization rule.
         FIGURE 8 illustrates an example process 800 for Collision handling when
multiple PUCCHs are scheduled in a subframe according to an embodiment of this
disclosure. The processes depicted here could be used by any suitable devices, such as
the eNBs and UEs in FIGURE 6.
         In an embodiment, consider a UE in FIG. 6 operating in one of the
configurations in FIG. 7. In operations 802 and 804, the UE is scheduled to transmit a
set of UCI (e.g., HARQ-ACK, CSI, SR, or the like) to each of the CGs 1 and 2 in
subframe n. Additionally, no PUSCHs have been scheduled for the UE to be
transmitted in subframe n. In an embodiment, for each CG, a subset of UCI is selected
from the set of UCI intended for the CG, and a PUCCH format to carry the subset of
UCI is determined, according to Rel- 11 CA procedure.
         In operation 806, the UE selects one out of the two PUCCHs to transmit in
subframe n. The selected PUCCH is determined according to a prioritization rule and
the other PUCCH is dropped.
         FIGURE 9 illustrates an example process 900 for Collision handling when
multiple PUCCHs are scheduled in a subframe according to an embodiment of this
disclosure. The processes depicted here could be used by any suitable devices, such as
the eNBs and UEs in FIGURE 6.

                                            -10
         In an embodiment, consider a UE in FIG. 6 operating in one of the
configurations in FIG. 7. In operations 902 and 904, the UE is scheduled to transmit a
set of UCI (e.g., HARQ-ACK, CSI, SR, or the like) to each of the CGs 1 and 2 in
subframe n. Additionally, no PUSCHs have been scheduled for the UE to be
transmitted in subframe n. In an embodiment, for each CG, a subset of UCI is selected
from the set of UCI intended for the CG, and a PUCCH format to carry the subset of
UCI is determined, according to Rel- 11 CA procedure.
         Furthermore, the UE operation of transmitting PUCCH in the subframe
depends upon whether the UE is power-limited in the current subframe or not. The UE
is said power-limited if total power, i.e., the sum of the individually calculated two
PUCCHs' powers is greater than the UE's power class, or cmAx(O dB (or PcmAxI(') in
linear scale). In operation 906, if the UE is not power limited, then at operation 908, the
two PUCCHs are simultaneously transmitted on their respective CGs. In operation 906,
if the UE is power limited, then at operation 910, the UE transmits, in operation 912,
only one of the two PUCCHs, where in operation 910, the one selected PUCCH is
determined according to a prioritization rule. In one or more embodiments, the term
"selected" may be a prioritization of one PUCCH over another. For example, power
may be allocated to a selected PUCCH with remaining power allocated to any other
PUCCHs.
         For processes 800 and 900, a prioritization rule for the colliding PUCCHs has
to be defined. In this application, we propose the following for that.
         In an embodiment, PUCCH format dependent prioritization exists where one
PUCCH format is prioritized over another PUCCH format.
         PUCCH formats carrying HARQ-ACK can be regarded as more important for
the system operation than PUCCH formats carrying CSI. Hence, a PUCCH format
carrying HARQ-ACK is prioritized over a PUCCH format carrying CSI.
         For example, PUCCH format la/lb is prioritized over PUCCH format 2.
         Between PUCCH formats carrying HARQ-ACK, PUCCH formats for CA are
prioritized over PUCCH formats for non-CA, as the PUCCH formats for CA carry
more information than the PUCCH formats for non-CA.
         For example, PUCCH format 3 used for carrying HARQ-ACK and PUCCH
format la/lb with channel selection is prioritized over PUCCH format la/lb.
         Between a PUCCH format carrying multiple types of information (e.g.,
HARQ-ACK and CSI) and a PUCCH format carrying a single type of information, the
PUCCH format carrying multiple types of information is prioritized, for minimizing
the loss.
         For example, PUCCH format 2a/2b is prioritized over PUCCH format la/lb
and PUCCH format 2.
         For example, PUCCH format 3 carrying HARQ-ACK and CSI is prioritized
over PUCCH format 3 carrying HARQ-ACK only.
         Between PUCCH format 1 (only positive SR) and PUCCH format 2 (only
periodic CSI), positive SR is prioritized.

                                            -1 7
         In this embodiment, the UE can send positive SR without interruption owing to
CSI feedback in another CG.
         Considering these three prioritization principles, alternatives for the complete
prioritization list are summarized below (where 'A<B' means that A has smaller
priority than B):
         Alt 1: PUCCH format 2 < PUCCH format 1 < PUCCH format l a/lb < PUCCH
format 2a/2b < PUCCH format la/lb with channel selection < PUCCH format 3
carrying HARQ-ACK only < PUCCH format 3 carrying HARQ-ACK and CSI.
         Here, between two PUCCH formats used for HARQ-ACK in CA, PUCCH
format 3 is prioritized over PUCCH format la/lb with channel selection because
PUCCH format 3 can potentially carry more HARQ-ACK information bits than
PUCCH format la/lb with channel selection.
         Alt 2: PUCCH format 2 < PUCCH format 1 < PUCCH format la/lb < PUCCH
format 2a/2b < PUCCH format la/lb with channel selection = PUCCH format 3
carrying HARQ-ACK only < PUCCH format 3 carrying HARQ-ACK and CSI.
         Here, the two PUCCH formats used for HARQ-ACK in CA are equally
         prioritized.
         Alt 3: PUCCH format 2 < PUCCH format 1; and a PUCCH format conveying a
larger HARQ-ACK payload is prioritized over a PUCCH format conveying a smaller
HARQ-ACK payload. The HARQ-ACK payload is determined by a number of
configured cells in a CG, a respective PDSCH transmission mode (conveying either
one or two transport blocks) and, for a TDD system, a maximum number of DL
subframes for which a UE transmits HARQ-ACK in an UL subframe (this maximum
number of DL subframes is also referred to as a bundling window).
         Tie-breaking rules: The PUCCH format dependent prioritization can be firstly
used to determine which PUCCH format to transmit in the subframe. However, it may
happen that the two PUCCHs have the same PUCCH format or that two PUCCHs may
have the same priority (e.g. as in Alt 2 above). Then tie-breaking rules are necessary for
the UE to determine the PUCCH to transmit in the subframe.
         Between two identical PUCCH formats for HARQ-ACK/SR, or two PUCCH
formats for HARQ-ACK/SR with the same priority: Two alternatives are considered.
         Alt 1: PUCCH scheduled in the CG with a lower CG index among the two
configured CGs is transmitted. Alternatively, when PCG and SCG are configured,
PCG is prioritized over SCG, and only the PUCCH scheduled in the PCG is transmitted.
This is beneficial if the SCG is primarily used to carry best-effort traffic and the PCG is
primarily used to carry traffic with more stringent QoS requirement.
         Alt 2: First compare the number of HARQ-ACK bits in the two PUCCHs; if a
first PUCCH carries more HARQ-ACK bits than a second PUCCH, only the first
PUCCH is transmitted. Here, the number of HARQ-ACK bits may imply the number
of configured HARQ-ACK bits, calculated based upon the configured TMs in the
configured serving cells and, for a TDD system, the bundling window size. If the first
and the second PUCCHs carry the same number of HARQ-ACK bits, PUCCH in the

CG with a lower CG index among the two configured CGs is transmitted; or
alternatively, PCG is prioritized over SCG, and only the PUCCH scheduled in the PCG
is transmitted.
         Between two identical PUCCH formats for CSI, or two PUCCH formats for
CSI with the same priority:
         Alt 1: PUCCH scheduled in the CG with a lower CG index among the two
configured CGs is transmitted. When PCG and SCG are configured, PCG is prioritized
over SCG, and only the PUCCH scheduled in the PCG is transmitted. This is beneficial
if the SCG is primarily used to carry best-effort traffic and the PCG is primarily used to
carry traffic with more stringent QoS requirement.
         Alt 2: First compare CSI type carried in the two scheduled PUCCHs; if a first
PUCCH carries more prioritized CSI type than a second PUCCH, only the first
PUCCH is transmitted (See the background section of Periodic CSI dropping rule). If
the first and the second PUCCHs carry the same type of CSI, PUCCH in the CG with a
lower CG index among the two configured CGs is transmitted; or alternatively, PCG is
prioritized over SCG, and only the PUCCH scheduled in the PCG is transmitted.
         In another alternative, we may consider an RRC-configuration based
prioritization. In one example, CGs are configured with CG indices. The PUCCH
scheduled in a CG with the smallest index is prioritized over the other PUCCHs.
         Power allocation when PUCCH and PUSCH with UCI are scheduled in a
subframe
         Consider a UE in FIG. 6 operating in one of the configurations in FIG. 7.
Suppose the UE is scheduled to transmit a set of UCI (HARQ-ACK, CSI, SR, or the
like) to each of CGs 1 and 2 in subframe n. Further suppose that at least one PUSCH for
a first CG has been scheduled for the UE to be transmitted in subframe n, but the UE is
not scheduled to transmit any PUSCHs on a second CG.
         Then, for the second CG (without PUSCH), a subset of UCI is selected from the
set of UCI intended for the CG, and a PUCCH format to carry the subset of UCI is
determined, according to the Rel- 11 CA procedure. In addition, for the first CG (with
PUSCH(s)), a subset of UCI is selected from the UCI intended for the CG and
multiplexed on one selected PUSCH according to the Rel-1 1 CA procedure.
         At times, e.g., at subframe i, the sum of the powers for PUCCH and PUSCH
with UCI may exceed the UE's power class PcmAx(1) (i.e., the UE is power limited). To
resolve the power limitation in this embodiment, two alternative methods, i.e., Method
3 and Method 4 are considered.
         Method 3: When power-limited, the power prioritization is that PUCCH >
PUSCH with UCI> PUSCH without UC!. In this embodiment, a PUSCH transmission
with UCI in serving cell j and the other PUSCH transmission without UCIs in any of
the remaining serving cells on the first CG should be power-controlled so that the total
transmit power of the UE would not exceed pCMAX(         , as in the following:
         Firstly, assign full power PUCCH(')  on the PUCCH.

           Secondly, give the smaller of the full power PUSCH,j                                 and the remaining
power, to PUSCH with UCI in serving cell j.
           Finally, equally scale the remaining power to PUSCHs without UCI in serving
cell c's.
           In this embodiment, the UE obtains                    PUSCH,j(i)   and     PUSCH,c (') according to
                                  PU SCHJ   r  = mi   (PUSCHj   (0)      (CIAX      PUCCH(0))
                     and
                                  IW(i)      .PUSCHc   r    (PCtAX(I)    -PUCCH(')     -  PUSCH,j (0)
                                  c#j
           where       'PUCCH(')      is the linear value of PUCCHQ)           '7PUSCH,c (')  is the linear value of
 PPUSCH,c(')    PMAX(i)       is the linear value of the UE total configured maximum output
power Pcumx defined in REF6 in subframe i and 'V)                           is a scaling factor of PUSCH,c ( for
serving cell       c  where 0           w(i) 51. In case there is no PUCCH transmission in subframe
i,   PUCCH()=.
           Method 4: When power limited, power prioritization is dependent upon the
contents of the UCI carried on the PUSCH and the PUCCH.
           When PUCCH is prioritized over PUSCH with UCI, the UE obtains PUSCH,J
and    PPU SCH,c (i) according to
                                  PUj SCHC i =   mi   (PPUSCH,j @,   (PC(IAX        PUCCH(i)))
                     and
                                  YW(') -PUSCH,c            (PCIAX          PUCCH(')   -  PUSCH,j (0)
                                  c#j
           On the other hand, when PUSCH with UCI is prioritized over PUCCH, two
alternatives are considered.
           In one alternative (PUCCH Power Allocation Alt 1), the UE obtains PUSCH,j()
and    PPU SCH,c(')according           to
                                PPUCCH(') =     mm   (APUCCH('), (CMAX            PUSCH,J
                     and
                                  YZW(i) - PUSCH,c          (PCM/iAX         P()
                                                                         -'%UCCH(')    -  PUSCH,j (0)
                                  cxj
           This alternative ensures that the less-prioritized PUCCH is still transmitted,
even if the transmission power is reduced.
           In another alternative (PUCCH Power Allocation Alt 2), the PUCCH is
transmitted only when the UL transmission is not power limited; the PUCCH is
dropped when the UL transmission is power limited. In other words, the UE obtains
   PPUSCHj      and      PIUSCH,c      according to

                         PUCCH       PUCCH')'   f PUSCHj       PUCCH(     ]CMAX(i)
                                        0                  otherwise
               and
                         IW(i)  'PUSCHc       CMAX    -  PUCCH(I) -   PUSCH,j (0)
         According to this alternative, the PUCCH is transmitted with its full power
whenever the PUCCH is transmitted, and the PUCCH is dropped (or is assigned with
zero power) when the remaining power after allocating full power to fPUSCHj() is not
sufficient to transmit the PUCCH with the full power. This method eliminates the
near-far effect.
         In one alternative, a PUSCH with UCI is prioritized over a PUCCH in at least
one of the following cases:
         The PUSCH carries aperiodic CSI.
         The PUSCH is transmitted in the CG with lower index than the CG in which the
PUCCH is scheduled.
         The eNB can configure CG indices for the configured CGs.
         The PUSCH carries UCI with higher priority than the UCI carried by the
PUCCH
         For example, the PUSCH carries HARQ-ACK and the PUCCH does not carry
HARQ-ACK.
         For example, the PUSCH carries HARQ-ACK with higher payload than the
HARQ-ACK carried by the PUCCH
         Otherwise, the PUCCH is prioritized over the PUSCH with UC!.
         Aperiodic CSI is most prioritized so that an eNB can expect to receive
aperiodic CSI whenever the eNB has triggered the aperiodic CSI in a respective CG.
Between HARQ-ACK/SR and periodic CSI, HARQ-ACK/SR is prioritized to ensure
reliable HARQ operation.
         Power allocation when at least two PUSCHs with UCI are scheduled in a
subframe
         Consider a UE in FIG. 6 operating in one of the configurations in FIG. 7.
Suppose the UE is scheduled to transmit a set of UCI (HARQ-ACK, CSI, SR, or the
like) to each of CGs 1 and 2 in subframe n. Further suppose that at least one PUSCH for
each of a first CG and a second CG has been scheduled for the UE to be transmitted in
subframe n.
         For each of the first and the second CGs (with PUSCH(s)), a subset of UCI is
selected from the UCI intended for the CG and multiplexed on one selected PUSCH
according to the Rel-1 1 CA procedure.
         At times, e.g., at subframe i, the sum of the powers for PUCCH and PUSCH
with UCI may exceed the UE's power class PcMAx(), i.e., the UE is power limited. In
this embodiment, PUSCH transmissions with UCI in serving cell jI and serving cell j2
the other PUSCH transmission without UCIs in any of the remaining serving cells

should be power-controlled so that the total transmit power of the UE would not exceed
  CMAX(1)  . The set of serving cell indices for carrying PUSCHs with UCI are denoted by
J, which is J = {jl, j2} in this embodiment.
          Two alternative methods for resolving the power limitation issue, i.e., Method
5 and Method 6 are considered as in the following.
          Method 5: When power limited, the two PUSCHs with UCI are equally
prioritized over the PUSCHs without UCI in the power control, as in the following:
          If the sum of the two PUSCH transmission powers in serving cell jI and j2
exceeds total power (i.e.,          PUSCH,j  () +PUSCHj    () > PCMAX ()       ), then, apply the same
scaling factor       ) for the PUSCHs with UCI so that the total power does not exceed
                       W(i)-  PU SCHj         CMAX()
 ICMAX(i)   (i.e.,                                   ), and assign 0 power to the other PUSCHs.
          Otherwise, firstly assign full power to PUSCH transmissions with UCI in
serving cell jI and j2; then equally split the remaining power to PUSCHs without UCI
                                  W(i)  NPUSCH,(')       CMAX           PPUSCHj)
in serving cell c's (i.e., "*'                                      J''               ).
          Method 6: When power limited, power allocation to a PUSCH carrying UCI
with higher priority is more prioritized, than the UCI carried by the other PUSCH.
          When PUSCH in serving cell jI is prioritized over PUSCH in serving cell j2 in
the power allocation, the power control is performed according to the following:
          If the sum of the two PUSCH transmission powers in serving cell jI and j2
exceeds total power (i.e., PUSCH,j, ()          PUSCHJj () > PCMAX ()      ), then, assign full power to
the PUSCH in serving cell jI, and assign the remaining power to the PUSCHs in
serving cell j2 (i.e., PUSCHj2 0PUSCH,j2 0 P                                           II),  and assign 0
power to the other PUSCHs.
          Otherwise, first assign full power to PUSCH transmissions with UCI in serving
cell jI and j2; then apply the same scaling factor 'V) for the PUSCHs without UCI in
serving      cell c's so that the total power does not exceed                               PCMAX(')  (i.e.,
  Y W(i) PPUSCH,c ()         CMAX           PUSCHj
          In one alternative UCI prioritization, aperiodic CSI (with/without
HARQ-ACK/SR) > HARQ-ACK/SR (with or without periodic CSI) > Periodic CSI
(without HARQ-ACK).
          When all the PUSCHs with UCI carry the same priority UCI, alternative
methods for the power limitation case are:
          Alt 1: The same scaling factor is applied to the PUSCHs with UCI so that the
                                                                         t    t(i)-    dP
                                                                                     USCHej      CMAX
total transmission power does not exceed              CMAx(')  (ie.                                       )c'

         Alt 2: The PUSCH transmitted in the PCG is prioritized and the PUSCH
transmitted in the SCG is allocated the remaining power or its transmission is
suspended by the UE.
         Alt 3: The UE decides which of the PUSCHs to prioritize depending upon the
contents of the UCI.
         When the same priority UCI is HARQ-ACK/SR, one PUSCH carrying more
number of HARQ-ACK bits is prioritized over another PUSCH in the power allocation.
When the numbers of HARQ-ACK bits are identical for all the PUSCHs with UCI, one
of Alt 1 or Alt 2 is used for the power allocation.
         When the same priority UCI is periodic CSI, one PUSCH carrying more
prioritized periodic CSI according to Rel- 11 periodic CSI prioritization/dropping rule
is prioritized over another PUSCH in the power allocation. When the types of periodic
CSI are identical, one of Alt 1 or Alt 2 is used for the power allocation.
         Embodiment: CG-prioritization-index based prioritization
         For simplicity, we propose CG-prioritization-index based prioritization for
UCI transmission. Here, it is noted that the eNB can configure CG-prioritization-index
for the configured CGs in the higher layer (e.g., RRC). We denote the RRC
information element (IE) configuring a CG by CG-Config.
         In one alternative, the CG-prioritization-index is the same as the CG index
(CG-Identity), and it is not explicitly signaled. In this embodiment, the CG-Config may
look like:
                CG-Config {
                CG-Identity      Integer
                }
         In one example, CG-Identity for the PCG has the smallest value among the
configured CG-Identity values. In another example CG-Identity for the PCG is equal to
0 and CG-Identity for SCGs is greater than O.In one alternative, the
CG-prioritization-index (CG-Prioritization-Identity) is configured as a field in the IE
configuring a CG. In this embodiment, the CG-Config may look like:
                CG-Config {
                CG-Identity      Integer
                CG-Prioritization-Identity     Integer
                }
         In one alternative, two CG-prioritization-indices are configured per CG, one for
HARQ-ACK (CG-Prioritization-HARQ-ACK-Identity) and the other for periodic CSI
(CG-Prioritization-PCSI-Identity). In this embodiment, the CG-Config may look like:
                CG-Config {

                 CG-Identity         Integer
                 CG-Prioritization-HARQ-ACK-Identity                   Integer
                 CG-Prioritization-PCSI-Identity            Integer
                 }
         When two PUCCHs are scheduled in a subframe for the UE:
         In one alternative, the PUCCH scheduled in a CG with the lowest
CG-prioritization-index is transmitted, while the other PUCCHs are dropped.
         In another alternative, when power is not limited, both PUCCHs are transmitted;
when power is limited, the PUCCH scheduled in a CG with the lowest
CG-prioritization-index is transmitted, while the other PUCCHs are dropped.
         When power limited, when PUCCHs and PUSCHs with UCI are scheduled for
the UE in a subframe, between the PUxCHs for UCI transmission, the PUxCH
scheduled in a CG with a lower CG-prioritization-index is prioritized in power
allocation. In case PUSCHs without UCI are also scheduled in the same subframe, the
remaining power after allocating the power to the PUxCH(s) are allocated to the
PUSCHs without UCI, applying equal power scaling.
         When power limited, when two PUSCHs with UCI are scheduled for the UE in
a subframe, the two PUSCHs with UCI are prioritized over PUSCHs without UCI in
the power allocation. Between the PUSCHs with UCI, the PUSCH with UCI carried in
the CG with smaller CG-prioritization-index is prioritized over the other PUSCH.
         If the sum of the two PUSCH transmission powers in serving cell jI and j2,
exceeds total power (i.e.,       PUSCH,j, 0   PU SCH,   0 > PCMAX(0)    ), then, assign full power to
the PUSCH in serving cell j = min(j 1, j2) and assign the remaining power to the
PUSCHs in the other serving cell (for example, if j='1 then the other serving cell isj2,
and    PUSCH,j 2           PUSCH,j        CMAX(') -   USCH,     ) and assign 0 power to the other
PUSCHs.
         Otherwise, firstly assign full power to PUSCH transmissions with UCI in
serving cell jI and j2; then equally split the remaining power to PUSCHs without UCI
                                 W(O   -PUSCH,c')       CM AX)  -1PPUSCHj
in serving cell c's (i.e.,     '                                   E')
         FIGURE 10 illustrates an example process 1000 for overall CG prioritization
rule for UCI transmissions according to an embodiment of this disclosure. The
processes depicted here could be used by any suitable devices, such as the eNBs and
UEs in FIGURE 6.
         In an embodiment, In an embodiment, consider a UE in FIG. 6 operating in one
of the configurations in FIG. 7. In operations 1002 and 1004, the UE is scheduled to
transmit a set of UCI (e.g., HARQ-ACK, CSI, SR, or the like) to each of the CGs 1 and
2 in subframe n. Additionally, no PUxCHs have been scheduled for the UE to be
transmitted in subframe n. In an embodiment, for each CG, a subset of UCI is selected
from the set of UCI intended for the CG, and a PUxCH format to carry the subset of

UCI is determined, according to Rel-1 1 CA procedure. PUxCH may be either a
PUSCH or a PUCCH.
         Furthermore, the UE operation of transmitting PUxCH in the subframe depends
upon whether the UE is power-limited in the current subframe or not. The UE is said
power-limited if total power, i.e., the sum of the individually calculated two PUxCHs'
powers is greater than the UE's power class, or dB (or in linear scale). In operation
1006, if the UE is not power limited, then at operation 1008, the two PUxCHs are
simultaneously transmitted on their respective CGs. In operation 1006, if the UE is
power limited, then at operation 1010, the UE transmits only one of the two PUxCHs,
where in operation 1010, the one selected PUxCH is determined according to a
prioritization rule. In one or more embodiments, the term "selected" may be a
prioritization of one PUxCH over another. For example, power may be allocated to a
selected PUxCH with remaining power allocated to any other PUxCHs.
         In operation 1014, a determination is made to whether there are any other
PUSCHs scheduled. If there are not any other PUSCHs scheduled, then in operation
1016, the UE transmits the n PUxCHs. If there are other PUSCHs, then in operation
1018, the UE determines if the UE is power-limited when trying to transmit the
PUSCHs as well as the PUxCHs carrying UCI. If not, then in operation 1020, the UE
assigns full power to the PUSCHs as well as PUxCHs carrying UCI, and transmits all
the physical UL signals. If yes in operation 1018, then the UE applies power scaling for
the PUSCHs, and transmits all the physical UL signals.
         In an embodiment, a UE is configured with Nconf CGs. In one subframe, the
UE is scheduled to transmit CSI in N CGs, where N < Nconf. Relying on the Rel- 11
procedure for each CG, the UE figures out that CSI for NI CGs are supposed to be
carried on PUCCH and the UE figures out that CSI for N2 CGs are supposed to be
carried on PUSCH, where N = NI + N2. Then, the UE applies CG prioritization for
UCI transmissions, as in the following.
         When not power limited, all the scheduled UL physical channels are
transmitted in the subframe.
         The UE is said power-limited in subframe i if total power, i.e., the sum of the
individually calculated scheduled PUxCHs' powers in subframe is greater than the
UE's power class, or cmAX(i) dB (or PcMAx() in linear scale).
         When power limited, the UCI transmitted in a CG in a lower CG index is
prioritized. Among all the N PUxCH carrying UCI (i.e., PUxCH can be either PUCCH
or PUSCH), the UE first tries to assign full power to the one PUxCH carrying UCI
scheduled in the lowest CG index. For PUxCH carrying UCI scheduled in the CG with
the second lowest CG index, the power allocation method is to choose a minimum
value between the scheduled power value for the PUxCH according to the power
control equation, and the remaining power. The power allocation continues in the same
way until either all the PUxCHs carrying UCI are allocated with some powers, or there
is no remaining power.
         This procedure can be represented by the following equation.

                                         (        (             k
                  PPUxCH,Ll         P UxCH,n,(i )CMAX&J       1PUxCH,nj
         Here, n, is the CG index for which the k-th prioritized PUxCH is scheduled.
         In one alternative, n, is the k-th smallest CG-prioritization-index among the N
CG indices.
         In another alternative, the k-th prioritized PUxCH is determined by the UCI
contents, according to the previous methods disclosed in this application. In one
alternative, tie breaks according to the CG-prioritization-index, where a lower CG
index prioritized. In another alternative, tie breaks according to one of the HARQ-ACK
CG-prioritization-index and periodic CSI CG-prioritization-index, depending on the
type of tie. For example, if the tie happens such that both tie CGs carry the periodic CSI
(or HARQ-ACK), then between the two tie CGs, the CG with smallest periodic CSI (or
HARQ-ACK) CG-prioritization-index is prioritized.
         For preventing near-far effects from happening for PUCCH transmissions, we
may further impose a constraint.
         In one alternative, the constraint is such that any PUCCH that cannot be
transmitted with full power is dropped. In other words, if        PUCCH,n[ W calculated from
the above equation is less than the originally calculated power (i.e., PUCCH,n+        on the
right hand side equation), the PUCCH is dropped and zero power is assigned to the
PUCCH.
         In another alternative, the constraint is such that only one PUCCH (the most
prioritized PUCCH) is transmitted in any given subframe. All the other scheduled
PUCCHs will be assigned with zero power. This method is motivated for ensuring a
simple specification.
         If there is any remaining power after allocating power to the N PUxCHs, equal
power scaling is applied to allocate power to PUSCHs without UCI.
         This procedure can be represented by the following equation.
                  jw(i)'PUSCH,c (i)     CMAX (i)-      PUSCH,nj
         FIGURE 11 illustrates an example process 1100 for overall CG prioritization
rule for UCI transmissions according to an embodiment of this disclosure. The
processes depicted here could be used by any suitable devices, such as the eNBs and
UEs in FIGURE 6.
         Process 1100 is similar to process 1000, except in operation 1110, the UE
prioritizes one PUxCH instead of selects.
         In an embodiment, there may be a prioritization rule based on duplexing
scheme/frame structure type. A UE can be configured with multiple cells that include
one or more FDD cells and one or more TDD cells. A different duplexing method
(FDD or TDD) among cells configured to a UE can result in different characteristics
for respective UL transmissions. For a power limited UE, this motivates a dependence

of an UL power allocation method or of a transmission prioritization rule on
characteristics of respective UL transmissions. When the multiple cells are
not-collocated, the UL transmissions should be targeted to their respective carrier
groups. For example, UCI and UL data for a cell in a carrier group should be conveyed
in UL resource belonging to the carrier group.
         FIGURES 12A-12B illustrate example processes 1202 for rule based
prioritization on duplexing scheme/frame structure type according to an embodiment
of this disclosure. The processes depicted here could be used by any suitable devices,
such as the eNBs and UEs in FIGURE 6.
         In process 1200, at operation 1202, the UE determines if it is power-limited
when trying to transmit n scheduled PUxCHs. If the UE is not power-limited, at
operation 1208, the UE transmits all the n PUxCHs with full power. If the UE is
power-limited, then in process 1200a, the UE, at operation 1204, prioritizes the
PUxCH in a TDD cell over an FDD cell. Then, in operation 1206, the UE transmits a m
PUxCHs out of n PUxCHs, where m < n, after applying the prioritization.
         In process 1200b, between operation 1202 and operation 1204, if the UE is
power limited, the UE, at operation 1203b, prioritizes PUxCH in a primary cell.
         In different embodiments, there may be different approaches to power
allocation in the UL.
         Approach 1: UL power allocation to a TDD cell is prioritized over a FDD cell.
This is motivated by the fact that there fewer subframes in a TDD cell than in a FDD
cell for transmitting UCI or UL data and a UCI payload, such as a HARQ-ACK
payload, is often larger in a TDD cell than in a FDD cell (for example, for TDD UL/DL
configurations 1/2/3/4/5). Therefore, an impact from an incorrect reception of UCI or
UL data in a TDD cell can be higher than in a FDD cell and UL power allocation to the
TDD cell can be prioritized.
         Approach 2: UL power allocation in the primary cell in the primary carrier
group is prioritized (regardless of the frame structure type of the cell). Approach 1 can
then applied to the rest of the cells, i.e. TDD cell(s) is(are) prioritized over FDD cell(s).
This can be beneficial because the primary carrier group may deliver important
messages for the UE (control or configuration messages) and therefore the reception
reliability for UCI or UL data to the primary cell should be prioritized.
         Approach 2a: The primary cell is prioritized for UL power allocation.
Approach 1 can then be applied to the rest of the cells. This approach can be applied,
e.g., when a UE is configured with N cells located in N different sites (in other words,
the N cells may belong to N different CGs).
         Embodiment: Prioritization rule based on HARQ-ACK payload size
         In TDD, an H4ARQ-ACK feedback can be in response to multiple PDSCHs in a
bundling window, comprising multiple consecutive downlink subframes. This implies
that an HARQ-ACK feedback associated with a larger bundling window size may
contain more information. Based on this observation, approach 3 and approach 4 are

proposed, as prioritization rules for embodiments corresponding to the FIGURES as
disclosed herein.
        Approach 3: UL power allocation is prioritized for a cell with a larger
maximum bundling window size. If a maximum bundling window size is a same for
two cells, a conventional prioritization or a prioritization as described in previous
embodiments can apply. For TDD, the maximum bundling window size is determined
by the size of the downlink association set, M. Table 2 shows the downlink association
set for different TDD UL-DL configurations [3]. Table 3 shows the maximum M for
each TDD UL-DL configuration, for FDD, and their corresponding priority according
to Approach 3. For example, the maximum bundling window size for a TDD cell with
UL-DL configurations 1/2/3/4/5 is larger than that of a FDD cell and of a TDD cell
with UL-DL configuration 0/6. Hence, a TDD cell with UL-DL configuration 1/2/3/4/5
has higher priority over a FDD cell or a TDD cell with UL-DL configuration 0/6. It is
noted that for Approach 3, a priority for UL power allocation for a TDD cell over a
FDD cell is effectively TDD UL-DL configuration dependent as the FDD cell can have
higher priority than a TDD cell with UL-DL configuration 0/6. Approach 3 can also be
used to determine a priority for UL power allocation between two TDD cells with
different UL-DL configurations.
Table 2: Downlink association set index:
  TDD UL-DL                                   Subframe n
 Configuration 0 1                  2                3      4     5 6        7     8 9
        0          --               6                -      4--              6     - 4
        1          --              7,6               4       -    --       7,6     4
        2          -  -         8,7,4,6              -       -    -  -   8,7,4,6   -
        3          -  -          7,6,11             6,5    5,4    -  -       -     -
        4          -  -        12,8,7,11          6,5,4,7    -    -  -       -     -
        5          -  -  13,12,9,8,7,5,4,11,6        -       -    -  -       -     -
        6          --               7                7      5--              7     7
Table 3: Prioritization according to maximum bundling window size
  TDD UL-DL                                   Subframe n
 Configuration 0 1                  2                3      4     5 6        7     8 9
        0          --               6                -      4--              6     - 4
        1          --              7,6               4       -    --       7,6     4
        2          -  -         8,7,4,6              -       -    -  -   8,7,4,6   -
        3          -  -          7,6,11             6,5    5,4    -  -       -     -
        4          -  -        12,8,7,11          6,5,4,7    -    -  -       -     -
        5          -  -  13,12,9,8,7,5,4,11,6        -       -    -  -       -     -
        6          --               7                7      5--              7     7
        Approach 4: UL power allocation is prioritized for a cell with a larger bundling
window size in a given subframe. For example, for TDD UL-DL configuration 1,

                                            -- 'U
HARQ-ACK transmission in subframe 2 or 7 can have higher priority in a TDD cell
than in a FDD cell since they can have a larger bundling window size.
         Approach 4A: UL power allocation for HARQ-ACK signal transmissions is
prioritized according to the actual HARQ-ACK information payload transmitted by a
UE. The UE, knowing an actual number of HARQ-ACK information bits it transmits
in a respective PUCCH, including HARQ-ACK information bits for which the UE did
not detect a PDCCH as they can be determined by a value of a DAI field in a PDCCH
the UE detects in a subsequent subframe [3], can prioritize power for the PUCCH that
includes a larger number of actual HARQ-ACK information bits in a given subframe.
For example, for a same number of HARQ-ACK information bits per DL subframe, if
in a first cell a UE is configured with TDD UL-DL configuration 2 and in a second cell
the UE is configured with TDD UL-DL configuration 3, the UE can prioritize power
allocation for PUCCH transmissions in UL subframe 2 to the second cell if it includes
respective HARQ-ACK information for all subframes in Table 2 (subframes 7, 6, 11)
while for the first cell it includes respective HARQ-ACK information for only two
subframes (such as subframes 8, 7).
         Approach 5: A network can configure to a UE the UL power allocation
approach (e.g. Approach 1 - 4), for example via RRC.
         Embodiment: Overall prioritization rule for FDD/TDD CA
         A prioritization rule can also be based on combination of frame structure type
and the physical channel type, or combination of frame structure type and the payload
type. Some examples are provided below:
         Approach 6: For prioritizing UL power allocation, PUCCH on TDD cell >
PUCCH on FDD cell > PUSCH on TDD cell > PUSCH on FDD cell (where A > B
indicates A has higher priority over B). This approach gives priority for UL power
allocation first to PUCCH over PUSCH and second to TDD over FDD in order to
ensure the reception reliability for PUCCH regardless of the frame structure type.
         Approach 7: For prioritizing UL power allocation, PUCCH on TDD cell >
PUCCH on FDD cell > PUSCH with UCI on TDD cell > PUSCH with UCI on FDD
cell > PUSCH without UCI on TDD cell > PUSCH without UCI on FDD cell. This
approach is similar to Approach 6 except that PUSCH with UCI is prioritized over
PUSCH without UCI.
         Approach 8: For prioritizing UL power allocation, UCI subframe on TDD cell
> UCI subframe on FDD cell > non-UCI subframe on TDD cell > non-UCI subframe
on FDD cell. This approach gives priority first to UL transmission with UCI over UL
transmission without UCI, and second to TDD over FDD in order to ensure protection
to UCI transmission regardless of the frame structure type.
         Approach 9: For prioritizing UL power allocation, HARQ-ACK transmission
on TDD cell > HARQ-ACK transmission on FDD cell > PUCCH on TDD cell >
PUCCH on FDD cell > PUSCH on TDD cell > PUSCH on FDD cell. This approach
specifically prioritizes HARQ-ACK over other UCI types.

        Approach 10: For prioritizing UL power allocation, HARQ-ACK transmission
on TDD cell > HARQ-ACK transmission on FDD cell > PUCCH on TDD cell >
PUCCH on FDD cell > PUSCH with UCI on TDD cell > PUSCH with UCI on FDD
cell > PUSCH without UCI on TDD cell > PUSCH without UCI on FDD cell. This
approach is similar to Approach 9 except that that PUSCH with UCI is prioritized over
PUSCH without UCI.
        In all approaches above, when two cells are considered to have equal priority
based on the above rules, rules disclosed in previous embodiments can serve for UL
power allocation.
        Although the present disclosure has been described with an exemplary
embodiment, various changes and modifications may be suggested to one skilled in the
art.   It is intended that the present disclosure encompass such changes and
modifications as fall within the scope of the appended claims.
        It is to be understood that, if any prior art publication is referred to herein, such
reference does not constitute an admission that the publication forms a part of the
common general knowledge in the art, in Australia or any other country.

CLAIMS:
      1. A method for power allocation, the method comprising:
      transmitting, with a first power, first uplink control information (UCI) on a first
uplink channel in a first subframe of a first cell group (CG1); and
      transmitting, with a second power, second UCI on a second uplink channel in a
second subframe of a second cell group (CG2),
      wherein the first power and the second power are allocated based on a type of
information included in the first UCI, a type of information included in the second
UCI, a type of the CG1, and a type of the CG2,
      wherein the first subframe of the CG1 is overlapped in time with the second
subframe of the CG2,
      wherein the type of the CG1 or the type of the CG2 is related to a primary cell
group or a secondary cell group, and
      wherein the CG1 and the CG2 are related to dual connectivity.
      2. The method of claim 1, wherein the type of information included in the first
UCI and the type of information included in the second UCI are related to a hybrid
automatic repeat request-acknowledgement (HARQ-ACK).
      3. The method of claim 1, wherein one of allocation on the first power and
allocation on the second power is prioritized over the other one of the allocation on the
first power and the allocation on the second power based on the type of information
included in the first UCI, the type of information included in the second UCI, and the
type of the CG1, and the type of the CG2.
      4. A terminal for power allocation, the terminal comprising:
      a transceiver configured to:
           transmit, with a first power, first uplink control information (UCI), on a first
uplink channel in a first subframe of a first cell group (CG1); and
           transmit, with a second power, second UCI on a second uplink channel in a
second subframe of a second cell group (CG2),
      wherein the first power and the second power are allocated based on a type of
information included in the first UCI, a type of information included in the second
UCI, a type of the CG1, and a type of the CG2,
      wherein the first subframe of the CG1 is overlapped in time with the second
subframe of the CG2,
      wherein the type of the CG 1 or the type of the CG2 is related to a primary cell
group or a secondary cell group, and
      wherein the CG1 and the CG2 are related to dual connectivity.
      5. The terminal of claim 4, wherein the type of information included in the first

UCI and the type of information included in the second UCI are related to a hybrid
automatic repeat request-acknowledgement (HARQ-ACK).
      6. The terminal of claim 4, wherein one of allocation on the first power and
allocation on the second power is prioritized over the other one of the allocation on the
first power and the allocation on the second power based on the type of information
included in the first UCI, the type of information included in the second UCI, and the
type of the CG1, and the type of the CG2.
      7. A method for power allocation, the method comprising:
      receiving first uplink control information (UCI) on a first uplink channel in a first
subframe of a first cell group (CG 1), the first UCI being transmitted with a first power;
and
      receiving second UCI on a second uplink channel in a second subframe of a
second cell group (CG2), the second UCI being transmitted with a second power,
      wherein the first power and the second power are allocated based on a type of
information included in the first UCI, a type of information included in the second
UCI, a type of the CG1, and a type of the CG2,
      wherein the first subframe of the CG 1 is overlapped in time with the second
subframe of the CG2, and
      wherein the type of the CG1 or the type of the CG2 is related to a primary cell
group or a secondary cell group, and
      wherein the CG 1 and the CG2 are related to dual connectivity.
      8. The method of claim 7, wherein the type of information included in the first
UCI and the type of information included in the second UCI are related to a hybrid
automatic repeat request-acknowledgement (HARQ-ACK).
      9. The method of claim 7, wherein one of allocation on the first power and
allocation on the second power is prioritized over the other one of the allocation on the
first power and the allocation on the second power based on the type of information
included in the first UCI, the type of information included in the second UCI, and the
type of the CG1, and the type of the CG2.
      10. A base station for power allocation, the base station comprising:
      a transceiver configured to:
           receive first uplink control information (UCI) on a first uplink channel in a
first subframe of a first cell group (CG1), the first UCI being transmitted with a first
power; and
           receive a second UCI on a second uplink channel in a second subframe of a
second cell group (CG2), the second UCI being transmitted with a second power,
      wherein the first power and the second power are allocated based on a type of

information included in the first UCI, a type of information included in the second
UCI, a type of the CG1, and a type of the CG2,
      wherein the first subframe of the CG1 is overlapped in time with the second
subframe of the CG2,
      wherein the type of the CG1 or the type of the CG2 is related to a primary cell
group or a secondary cell group, and
      wherein the CG 1 and the CG2 are related to dual connectivity.
      11. The base station of claim 10, wherein the type of information included in the
first UCI and the type of information included in the second UCI are related to a hybrid
automatic repeat request-acknowledgement (HARQ-ACK).
      12. The base station of claim 10, wherein one of allocation on the first power and
allocation on the second power is prioritized over the other one of the allocation on the
first power and the allocation on the second power based on the type of information
included in the first UCI, the type of information included in the second UCI, and the
type of the CG1, and the type of the CG2.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
