                                              ABSTRACT
   Methods for preventing or treating motor-related neurological conditions include using ocular
5  light therapy in connection with a conventional therapy for a motor-related neurological
   condition, such as a drug regimen, to adjust levels of melatonin and/or dopamine in the body of a
   subject. The ocular light therapy may include elevated levels of blue-green light or green light
                                                                                    about 520 nm to
   (e.g., light within a wavelength range of 460 nm to 570 nm, 490 nm to 570 nm,
   570 nm, etc.). The ocular light therapy may also include reduced levels of amber, orange and/or
to red light. Methods for diagnosing motor-related neurological conditions include use of ocular
   light therapy to cause a subject to temporarily exhibit one or more symptoms of any motor
   related neurological condition to which the subject is predisposed, or which the subject may
    already be experiencing. A temporary increase in such symptoms may be effected by ocular
    administration of light including increased amounts of amber, orange and/or red light.
15

                                                                                                 1/15
                 The Effect of Strategic Photo-Pharmacotherapy on Tremor (A) and Micrographia (B) in a de novo PD
                                                                                                 Patient
     60
                                                     66%
     50......................
  ,i40.            .                  .             ..
0
E
>
o 30..-.-.-..-.-.-..-.-.
                                                                                                                                                                 26
c2%                                                                                                                                                  19
     20
                                                                                                                                            16
     10 - -Z-                                                                                               -   -
                         0
                      No            Light           Light &                                                                                No      Light      Light &
                 Treatment                            Drug                                                                             Treatment               Drug
                  March18          May 12          June 9                                                                               March18    May 12     June 9
                                                                                             Fig. I
                      The Effects of Strategic Photo-pharmacological Intervention on 3 Tests of Motor
                                                                                         Function in PD
      20                                                                            -  - ---   -  -+      -   -   -   + -     - +    -   -       - - .          -   - -
                                         16..........................21         p.....e........                                                    ...
                                                                     Squares =Latency
                                                                                            to
                   16    -- ---- ----
                     - -.-----              -~-21%                         Im   provem ent.-- W ak                                           -
      14                         --        - ... ...---............                                                                                                     .
              Triangles Fist to Elbow Latency
      12       25% Improvement                                          -------
                 010...................................
        6                   Circles = Floor to Knee Latency
                            33% Improvement.
        0-                                                   .--                             -        -----               -       --
                        S                                                     Session 2                             Session 3                    Session 4
                                                                              Phototherapy                          Photolherapy                 Pholotherapy
                        Pre-Assessment
                        November 11                                           Compliance                            Compliance                   Partial Compliance
                                                                              January 1                             March 17                     August I
                                                                                          Fig. 2a

       METHODS FOR PREVENTING AND TREATING MOTOR-RELATED
                             NEUROLOGICAL CONDITIONS
                   CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATION
 5          A claim for priority is hereby made to earlier filed U.S. Provisional Patent
   Application No. 61/491,860, filed on May 31, 2011 and titled "METHODS FOR
   PREVENTING AND TREATING MOTOR RELATED NEUROLOGICAL
   CONDITIONS," the entire disclosure of which is, by this reference, hereby
   incorporated herein.
10
                                      TECHNICAL FIELD
            The present invention relates generally to methods for preventing or treating
   motor-related neurological conditions and, more specifically, to methods that include
   stimulating a dopaminergic response by the body of a subject, which may include
15 adjusting levels of one or more of monoamines, such as melatonin, dopamine and
   serotonin and/or their analogs or derivatives within the body of a subject to reduce or
   eliminate primary and/or secondary symptoms of a motor-related neurological
   condition, or to prevent or treat a motor-related neurological condition. In particular
   embodiments, the present invention relates to the use of light therapy in combination
20 with one or more traditional therapies for adjusting levels of melatonin and/or
   melatonin analogs and/or levels of dopamine and/or dopamine derivatives in a manner
   that reduces or eliminates symptoms of a motor-related neurological condition, halts
   the progression of a degenerative neurological disease, or prevents or treats a
   motor-related neurological condition. In embodiments of the present invention, light
25  therapy may be used in conjunction with drug therapy for addressing motor-related
   neurological conditions.
                             BACKGROUND OF RELATED ART
             Motor-related neurological conditions, which are also referred to as
30  "movement disorders," and other neuropsychiatric disorders typically result from the
    degeneration of neurons in the central nervous system. As neurons degenerate, their
    ability to convey or otherwise utilize neurotransmitters may diminish, a phenomenon
    known in the art as "decreased amine function." In particular, in subjects that suffer
    from Parkinson's disease and many other motor-related neurological conditions, the

                                                 -2
   degeneration of neurons of the so-called "nigro-striatal dopamine" (NSD) system
   results in a decrease in the ability of these neurons to transmit dopamine, decreasing
   the ability of neurons of the NSD system to communicate with adjacent neurons. This
   disruption in communication results in loss of motor control, which is typically
 5 progressive and permanent.
             Efforts to counteract the loss of motor control include the administration of
    dopamine precursors, dopamine analogs and enzyme-modifying drugs (e.g., L-dopa,
    etc.), which act like dopamine without decreasing the natural production of dopamine.
    By providing the remaining functional neurons of the NSD system with dopamine
10  analogs, the rate at which these neurons can communicate may increase, which may
    artificially restore at least some of the lost motor control experienced by subjects that
    suffer from motor-related neurological conditions.
                                            SUMMARY
15           The present invention includes methods for reducing or eliminating symptoms
    of motor-related neurological conditions, or for preventing or treating motor-related
    neurological conditions. Methods that incorporate teachings of the present invention
    may be useful in conjunction with traditional therapies (e.g., the administration of
    drugs, etc.), and may reduce the extent of traditional therapies (e.g., the dosages of
20  drugs, etc.) that are needed to address motor-related neurological conditions
    "Motor-related neurological conditions," as used herein, includes both primary
    motor-related neurological conditions, as well as secondary conditions, or symptoms,
    that may accompany or result from a primary motor-related neurological condition.
    The terms "address" and "addressing," when used in connection with "motor-related
25  neurological conditions," refer to reducing or eliminating symptoms of a
    motor-related neurological condition, as well as prevention and treatment of the
    motor-related neurological condition itself.
              In various embodiments, a method according to the present invention may
     include addressing a motor-related neurological condition by stimulating a
30   dopaminergic response by a subject's body and/or adjusting levels of one or more
     monoamines, such as melatonin, dopamine, serotonin, and their analogs and/or
     derivatives, within the subject's body. For the sake of simplicity, the term
     "melatonin," as used herein, includes melatonin and analogs of melatonin, while the

                                                -3
   term "dopamine" includes dopamine and dopamine analogs, derivatives and other
   dopamine substitutes and the term "serotonin" includes serotonin and derivatives and
   analogs thereof. In some embodiments, a method according to the present invention
   includes addressing (e.g., adjusting, etc.) levels of one or more of melatonin, serotonin
 5 and dopamine in a subject's body.
             Amounts or levels of one or more monoamines (e.g., melatonin, serotonin
   and/or dopamine, etc.) within the body of a subject may be adjusted in a manner that
   addresses a motor-related neurological condition. The term "adjustment," as used
   herein, includes adjusting levels of monoamines in the body of a subject. The
10  adjustment of one or both of melatonin and dopamine levels in the body of a subject is
    also referred to herein as "melatonin-dopaniine adjustment." Melatonin-dopamine
    adjustment within the body of a subject may be achieved by regulating production of
    melatonin. As used herein, "regulating" and similar terms include, but are not limited
    to, reducing melatonin levels and/or levels of dopamine, as well as moderating levels
15  of melatonin and/or dopamine to adjust a subject's melatonin-dopamine profile.
              A dopaminergic response may be stimulated in a variety of ways, such as by
    administering light to the eyes of a subject, a practice that is also referred to as "ocular
    light therapy." In various embodiments, ocular light therapy may include the
    administration of light including, consisting essentially of, or consisting of blue-green
20  light and/or green light (e.g., light within a wavelength range of 460 nm to 570 nm,
    490 nm to 570 in, about 520 nm to 570 nm, about 555 nm, etc.) to the subject. In
    some embodiments, above-ambient levels (e.g., irradiance, or energy; photon density;
    intensity; etc.) of blue-green and/or green light may be provided to the subject's eyes.
              In some embodiments, levels of amber, orange and/or red wavelengths of light
25   (e.g., visible light having wavelengths of greater than 570 ni, visible light having
     wavelengths of greater than 570 nm to about 750 nm, etc.) administered to a subject
     may be less than the levels of blue-green and/or green wavelengths in the
     administered light. In other embodiments, the levels (e.g., irradiance, or energy;
     photon density; intensity; etc.) of blue-green and/or green light administered to a
30   subject may exceed the corresponding levels of amber, orange and/or red light
     administered to the subject. In some embodiments, the levels of amber, orange and/or
     red light administered to a subject may be at most about half the levels of blue,
     blue-green and/or green light that are administered to the subject. Alternatively, or in

                                               -4
    addition, levels of one or more of amber, orange and red wavelengths of light may
    simulate or fall below the levels of amber, orange and/or red wavelengths of light that
    are present in standard indoor lighting, or the "ambient" densities of one or more of
    amber, orange and/or red wavelengths of light for any particular narrow band isolated
 5  intensity present in ambient light to which a subject is normally exposed, etc.).
            By administering ocular light therapy in accordance with one or more of the
    teachings above, monitoring a subject's condition and response to ocular light
    therapy, and adjusting one or both of the ocular light therapy and drug therapy
    administered to the subject, the subject's dopaminergic response may be stimulated,
10  which may vary monoamine (e.g., melatonin, dopamine and/or serotonin, etc.) levels
    in the body of the subject, in a manner that addresses a motor-related neurological
    condition. In some embodiments, such administration, monitoring and adjustment
    may include a reduction in traditional therapies (e.g., the dosages of drugs, such as
    dopamine derivatives and/or drugs for addressing the side-effects of dopamine
15  derivatives, etc.) that have been used to address the motor-related neurological
    condition. In some embodiments, the amounts of one or more monoamines in the
    subject's body or produced by the subject at one or more particular times during the
    day may be adjusted. In other embodiments, the amounts of one or more monoamines
    present within the subject's body or produced by the subject throughout the day, or
20   one or more parts of the subject's monoamine profile, may be antagonized, moderated
     or manipulated. In a more particular embodiment, one or more parts of the subject's
     monoamine profile may be antagonized, moderated or manipulated to resemble a
     "normal" monoamine profile; e.g., the monoamine profile of a healthy subject, of a
     subject that does not suffer from a motor-related neurological condition, or the
25   subject's monoamine profile during an earlier time of day. Moderation of a subject's
     monoamine profile may include administration of dopaminergic stimulation therapies
     or monoamine regulation therapies (e.g., light therapy, etc.) at one or more times each
     day.
             In one aspect, the present invention includes, consists essentially of or even
 30  consists of the use of light therapy methods for preventing or treating at least one
     motor-related neurological condition. Examples of such conditions include, but are
     not limited to, Huntington's chorea, periodic limb movement syndrome, restless leg
     syndrome, nocturnal myoclonus, Tourette's syndrome, Sundowner's syndrome, REM

                                                -5
   Sleep Behavior Disorder, schizophrenia, Pick's disease, Punch drunk syndrome,
   progressive subnuclear palsy, multiple systems atrophy, corticobasilar degeneration,
   vascular Parkinsonism, Lewy body dementias, diffuse Lewy body disease,
   Parkinson's plus syndrome, Korsakow's (Korsakoff's) syndrome, multiple sclerosis,
 5 medication-induced motor disorders, drug-induced Parkinson's disease,
   neuroleptics-induced Parkinson's disease, acute dystonia, stroke-post ischemic
   Parkinsonism, trans-ischemic attack, akathesia dyskinaesia and tardive dyskinaesia.
   Disorders characterized by features that typify those expressed as secondary
   symptoms in Parkinson's disease patients and other diseases in which dopamine,
10 serotonin or noradrenaline function is altered may also be treated in accordance with
   teachings of the present invention. Nonlimiting examples of secondary symptoms
   include Alzheimer's disease, dementia, depressive pseudo dementia, hydrocephailic
   dementia, dementia associated with Parkinson's disease, anxiety, generalized anxiety
   disorder, panic disorder, agoraphobia, obsessive-compulsive disorder, post-traumatic
15 stress disorder, acute stress disorder, depression, bipolar disorder, various personality
   and insomnia disorders.
             In another aspect, the present invention includes the use of light therapy in
   conjunction with traditional therapies for motor-related neurological conditions. Thus,
   light therapy may be used in conjunction with drug treatment, cellular (e.g., fetal cell,
20  stem cell, etc.) therapies, surgical treatments and/or other therapies for addressing
    motor-related neurological conditions. Ocular light therapy may be administered in
    conjunction with melatonin agonists or antagonists to adjust a subject's melatonin
    levels.
              The present invention also includes systems in which light therapy apparatuses
25  are used in conjunction with traditional therapies.
              Use of light therapy to stimulate a dopaminergic response by a subject's body,
    which may affect monoamine (e.g., melatonin-dopamine, etc.) adjustment in the body
    of a subject, in conjunction with monitoring of the subject's response to the light
     therapy, may also enable a physician to reduce a dosage of one or more drugs
30  prescribed for and administered to a subject suffering from a motor-related
     neurological condition, while, in some instances, having a disease-modifying effect
     (e.g., slowing or halting progression of the condition, etc.). The course of treatment
     for a particular subject that suffers from a motor-related neurological condition may

                                               -6
   be revised to decrease the need for conventional treatment of the motor-related
   neurological condition (e.g., to decrease the dosage of one more drugs (e.g., a
   dopamine analog, an analog of another neurotransmitter, etc.), etc., administered to
   that subject). In some embodiments, when light therapy is used in conjunction with
 5 drugs to treat a motor-related neurological condition, a physician may prescribe a
   lower-than-normal dosage of the drugs (i.e., a lower-than-normal dosage of a drug
   that is typically required when monoamine production (e.g., melatonin production,
   etc.) is not regulated). When light therapy is coupled with drug therapy, a physician
   may define a succinct and strategic controlled therapy package that, in some cases,
10 may be tailored to a particular subject.
            In another aspect, the present invention includes standardization among
   various dopamine replacement therapies and as to how much of any various dopamine
   replacement therapies any given patient should receive. For example, a daily dosage
   of 1000 mg of one medication may be the equivalent of a 650 mg daily dosage of
15  another medication. Because the use of light therapy in accordance with teachings of
    the present invention enables a reduction in dosages of dopamine replacement
    medication, a drug conversion table may be used to standardize equivalent doses for
    various dopamine replacement medications. In this way, an effective reduction in the
    required dosage of a dopamine replacement medication can be achieved regardless of
20  the medicine used. Such a table, titled a "Total Drug Burden" or "TDB" table, is
    provided in FIG. 21.
             The present invention also includes techniques for diagnosing motor-related
    neurological conditions. In such a technique, increased levels of one or more of
    amber, orange and red light may be administered to a subject. In some embodiments,
25  the colors and intensities of light administered to the subject may be about the same as
    or greater than levels of the same color or colors of light present at dusk. The light
    may be administered ocularly. Administering one or more of amber, orange and red
    light to the subject may cause the subject to temporarily exhibit symptoms of one or
     more motor-related neurological conditions before such symptoms would otherwise
30   present themselves. The discovery of such conditions following the administration of
     amber, orange and/or red light in accordance with teachings of the present invention
     may enable a physician to make a pre-diagnosis or an early diagnosis of a
     motor-related neurological condition. In the event that a physician determines that the

                                                  -7
    subject is likely to suffer or will suffer from a motor-related neurological condition,
    the physician may prescribe a course of treatment for the diagnosed condition. A
    prescribed course of treatment may include, among other things, use of suitable ocular
    light therapy, etc., the administration of one or more drugs, and/or other suitable
 5  treatments.
             Other aspects, as well as features and advantages of various aspects, of the
    present invention will become apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art through
    consideration of the ensuing description and the appended claims.
10                        BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
             In the drawings:
             FIGs. 1-4 are charts illustrating the effects of various treatment regimens that
    incorporate teachings of the present invention on subjects that suffer from
     motor-related neurological conditions;
15           FIG. 5 illustrates the actions of a subject during a fist to elbow latency test;
             FIG. 6 illustrates the actions of a subject during a knee to floor latency test;
             The charts of FIGs. 7-15 depict the effects of long-term light therapy on the
     symptoms of subjects who suffer from motor-related neurological conditions
     specifically demonstrating that when light therapy and drug therapy are combined, the
20   progression of degenerative neurological diseases may be slowed or halted;
              FIGs. 16 and 17 are charts illustrating the effects of long-term light therapy
     specifically, light predominantly including a narrow band isolated intensity of green
     light-on subjects who suffer from motor-related neurological conditions;
              FIG. 18 is a chart that compares the average drug dosages required by subjects
25   who suffer from motor-related neurological disorders at the outset of a prolonged light
     therapy study to the average drug dosages required by the subjects at the end of the
     prolonged light therapy study;
              FIGs. 19 and 20 are charts demonstrating the utility of red light in enabling the
     early diagnosis of motor-related neurological conditions; and
 30           FIG. 21 is a chart depicting equivalent dosages for a variety of dopamine
      derivatives.

                                                 -8
                                   DETAILED DESCRIPTION
              Ambient light provides a reference point for the manner in which light may be
    administered to a subject in accordance with teachings of the present invention. The
    phrase "ambient light" refers to an amount or level of light, such as an intensity, a
 5  photon density, or an irradiance, or energy, of light. "Ambient light" may refer to a
    collection of wavelengths of visible light, such as those present in so-called "white
    light," which is more accurately referred to as "polychromatic light," or in narrower
    bandwidths (e.g., colors, etc.) of light. As will become more apparent from the
    ensuing description, it may be beneficial in some embodiments of the present
10  invention to expose a subject to above-ambient levels of some wavelengths of light,
    while limiting the subject's exposure to other wavelengths of light to below-ambient
    levels.
              As used herein, the phrase "ambient level" may refer to an average of the level
     or amount of a particular bandwidth of light in ambient indoor lighting. Standard
15   indoor lighting is generally white light, or polychromatic light, having an intensity of
     about 50 lux to about 500 lux. Ambient indoor lighting may comprise standard indoor
     fluorescent lighting or standard indoor incandescent lighting.
              The "average" level or amount of light of a particular bandwidth may include
     an average of the level or amount of that bandwidth in ambient indoor lighting at
20   about 50 lux and the level or amount of that bandwidth in ambient indoor lighting at
     about 500 lux. Levels of various bandwidths of light may be considered to be
     "above-ambient" when they exceed the ambient levels of the same wavelengths of
     light present in ambient indoor lighting. Conversely, levels of various wavelengths of
     light are considered to be "below-ambient" when they are less than the ambient levels
25    of the same wavelengths of light present in the same type of ambient indoor lighting.
               As a point of reference, standard incandescent indoor lighting, which has a
      collective ambient intensity of about 50 lux to about 500 lux, is composed primarily
      of amber and red wavelengths of light, with some green light, which makes up only a
      small portion of the spectrum output by standard incandescent indoor lighting.
 30   Standard fluorescent indoor lighting has the signature of mercury, with three peaks: a
      first peak in the indigo-deep blue range (435 nm-436 nm); a second peak in the
      green-yellow range (540 nm-560 nm); and a third peak at the red wavelength
      of 640 nm. The deep blue and green-yellow peaks of such light are, of course, less

                                                 -9
    intense, photon-dense or luminescent, or energetic, than the collective intensity of
    light output by standard fluorescent indoor lighting.
             At about 50 lux, standard indoor lighting (incandescent and/or fluorescent) has
    a collective photon density of 3.70 x 1013 photons/cn/s and a collective irradiance
     of 13.2 pW/cM2 (or 1.32 x 10-5 W/cm ). The blue-to-green (e.g., 460 nm to 570 nm,
                                            2
 5
                                                                    lighting has a photon
     etc.) portion of the spectrum of about 50 lux standard indoor
                                                                              2
     density of 1.35 x 1013 photons/cm /s and an irradiance of 5.1 ptW/cM . These values,
                                        2
                                                                                         the
     as well as the photon density and irradiance of narrower wavelength ranges in
     blue-to-green in standard indoor lighting having an intensity of about 50 lux, are
10   included in the following table:
                                              TABLE 1
                             Standard Indoor Light at About 50 lux
     Color/Wavelength Range            Photon Density           Irradiance         Lux
                                       (photons/cm 2/second)    ( Watts/cn)
     Poiychromatic (white)              -     3.70 x 10               13.2                47
                                              3.31 x 10                1.4                 2
      Blue (460 nm to 500 nm)
      Green (500 nm to 570 nm)                1.03 x 10               3.8                 22
      Blue-to-Green
      (460 nm to 570 nm)                      1.35 x 10                5.1                23
      490 nm to 565 nm                        1.02 x 10                3.8                20
      520 nm to 565n                          7.25 x 10                  6                 1
      525 nm to 555 nm                        4.81 x 101               1.8                 11
      520 nm to 539 nm.68x                           10                1.0                  6
               The amber-to-red (e.g., above 570 nm to 750 nm, etc.) portion of the spectrum
 15   of about 50 lux standard indoor lighting has an intensity of about 24 lux, a photon
                                                                                2
      density of 2.04 x 1013 photons/cm /s and an irradiance of 6.7 pW/cm . The irradiance
                                          2
       of amber-to-red light in standard indoor lighting at about 50 lux exceeds the
       irradiance of the blue-to-green "effective" spectrum of standard indoor lighting at
       about 50 lux.
 20            At about 500 lux, the collective photon density of standard indoor lighting
       is 3.69 x 1014 photons/cn/s and the collective irradiance of standard indoor lighting
                                                                                          indoor
       is 133.5 pW/cm 2 . At about 500 lux, the blue-to-green portion of the standard
                                                                           2
                                                                             /s and an irradiance
       lighting spectrum has a photon density of 1.53 x 1014 photons/cm
       of 58.4 pW/cn 2 . These values, as well as the photon density and irradiance of

                                               -10
   narrower wavelength ranges in the blue-to-green in standard indoor lighting having an
   intensity of about 500 lux, are included in the following table:
                                           TABLE 2
                           Standard Indoor Light at About 500 lux
    Colo r/Wavelength    Range        Photon Density          Irradiance       Lux
                                      (photons/cm2/second) (pMatts/cm )
   jPlchoatic (white)                      3.69 x 10"              133.5            479----
    Green (500 nm to 570 nn)                1.1     1                6 98
    Blue-to-Green                           1.53 x 1014             58.4
    (460 nm to 570 nm)
    490 nm to 565 rmn                       1.15 x 10               42.9            223
    520 mn to 565 un                        7.79 x 10"              28.5            181
    525       t551                                  IO              18. 9            121
    520 m- to539 nm                         3.03 x 10 1             11.4      ,      66
 5
             The amber-to-red portion of the spectrum of about 500 lux standard indoor
    lighting has an intensity of about 225 lux, a photon density
                                                                                       of
    of 1.85 x 1014 photons/cm /s and an irradiance of 60.4 pW/cm2. The irradiance
                                2
     amber-to-red light in standard indoor lighting at about 500 lux exceeds the irradiance
10   of the blue-to-green "effective" spectrum of standard indoor lighting at about 500 lux.
             Based on the foregoing, when "ambient" includes an average of the level of
     one or more bandwidths of light in polychromatic light of about 50 lux and the level
     of the same bandwidth(s) of light in polychromatic light of about 500 lux, the ambient
                                                                                        values
     levels of the bandwidths set forth in TABLES 1 and 2 may include the ambient
15   for standard indoor lighting identified in TABLE 3.
                                              TABLE 3
                       Average Ambient Levels of Standard Indoor Light
     Color/Wavelength Range            Photon Density           Irradiance      Lux
                                                                           2
                                       (photons/cm 2/second)    (pWatts/cm )
                                              2.03 x 10-73.4                          263
     Polychromatic (white
     Blue (460 nm to 500 nm)                  2.21 x 10"              9.1              10
                      to 570 n0                                      22.9             130
      Gre (5
      Blue-to-Green
                                              8.35 x 1013            31.8             140
      (460 nm to 570 nm)
      490 n to 565n                           6.24 x 10              23 4             122
       20 n to 55 nm                         _4.26 x 10               15.6            _9

                                                -11
                      Average Ambient Levels of Standard Indoor Light
    Color/Wavelength Range             Photon Density          Irradiance        Lux
                                                    2                       2)
                                        (photons/cm /second)   (pWatts/cm
    525 nm to 555 nm                         2.81 x 10              10.3                66
    520 m to 539 nr                          1.65 x 10'3             6.2                36
             The amber-to-red portion of the spectrum of ambient standard indoor lighting
                                                                                      2
    has an intensity of about 125 lux, a photon density of 1.03 x 1014 photons/cm /s and
    an irradiance of 33.6 [W/cm2. The irradiance of amber-to-red light in standard indoor
 5  lighting of average intensity exceeds the irradiance of the blue-to-green "effective"
    spectrum of standard indoor lighting at average intensity.
              As an alternative to defining "ambient" in terms of an average, "ambient" light
    may include polychromatic light within a range of intensities, photon densities and/or
    irradiances, or energies, along with the levels of light within various bandwidths of
10  polychromatic light within such a range. Levels of various wavelengths of light may
    be considered to be "above-ambient" when they exceed the same levels of the same
     wavelengths of light in an ambient range. Conversely, levels of various wavelengths
     of light may be considered to be "below-ambient" when they are less than the same
     levels of the same wavelengths of light present in the ambient range. For purposes of
15   this disclosure, the low end of "ambient" levels may comprise the levels of each
     wavelength range present in about 50 lux polychromatic light, while the high end of
     "ambient" levels comprises the levels of various wavelength ranges present in
     about 500 lux polychromatic light. With this definition of ambient, below-ambient
     levels would include below-about 50 lux levels, while above-ambient levels would
20   include above-about500 lux levels.
               A method for addressing motor-related neurological conditions in accordance
      with teachings of this present invention includes administering light therapy to a
      subject who suffers from, is believed to be suffering from, or is at risk for a
      motor-related neurological condition. Light therapy may be administered in a manner
 25   that stimulates a dopaminergic response by the subject, which may adjust levels of
      one or more monoamines (e.g., melatonin, serotonin, dopamine, etc.) in the body of
      the subject. The administration of light therapy may be conducted in conjunction with
      the administration of conventional therapies, including, but not limited to, the
      administration of dopamine derivatives or other drugs for addressing motor-related

                                                 -12
     neurological conditions. In addition to administering light therapy, a method of the
                                                                         therapy on the
     present invention may include evaluating the effect of the light
                                                                             the subject's
     subject's symptoms, if any. In cases where light therapy addresses
                                                                                             may
     symptoms, any conventional therapies used in conjunction with the light therapy
 5   be adjusted (e.g., decreased, etc.) in response to the effects of light therapy on the
     subject. The use of light therapy that incorporates teachings of the present invention,
     with or without conventional therapy for addressing motor-related neurological
     conditions, may stimulate a dopaminergic response by the subject's body, which,
                                                                                      the
     among other things, may adjust levels of one or more monoamines within
10   subject's body (e.g., levels of melatonin in the body of a subject relative to dopamine
                                                                                            the
     levels in the subject's body, including levels of melatonin and dopamine within
     brain of the subject, etc.).
               Ocular light therapy may include the administration of light including
      blue-green and/or green wavelengths of light to the subject. In some embodiments, the
15    light that is administered to the subject includes above-ambient levels of blue-green
      and/or green wavelengths. Light therapy that employs ambient or below-ambient
      levels of blue-green and/or green wavelengths is also within the scope of the present
      invention.
               The blue-green and/or green light that is administered to the subject may be
20     administered as blue-green light and/or green light or other types of light (e.g.,
                                                                                 light or
       polychromatic light, etc.) that include above-ambient levels of green
       blue-green light, or light that is predominantly blue-green and/or green. Nonlimiting
                                                                          wavelengths that are
       examples include colors of light with above-ambient levels of
       within a wavelength range of 460 nm to 570 nm, 490 nm to 570 nm, about 520 nm
 25    to 570 nm, about 525 nm to about 555 nm, above 520 nm to less than 540 nm, or any
       wavelength within any of these ranges.
               In some embodiments, a narrow portion of the spectrum of visible light may
       be administered to the subject. Without limiting the scope of the present invention, the
                                                                                  the possible
       light administered to the subject may consist essentially of (i.e., with
  30    addition of colors or wavelengths of visible light directly adjacent to a blue-green
        and/or green band) blue-green and/or green light, or consist of blue-green and/or
        green light.

                                                  -13
              Other embodiments of the method include administering blue-green and/or
                                                                               different colors,
     green light to the subject as part of light that comprises a plurality of
     or so-called "polychromatic light." In more specific embodiments, the polychromatic
                                                                             including those
     light may comprise so-called "white light." In some embodiments,
 5   where polychromatic light that includes a peak in the blue, blue-green and/or green
                                                                                     an
     wavelengths is delivered to a subject's eyes, the light may be delivered at
      above-ambient intensity (including an intensity of about 500 lux or more, an intensity
      of about 1,000 lux or more, an intensity of about 1,500 lux or more, an intensity of
      about 4,000 lux or more, an intensity of about 5,000 lux or more, etc.).
10             Administration of polychromatic light may include omission of one or more
      wavelengths of light or elimination of one or more wavelengths from polychromatic
                                                                             to the subject. In
      light before the light reaches the subject's eyes, or is administered
      some embodiments, the elimination of one or more wavelengths of light from
                                                                                           Filtering
      polychromatic light, including white light, may be accomplished by filtering.
15    may reduce one or more colors or wavelengths of light to below-ambient levels (e.g.,
      to an intensity of about 50% or less of a combined intensity of therapeutic light, such
      as light having wavelengths of 460 nm to 570 nm, etc.). Alternatively, filtering may
       substantially remove, or even completely remove, one or more colors or wavelengths
       of light from the polychromatic light. Filtration of one or more wavelengths from
                                                                            One embodiment of
20     polychromatic light may be based on any of a number of factors.
       a factor upon which filtering may be based is the undesirability of one or more
       wavelengths (e.g., amber, orange, red, etc.).
                                                                                        or colors of
                Examples of undesirable wavelengths of light include wavelengths
                                                                                        light (e.g.,
       light that decrease the therapeutic effects of certain wavelengths of visible
                                                                             wavelengths of
 25    by canceling or opposing the activating effects of the therapeutic
                                                                                          or
       visible light, etc.), wavelengths or colors of light that are known to enhance
       exacerbate symptoms of one or more motor-related neurological conditions,
                                                                                        exhibit a
       wavelengths or colors of light that may interfere with a subject's ability to
                                                                                      body (e.g.,
        dopaminergic response or disrupt the monoamine profile in the subject's
  30    the subject's brain, etc.) (e.g., the melatonin-dopamine balance in the subject's
                                                                           no apparent benefit
        body,etc.), and even wavelengths or colors of light that provide
                                                                                   from, or is at
        when administered to a subject who suffers from, is believed to suffer
        risk for suffering from a motor-related neurological condition. It has recently been

                                                -14
    found that light with wavelengths of light that are longer than those of green light
                                                                      greater than 570 nm to
    (e.g., light having wavelengths of greater than 570 nm, from
                                                                                       or
    about 750 nm, amber, orange, and/or red wavelengths of light, etc.) enhance
    exacerbate symptoms of motor-related neurological conditions.
 5            The bandwidth of light that is reduced omitted or eliminated may comprise
                                                                                             of
    one or more of amber light, orange light and red light, or at least one wavelength
     one or more the foregoing may be omitted or filtered. In more particular
     embodiments, visible light having wavelengths of greater than 570 nm, visible light
                                                                                    filtered
     having wavelengths of greater than 570 nm to about 750 nm, etc., may be
10   from polychromatic light prior to its administration to a subject. In some
     embodiments, when ambient or below-ambient levels of blue-green and/or green light
                                                                                         exceed
     are administered to a subject, the levels of blue-green and/or green light may
     the levels of amber, orange and/or red wavelengths of light administered (e.g.,
                                                                                           exceed
     a 1:1 ratio, by a ratio of about 2:1 or more, etc.).
15             The administration of light therapy to a subject in accordance with teachings
                                                                                          In some
     of the present invention may be effected at one or more times during the day.
      embodiments, the light therapy may be administered at the same time or times, or
      substantially the same time or times, each day. The time or times of day at which light
      therapy is provided may be regulated, as may the intensity (e.g., photon density, etc.)
20    of one or more wavelengths of light administered to the subject.
                                                                                  with an
               Light therapy may be administered to the subject in accordance
      optimal dosing schedule. The optimal dosing schedule may, in some embodiments,
                                                                                        schedule
       include light therapy once a day. In some embodiments, the optimal dosing
       for light therapy may include administering the light therapy in the evening (e.g., at a
 25    time of day when melatonin levels are typically increasing, etc.). In a specific, but
                                                                                                of
       nonlimiting, embodiment, the optimal dosing schedule may include administration
                                                                                 of drugs to the
       light therapy an hour-and-a-half or more after the final administration
                                                                                      be
       subject during the day. In a more specific embodiment, light therapy may
        administered between about 5:00 p.m and about 3:00 a.m. or, even more specifically,
 30     between about 7:00 p.m. and about 10:00 p.m. The intensity (e.g., a photon density of
        about 1013 photons/cm /s to about 1016 photons/cm 2/S, etc.) and the duration (e.g.,
                                2
                                                                                            to
        about one hour, about thirty minutes, etc.) of the light therapy may be tailored

                                                  -15
     reduce melatonin levels without adversely affecting the subject's sleep patterns, or
     circadian rhythms.
               In other embodiments, light therapy may be administered at a plurality of
     different times throughout each day. The intensity and duration of each treatment may
                                                                                      with two or
 5   be tailored to provide a desired effect at a particular time during the day,
                                                                                            one
      more of the treatments differing (e.g., in color, intensity, duration, etc.) from
      another. Alternatively, all of the light therapy treatments administered during the
      twenty-four (24) hour day may be the same as or substantially the same as (i.e., with
                                                                                     time, etc.) the
      any variance attributable merely to unintended fluctuations in intensity,
10    other treatments administered during that day.
                                                                                          may slow
                Light therapy in accordance with teachings of the present invention
      or halt the progression of a motor-related neurological disorder after a few treatments,
                                                                                  for longer
      or positive results may not be seen until light therapy is administered
                                                                          therapy may be used as
      periods of time (e.g., weeks, months, etc.). In any event, light
                                                                                         treatment.
15     a long-term (e.g., six months, years, the remainder of a subject's life, etc.)
                                                                                                  a
                In some embodiments, light therapy may be used alone to prevent or treat
                                                                                    the
       motor-related neurological condition. Stated another way, treatment of
       motor-related neurological condition may consist of light therapy.
                Alternatively, light therapy may be administered in conjunction with the
20     administration of one or more other treatments for motor-related neurological
       conditions. In some embodiments, these other treatments comprise traditional
       therapies, such as cellular therapies (e.g., with fetal cells, stem cells, etc.), surgical
       treatments, and the like.
                 In embodiments where light therapy is administered to a subject in connection
 25     with  drug therapy, or pharmacological treatment, the drugs may include medications
        intended for treatment of motor-related neurological conditions and/or the symptoms
                                                                                            target the
        of such conditions. Non-limiting examples of such drugs include those that
                                                                        systems, as well as other
        dopamine (DA), noradrenaline (NA) and serotonin (5H1T)
                                                                           daily dosage ranges for a
        drugs identified in FIG. 21. FIG. 21 illustrates the equivalent
  30    variety of dopamine replacement therapies, including daily dosages of such therapies
         that are considered to be low (between the first two continuous vertical lines),
                                                                                           (between
         medium (between the second and third continuous vertical lines) and high
         the third and fourth continuous vertical lines). The added use of light therapy may

                                                   -16
                                                                                             that are
     enable a physician to prescribe lower than normal dosages (i.e., drug dosages
                                                                           of these drugs to treat
     typically required when melatonin production is not regulated)
                                                                                          of a
     the diagnosed motor-related neurological condition. For example, a dosage
                                                                                without light
     particular dopamine replacement therapy that would normally (i.e.,
 5   therapy) be in the "high" range may, with light therapy in accordance with teachings
                                                                                            same
     of the present invention, be reduced to the "medium" or "low" range for the
                                                                                the Total Drug
     drug, or to the "medium" or "low" range for another drug listed on
     Burden table. Similarly, the use of light therapy may enable a reduction in normally
      "medium" range dosages to dosages in the "low" range. Reducing the dosages of drug
                                                                                         with the
10    therapies may also reduce or eliminate the side-effects of the drugs, along
      need for additional drugs to treat any side-effects.
               In some embodiments, the times at which drugs are administered in an optimal
      dosing schedule are distinct from the time or times of the day at which light therapy is
                                                                                            with an
       administered. In a more specific embodiment, drug treatment in accordance
                                                                                      light therapy is
15     optimal dosing schedule may occur during a first part of the day, while
       administered during a second part of the day. For example, drugs may be
       administered during the day, while administration of light therapy occurs during the
                                                                                       sometime
       evening. In a more specific embodiment, drug administration may start
                                                                                            would
       during the morning (e.g., about thirty minutes before a subject's symptoms
20     otherwise (without taking the drugs) typically appear) and be complete by 5:30 p.m.,
       while light therapy is administered between 7:00 p.m. and 10:00 p.m.
                                                                                                  set
                A number of specific embodiments of dosing and treatment methods are
                                                                                         of
       forth in TABLES 7-13. In those embodiments, light therapy, in the form
                                                                             nm, about 460 nm to
       polychromatic light having peaks at about 435nm to about 436
                                                                                     administered at
 25     about 520 nm, about 540 nm to about 560 nm, and about 640 nm was
        an intensity of about 1,000 lux to about 1,500 lux. The irradiance of the blue-green
                                                                                             2
                                                                        about 280 tW/cm , while
        light present in the light administered to each subject was
                                                                                               2
        the irradiance of the red light present in that light was only about 150 W/cm .
                                                                                           that the
        Although TABLES 7-13 provide many specifics, it should be understood
                                                                                   (in reference to
  30    details, particularly those concerning the use of polychromatic light
                                                                                  day, pertain to
         white light), its intensity, and the duration of the light therapy each
         specific embodiments of the disclosed protocols.

                                               -17
          TABLE 7 sets forth a procedure by which light and drug dopaminee (DA)
                                                                     (de novo, or "DN")
  replacement, or DA agonist) therapies may be tailored for a new
                                                                        (PD).
  patient, who has been recently diagnosed with Parkinson's disease
5                                           TABLE 7
   Rule             Example Conditions for Photo-Pharmacological Intervention in
                    A de novo Patient
   DN1.             In de novo patients, the commencing dose should be 50 mg of
   Commencing       levodopa twice daily at, for example, 10:00 a.m. and 4:00 p.m. If
   Dose             the patient's responsiveness to levodopa diminishes over time, the
                    dose of levodopa can be increased to 50 mg three times per day, say
                     at the 8:00 a.m., 1:30 p.m., and 5:30 p.m. If the therapeutic effect
                     continues to diminish during the day, each dose may be increased
                     b increments of to 1/2 at each administration.
   DN2. First        If a patient experiences a symptom-free period upon wakening, the
   Dose              first task is to identify the time when the PD symptoms first appear.
                     The first dose of the day should then be administered approximately
                     30 minutes prior to the time identified. As this may change with
                     continued phototherapy, the time of first dose should be adjusted
                     accordingly.
   DN3. Last         The last daily dose of DA replacement should not occur any later
   Dose               than 5:30 p.m.
   DN4. Optimal      Three doses of DA replacement per day: Example times of 8:00
   Frequency and      a.m., 1:30 p.m., and 5:30 p.m.
    Time of
    Dosing
    DN5.              Total daily dosage should peak at no more than 600 mg per day in
    Escalation to     three equally divided lots. If other DA replacement drugs are taken
    Ceiling dose.     concomitantly, they should not exceed three doses.
    DN6. Time of      Exposure to light should commence between the hours of 7:00 p.m.
    Phototherapy       and 10:00 p.m. Drug regimens should not be altered until an
                       observation period of 2-4 weeks has been undertaken and the patient
                       is in compliance.
    DN7. Duration      The duration of phototherapy should last for 1 hour and should be
    of                 undertaken daily.
    Phototherapy
    DN8.               The frequency of emission should be polychromatic light with an
    Frequency and      intensity of about 1,000 lux to about 1,500 lux.
    Intensity of
    Emission

                                                 -18
           In TABLE 8, a protocol for incorporating light therapy into an existing drug
  (pharmacological) treatment regimen is described.
                                              TABLE 8
  Rule                Example Conditions for Photo-Pharmacological Intervention in
                      A Patient Undergoing Pharmacological Treatment
  T1. Treatment       In patients that have been maintained on DA replacement therapy
                                                                                     experience
  Response            for at least two years, it is first important that the patient
   Stabilization       some stability in their therapeutic response to their drug    regimen
   (TRS)               prior to commencing added treatment with light therapy. This
                                                                                            of
                       requires professional assessment and stabilization for a period
                       time from 4-8 weeks.
   T2. First Dose      If a patient experiences a symptom-free period upon wakening, the
                       first task is to identify the time when the PD symptoms first appear.
                       The first dose of the day should then be administered approximately
                       30 minutes prior to the time identified.
   T3. Last Dose       The last daily dose of DA replacement should not occur any later
                        than 5:30 p.m. A patient should not be woken to take medication. If
                        dosing occurs after 5:30 p.m. then the dose should be incrementally
                        reduced in size until it is eliminated (e.g., by 9:00 p.m.). Substitute
                        doses may be inserted during the light therapy phase of treatment or
                        by increasing other existing doses increased to compensate for any
                        missed treatment.
    T4. Optimal         Three doses of DA replacement therapy per day: Example times
    Frequency and       of 8:00 a.m., 1:30 p.m., and 5:30 p.m.. Existing times of drug
    Time of              administration can be moved by half hour increments to achieve a
    Dosing              balance between optimal therapeutic effects and minimal side
                         effects and to approximate the optimal dosing regimen.
    T5. Ceiling          Patients on doses larger than 600 mg of DA replacement therapy per
    dose                 day in three equally divided lots can incrementally reduce their total
                         dose of DA replacement therapy by to dose increments while
                         balancing therapeutic effects and adverse effects.
    T6. Time of          Exposure to light should commence between the hours of 7:00 p.m.
    Phototherapy         and 10:00 p.m. Drug regimens should not be altered until an
                         observation period of 2-4 weeks has been undertaken and the patient
                         is in compliance.
     17. Duration        The duration of phototherapy should last for 1 hour and should be
     of                  undertaken daily.
     Phototherapy
     T8. Frequency       The frequency of emission should be polychromatic light with an
     and Intensity        intensity of about 1,000 lux to about 1,500 lux.
     of Emission
5
                                                                                        the
              As is apparent from TABLE 8, in addition to therapies that include
                                                                                  invention
     administration of drugs in conjunction with light therapy, the present

                                                -19
                                                                                             of
   includes methods for reducing the dosages of drugs administered in the treatment
   motor-related neurological conditions. Thus, the course of pharmacological treatment
   for a subject that suffers from a motor-related neurological condition may be revised
   to decrease the subject's dependence on one more drugs (e.g., a dopamine analog, an
 5  analog of another neurotransmitter, etc.).
            A reduction in the dosage of drugs administered to a subject that suffers from
    a motor-related neurological condition is particularly desirable when the subject
    suffers from side effects of the drugs. As an example, PD patients may experience
                                                                                        These
    dyskinaesia, hyperkinaesia or other side effects of DA replacement therapy.
10  side effects are typically due to overdosing. An example of a procedure for
    reassessing and treating PD and these side effects with drug and light therapies is
    described by TABLE 9.
                                              TABLE 9
    Rule                Example Conditions for Photo-Pharmacological Intervention in
                        A Patient Experiencing Hyperkinaesia or Dyskinaesia after
                        Pharmacological Treatment
     Dl. Treatment      In patients that have been maintained on DA replacement therapy
     Response           for at least two years, it is first important that the patient experience
     Stabilization      some stability in their therapeutic response to their drug regimen
     (TRS)              prior to commencing added treatment with light therapy. This
                        requires professional assessment and stabilization for a period of
                        time from 4-8 weeks.
     D2. First Dose     If a patient experiences a symptom-free period at any time during
                        the day or night, the first task is to identify the time when the PD
                         symptoms first appear. Doses of DA replacement the day should be
                         administered strategically around the time identified.
     D3. Last Dose       The last daily dose of DA replacement should not occur any later
                         than 5:30 p.m. A patient should not be woken to take medication. If
                         dosing occurs after 9:00 p.m. then the dose should be incrementally
                         reduced in size until it is eliminated. Substitute doses may be
                         inserted during the light therapy phase of treatment or by increasing
                         other existing doses increased to compensate for any missed
                         treatment.

                                               -20
  D4. Optimal        Three doses of DA replacement therapy per day: Example times
  Frequency and      of 8:00 a.m., 1:30 p.m., and 5:30 p.m. Existing times of drug
  Time of            administration can be moved by half hour increments to achieve a
  Dosing             balance between optimal therapeutic effects and minimal side
                     effects and to approximate the optimal dosing regimen. If additional
                     doses are required, they should be inserted at times determined after
                     detailed monitoring of therapeutic effects versus adverse side
                     effects.
  D5. Ceiling        Patients on doses larger than 600 mg of DA replacement therapy per
  Dose               day in three equally divided lots can incrementally reduce their total
                     dose of DA replacement therapy by to dose increments while
                     balancing therapeutic effects and adverse effects.
   D6. Time of        Exposure to light should commence between the hours of 7:00 p.m.
   Phototherapy       and 10:00 p.m. Drug regimens should not be altered until an
                      observation period of 2-4 weeks has been undertaken and the patient
                      is in compliance.
   D7. Duration       The duration of phototherapy should last for 1 hour and should be
   of                 undertaken daily.
   Phototherapy
   D8. Frequency      The frequency of emission should be polychromatic light with an
   and Intensity      intensity of about 1,000 lux to about 1,500 lux.
   of Emission
            TABLE 10 sets forth a protocol that may be followed under circumstances
                                                                            DA replacement
    where a patient experiences secondary symptoms and side effects of
                                                                                   TABLE 10
    therapy, such as depression, insomnia or anxiety. The protocol set forth by
                                                                           in a patient.
5   may also be followed to reduce the consequences of polypharmacy
                                             TABLE 10
    Rule               Example Conditions for Photo-Pharmacological Intervention in
                       A Patient Experiencing Secondary Symptoms Such As
                       Insomnia, Depression and Anxiety to Reduce Polypharmacy
    PAD1.               In patients that have been maintained on DA replacement therapy,
     Treatment          are experiencing secondary symptoms such as depression, insomnia
                                                                                              it
     Response           or anxiety and are undergoing drug treatment for such conditions,
                        is important that  their conditions and treatments be clearly identified
     Stabilization
     (TRS)              and stable before commencing this program.
     PAD2               After the administration of phototherapy for at least four weeks, its
     Withdrawing        effects on depression, anxiety and insonmia should be carefully
     Anxiolytic,        assessed. If these conditions have stabilized or improved, the daily
     Antidepressant     dosage of drugs administered for these conditions can be gradually
      and Soporific     reduced by to increments as the antidepressant, anxiolytic or
     Medications         soporific effects of phototherapy take effect. Careful monitoring of
                         affect, sleep and anxiety must be undertaken professionally

                                               -21
  PAD3. Time of      In the first instance, exposure to light should commence between
                                                                                       not be
  Phototherapy       the hours of 7:00 p.m. and 10:00 p.m. Drug regimens should
                     altered until an observation period of 2-4 weeks     has been
                     undertaken and the patient is in compliance.
                                                                                          be
  PAD4.              The duration of phototherapy should last for 1 hour and should
  Duration of        undertaken daily.
  Phototherapy
                                                                                          an
  PAD5.              The frequency of emission should be polychromatic light with
                      intensity of about 1,000 lux to about 1,500   lux.
  Frequency and
   Intensity of
   Emission
                                                                                   such as that
            When a patient experiences tolerance to drug therapies, a protocol
   set forth in TABLE 11 may be followed.
5                                            TABLE 11
                                                                                              in
    Rule               Example Conditions for Photo-Pharmacological Intervention
                       A Patient Experiencing Tolerance to DA Replacement Therapy,
                       Including wearing off, Freezing and Between-Dose Loss of
                       Efficac
    Ti. Treatment      In patients that have been maintained on DA replacement therapy
    Response           and are experiencing secondary symptoms such as depression,
                                                                                         for
    Stabilization      insomnia or anxiety and are undergoing treatment with drugs
                                                                               and  treatments
    (TRS)              such conditions, it is important that their conditions
                       be clearly identified and stable before commencing this program.
    T2                 After the application of phototherapy for at least four weeks, the
    Withdrawing        effects of phototherapy on depression, anxiety and/or insomnia
                                                                                             or
    Anxiolytic,         should be carefully assessed. If these conditions have stabilized
                                                           anxiolytic or soporific effects of
    Antidepressant      improved, as the antidepressant,
     and Soporific      phototherapy take effect, the daily doses of the administered drug
     Medications        can be gradually reduced by % to increments. Careful monitoring
                        of affect, sleep and anxiety must be undertaken professionally.
     T3. Time of        In the first instance, exposure to light should commence between
                                                                                          not be
     Phototherapy       the hours of 7:00 p.m. and 10:00 p.m. Drug regimens should
                         altered until an observation period of 2-4 weeks has been
                        undertaken and the patient is in compliance,
                                                                         1 hour and should be
     T4. Duration of The duration of phototherapy should last for
     Phototherapy        undertaken daily.
                                                                                             an
     T6. Frequency       The frequency of emission should be polychromatic light with
     and Intensity of intensity of about 1,000 lux to about 1,500 lux.
     Emission
             TABLE 12 provides an example of a process for assessing and treating PD
      over long periods of several months to years with the purpose of slowing or

                                                -22
                                                                  the symptoms of a PD
   preventing the ongoing degenerative process so as to keep
   patient from worsening.
                                             TABLE 12
   Rule                 Conditions for Long-Term Photo-Pharmacological Intervention
                        to Prevent Progression of the Disease Process
   LT1.                 Patients should be monitored as described above in response to their
    Treatment           daily drug regimen for primary motor symptoms and should remain
                                                                                         for the
    Response            stable with as few changes to their drug regimen as possible
    Stabilization       duration of treatment.
    LT2                 Light exposure should occur daily at the time required to achieve
    Conditions of        optimal therapeutic response. The number of omissions should not
    Treatment            exceed one every two weeks, and changes to DA replacement
                         therapy should be avoided. If the patient must be brought back into
                         control by use of drugs, then the dose required to do so should be
                         titrated by to doses and applied at strategic times, as defined in
                         TABLE 7.
    LT3. Time of         Exposure to light should commence between the hours of 7:00 P.M.
    Phototherapy         and 10:00 pm. Drug regimens should not be altered until an
                         observation period of 2-4 weeks has been undertaken and the patient
                         in compliant with phototherapy and titration.
 5
              FIGs. 1 through 4 depict the effects of combining melatonin regulation
     therapies, such as light therapy, with drug therapy to treat motor-related neurological
     conditions.
              In a specific embodiment, when drug and light therapies are
10   combined, 100 mg of L-dopa may be administered to a subject three (3) times daily,
     with administration of the first dose occurring approximately thirty (30) minutes prior
                                                                 at about 5:30 p.m. When the
      to symptom onset, and the last dose being administered
                                                                                   for about the
      subject suffers from PD, the subject will typically remain asymptomatic
      same amount of time every morning after he or she wakes (e.g., about an hour, up to
                                                                                  start to occur
15    three (3) hours, etc.). Thus, the subject will know when symptoms will
      during the day and, therefore, will know when to take the first dose of L-dopa.
                                                                                           subject,
               Depending upon the severity of symptoms experienced by a particular
                                                                      the standard dosages of
      higher dosages of L-dopa may be required. FIG. 21 depicts
                                                                                    for subjects
       L-dopa (and a variety of other dopamine derivatives) that are prescribed
20     who suffer from varying degrees of Parkinson's Disease. Nevertheless, when drug

                                                  -23
                                                                            of the present
     and light therapy are used together in accordance with teachings
     invention, below-standard L-dopa dosages may be administered to a subject.
                                                                                       derivative
               Of course, the same rationale may be applied to other dopamine
                                                                                    derivative
     therapies by substituting an equivalent dosage of the other dopamine
                                                                                dosages for a
 5   for 100 mg of L-dopa (see, e.g., FIG. 21, which depicts equivalent
                                                                        also be applied to other
      variety of dopamine derivatives). Similar drug dosages may
      motor-related neurological conditions.
               In the graph of FIG. 1, the effects of light therapy alone and with drug
                                                                              patient are
      treatment on a newly diagnosed, or de novo, Parkinson's disease
                                                                               by the patient were
10    illustrated. On the left side of the graph, the tremors experienced
                                                                                 the patient's
      evaluated. Specifically, a visual analog scale was used to quantify
      tremors. The tremors initially experienced by the patient (labeled "March 18") are
                                                                               (8) weeks of light
      compared with the tremors experienced by the patient after eight
       therapy alone (daily ocular exposure to bright white light at an intensity of
                                                                             tremors experienced
15     about 1,000 lux to about 1,500 lux) (labeled "May 12") and the
                                                                        in conjunction with drug
       by the patient after another eight (8) weeks of light therapy
                                                                                 tremors decreased
       therapy (labeled "June 9"). With light therapy alone, the patient's
                                                                        with drug therapy, the
       by about 20%. When light therapy was used in conjunction
        subject's tremors decreased by 56%.
 20             On the right side of the graph of FIG. 1, micrographia, or a progressive
                                                                            motor-related
        decrease in the patient's handwriting, which is symptomatic of
                                                                                  distance across a
        neurological conditions, such as PD, was evaluated. The diagonal
        routine sample of signature was measured. During the initial test, the diagonal
        measure of the patient's handwriting measured 16 mm. After eight (8) weeks of light
                                                                              Eight (8) weeks after
 25     therapy, the size of the patient's handwriting measured 19 mm.
        the addition of drug therapy, the diagonal measure of the patient's handwriting
        exhibited a further increase-to 25 mm.
                 The decreases in tremors and micrographia (i.e., the increase in handwriting
                                                                   therapy alone or in combination
         size) demonstrate the therapeutic value of using light
                                                                                    illustrates that a
  30     with pharmacological treatment. The following results specifically
                                                                                       with teachings of
         long-term regimen of light therapy and drug treatment in accordance
                                                                 effect on (e.g., slow or halt the
         the present invention can have a disease-modifying
         progression of, etc.) a degenerative neurological disease.

                                                  -24
               FIG. 2a shows the effects of light therapy on a patient who had been receiving
                                                                 years. The indicators of the
     dopamine replacement therapy (i.e., drugs) for several
                                                                                in which the time
     effectiveness of light therapy included a "latency to walk" exercise,
                                                                           was measured; a "fist
     it took the patient to walk a distance of three meters then return
                                                                          took the patient to
 5   to elbow latency" analysis was conducted, in which the time it
                                                                      of the patient's other,
     repeatedly move his or her hand from the first to the elbow
     vertically oriented arm (FIG. 5) ten times was measured; and a "floor to knee latency"
                                                                patent to raise his or her foot
     analysis was conducted, in which the time it took the
                                                                              results of the
     from the floor to knee level (FIG. 6) ten times was measured. The
                                                                           FIG. 2a. The results of
10    latency to walk tests are depicted as squares (m) in the graph of
                                                                                  FIG. 2a. The
      the fist to elbow latency tests appear as triangles (A) in the graph of
      results of the floor to knee latency analyses are depicted as circles (e) in the graph of
      FIG. 2a.
                All three tests were conducted at three distinct times: (1) a pre-assessment
                                                                               patient received
15    before the initiation of light therapy; (2) a second session after the
                                                            a third session after the patient
       daily light therapy for about seven (7) weeks; (3)
                                                                             and (4) a fourth
       received daily light therapy for an additional eleven (11) weeks;
                                                                                           were
       session about twenty (20) weeks later, during which light therapy treatments
                                                                                      exhibited
       occasionally skipped. All three of the measures that had been evaluated
                                                                                  rates of
20     improvement over the course of treatment, including striking initial
                                                                             for the latency to
       improvement and overall improvements of 21%, 25%, and 33%
                                                                                 measured in
        walk, fist to elbow latency, and floor to knee latency, respectively,
                                                                               exercises.
        decreases in the time it took the patient to perform the prescribed
                 FIG. 2b demonstrates the improvements achieved in a patient's ability to
 25     complete the floor to knee latency exercise over the course of a regimen of light
                                                                                   replacement
        therapy administered in conjunction with previously prescribed DA
                                                                                 in terms of a
        therapy. Again, a measured improvement of about 30%, measured
                                                                                    observed.
        decrease in the time it took the patient to complete the exercise, was
                                                                                         who had
                 The chart of FIG. 3 shows the results of light therapy on a subject
                                                                             of time, but continued
  30    been receiving DA replacement therapy for a prolonged period
                                                                              about six months of
         to experience severe involuntary movements (dyskinesia). After
                                                                    therapy, the patient's
         light therapy, in addition to continued DA replacement
         dyskinesia diminished by about 80%.

                                                 -25
             In the graph of FIG. 4, the effects of light therapy, in conjunction with
    continued drug (DA replacement) therapy, on various secondary symptoms of
    motor-related neurological conditions or side effects of DA replacement therapy.
                                                                                on insomnia
    Specifically, the effects of light therapy (with continued drug therapy)
 5  (+), nocturnal movement (A), depression (n), and anxiety (e) are shown.
    Specifically, the graph of FIG. 4 shows that the addition of light therapy to a regimen
                                                                                66%, nocturnal
    of pharmacological treatment decreased anxiety by 58%, insomnia by
    movement by 95%, and depression by 100%.
              In addition to the individualized results depicted by FIGs. 1-4, a larger-scale
10  study was conducted. In that study, polychromatic light therapy was administered to
     subjects who were receiving drug treatment for motor-related neurological conditions.
     Specifically, light therapy, in the form of polychromatic light having peaks at
     about 435nm to about 436 nn, about 460 mn to about 520 nm, about 540 nm to
     about 560 nm, and about 640 nm was administered at an intensity of about 1,000 lux
15   to about 1,500 lux. The irradiance of the blue-green light present in the light
                                                             2
     administered to each subject was about 280 pW/cm , while the irradiance of the red
                                                               2
     light present in that light was only about 150 pW/cm .
               The study, which had a duration of forty-three (43) months, involved 94
     subjects. The subjects were divided into two groups: (A) thirty-one (31) Parkinson's
20   disease patients who received standard drug therapy, but not light therapy; and (B)
                                                                                  in addition to
      sixty-three (63) Parkinson's disease patients who received light therapy
      drug therapy, in the manner set forth in TABLE 8.
               A variety of factors, including primary symptoms of Parkinson's disease and
      other motor-related neurological conditions (e.g., balance (FIG. 7), bradykinaesia
 25   (FIG. 8), fist to elbow latency (FIG. 9), latency to walk (FIG. 10) and tremor
      (FIG. 11), rigidity (FIG. 12), nocturnal movement and dyskinesia (FIG. 13), etc.) and
      secondary symptoms of Parkinson's disease and other motor-related neurological
      conditions (e.g., anxiety (FIG. 14), insomnia (FIG. 15), etc.) were evaluated at the
      outset of the study, and at periodic intervals throughout the study. As illustrated by
 30   FIGs. 7-15, when only drug treatment was provided, all of these symptoms but
      latency to walk (FIG. 10) either remained the same or worsened over time. When light
       therapy was added to drug therapy, a significant decrease in the severity of all of the

                                                  -26
                                                         10-improved at about the same rate
     symptoms was realized (latency to walk-FIG.
     in both groups of subjects).
                                                                                      suffered
              In another study, the effects of yellow-green light on subjects who
                                                                         was conducted on
     from Parkinson's disease were evaluated. In that study, which
5    seven (7) subjects over an eight (8) month period of time, light therapy was
                                                                                   The narrow
     administered by positioning a yellow-green filter over the light source.
                                                                                  was about 880
     band isolated intensity of the yellow-green light at each subject's eyes
                                                                                            2
                                                                     of about 130 pW/cm ) of
      lux, and included an above-ambient amount (an irradiance
                                                                                             2
                                                                                               ) of
      blue-green light and a below-ambient amount (an irradiance of about 40 pW/cm
10    red light. As shown in FIGs. 16 and 17, the administration of green light therapy
                                                                                   of Parkinson's
      resulted in gradual, consistent improvements in the primary symptoms
                                                                          as evaluated by fist to
      disease and many other motor-related neurological conditions,
       elbow latency, knee to floor latency and latency to walk tests (FIG. 16), and
                                                                                  tremors and
       evaluation of each subject's arm swing, the severity of each subject's
                                                                                  of motor-related
15     nocturnal movement by each subject (FIG. 17). Secondary symptoms
                                                                               evaluation of
       neurological conditions were also improved, as represented by the
       anxiety shown in FIG. 17.
                Turning now to FIG. 18, long-term light therapy has an effect on the drug
                                                               subjects who suffer from
       dosages that are needed to address the symptoms of
20     motor-related neurological conditions. FIG. 18 is a graph that depicts the drug dose
                                                                       ("Before") and end
       requirements of various groups of subjects at the beginning
        ("After") of the forty-three (43) month study.
                                                                                           required
                The first (left-most) pair of bars on graph represents the drug dosages
                                                               light therapy. At the outset of the
        by Parkinson's disease patients who did not receive
                                                                          each day. After
 25     study, these subjects received, on average, 833 mg of L-dopa
                                                                         increased to 1142 of
        forty-three (43) months, the average drug dosage per-subject
                                                                     of about thirty-seven
         L-dopa each day. This represents a drug burden increase
                                                                             7-15, although drug
         percent (37%) over forty-three (43) months. As shown in FIGs.
                                                                                    neurological
         dosages were increased over time, the symptoms of the motor-related
                                                                          time.
  30     conditions suffered by these subjects actually worsened with
                 The second pair of bars represents the drug dosages administered to subjects
                                                                         motor-related
         who also received long-term periodic light therapy for their
                                                                                    constant
         neurological conditions. On average, drug dosages were substantially

                                                  -27
                                                                  over the forty-three (43) month
     (e.g., an increase of only about two percent (2%), etc.)
                                                                     about 969 mg and the final
     study, with the initial average daily L-dopa dosage being
                                                                                         in
     average daily L-dopa dosage being about 990 mg. Over that time, as shown
     FIGs. 7-15, most of the symptoms of the motor-related neurological conditions
                                                                               decreased in
 5    suffered by the subjects who received light therapy improved (i.e.,
      severity) significantly, even without any substantial increase in drug dosage.
               As illustrated by the third, fourth and fifth pairs of bars in the graph of
                                                                                  subject's
      FIG. 18, the need for higher drug dosages over time decreased as the
                                                                                        by the
      compliance with prescribed light therapy regimens increased. As indicated
10    fourth pair of bars, subjects who were "semi-compliant" (i.e., subjects who
      occasionally skipped a light therapy session or cut light therapy sessions short)
                                                                                     end of the
      initially required an average of 1056 mg of L-dopa each day and, at the
                                                                   day (a dosage increase of about
      study, required an average of 1094 ig of L-dopa each
       three and a half percent (3%%)). Subjects who were more compliant (i.e., subjects
                                                                                              as the
15     who skipped or cut short a light therapy session less than once a week)-shown
       third pair of bars-initially required, on average, 910 mg of L-dopa per day and by
       the end of the study required, on average, 926 mg of L-dopa per day (a dosage
                                                                                       less than
       increase of less than two percent (2%)). Subjects who rarely, if ever (i.e.,
       once a month), skipped or cut short a light therapy session required, on average, only
 20    three (3) more milligrams of L-dopa at the end of the study (591 mg/day) than they
        did at the beginning of the study (588 mg/day) (about a half a percent (M%) increase).
                                                                                                 on a
                 The data provided in FIG. 18 indicate that, when light therapy is provided
        substantially regular basis to a subject who suffers from a motor-related neurological
        condition, the dosages of drugs administered to the subject may remain substantially
 25     the same over prolonged periods of time (e.g., a year or more, three years, four years,
                                                                                       7-15, the data
        five years, etc.). In addition, when considered in conjunction with FIGs.
                                                                                       in accordance
        of FIG. 18, suggest that a combination of drug therapy and light therapy
                                                                                               while
        with teachings of the present invention may enable a reduction in drug dosages
                                                                                 the severity of
        preventing any increases (and, in some cases, actually decreasing)
                                                                                   neurological
  30     symptoms experience by a subject who suffers from a motor-related
         condition.
                                                                                                 with
                 These results demonstrate that the addition of light therapy in accordance
                                                                                     subjects who
         teachings of the present invention to the overall treatment regimen for

                                                 -28
                                                                                            abate
     are long-term sufferers of at least one motor-related neurological condition may
                                                                                     in a
     symptoms of the motor-related neurological condition. This improvement
                                                                      provide the subject with
     subject's quality of life may be maintained by continuing to
                                                                   of reduced drug dosages or
     light therapy and drug therapy, with the added possibility
 5   reducing the rate at which drug dosages are increased over time. Combining strategic
                                                                        of motor-related
     light therapy with drug therapy may also stop the progression
     neurological conditions.
               In addition to methods for addressing motor-related neurological conditions,
                                                                                  neurological
      the present invention includes techniques for diagnosing motor-related
10    conditions. Such a technique may include exposing a subject to certain wavelengths
      of light (e.g., amber, orange, red, etc.) without exposing the subject to other
      wavelengths of light (e.g., blue, blue-green, green, etc.). These wavelengths may
                                                                              production or
      temporarily inhibit dopaminergic activity. For example, melatonin
      melatonergic activity by a subject may be temporarily increased. A temporary
                                                                                         of a
15    increase in melatonergic activity may temporarily exacerbate the symptoms
                                                                                               of
      motor-related neurological condition, which may facilitate a physician's diagnosis
       the motor-related neurological condition. This same phenomenon may be elicited, in
       some embodiments, by administering increased levels or isolated levels of amber,
                                                                            amber, orange and/or
       orange and/or red light (e.g., about the same or greater levels of
20     red light than is present in ambient indoor light, at a greater collective intensity than
                                                                                       nm having
       blue, blue-green and/or green light, with wavelengths from 570 nm to 750
                                                                                     from 460 nm
       a greater collective intensity than the collective intensity of wavelengths
        to 570 nm, etc.) to the subject.
                In some embodiments, certain wavelengths of light may be filtered or
 25     otherwise removed from the light that is administered to a subject who is predisposed
        to or who may be suffering from a motor-related neurological condition. Without
        limiting the scope of the present invention, wavelengths of 570 nm or less may be
        removed from the diagnostic light. These wavelengths may include green and/or
        blue-green wavelengths of light. In other embodiments, levels of administered light
                                                                                      of
  30    having wavelengths above 570 nm or levels of light having wavelengths
         above 570 nm to 750 nm may exceed levels of administered light with wavelengths
                                                                                              more
         of 570 nm or less. In some embodiments, the subject may be exposed to one or
         isolated bandwidths of amber, orange and/or red light.

                                                  -29
                                                                                          from a
              In the event that physician determines that the subject is likely to suffer
      motor-related neurological condition or suffers from a motor-related neurological
      condition, the physician may prescribe a course of treatment for the diagnosed
      condition. A prescribed course of treatment may include, among other things,
                                                                                  adjust levels
 5    stimulating a dopaminergic response by the subject's body, which may
                                                                                   of the
      of one or more monoamines within the subject's body (e.g., one or more
                                                                            may be done in any
      subject's melatonin, serotonin and/or dopamine levels, etc.). This
                                                                                          with
      suitable manner, for example, with ocular light therapy alone or in connection
      the administration of one or more drugs, and/or other suitable treatments.
                                                                                      of a
10             One specific embodiment of a process for expediting the diagnosis
                                                                                     13.
       motor-related neurological condition, such as PD, is described in TABLE
                                               TABLE 13
       Rule               Conditions for Early Diagnosis and Developing A Rationale for
                          Early Treatment Thereby Preventing the Onset and Worsening
                          of PD
       ED1.               PD Patients and undiagnosed patients should be monitored as
       Treatment           described above in response to their daily drug regimen for primary
                                                                                    changes to
       Response            motor symptoms and should remain stable with as few
       Stabilization       their drug regimen as possible for the duration of treatment or
                           observation
       ED2                 Exposure to red light should occur daily at the same time each day,
       Conditions of       usually in the evening. The number of omissions should not exceed
       Treatment           one day every two weeks. Changes to DA replacement therapies and
                           other medications should be avoided.
       ED3. Time of        Exposure to light should commence between the hours of 7:00 p.m.
       Phototherapy         and 10:00 p.m. Drug regimens should not be altered until an
                            observation period of 2-4 weeks has been undertaken and the patient
                            is in compliance with phototherapy and titration. The condition and
                            well-being of the patient is monitored twice weekly during the
                            course of treatment and tenninated as soon as symptoms are
                            manifest.
                                                                                      light and red
  15             FIG. 19 is a chart that shows the relative effects of polychromatic
                                                                             anxiety, features on
        light on the following Parkinson's disease symptoms: Agitation,
        challenge, bradykinesia, depression, dreaming, dyskinesia, irritability, mood swing,
        rigidity, sleep and tremor will be exacerbated.
                 As shown in the left side of the chart, treatment with polychromatic light
                                                                                     1,500 lux)
   20    (daily treatment for one hour at an intensity of about 1,000 lux to about

                                                   -30
    improved an average of sixteen (16) known PD symptoms in the treated patients,
    while treatment with red light yielded, on average, no improvement in PD symptoms
    in the treated subjects. Rather, as illustrated by the right side of the chart of FIG. 19,
    exposure to red light exacerbated about eleven (11) symptoms in the treated subjects,
 5  while polychromatic light only exacerbated an average of two known PD symptoms
    in the treated patients.
             From these results, the utility of using red light (or amber and/or orange light)
     to enable early detection of motor-related neurological conditions is apparent. In
     addition, it can be seen that the red portion of polychromatic light may have
10   detrimental effects on patients who suffer from motor-related neurological conditions.
              In a specific embodiment, a subject who is believed to be prone to a
                                                                                                      of
     motor-related neurological condition or who may be suffering from the early stages
     a motor-related neurological condition may be subjected to diagnostic therapy. Such
     diagnostic therapy may be affected by exposing the subject to one or more of red,
                                                                                                      In
15   orange and/or amber light. The light may be administered to the eyes of the subject.
      some embodiments, repeated (e.g., daily, three times a week, etc.) administrations for
                                                                                          may be useful
      prolonged periods of time (e.g., one week, two weeks, one month, etc.)
      in providing an accurate diagnosis.
               FIG. 20 illustrates the effects of light therapy along with drug therapy to treat
20    Parkinson's disease. A long-term coefficient (LT         coeff.)  was calculated using the
      following formula:
               LT  coeff. = (n si(+1) +  n SD (-1) +  n SNC (0))       n si + n SD + n SNC,
       where n siis the number of symptoms showing improvement, n                SD is the number of
       symptoms showing deterioration, and n        SNC is the number of symptoms showing no
 25    change. The long-term coefficient may enable a subject to better recognize his or her
                                                                                       invention
       progression as treatment in accordance with teachings of the present
       continues over time, particularly for symptoms where improvements are very gradual,
       and possibly imperceptible on a day-to-day basis. In some embodiments, the
                                                                                                     be
       long-term coefficient or any other means for quantifying a subject's progress may
 30    embodied by a computerized feedback system.
                Although the foregoing description contains many specifics, these should not
       be construed as limiting the scope of the invention or of any of the appended claims,

                                            -31
  but merely as providing information pertinent to some specific embodiments that may
  fall within the scopes of the invention and the appended claims. Features from
  different embodiments may be employed in combination. In addition, other
  embodiments of the invention may also be devised which lie within the scopes of the
5 invention and the appended claims. The scope of the invention is, therefore, indicated
  and limited only by the appended claims and their legal equivalents. All additions,
  deletions and modifications to the invention, as disclosed herein, that fall within the
  meaning and scopes of the claims are to be embraced by the claims.

                                               -32
   The claims defining the invention are as follows:
            1.      A method for addressing a motor-related neurological condition
 5 suffered by a body of a subject, comprising:
   prescribing a light therapy for treating at least one symptom of the motor-related
   neurological condition, including ocular administration of therapeutic light with at
   least one above-ambient peak in a range of wavelengths from 460 nm to 570 nm while
   exposing the subject to below-ambient intensities of light in a range of 570 nm to 750
10 nm.
            2.      The method of claim 1, wherein prescribing the light therapy
   comprises prescribing a light therapy in which a collective intensity of the therapeutic
   light is sufficient to stimulate a dopaminergic response, including increased dopamine
15 activity in the brain of the subject.
            3.      The method of claim 1 or claim 2, wherein prescribing the light
   therapy comprises prescribing a light therapy in which the therapeutic light comprises
   at least 50% of the combined intensity of light ocularly administered to the subject.
20
            4.      The method of claim 1, wherein prescribing the light therapy
   comprises prescribing a below-ambient level of amber, orange or red wavelengths.
            5.      The method of claim 1, wherein prescribing the light therapy
25 comprises prescribing a course of light with the at least one above-ambient peak
   comprising green light.
            6.      The method of any one of claims 1 to 5, wherein prescribing the light
   therapy comprises prescribing a light therapy in which a collective intensity of the
30 therapeutic light of wavelengths from 460 nm to 570 nm will not adversely affect a
   circadian rhythm of the subject.

                                              -33
            7.      The method of claim 6, wherein prescribing the light therapy includes
   prescribing the light therapy for ocular administration to the subject in the evening.
            8.      The method of claim 7, wherein prescribing the light therapy
 5 comprises prescribing the light therapy once each day for use in conjunction with a
   prescription to administer a drug for treating the motor-related neurological condition
   a plurality of times each day.
            9.      The method of claim 7, wherein prescribing the light therapy
10 comprises prescribing a same spectral makeup of the light therapy for a plurality of
   times throughout each day.
            10.     The method of claim 7, wherein prescribing the light therapy
   comprises prescribing a plurality of time dependent spectral makeups of the light
15 therapy, with one time dependent spectral makeup of the plurality of time dependent
    spectral makeups corresponding to at least one particular time during the day.
            11.     The method of any one of claims 1 to 10, further comprising:
   prescribing a drug therapy including a dosage of medication for treating the motor
20 related neurological condition.
            12.     The method of claim 11, wherein the drug therapy is to be ocularly
    administered during the daytime.
25           13.    The method of claim 11, further comprising:
    after repeated ocular administration of the light therapy, reducing a dose of the
    medication administered to the subject in a revised course of treatment to treat the
    motor-related neurological condition.
30           14.    The method of claim 11, wherein prescribing the light therapy and
    prescribing the drug therapy comprise prescribing the light and drug therapies in
    accordance with an optimal dosing schedule.

                                                -34
             15.    The method of claim 14, wherein prescribing the light and drug
   therapies in accordance with the optimal dosing schedule comprises prescribing the
   light and drug therapies in such a way that the light therapy is ocularly administered at
   a different time of the day than the drug therapy.
 5
             16.    The method of claim 14, wherein prescribing the light and drug
   therapies in accordance with the optimal dosing schedule comprises terminating
   administration of the drug therapy at a predetermined time of day and providing the
   light therapy at least an hour and a half after the predetermined time of the day.
10
             17.    A system for addressing a motor-related neurological condition,
    comprising:
    a medication for treating a motor-related neurological condition or at least one
    symptom of the motor-related neurological condition; and
15  a light therapy device for ocularly delivering light with at least one peak at a
   wavelength therapeutic for the motor-related neurological condition or the symptom
    of the motor-related neurological condition, the light therapy device configured to
    administer light to a subject, with the light administered to the subject including
   therapeutic light with at least one above-ambient peak in a range of wavelengths
20  from 460 nm to 570 mn while exposing the subject to below-ambient intensities of
    light in a range of 570 nm to 750 nm.
             18.    The system of claim 17, wherein the at least one peak of therapeutic
    light has an intensity that exceeds an intensity of each peak of light above 570 nm
25  output by the light therapy device.
             19.    The system of claim 17, wherein the therapeutic light in the range of
    wavelengths from 460 nm to 570 nm has a collective intensity that exceeds a
    collective intensity of light in the range of wavelengths from above 570 nm
30  to 750 nm.

                                         -35
       20.     The system of claim 17, wherein the therapeutic light in the range of
wavelengths from 460 nm to 570 nm has a collective intensity tailored to address the
motor-related neurological condition without adversely affecting circadian rhythm.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
