                                                 Abstract
   The invention relates to a flat wire or a narrow strip having a profiled cross-section,
   composed of a high-strength steel having the following composition (in weight-%): C 0.2
   0.9%, Mn 12 - 25%, Si up to 0.5%, Al 0.5 - 2.0%, Cr 1.8 - 3.5%, S max. 0.005%, P max.
 5 0.06%, N max. 0.1%, Mo max. 1.5%, B max. 0.01%, Ni max. 2.0%, Cu max. 2.0%, Ca max.
   0.015%, Nb 0.02 - 0.35% and/or V 0.02 - 0.35%, as well as optionally Ti 0.01 - 0.35%, and,
   as the remainder, iron and unavoidable, production-related contaminants,
   cold-rolled and/or cold-profiled from wire-form precursor material, with optional intermediate
   annealing and/or an optional final annealing treatment, to achieve the following mechanical
10 values:
   Rpo. 2 500 - 1650 MPa,
   Rm           750 - 1800 MPa,
   A80          3-   50%,
   for the production of armoring plies in flexible pipes for conveying petroleum and natural gas,
15 as well as for transport of liquefied natural gas (FLNG) under acid gas conditions (acidic
   attack media). The invention furthermore relates to a method for the production of
   corresponding flat wires or narrow strips.

            WO 2015/007265         PCTIBE2OL4/000370
                                               LO
7222521 (GHMafter) P1IISSSAU GARYC

      Cold-rolled narrow strip in the form of flat wire or profiles composed of a high
     strength steel, for use in flexible pipes, particularly in flexible pipes for offshore
   applications, as well as method for the production of such cold-rolled narrow strips
                                           Techical Field
The disclosure relates to a cold-rolled narrow strip in the form of flat wire or profiles
composed of a high-strength steel, for use in flexible pipes, particularly in flexible pipes for
offshore applications, as well as to a method for the production of such cold-rolled narrow
strips.
                                          Background Art
Flexible pipes are used in many areas of technology, for the most varied purposes, and
predominantly have the task of conducting fluid media such as water, oil, gas or the like, and
shielding them with regard to the environment. In this connection, such flexible pipes are
subject to the most varied influences, for one thing influences resulting from mechanical
stress on the basis of the area of use and the use environment, and for another thing
influences on the basis of the physical properties and chemical composition of the fluids to be
conducted.
An important and technically very demanding area of use for such flexible pipes is what is
called offshore applications, in which the flexible pipes are used for applications in the ocean.
In this connection, the flexible pipes are used for conducting water and/or aggressive fluids
such as oil or gases, which are supposed to be brought from the ocean floor to the ocean
surface, for example, wherein the flexible pipes, if necessary, can be designed in such a
manner so that they can be used at water depths of at least 2500 m. Transport of such
liquids or gases takes place, in this connection, over great distances, so that the flexible
pipes also have corresponding lengths, and accordingly are subject to great stresses both on
the basis of their inherent weight and on the basis of the forces that act on them from the
environment.

Such flexible pipes for offshore applications have been known for a long time and are
produced according to different standards. Such flexible pipes usually have an inner tubular
and flexible core that accommodates the medium to be transported, which core conducts the
medium to be transported and seals it off from the environment. This flexible core is usually
produced from polymer materials. The flexible core is surrounded by one or more armoring
layers, usually composed of steel materials, wherein the steel materials are applied to the
flexible core in the form of wound steel wires or steel strips, because of the required
flexibility. In this connection, the flexible core and the one or more armoring layers are not
attached to one another, relative to one another, but rather can shift relative to one another
to a slight degree, thereby improving the flexibility and bendability of the flexible pipes. In this
connection, the armoring layers surround the flexible core and protect it, on the one hand,
from stresses arising out of the environment, and reinforce the flexible pipe with regard to
stresses during transport, during laying, and during operation of such flexible pipes.
Additional plies of polymer materials can be disposed between the plies of the armoring
layers and/or the flexible core. Also, in some designs of such flexible pipes, a casing-like
reinforcement of the flexible core is undertaken, by means of which the great pressure stress
on the inner core caused by the great ambient pressure in deep-water use is supposed to be
absorbed. The armoring layers are produced from steel wires or steel strips, which are
wound around the flexible core in helical shape during production of the flexible pipe. Also,
armoring layers that perform different tasks on such a flexible pipe can be provided, for
example as a pure reinforcement ply composed of flat strips that lie next to one another, or
as what is called a shape-fit profile, in which the steel strips wound next to one another are
profiled and anchor themselves mechanically by way of shape fit, and thereby form a more
stable composite than the simple reinforcement strips. For this purpose, the strips to be
processed must be profiled accordingly in advance. When armoring strips are mentioned
hereinafter, in simplified form, this can always refer to the different known configurations of
metallic reinforcement elements on such flexible pipes, independent of their arrangement in
the individual layers of the flexible pipe and their structure based one or more strands of an
armoring ply that are wound in parallel, in helical shape.

Other material can also be used for reinforcement, in combination with metallic wires.
Composite layers or strips can be used for the pipe structure in place of one or more metallic
layers, in order to reduce the weight of the flexible pipe.
The flexible pipes are usually produced from individual pieces, because they frequently
require greater lengths than can be produced from a precursor material, in terms of
production technology. For this reason, it must be possible to weld the armoring layers of the
respective partial pieces permanently to one another, so as to withstand great stress, so that
the steels used for the armoring layers must demonstrate good weldability.
Such flexible pipes are subject to great static or dynamic stresses during use. Dynamically
stressed pipes require the use of high-strength steels. The welding locations required at the
ends of the steel wires or steel strips must also be able to withstand great stresses.
Corrosion damage can occur as the result of the contact with liquid or gaseous media that
contain H2S and/or C0 2 , as well as due to condensate formation between the steel plies.
Also, great stress caused by components of the acidic media, which lead to great corrosion
stress on the armoring layers, as the result of unavoidable diffusion processes from the liquid
or gaseous media through the material of the pipe-like and flexible core, at least in the inner
armoring plies. For this reason, the steels used must demonstrate good resistance to stress
crack corrosion and to hydrogen brittleness when used in contact with acidic media. In
general, steels having a tensile strength of more than 1000 MPa are considered to have no
or little resistance to stress crack corrosion and hydrogen brittleness, and are therefore
eliminated for this application.
Austenite steels that contain manganese or high amounts of manganese, called TWIP steels
(TWIP - twinning induced plasticity), were developed in recent years as hot-rolled and cold
rolled strips, by way of the flat production route (steel plant - slab (rectangular format) from
continuous casting or cast block - hot strip or thin strip - cold strip), and particularly for
structural components in automobile construction. The advantageous properties of such
TWIP steels as compared with other high-strength steels are great initial strength in hot strip,
great hardening during cold forming, and extremely good plasticity. Some alloy concepts

furthermore offer good weldability and greatly improved resistance against hydrogen-induced
crack formation.
A higher-strength cold-formable steel and corresponding flat steel products are known from
EP 2 402 472 Al, which particularly demonstrate good welding suitability and TWIP behavior,
since this steel has a high manganese content. These steels are described exclusively for
use in car body construction, in the form of sheets or strips, which furthermore must be
subjected to an additional coating treatment with regard to corrosion protection. The
production of these steels takes place, in this connection, in conventional manner and in
coordination with the dimensions of the sheets or strips required later, by means of
conventional rolling methods for broad strip dimensions.
Use of steels having a high manganese content, for use for flexible pipes for offshore
applications, is described in WO 2012/171530 Al, in which such steels are described for the
production of armoring plies wound from narrow strips. The basic idea of the steels
described there for armoring plies in flexible pipes consists in avoiding the expensive
components copper and nickel that are usually used for flexible pipes, to the greatest
possible extent, or to reduce their proportion, in order to reduce the high costs for such alloy
components. In this way, it is true that the costs for the steel alloy used are reduced, but at
the same time, the steel properties are also negatively influenced. Furthermore, a clearly
great silicon content of the alloy is required, which content is required to improve the
corrosion resistance and to improve the processability of the steel.
The above references to the background art do not constitute an admission that the art forms
part of the common general knowledge of a person of ordinary skill in the art.
The above references are also not intended to limit the application of the process as
disclosed herein.
                                             Summary
Disclosed herein is a flat wire or narrow strip having a profiled cross-section, composed of a
new, high-strength steel, with which demands on dynamically stressed flexible pipes for use

even in an acidic milieu may be met, at clearly greater yield strengths and tensile strengths
and increased plasticity as compared with high-strength steels that are usual nowadays.
The solution for the task according to the disclosure is evident from the characterizing
features of specific embodiments of claim 1 in interaction with the characteristics of the
preamble. Further advantageous embodiments of the disclosure are evident from the
dependent claims.
The disclosure relates to a flat wire or a narrow strip having a profiled cross-section,
composed of a high-strength steel having the following composition (in weight-%):
C 0.2 - 0.9%, in some forms 0.3 - 0.6%,
Mn 12 - 25%, in some forms 16 - 23%,
Si up to 0.5%, in some forms 0.2 - 0.5%,
Al 0.5 - 2.0%, in some forms 0.80 - 1.5%,
Cr 1.8 - 3.5%, in some forms 2.0 to 2.7%,
S max. 0.005%, in some forms max. 0.003%,
P max. 0.06%, in some forms max. 0.035%,
N max. 0.1%,
Mo max. 1.5%,
B max. 0.01%,
Ni max. 2.0%,
Cu max. 2.0%,
Ca max. 0.015%,
Nb 0.02 - 0.35% and/or V 0.02 - 0.35%, in some forms 0.05-0.20%, in each instance,
as well as optionally
Ti 0.01 - 0.35%,
and, as at least a portion of the remainder, iron and unavoidable, production-related
contaminants, cold-rolled and/or cold-profiled from wire-form precursor material, to achieve
the following mechanical values:
Rpo. 2 500 - 1650 MPa,
Rm          750 - 1800 MPa,
A80         3-50%,

for the production of armoring plies in flexible pipes for conveying petroleum and natural gas,
as well as for transport of liquefied natural gas (LNG) under acid gas conditions (acidic attack
media).
Such flat wires or narrow strips having a profiled cross-section, composed of a high-strength
steel having the composition according to the disclosure, are particularly suitable for the
production of armoring plies in flexible pipes for conveying petroleum and natural gas, as well
as for transport of liquefied natural gas (LNG) under acid gas conditions (acidic attack
media), because they demonstrate not only great initial strength in the hot strip but also great
hardening during cold-forming, and extremely good plasticity, and thereby meet the
mechanical demands on such flat wires or narrow strips for the relevant areas of use to a
particularly great degree. It has furthermore been shown that the high-strength steel
according to the disclosure furthermore demonstrates good weldability when using known
welding technologies and greatly improved resistance to hydrogen-induced crack formation.
This greatly improved resistance to hydrogen-induced crack formation can be particularly
attributed to alloying in the element chromium in the scope of 2 - 3.5 weight-%, because the
chromium forms finely distributed chromium carbides and chromium nitrides with the
elements carbon and nitrogen, which serve as hydrogen scavengers when hydrogen is
introduced, and prevent hydrogen-induced crack formation by way of this mechanism. Thus,
the steel according to the disclosure is particularly suitable for use under acid gas conditions,
as they frequently occur when using flexible pipes. Furthermore, the finely distributed
precipitates have a grain-fining effect, which in turn reduces the crack sensitivity and
improves formability. By means of alloying in the chromium, the steel according to the
disclosure furthermore is clearly distinguished from the steel according to WO 2012/1717530
Al, which explicitly requires that the chromium content be low, and merely views this as an
unavoidable accompanying element, but limits it to at most a value of 0.15 weight-%. A
further difference lies in the low silicon content of the steel according to the disclosure, which
is allowed to lie in the range of only up to 0.5 weight-%. The significantly higher proportions
of silicon in WO 2012/1717530 Al are explicitly required there for processability of the steel,
and can be limited to a low value in the steel according to the disclosure here. Furthermore,
mechanical properties that lie above the previously known properties of high-strength steels
for the applications according to the disclosure can be achieved by the method of processing

of the steel according to the disclosure, by way of the wire-form precursor materials, as well
as cold-rolling/cold-profiling. At the values of the high-strength steel for Rpo. 2 between 1000
and 1500 MPa, for Rm between 1100 - 1700 MPa, and for A80 between 6 - 25%, these
values are such that the required stress resistance of flexible pipes produced from it is
already achieved at low material cross-sections, or, vice versa, pipes that can withstand
greater stress can be produced at the same dimensions of the flexible pipes. Therefore the
flat wires or narrow strips having a profiled cross-section, composed of a high-strength steel,
are particularly suitable for the production of armoring plies in flexible pipes for conveying
petroleum and natural gas, as well as for transport of liquefied natural gas (FLNG) under acid
gas conditions (acidic attack media), if these flexible pipes have particularly great lengths or
are subject to particularly great, particularly dynamic stresses. In this way, the useful lifetime
of the flexible pipes, which are generally in use for 20 years, can be clearly extended and the
failure safety can be increased, as was already the case as the result of the improvement in
susceptibility to corrosion.
It is advantageous if the high-strength steel for the flat wire or the narrow strip has an
austenite structure, particularly also having TWIP properties. Such structures have a great
initial strength in the hot strip, great hardening during cold forming, and extremely good
plasticity during forming, and furthermore offer good weldability and greatly improved
resistance to hydrogen-induced crack formation.
In one embodiment, the high-strength steel can be used for a narrow strip having round or
flat edges, or edges rolled in defined manner, as a reinforcement strip for the production of
wound armoring plies. Such reinforcement strips are generally used for the outer layers of
the flexible pipe, and, in order to guarantee good flexibility, must have corresponding mobility
values of the armoring plies wound from them, which mobility is also co-determined by the
edge configuration of the narrow strips. This edge configuration can be produced in
particularly simple manner in the case of the steel according to the disclosure, and can be
guaranteed to have a stable shape.
In another embodiment, the high-strength steel can be used for a narrow strip having a
profiled cross-section, as a shape-fit profile, particularly a Z profile, as an armoring strip for

the production of wound armoring plies. Such armoring plies composed of the narrow strips
according to the disclosure are generally disposed directly above the flexible, hose-like
conductor, and particularly also must fulfill strength properties with regard to the compression
of the flexible, hose-like conductor. The latter is subject to stress not only from the
mechanical influence due to tensile forces, but also by the ambient pressure that prevails at
greater ocean depths, and the Z profiles connected with shape fit in this manner (here, other
cross-section shapes are also used, such as, for example, T profiles, C profiles, K profiles, X
profiles or the like) are supposed to withstand the outside pressure, so that the hose-like
conductor is not impermissibly compressed. For this reason, it is also conceivable, in a
further embodiment, that the high-strength steel is used for a narrow strip as a casing in a
hose-like flexible core of a flexible pipe. Furthermore, in another embodiment, such a narrow
strip can be used as a holder for another longitudinally extended element, which holder is
correspondingly shaped in terms of its cross-section, wherein such longitudinally extended
elements can have metallic or multi-component or polymer materials, for example, to improve
strength and buoyancy.
The disclosure furthermore relates to a method for the production of flat wire or narrow strip
having a profiled cross-section, composed of a high-strength steel according to claim 1, in
which the high-strength steel is cast to form billets or blocks, the billets or blocks are rolled to
wire diameters between 5 - 30 mm, by means of hot rolling, and subsequently drawn to a
defined intermediate diameter on a drawing system, in one or more passes, in the cold state,
as wire, and afterward this steel wire is cold-rolled to the final dimensions and the final shape
in one or more passes. It is characteristic for this production method that the entire
production path extends over the wire rail, in other words strips from sheet-type or wide strip
precursor products are not used, but rather directly after casting of the steel in the form of
billets or blocks, this steel is hot-rolled to wire-shaped cross-sections, and, proceeding from
these, is formed ever closer to the final dimensions by means of a sequence of drawing work
and cold-rolling work that takes place in the cold state, in each instance. In this connection,
depending on the sequence of the processing steps and the required strength values,
intermediate and final annealing can take place between the respective cold processing, by
means of which annealing the required mechanical properties can be influenced and
improved in targeted manner. In some forms, the combination of drawing work and cold-

rolling work that takes place in the cold state, in each instance, as well as the annealing
treatments, permit extensive influencing of the microstructure and of the structure orientation,
which is difficult to produce by means of cold rolling alone.
In this way, cold-flat-rolled wires and cold-rolled profiles can be produced directly from wire,
for use, according to the disclosure, for flexible pipes for conveying petroleum and natural
gas, particularly from a suitable steel alloy. Thus, for example, a steel alloy according to the
disclosure, melted in an electric steel mill can be subsequently treated using secondary
metallurgy; it is subsequently degassed in a vacuum system and cast into billets by means of
extrusion or into blocks. These directly cast or reblocked square billets are then heated to
temperatures of approximately 1150      0C in a warming furnace, and rolled to wire diameters
between 5 - 30 mm in a wire-rolling lane, and cooled. Subsequently, the rolled wire bundle,
which weighs 1 to 3 metric tons, can then be pickled in mixed acids to remove scale, or can
be mechanically de-scaled. The scale-free rolled wire is subsequently drawn to a defined
intermediate diameter in a drawing system, in one or more passes, in the cold state. The
ovality of the wire is eliminated by means of drawing of the steel wire, and pre-hardening is
produced. The defined drawing diameter is selected to match the final cross-section and the
expected widening during cold rolling.
Subsequently, in an embodiment, the cold-drawn steel wire can be brought to an
intermediate dimension by means of flat rolling of the wire, to a rectangular final dimension
having round edges or edges rolled in defined manner, by means of at least one annealing
treatment and at least one cold rolling. This is the path of production of wires/narrow strips
as a reinforcement strip in armoring plies of corresponding flexible pipes.
In another embodiment, the cold-drawn steel wire can be rolled to a defined intermediate
profile by means of cold rolling, in one or more passes, subsequently annealed at least once,
and brought to the profiled final shape, particularly a Z-shaped final shape or a final shape
profiled in some other manner, particularly a profile shape of a shape-fit profile, by means of
at least one cold rolling. These shape-fit profiles have particularly great longitudinal and
transverse mechanical stability, because of the shape-fit fixation of wires/narrow strips
disposed adjacent to one another that occurs during production of the flexible pipe, and do

not impair the flexibility of the flexible pipe beyond normal limits. In this connection, not only
the strength of the individual wire/narrow strip but also a highly precise cross-sectional
formation is important, so that the strips that are crossed with one another can be firmly
attached to one another. In another embodiment, for example for simple profile end cross
sections, the final profile can also be rolled directly, without rolling to an intermediate profile.
In a further embodiment, after cold-rolling to a profiled final shape, an annealing treatment is
optionally carried out, particularly stress-free annealing or stress-relief annealing of the
wire/narrow strip that is produced. In this way, the mechanical properties of the wire/narrow
strip that is produced can be further influenced after the final shaping; in particular, the
annealing treatment can serve as a final treatment for establishing the mechanical values
and/or for reducing inherent stresses.
In an embodiment, the annealing treatment can be carried out between the drawing and/or
rolling treatments, as hood annealing in a coil, under inert gas, in some forms under an H2
atmosphere. In this connection, the entire coil is annealed at the same time, and this has
advantages in terms of energy technology.
In some forms, it is also conceivable that the annealing treatment is carried out between the
drawing and/or rolling treatments, in a pass-through method, with conductive or also with
inductive heating. In this connection, only short segments of the wire/narrow strip are locally
heated at a time, as they pass through corresponding heating devices, thereby making it
possible to achieve more targeted temperature management and a more targeted influence
on the structure changes brought about by annealing, but at the same time, a reduction in
the pass-through time of the wire/narrow strip also takes place.
The temperature profile that is achieved can contain more rapid heating and accelerated or
controlled cooling of the wire during every heat treatment, in order to produce an optimal
texture and properties in the steel.
Furthermore, it is conceivable that the melt is treated with a metallurgical calcium treatment
in the steel mill, with at least 0.0015% Ca, to influence the inclusion size and inclusion shape

of the non-metallic inclusions. This treatment leads to finely distributed and molded Ca
inclusions, which, in contrast to coarse and line-shaped inclusions, are non-sensitive to acidic
media (hydrogen-induced tension crack corrosion).
The disclosure furthermore describes use of the flat wire or narrow strip having a profiled
cross-section according to claim 1 for a flexible pipe for conveying petroleum and natural
gas, as well as for transport of liquefied natural gas (FLNG) under acid gas conditions (acidic
attack media), having an inner, hose-like fluid conductor, as well as at least one ply of
armoring strips disposed in the fluid conductor in helical manner or wound onto or over the
fluid conductor, composed of the high-strength steel for flat wire or narrow strip having a
profiled cross-section according to claim 1.
                                Brief Description of the Drawings
An embodiment of a flexible pipe, using the wires/narrow strips according to the disclosure, is
shown in the drawing.
This shows:
Figure 1        -  a layer-type structure of a flexible pipe, using the wires/narrow strips
                   according to the disclosure, for use in conveying petroleum and natural gas,
                   as well as for transport of liquefied natural gas (FLNG) under acid gas
                   conditions (acidic attack media).
                                        Detailed Description
In the following detailed description, reference is made to accompanying drawings which
form a part of the detailed description. The illustrative embodiments described in the detailed
description, depicted in the drawings and defined in the claims, are not intended to be
limiting. Other embodiments may be utilised and other changes may be made without
departing from the spirit or scope of the subject matter presented. It will be readily
understood that the aspects of the present disclosure, as generally described herein and

illustrated in the drawings can be arranged, substituted, combined, separated and designed
in a wide variety of different configurations, all of which are contemplated in this disclosure.
Referring to Figure 1, a flexible pipe 1, which has been produced using the steel according to
the disclosure or the steel strips/wires according to the disclosure, consists of an inner hose
shaped inner pipe 3, which has an elongated opening 2 for conducting fluids such as liquids
or gases. The hose-shaped inner pipe 3 usually consists of a polymer material and seals off
the elongated opening 2 and thereby the fluid to be conducted, relative to the environment.
The hose-shaped inner pipe 3 is surrounded by multiple plies of polymers as well as at least
two plies of reinforcement strip 5, and, optionally, one (or also multiple plies) of a shape-fit
profile 6. In this connection, the shape-fit profile 6 can, as shown here, be wound directly
onto the inner pipe 3, in helical shape, at a slight slant angle. In this connection, the shape-fit
profile 6 has such a cross-section that because of the helical winding process, windings of
the same or of one or more further shape-fit profiles 6 that come to lie adjacent to one
another can hook into one another with shape fit, along their edges, and thereby form a
significantly more stable composite than if the shape-fit profiles 6 are simply wound to lie next
to one another. In this way, the wound shape-fit profiles 6 can clearly contribute to the
strength properties of the flexible pipe 1.
Here, two plies of reinforcement strip 5 are disposed above the ply of the shape-fit profile 6,
separate from the optional ply of the shape-fit profile 6 and further plies 4 composed of
polymer material, in each instance, wherein the reinforcement strip 5 that forms this ply (or
also multiple reinforcement strips 5 wound to lie next to one another) can touch at the edges,
but is/are not disposed to be connected with one another. Also, the reinforcement strip 5 that
forms this ply is wound on at a clearly greater slant angle.
In the following, two exemplary compositions of the flat wire or narrow strip according to the
disclosure, as well as values for mechanical characteristic values determined for them, are
indicated:
   Alloy      C       Si    Mn        P        S       Al     Cr       N       Ni      V     Nb

    1      0.42    0.38    18.8     0.019    0.001   1.3   2.4   0.0070   0.68    0.12  0.01
    2      0.35    0.36    17.5     0.016    0.001   1.2   2.5   0.0065   0.53    0.02  0.11
                        Table 1: Chemical analysis of two sample alloys
         Alloy       RpO.2 (MPa)         Rm (MPa)        Rp/Rm           Elongation to
                                                                        rupture A80 (%)
           1             1146               1267          0.904                16
           1             1037               1238          0.838                18
           1              992               1218          0.814                20
           2             1103               1217          0.906                18
           2             1012               1193          0.848                19
           2              941               1176          0.800                21
           1             1232               1430          0.862                13
           1             1362               1567          0.869                 9
           1             1429               1664          0.859                 8
           1             1481               1718          0.862                 6
                Table 2: Mechanical values of the alloys in the production state
Variations and modifications may be made to the process previously described without
departing from the spirit or ambit of the disclosure.
In the claims which follow and in the preceding summary except where the context requires
otherwise due to express language or necessary implication, the word "comprising" is used in
the sense of "including", that is, the features as above may be associated with further
features in various embodiments.

                                                Claims
   1.   Flat wire or narrow strip having a profiled cross-section, composed of a high-strength
        steel having the following composition (in weight-%):
 5      C 0.2 - 0.9%,
        Mn 12 - 25%,
        Si up to 0.5%,
        Al 0.5 - 2.0%,
        Cr 1.8 - 3.5%,
10      S max. 0.005%,
        P max. 0.06%,
        N max. 0.1%,
        Mo max. 1.5%,
        B max. 0.01%,
15      Ni max. 2.0%,
        Cu max. 2.0%,
        Ca max. 0.015%,
        and, as at least a portion of the remainder, iron and unavoidable, production-related
        contaminants,
20      cold-rolled and/or cold-profiled from wire-form precursor material, to achieve the
        following mechanical values:
        Rpo. 2 500 - 1650 MPa,
        Rm           750 - 1800 MPa,
        A80          3- 50%,
25      for the production of armoring plies in flexible pipes for conveying petroleum and
        natural gas, as well as for transport of liquefied natural gas (FLNG) under acid gas
        conditions (acidic attack media).
   2.   A flat wire or narrow strip according to claim 1, wherein C is in the range of 0.3 - 0.6%.
30
   3.   A flat wire or narrow strip according to claim 1 or 2, wherein Mn is in the range of 16
      23%.

   4.     A flat wire or narrow strip according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein Si is in
       the range of 0.2 - 0.5%.
 5 5.     A flat wire or narrow strip according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein Al is in
       the range of 0.80 - 1.5%.
   6.     A flat wire or narrow strip according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein Cr is in
       the range of 2.0 to 2.7%.
10
   7.     A flat wire or narrow strip according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein S max.
       is 0.003%.
   8.     A flat wire or narrow strip according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein P max.
15     is 0.035%.
   9.     A flat wire or narrow strip according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein the
       high-strength steel is further composed of Nb in the range of 0.02 - 0.35%.
20 10.    A flat wire or narrow strip according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein the
       high-strength steel is further composed of V in the range of 0.02 - 0.35%.
   11.    A flat wire or narrow strip according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein the
       high-strength steel is further composed of Ti in the range of 0.01 - 0.35%.
25
   12.    A flat wire or narrow strip according to claim 9, wherein Nb is in the range of 0.05
       0.20%.
   13.    A flat wire or narrow strip according to claim 10, wherein V is in the range of 0.05
30     0.20%.

   14.   Flat wire or narrow strip according to any one of the preceeding claims, wherein the
       steel melt can be treated with a calcium treatment having a Ca content of at least 0.0015
       weight-%.
 5 15.   A flat wire or narrow strip according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein the
         value of the high-strength steel for Rpo. 2 lies between 1000 and 1500 MPa.
   16.   A flat wire or narrow strip according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein the
         value of the high-strength steel for Rm lies between 1100 - 1700 MPa.
10
   17.   A flat wire or narrow strip according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein the
         value of the high-strength steel for A80 lies between 6 - 25%.
   18.   Flat wire or narrow strip according to one of the preceeding claims, whereinthe high
15       strength steel for the flat wire or the narrow strip has an austenite structure.
   19.   Flat wire or narrow strip according to one of the preceeding claims, whereinthe high
         strength steel for the flat wire or the narrow strip has TWIP properties.
20 20.   Flat wire or narrow strip according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein the
         high-strength steel can be used for a narrow strip having round edges or edges rolled
         in defined manner, as a reinforcement strip for the production of wound armoring plies.
   21.   Flat wire or narrow strip according to any one of claims 1 to 19, wherein the high
25       strength steel can be used for a narrow strip having a profiled cross-section, as a
         shape-fit profile, particularly a Z profile, as an armoring strip, for the production of
         wound armoring plies.
   22.   A flat wire or narrow strip according to claim 20 or claim 21, wherein the high-strength
30       steel can be used for a narrow strip as a casing in a hose-like flexible core of a flexible
         pipe.

   23. A flat wire or narrow strip according to claim 20 or claim 21, wherein the narrow strip
       can be used as a holder, correspondingly shaped in terms of its cross-section, for
       another elongated element.
 5 24. A method for the production of flat wire or narrow strip having a profiled cross-section,
       composed of a high-strength steel according to any one of claims 1 to 14,
       wherein
       the high-strength steel is cast to form billets or blocks, the billets or blocks are rolled to
       wire diameters between 5 - 30 mm, by means of hot rolling, and subsequently drawn to
10     a defined intermediate diameter, as wire, in a drawing system, in one or more passes,
       in the cold state, and afterward, this steel wire is cold-rolled to the final dimensions and
       the final shape, in one or more passes.
   25. A method according to claim 24, wherein a steel alloy melted in an electric steel mill,
15     according to claim 1, is subsequently treated by means of secondary metallurgy,
       degassed in a vacuum system, and cast to form billets, using extrusion, or to form
       blocks.
   26. A method according to claim 24 or claim 25, wherein the directly cast or reblocked
20     billets are heated to temperatures of approximately 1150       0C in a heating furnace, and
       rolled to wire diameters between 5 - 30 mm in a wire-rolling lane, and subsequently
       cooled.
   27. A method according to any one of claims 24 to 26, wherein the hot-rolled steel wire is
25     pickled to remove scale, and subsequently drawn to a defined intermediate diameter on
       a drawing system, in one or more passes.
   28. A method according to claim 24 or claim 27 when dependent on claim 24, wherein the
       cold-drawn steel wire is brought to a rectangular final dimension having round or flat
30     edges, or edges rolled in defined manner, by means of flat-rolling of the wire to an
       intermediate dimension.

   29. A method according to claim 28, wherein the cold-drawn steel wire is rolled to a defined
       intermediate profile by means of cold rolling, in one or more passes, subsequently
       annealed at least once, and brought to the profiled final shape, by means of at least
       one cold rolling.
 5
   30. A method according to claim 29, wherein after cold rolling to the profiled final shape, an
       annealing treatment is carried out, in the temperature range between 400 - 700     0C.
   31. A method according to any one of claims 28 to 30, further comprising at least one
10     annealing treatment, the annealing treatment serving as a final treatment for
       establishing the mechanical values and/or for reducing inherent stresses.
   32. A method according to any one of claims 28 to 31, wherein the annealing treatment is
       carried out between the drawing and/or rolling treatments, as hood annealing in the
15     coil, under inert gas.
   33. A method according to any one of claims 28 to 31, wherein the annealing treatment is
       carried out between the drawing and/or rolling treatments, in a pass-through method,
       with conductive heating.
20
   34. A method according to any one of claims 24 to 33, wherein the high-strength steel is
       treated with a calcium treatment, with a Ca content of at least 0.0015 weight-%.
   35. A method according to any one of claims 28 to 31, wherein the annealing treatment is
25     carried out between the drawing and/or rolling treatments, in a pass-through method,
       with inductive heating.
   36. Use of a flat wire or narrow strip having a profiled cross-section, according to any one
       of claims 1 to 14, for a flexible pipe for conveying petroleum and natural gas, as well as
30     for transport of liquefied natural gas (FLNG) under acid gas conditions (acidic attack
       media), having an inner, hose-like fluid conductor as well as at least one ply of
       armoring strips disposed in the fluid conductor in helical form or wound onto or over the

fluid conductor, composed of the high-strength steel for flat wire or narrow strip having
a profiled cross-section, according to any one of claims 1 to 14.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
