Abstract
An apparatus for performing an operation on a fluid material to separate liquid from solid
matter within the fluid material     The apparatus comprises a belt structure movable
along a path. The belt structure comprises a belt portion adapted to be assembled into
a movable tubular structure within which at least part of the operation is to be
performed. The tubular structure is permeable to liquid for separation of liquid from
solid matter within the fluid material. The tubular structure is continuously assembled at
one end thereof and continuously disassembled at another end thereof during
movement of the belt structure. The path includes a descending portion along which
the assembled tubular structure passes, the descending portion being inclined whereby
at least some of the solid matter within fluid material in the tubular structure is caused to
move downwardly along the descending portion under the influence of gravity to
facilitate cleaning of the permeable tubular structure.

       21/27
               00 0
             m      C0)
   CDt
00

Separation Apparatus and Method
TECHNICAL FIELD
[0001]        This invention relates to treatment of heterogeneous mixtures comprising
solid and liquid phases. More particularly, the invention relates to the treatment of
heterogeneous mixtures to separate solid and liquid phases.
[0002]        Specifically, the invention is concerned with apparatus for removal of liquids
from solids in fluid material, and to a method of removal of liquids from solids in fluid
material.
[0003]        In the context of this specification, the term fluid material refers to material in
the form of a heterogeneous mixture which has both liquid and solids components and
which is capable of flow.          Typically, the fluid material is pumpable, although not
necessarily so.
[0004]        The fluid material may comprise a fluid mixture comprising particulate or
pulverised solids and liquid. Typically the fluid material comprises slurry.
[0005]        The liquid may comprise a single liquid or a mixture of two or liquids.
[0006]        Where the separation involves separation of solids from liquid, it is likely that
the separation will not be complete; that is, the separated solids will likely be
contaminated with some liquid, and the liquid from which the solids have been
separated will likely contain some remnant solids.
[0007]        The apparatus has been devised particularly, although not solely, for
dewatering a water-laden sludge such as, for example, water-laden sewage including
animal and human sewage, mining concentrates, mining wastes, ores, coal fines,
tailings, wood pulp, paper pulp, agricultural products, food products including milk and
cheese, wine grape mash/pulp, dyes for plastics and paints, bio pellets, as well as
separation of clays for brick manufacture and fines for concrete, water filtration, and
filtration for aquaculture.
BACKGROUND ART
[0008]        The following discussion of the background art is intended to facilitate an
understanding of the present invention only. The discussion is not an acknowledgement

or admission that any of the material referred to is or was part of the common general
knowledge as at the priority date of the application.
[0009]      In the WO 2007/143780, the present applicant disclosed a belt filter
apparatus for treating sludge material such as sewage for the purposes of dewatering
the sludge material to facilitate recovery of the solid matter for subsequent treatment.
The belt filter apparatus incorporated an endless belt structure comprising an elongate
belt portion formed of liquid permeable material.      For certain sludge materials, it has
been found that there is a tendency for the solid particulates to block the liquid
permeable material and thereby reduce the effectiveness of the separation process. In
other words, the belt portion can become blinded by the accumulation of solid
particulates.
[0010]      It is against this background that certain aspects of the present invention
have been developed.
SUMMARY OF INVENTION
[0011]      Certain aspects of the present invention stem from the realization that solid
particulates can be mobilized to facilitate removal of accumulated material which might
otherwise lead to blinding of a filter apparatus.
[0012]      According to a first aspect of the invention there is provided an apparatus for
performing an operation on a fluid material to separate liquid from solid matter within the
fluid material, the apparatus comprising a belt structure movable along a path, the belt
structure comprising a belt portion adapted to be assembled into a movable tubular
structure within which at least part of the operation is to be performed, the tubular
structure being permeable to liquid for separation of liquid from solid matter within the
fluid material, the tubular structure being continuously assembled at one end thereof
and continuously disassembled at another end thereof during movement of the belt
structure, the path including a descending portion along which the assembled tubular
structure passes, the descending portion being inclined whereby at least some of the
solid matter within fluid material in the tubular structure is caused to move downwardly
along the descending portion under the influence of gravity to facilitate cleaning of the
permeable tubular structure.

[0013]      With this arrangement, the permeable tubular structure provides a selective
barrier through which liquid can pass but through which at least some of the solid matter
cannot pass.
[0014]      Where the solid matter comprises solid particulate matter, particulate solids
of a size which can pass through the barrier are hereinafter referred to as undersize
solids and particulate solids which cannot pass through the barrier are hereinafter
referred to as oversize solids.
[0015]      It is likely that the separation will not be entirely complete; that is, the
separated solids will likely be contaminated with some liquid, and the liquid from which
the solids have been separated will likely contain some remnant solids, typically
undersize solids.
[0016]      The cleaning of the tubular structure may comprise removal of accumulated
solid matter to prevent or at least reduce blinding of the permeable tubular structure.
[0017]      With this arrangement, particulate solids are mobilized in the descending
portion of the permeable tubular structure, serving to scour the surface of the tubular
structure to remove accumulated material which might otherwise lead to blinding of the
tubular structure and a resultant loss of, or reduction in, its permeability.
[0018]      The scouring action developed by the mobilized particulate solids may
comprise removal of accumulated material by frictional effects on the accumulated
material and/or hydrodynamic forces developed in the liquid within the tubular structure
through movement of the particulate solids.
[0019]      With the fluid material flowing downwardly within the tubular structure under
the influence of gravity, any agglomerated particulate solids within the fluid material are
influenced to separate from the agglomerated state, establishing flow paths to facilitate
release of liquid from within the agglomerated matter.             The released liquid can
discharge from the permeable tubular structure and the freed particulate solids can
tumble down the sloping descending portion, further facilitating the scouring action. It is
believed that this action is likely to be more effective in separating liquid from the
particulate solids than compressing the fluid material at this stage, as the latter action of
compressing the fluid material would likely tend to close off flow paths and trap liquid
between particulate solids.

[0020]     The tubular structure may be permeable in any appropriate way. Typically,
the tubular structure may be permeable by virtue of the material from which the belt
portion is made.      In particular, the belt portion may comprise material which is
permeable.    In other words, the belt portion may be formed of material which is
permeable to the liquid concerned, whereby liquid can flow laterally through the tubular
structure under the influence of gravity. The belt portion may be made entirely of such
permeable material, or one or more sections of the belt portion may comprise such
permeable material.     Typically, the belt portion is formed entirely of such permeable
material.  However, in an alternative arrangement the belt portion may be only partly
formed of such material; for example, the belt portion may comprise a longitudinal
section formed of such permeable material, with the longitudinal section being so
disposed with respect to the remainder of the belt structure that is lowermost when the
assembled tubular structure passes along the descending portion.
[0021]     By way of example, the elongate belt portion may be formed of fluid
permeable sheet material,       such a flexible filter pad material      such as woven
polypropylene.    In an embodiment which involves dewatering sludge material, the
elongate belt portion may be formed of water permeable sheet material.
[0022]     Preferably, the belt portion has longitudinal edges adapted to be connected
together to assemble the movable tubular structure. More particualy, the belt portion
may comprise one or more elongate sheets adapted to be releasably connected
together along longitudinal edges thereof to assemble the movable tubular structure.
Where the belt portion comprises a single elongate sheet, the latter may be connected
along its two opposed longitudinal edges to form the tubular structure. Where the belt
portion comprises more than one elongate sheet, the sheets may be connected one to
another with two of the sheets being unconnected so that each presents a longitudinal
edge, whereby the respective longitudinal edges of the two sheets can be connected
together to assemble the tubular structure.
[0023]     Preferably, the one or more elongate sheets are adapted to be releasably
connected along longitudinal edges thereof by a slidable connector means such as a
zipper. A particularly suitable slider connector means is of the type disclosed in United
States patent 6,467,136 in the name of Neil Deryck Bray Graham, the contents of which
are incorporated herein by way of reference.

[0024]      The slidable connector means may comprise two connector elements
adapted to interact with each other to provide a connection therebetween.             Each
connector element may present a contact face, and also ridges and recesses arranged
to interact with each other. The two connector elements may be substantially identical
in construction and configured for mating engagement.
[0025]       Preferably, the belt structure further comprises two funicular elements
connected to the belt portion, the funicular elements being adapted to support the belt
portion therebetween.
[0026]      Preferably, the funicular elements not only support the belt portion
therebetween but also guide and drive the belt structure along the path.
[0027]      Preferably, the belt structure comprises an endless belt structure and the
path comprises an endless path about which the endless belt structure circulates.
[0028]      Preferably, the endless path incorporates guide roller structures around
which the belt structure passes with the funicular elements in engagement with the
guide roller structures.
[0029]      Preferably, the guide roller structures are configured to guidingly receive the
funicular elements. With this arrangement, the assembled tubular structure is guided
along the path.    In particular, the arrangement serves to hold the funicular elements
apart at stages where the tubular structure is subjected to compression.         This is to
ensure that the compressed tubular structure maintains a taut condition without folds,
creases and wrinkles. The presence of folds, creases or wrinkles can be problematic in
relation to uniform compression of the confined material and may also lead to damage
to the belt portion as a result of misalignment and excessive crushing forces over the
folds
[0030]      The funicular elements may be of any appropriate form, such as, for
example, endless elements configured as bolt ropes, cables, drive transmission belts or
drive transmission chains.      Further, each funicular element may comprise a single
endless element, or two or more endless elements in side-by-side relation.              For
example, each funicular element may comprise several drive transmission belts
positioned in side-by-side relation and connected together to function as a unit.
[0031]      Typically, the tubular structure is configured to define a single interior
compartment along which at least part of the operation is to be performed. For certain

applications, the tubular structure may, however, be configured to define a plurality of
interior compartments along which at least part of the operation is to be performed.
With such an arrangement, the plurality of interior compartments would typically be
disposed in side-by-side relation and extend the full length of the assembled tubular
structure. This arrangement may be particularly suitable for a tubular structure which is
relatively large in size.
[0032]       There may be further funicular elements connected to the belt portion.
Typically, the further funicular elements would assist in providing support for the belt
portion, as well as providing guidance and drive to the belt structure along the path.
This arrangement may be particularly suitable for a tubular structure which is relatively
large in size, including in particular one in which the tubular structure is configured to
define a plurality of interior compartments.
[0033]       Each guide roller structure may take any appropriate form.            In one
arrangement, each guide roller structure may comprise two wheels each having an
outer periphery configured to guidingly receive a respective one of the funicular
elements. With this arrangement, the assembled tubular structure is guided along the
path.    In particular, the arrangement serves to hold the funicular elements apart at
stages where the tubular structure is subjected to compression, as mentioned above. .
[0034]       The two wheels which together constitute the guide roller structure may be
mounted on separate axles or on a common axle. When the two wheels are mounted
on a common axle, the latter may serve to mechanically link the wheels together for
rotation in unison, although this need not necessarily be so.
[0035]       Where appropriate, the two wheels may be in a spaced part relation defining
a space therebetween of a size sufficient to allow the assembled tubular structure to
advance along a path defined between the two wheels.
[0036]       In the arrangement where the funicular elements comprise ropes or cables,
the outer periphery of each wheel may be configured as a rim having a peripheral
groove for receiving a respective one of the funicular elements.       In the arrangement
where the funicular elements comprise drive transmission chains, the wheels may
comprise sprockets having teeth at their outer peripheries for engaging the chains. In
the arrangement where the funicular elements comprise perforated drive belts, the
wheels may comprise sprockets having teeth at their outer peripheries for engaging the
perforations within the drive belts.    In the arrangement where the funicular elements

comprise toothed drive belts, the wheels may comprise sprockets having their outer
peripheries configured for meshing engaging the tooth formations on the drive belts.
[0037]      Preferably, the apparatus further comprises means for introducing fluid
material on which an operation is to be performed into the tubular structure.
[0038]      Preferably, the delivery of fluid material into the tubular structure is controlled
such that the tubular structure does not completely fill while performing the operation.
Rather, the delivery is controlled to allow fluid flow downwardly along at least a section,
preferably an upper section, of the inclined descending portion thereby encouraging
solids to move downwardly along the descending portion under the influence of gravity
to establish relative movement between the solids within the tubular structure and the
tubular structure itself to facilitate cleaning of the permeable tubular structure.
[0039]      Preferably, the descending portion of the path along which the assembled
tubular structure passes is configured to provide support for the inclined descending
portion of the tubular structure advancing therealong.
[0040]       Preferably, the support is configured to cause disturbance of material flow
within the tubular structure and to also spreading of the material within the tubular
structure. More particularly, the support is preferably configured to create turbulence in
the downwards flow and spread the flow to optimise the area within the tubular structure
being utilised thereby to allow the scouring process to occur and also optimise the area
over which liquid can leave the tubular structure.
[0041]      The support may be provided by at least support element over which the
tubular structure travels, and preferably a series of support elements located at intervals
along the descending portion of the path.             The support element may be of any
appropriate form, such as a roller, bar or other arrangement.          Typically, the support
elements act to establish raised sections within the bottom of the tubular structure
constituting a bed over which the material flows.
[0042]       Typically, the flow of fluid material along the inclined descending portion of
the tubular structure slows towards the bottom end thereof, leading to an accumulation
of solids in the bottom section.         The accumulation of solids in the bottom section
establishes a blockage which also assists in slowing liquid flow within the tubular
structure, thereby increasing its residence time during which liquid can drain from the
tubular structure.

[0043]      The slowing of the flow may occur because of increased friction arising from
the loss of liquid, the friction being between particulate solids, and also between the
particulate solids and the surface of the tubular structure.      As the flow slows, the
particulate solids commence to agglomerate, leading to caking and also progressive
thickening of the cake, with the progressively developing caked mass rolling or tumbling
down the inclined descending portion of the tubular structure.
[0044]      Preferably, the path at the bottom of the descending portion along which the
assembled tubular structure passes includes a turn section configured to propagate
radial expansion and contraction of successive sections of the tubular structure as it
advances about the turn section, thereby assisting to convey the agglomerated material
within the tubular structure around the turn section.
[0045]      With this arrangement, the agglomerated material within the tubular structure
is transported around the turn section without being subjected to compaction.
[0046]      Preferably, the turn section is defined by a turn roller structure having an
outer periphery about which the tubular structure passes, the outer periphery
comprising a plurality of circumferentially spaced portions with intervening cavities
therebetween.     With this arrangement, the circumferentially spaced portions cause
contraction of successive sections of the tubular structure as it advances about the turn
section and the intervening cavities accommodate corresponding radial expansion of
successive sections of the tubular structure.
[0047]      This action is somewhat akin to a peristaltic action in that there is radial
contraction and radial expansion of successive sections of the tubular structure,
although the material is not pumped along the tubular structure. Rather, the material
continues to advance and move upwards with the tubular structure (instead of falling
down the tubular structure after having passed through the turn section), the radial
expansion merely accommodating material displaced as a result of the radial
contraction arising from engagement with the turn roller structure.
[0048]      In one arrangement, the outer periphery is defined by a plurality of
circumferentially spaced elements, with spacing therebetween defining the cavities
[0049]      The turn roller structure may be of squirrel cage configuration to provide the
outer periphery comprising the plurality of circumferentially spaced elements with
cavities therebetween.

[0050]      In another arrangement, the turn roller structure may be configured to
present a plurality of roller elements to the turning tubular structure, with roller elements
being disposed in circumferentially spaced relation and rotating independently of the
speed of movement of the tubular structure.
[0051]      Preferably, the apparatus further comprises press means for pressing the
tubular structure along a portion thereof. This may be for the purpose of expressing
liquid from material contained within that portion of the tubular structure being subjected
to a pressing action.
[0052]      The press means may perform a compacting action on material contained
within that portion of the tubular structure, or a compressing action on material
contained within that portion of the tubular structure, or both a compacting action and a
compressing action thereon.
[0053]      In one arrangement, the press means may comprise a confined and tortuous
section of the path along which the tubular structure passes. The confined and tortuous
section of the path may be defined by and between press rollers disposed on opposed
sides of the path.
[0054]      In another arrangement, the compression means may comprise a press for
mechanically compressing the tubular structure. The press may be located at a pressing
station at which a pressing action is applied to that portion of the tubular structure
passing therethrough to squeeze the tubular structure and thus extract remnant liquid
from the material contained therein.
[0055]      The press may comprise two press portions disposed in opposed, spaced
apart relation to define a pressing zone through which the tubular structure can pass.
Typically, the tubular structure is drawn through the pressing zone between the two
press portions, with the opposed press portions exerting a pressing action on the
tubular structure as it is drawn though the pressing zone.
[0056]      The pressing zone between the two press portions may contract in the
direction of travel of the tubular structure through the pressing zone so as to increase
the pressing action on the tubular structure as it advances through the pressing zone.
The contraction may be for the entire pressing zone, or for only a section of the pressing
zone. Preferably, the two press portions contract progressively in the direction of travel
of the tubular structure through the pressing zone so as to progressively increase the

pressing action on the tubular structure as it advances through the pressing zone.
Typically, the press portions define press faces which taper towards each other in the
direction of intended movement of the tubular structure through the pressing zone.
[0057]      With this arrangement, the pressing action comprises a reactionary pressing
action in the sense that the two press portions do not undergo movement with respect
to each other to effect the pressing action, but rather the pressing action arises from
interaction between the two press portions and the portion of the tubular structure being
compressed as it passes through the pressing zone defined between the two press
portions.   In other words, the reaction of the tubular structure acting on each press
portion as the tubular structure moves through the narrowing pressing zone exerts the
compressive force on the tubular structure.
[0058]      The press portions may comprise platens defining press surfaces in opposed
relation for exerting a pressing action on the tubular structure as it is drawn through the
pressing zone.      The press surfaces, or at least one of the press surfaces, may be
perforated or otherwise configured to allow liquid extracted as a result of the pressing
action to flow away from the press zone. The platens may be made of low friction
material to facilitate sliding movement of the tubular structure in a compressed condition
as it passes through the pressing zone. The low friction material may be of any suitable
type, such as a thermoplastic polyethylene. Ultra-high-molecular-weight polyethylene
(UHMWPE) is believed to be particularly suitable, owing to its low coefficient of friction,
resistance to abrasion, self-lubricating nature, and high resistance to most corrosive
chemicals.
[0059]      The press portions may alternatively be defined by two cyclically movable
structures each having an inner run and an outer run, with the two cyclically movable
structures being so positioned that the two inners runs comprise the press portions.
The cyclically moveable structures may comprise two endless bands disposed in
spaced apart relation with the inner runs cooperating to subject the tubular structure to a
compressive action. The cyclically movable structures, or at least one of the cyclically
movable structures, may be perforated or otherwise configured to allow liquid extracted
as a result of the pressing action to flow away from the press zone. By way of example,
each endless band may formed of mesh material, with pores in the mesh providing
perforations to allow liquid extracted as a result of the pressing action to flow away from
the press zone.

[0060]      The press portions may further alternatively be defined by a plurality of
spaced parts press elements arranged in two sets, with one set defining one of the
press portions and the other set defining the other press portion. The spaced apart
press elements in each set are preferably aligned so as to cooperate to define a
pressing face.      With this arrangement, the two sets of press elements define two
opposed pressing faces between which the pressing zone is defined. Each pressing
face is not continuous, but rather is discontinuous in that it is defined by the respective
press elements, with the intervening spacings proving discontinuities in the pressing
face.
[0061]      The tubular structure may be subjected to a compression as it undergoes
deflection in passing around one or more of the guide roller structures.
[0062]      Further, the tubular structure may undergo compression as a result of tension
which is exerted on the tubular structure by virtue of axial tension on the belt portion and
also tension arising from the loading exerted by material contained within the tubular
structure. Such compression may assist in squeezing liquid from the material.
[0063]      Any one of, or any combination of, the above may be utilised for compressing
the tubular structure.
[0064]      Preferably, a liquid removal system is provided to engage the exterior of the
tubular structure to cause liquid adhering thereto to be released. The liquid removal
system may comprise one or more wipers or scrapers. The scrapers may comprise
plastic scraper blades.
[0065]      The liquid removal system is preferably disposed after the turn section.
Typically, the liquid removal system is disposed along or prior to the tortuous section of
the path along which the tubular structure passes.
[0066]      Preferably, the apparatus further includes separating means for longitudinally
splitting the tubular structure for discharge of matter contained therein.                Such
longitudinal splitting may comprise disassembly of the tubular structure.
[0067]      Typically, material discharges from the belt portion after longitudinal splitting
of the tubular structure by falling from the belt portion under the influence of gravity.
[0068]      Removal means may be provided for removing remnant matter from the belt
portion after splitting of the tubular structure. The removal means may subject the belt

portion to a cleaning action which may involve scraping, washing, application of a
cleaning fluid (liquid or gas) under pressure, suction or any combination of such actions.
[0069]       Preferably, the tubular structure is open at the assembly end thereof to
receive the material on which the operation is to be performed.
[0070]       The apparatus according to the invention may be of a configuration and size
to facilitate transportation to and from a site of intended use and to be manoeuvred
around the site.
[0071]       The apparatus may be configured to provide a single tubular structure or a
plurality of tubular structures.  In the latter case, the plurality of tubular structures may
be operable in side-by-side parallel relation.
[0072]       Where the apparatus provides a plurality of tubular structures operable in
side-by-side parallel relation, there may be a plurality of belt portions each adapted to
be assembled into a respective one of the tubular structures.
[0073]       Preferably, each belt portion is connected to and supported between two
funicular elements.
[0074]       In one arrangement, the belt portions may be connected one to another to
provide a common assembly. With this arrangement, adjacent belt portions may share
a common funicular element disposed therebetween.
[0075]       In another arrangement, the belt portions may be exist separately of each
other, with each belt portion supported between discrete funicular elements.              This
arrangement is advantageous in that it facilitates replacement of any one of the belt
portions without necessitating replacement of other belt potions at the same time.
[0076]       In yet another arrangement, multiple belt portions may be connected one to
another to provide a common assembly, with there being a plurality of the multiple
assemblies. In other words, belt portions in each multiple assembly are connected one
to another, but the multiple assemblies are not connected one to another.                 This
arrangement facilitates replacement of any one of the multiple assemblies without
necessitating replacement of other the multiple assemblies at the same time.
[0077]       The use of apparatus configured to provide a plurality of tubular structures
may be advantageous in certain circumstances. By way of example, such apparatus
may offer large areas for processing with opening and closing areas that are relatively

small. This is due to the length relationship between a narrow tubular structure and a
wide tubular structure.    With a wide tubular structure there is a requirement for a
disproportionately long length to open and close the tubular structure.      In contrast, a
series of relatively narrow tubular structures operating in concert only requires the same
length as any one of the component small tubular structures within the series to open
and close the tubular structure.      This provides packaging advantages that are not
available with a large tubular structure.
[0078]      Preferably, a slider is operable in conjunction with the two connector
elements to move them together into engagement as the endless belt circulates around
path. Typically, the slider is fixed and the two connector elements move relative to the
slider.
[0079]      The slider may comprise an alignment mechanism.
[0080]      The alignment mechanism may comprise a body having two passages, each
configured to receive one of the connector elements. The two passages may be
disposed to align the connector elements in preparation for them being brought together
into a interconnected condition. Typically, the two passages are disposed on opposed
sides of the body, one above the other in order to align the connector elements in
preparation for being brought together into the interconnected condition. Each passage
may have an outer longitudinal side which opens onto the respective side of the body
and a closed inner longitudinal side. Each passage is of a cross-sectional configuration
which is a counterpart to the cross-sectional profile of the respective the connector
element. Each passage may include recesses and ribs which mate with the respective
ridges and recesses on the respective connector element. In this way, the connector
elements may be captivley guided along the passages and maintained in alignment in
readiness to be later brought together into the interconnected condition, as will be
explained in more detail shortly.
[0081]      The body may have provision for lubricating the connector elements before
they are brought together in to the interconnected condition. The lubricant is applied to
the contact face, ridges and recesses of at least one, and preferably both, of the
connector element passing along the passages.

[0082]      The alignment mechanism may further comprise a guide element adjacent
the entry end of each passage for guiding the respective connector element into an
entry position as it approaches the passage.
[0083]      The slider may comprise closure mechanism for urging the aligned connector
elements into the interconnected condition after they have moved out of the passages in
the alignment mechanism.        Once the connector elements have moved out of the
passages, they may be so disposed one with respect to the other such that the contact
faces are in face-to-face relation and the respective ridges and recesses are in
alignment for registration with each other. The closure mechanism operates to press
the two connector elements into registration with each other to assume the
interconnected condition, as will be explained below.
[0084]      The closure mechanism may comprises two press rollers so positioned that
the aligned connector elements pass between the two press rollers and are pressed into
registration with each other to assume the interconnected condition.
[0085]      The two press rollers may be yieldingly biased towards each other. In
particular, the press rollers may comprise a fixed roller and a floating roller yielding
movable with respect to the fixed roller.      The fixed roller may be mounted on a fixed
arm and the floating roller may be mounted on a swing arm. A biasing mechanism may
bias the swing arm towards fixed arm, thereby to biasing the floating roller towards the
fixed roller.  The biasing mechanism may be selectively adjustable for varying the
compressible force which can be exerted by the cooperating press rollers to press the
aligned    connector   element    into  registration with    each  other to assume     the
interconnected condition.
[0086]      According to a second aspect of the invention there is provided a method of
removal of liquids from solids in fluid material, the method comprising use of apparatus
according to the first aspect of the invention.
[0087]      According to a third aspect of the invention there is provided a method of
removal of liquids from solids in fluid material, the method comprising assembling a
movable tubular structure within which at least part of the removal operation is to be
performed, the tubular structure being permeable to the liquid, moving the tubular
structure along a path including a descending portion, introducing the fluid material into
the tubular structure whereby the fluid material flows down the descending portion, the

descending portion being inclined whereby at least some of the solid matter is caused to
move downwardly along the descending portion under the influence of gravity to
facilitate cleaning of the permeable tubular structure.
[0088]       Preferably, the method further comprises subjecting the tubular structure to a
pressing action along a portion of the path after the descending portion. This may be for
the purpose of expressing liquid from material contained within that portion of the
tubular structure being subjected to the pressing action.
[0089]       Preferably, the method further comprises longitudinally splitting the tubular
structure for discharge of matter contained therein.           Such longitudinal splitting may
comprise disassembly of the tubular structure.
[0090]       Preferably, the method further comprises discharging material from the belt
portion after longitudinal splitting of the tubular structure.
[0091]       Preferably, the material is discharged by allowing it to fall from the belt
portion under the influence of gravity.
[0092]       The discharge of material may be assisted by subjecting the belt portion to a
cleaning action. The cleaning action may involve scraping, washing, application of a
cleaning fluid (liquid or gas) under pressure, suction or any combination of such actions.
[0093]       Preferably, fluid material is introduced into the tubular structure at the
assembly end thereof which defines an opening to receive the fluid material.
[0094]       Preferably, the delivery of fluid material into the tubular structure is controlled
such that the tubular structure does not completely fill while performing the operation.
Rather, the delivery is controlled to allow fluid flow downwardly along at least a section,
preferably an upper section, of the inclined descending portion thereby encouraging
solids to move downwardly along the descending portion under the influence of gravity
to establish relative movement between the solids within the tubular structure and the
tubular structure itself to facilitate cleaning of the permeable tubular structure.
[0095]       Preferably, the method further comprises supporting the inclined descending
portion of the tubular structure.
[0096]        Preferably, the support is rendered in a manner to disturb material flow
within the tubular structure and to also spread the material within the tubular structure.
More particularly, the support is preferably is rendered in a manner to create turbulence

in the downwards flow and spread the flow to optimise the area within the tubular
structure being utilised thereby to allow the scouring process to utilised to allow the
scouring process to occur and also optimise the area over which liquid can leave the
tubular structure.
[0097]      According to a fourth aspect of the invention there is provided an apparatus
for performing an operation on a fluid material to separate liquid from solid matter within
the fluid material, the apparatus comprising a belt structure movable along a path, the
belt structure comprising a belt portion adapted to be assembled into a movable tubular
structure within which at least part of the operation is to be performed, the tubular
structure being permeable to liquid for separation of liquid from solid matter within the
fluid material, the tubular structure being continuously assembled at one end thereof
and continuously disassembled at another end thereof during movement of the belt
structure, the path including a descending portion along which the assembled tubular
structure passes, the path further including a turn section at the bottom of the
descending portion, and compression means for compressing the tubular structure
along a portion thereof after the turn section.
[0098]      Preferably, the path further includes an ascending portion, the compression
means being provided along the ascending portion.
[0099]      Preferably, the turn section is configured to propagate radial expansion and
contraction of successive sections of the tubular structure as it advances about the turn
section, thereby assisting to convey the agglomerated material within the tubular
structure around the turn section.
[00100]     With this arrangement, the agglomerated material within the tubular structure
is transported around the turn section without being subjected to compaction.
[00101]     According to a fifth aspect of the invention there is provided an apparatus for
performing an operation on a fluid material to separate liquid from solid matter within the
fluid material, the apparatus comprising a belt structure movable along a path, the belt
structure comprising a belt portion adapted to be assembled into a movable tubular
structure within which at least part of the operation is to be performed, the tubular
structure being permeable to liquid for separation of liquid from solid matter within the
fluid material, the tubular structure being continuously assembled at one end thereof
and continuously disassembled at another end thereof during movement of the belt

structure, the path including a descending portion along which the assembled tubular
structure passes, the descending portion being configured to provide support for the
portion of the tubular structure advancing therealong, the support being configured to
cause disturbance of material flow within the tubular structure and to also spreading of
the material within the tubular structure.
[00102]     In this fifth embodiment, the support may be provided by at least support
element over which the tubular structure travels, and preferably a series of support
elements located at intervals along the descending portion of the path.         The support
element may be of any appropriate form, such as a roller, bar or other arrangement.
Typically, the support elements act to establish raised sections within the bottom of the
tubular structure constituting a bed over which the material flows.
[00103]     In the fourth and fifth aspects of the invention, the descending portion may be
inclined whereby at least some of the solid matter within fluid material in the tubular
structure is caused to move downwardly along the descending portion under the
influence of gravity to facilitate cleaning of the permeable tubular structure.
[00104]     According to a sixth aspect of the invention there is provided an apparatus for
performing an operation on a fluid material to separate liquid from solid matter within the
fluid material, the apparatus comprising a belt structure movable along a path, the belt
structure comprising a belt portion adapted to be assembled into a movable tubular
structure within which at least part of the operation is to be performed, the tubular
structure being permeable to liquid for separation of liquid from solid matter within the
fluid material, the tubular structure being continuously assembled at one end thereof
and continuously disassembled at another end thereof during movement of the belt
structure, the belt portion having longitudinal edges adapted to be connected together
by a slidable connector means to assemble the movable tubular structure, the slidable
connector means comprising two connector elements adapted to interact with each
other to provide a connection therebetween, and a slider operable in conjunction with
the two connector elements to move them together into engagement as the endless belt
circulates around path, the slider comprising a body having two passages each
configured to receive one of the connector elements, the two passages being disposed
to align the connector elements in preparation for them being brought together into a
interconnected condition.
[00105]     The slider may have any one or more of the features referred to above.

[00106]      In particular, the body may have any one or more of the features referred to
above, including provision for lubricating the connector elements before they are
brought together in to the interconnected condition.
[00107]     Further, the slider may comprise a closure mechanism for urging the aligned
connector element into the interconnected condition after they have moved out of the
passages in the alignment mechanism. The closure mechanism may have any one or
more of the features referred to above.
[00108]    According to a seventh aspect of the invention there is provided an apparatus
for performing an operation on a material, the apparatus comprising a belt structure
movable along a path, the belt structure comprising a belt portion adapted to be
assembled into a movable tubular structure within which at least part of the operation is
to be performed, the tubular structure being continuously assembled at one end thereof
and continuously disassembled at another end thereof during movement of the belt
structure, the belt portion having longitudinal edges adapted to be connected together
by a slidable connector means to assemble the movable tubular structure, the slidable
connector means comprising two connector elements adapted to interact with each
other to provide a connection therebetween, and a slider operable in conjunction with
the two connector elements to move them together into engagement as the endless belt
circulates around path, the slider comprising a body having two passages each
configured to receive one of the connector elements, the two passages being disposed
to align the connector elements in preparation for them being brought together into a
interconnected condition.
[00109]     In the apparatus according to the seventh aspect of the invention, the slider
may have any one or more of the features referred to above in relation to earlier aspects
of the invention.
[00110]     In particular, the body may have any one or more of the features referred to
above, including provision for lubricating the connector elements before they are
brought together in to the interconnected condition.
[00111]     Further, the slider may comprise a closure mechanism for urging the aligned
connector element into the interconnected condition after they have moved out of the
passages in the alignment mechanism. The closure mechanism may have any one or
more of the features referred to above.

BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
[00112]      Further features of the present invention are more fully described in the
following description of several non-limiting embodiments thereof. This description is
included solely for the purposes of exemplifying the present invention. It should not be
understood as a restriction on the broad summary, disclosure or description of the
invention as set out above. The description will be made with reference to the
accompanying depictions (drawings and photographs) in which:
        Figure 1 is a perspective view of a first embodiment of apparatus according to
        the invention;
        Figure 2 is a schematic side view of the apparatus shown in Figure 1;
        Figure 3 is a schematic view of a path around which an endless belt structure
        within the apparatus circulates;
        Figure 4 is a schematic perspective view of the belt structure is the configuration
        which it has when circulating around the path;
        Figure 5 is a fragmentary perspective view of the endless belt structure;
        Figure 6 is a schematic cross-sectional view of the endless belt structure;
        Figure 7 is a further fragmentary perspective view of the belt structure;
        Figure 8 is a schematic cross-sectional view of the belt structure with longitudinal
        edges thereof connected together to provide an assembled tubular structure;
        Figure 9 is a schematic cross-sectional view of the belt structure with longitudinal
        edges thereof unconnected;
        Figure 10 is a fragmentary perspective view of part of the apparatus illustrating in
        particular a guide roller structure for the belt structure and a slider for operating
        connector elements for connecting with longitudinal edges of the belt structure
        together provide the assembled tubular structure;
        Figure 11 is a further fragmentary perspective view of part of the apparatus
        illustrating in particular a further guide roller structure and the endless belt
        structure engaging the guide roller structure;

Figure 12 is a further fragmentary perspective view of part of the apparatus
illustrating in particular a scraper system and a washing system for the endless
belt structure;
Figure 13 is a perspective view of a scraper forming part of the arrangement
shown in Figure 12;
Figure 14 is a fragmentary schematic view of a descending portion of the path
shown in Figure 3, and illustrating the agglomeration of particulate solids;
Figure 15 is a further fragmentary schematic view of a descending portion of the
path shown in Figure 3, and illustrating the mobilization of particulate solids and
the agglomeration of particulate solids into a thickened solids cake at the bottom
of the descending portion of the path;
Figure 16 is a further fragmentary perspective view of part of the apparatus
illustrating in particular a support arrangement for the tubular structure travelling
along descending portion of the path shown in Figure 3;
Figure 17 is a further fragmentary perspective view of part of the apparatus
illustrating in particular a further part of the washing system for the endless belt
structure;
Figure 18 is a further fragmentary perspective view of part of the apparatus
illustrating in particular a further part of the washing system for washing
connector elements forming part of the endless belt structure;
Figure 19 is a perspective view of the slider depicted in Figure 10;
Figure 20 is a sectional view of the slider shown in Figure 19;
Figure 21 is a schematic view of a second embodiment of apparatus according to
the invention;
Figure 22 is a schematic view of a third embodiment of apparatus according to
the invention;
Figure 23 is a schematic view of a fourth embodiment of apparatus according to
the invention;

       Figure 24 is a fragmentary perspective view of part of the apparatus shown in
       Figure 25 illustrating in particular the lower end section of the descending portion
       of the path around which the endless belt structure circulates;
       Figure 25 is a detail view of part of the arrangement shown in Figure 24,
       illustrating in particular two squirrel cage rollers about which the the endless belt
       structure passes;
       Figure 26 is a fragmentary side view of part of the apparatus shown in Figure 25
       illustrating in particular part of a pressing zone;
       Figure 27 is a fragmentary perspective view of part of the apparatus shown in
       Figure 25 illustrating in particular a further part of the pressing zone;
       Figure 28 is a schematic section view of a plurality of tubular structures operable
       in side-by-side parallel relation for use in a fifth embodiment of apparatus
       according to the invention;
       Figure 29 is a schematic section view of a plurality of tubular structures operable
       in side-by-side parallel relation for use in a sixth embodiment of apparatus
       according to the invention; and
       Figure 30 is a schematic fragmentary perspective view of part of a seventh
       embodiment of apparatus according to the invention.
       In the drawings like structures are referred to by like numerals throughout the
       several views. The drawings shown are not necessarily to scale, with emphasis
       instead generally being placed upon illustrating the principles of the present
       invention
DESCRIPTION OF EMBODIMENTS
[00113]     The first embodiment, which is shown in Figures 1 to 20 of the drawings, is
directed to a belt filter apparatus 10 for treating material to separate solid and liquid
components thereof. The apparatus 10 according to this embodiment has been devised
particularly for treating sludge material such as sewage for the purposes of dewatering
the sludge material to facilitate recovery of the solid matter for subsequent treatment.
There may, of course, be various other applications for the belt filter apparatus 10.

[00114]      The apparatus 10 comprises an endless belt structure 11 adapted to circulate
around a path 12 incorporating guide roller structures 13 around which the belt structure
passes.      The endless belt structure 11, the guide roller structures 13 and other
componentry are supported within a mobile frame structure 14.
[00115]      In this embodiment, the belt filter apparatus 10 is of a configuration and size
to facilitate transportation to and from a site of intended use, and to be manoeuvred
around the site. In particular, the belt filter apparatus 10 is of a configuration and size to
permit it to be moved through a standard doorway. Specifically, this embodiment of the
belt filter apparatus 10 is about 2.1meters high, 700mm wide and of a weight less than
one tonne. These size and weight specifications are provided for illustrative purposes
only. The belt filter apparatus 10 is, of course, not limited to these size and weight
specifications.
[00116]      The endless belt structure 11 comprises an elongate belt portion 15 formed
of sheet material; specifically, fluid permeable sheet material, such as for example a
flexible filter pad material such as woven polypropylene.         In this embodiment, which
involves dewatering sludge material, the elongate belt portion 15 is formed of water
permeable sheet material.
[00117]       The belt portion 15 comprises two opposed longitudinal edges 17, 18. The
belt portion 15 further comprises two interconnected longitudinal sections 16a, 16b, with
longitudinal section 16b being split to provide the two longitudinal edges 17, 18. The
belt portion 15 has an inner surface 15a defined by the confronting longitudinal sections
16a, 16b.
[00118]      The two longitudinal sections 16a, 16b may be formed of the same material
or different materials, although in this embodiment at least one of the two longitudinal
sections is made of the aforementioned fluid permeable sheet material (such as for
example a flexible filter pad material such as woven polypropylene). While it is
preferable that both two longitudinal sections 16a, 16b be fluid permeable, it is not
necessarily essential and only one need be fluid permeable. As a result of being spilt to
provide the two longitudinal edges 17, 18, the longitudinal section 16b comprises two
portions, each defining one of the longitudinal edges 17, 18.
[00119]      The endless belt structure 11 further comprises a connection means 19 for
releasably connecting the two longitudinal edges 17, 18 of the belt portion 15 together
so as to form a tubular structure 21 having a flexible side wall 22. The elongate cavity

15b enclosed by the tubular structure 21 is bounded by the inner surface 15a of the belt
portion 15.    The cavity 15b constitutes a compartment within the assembled tubular
structure.
[00120]     The material from which longitudinal section 16b of the belt portion 15 is
made is preferably sufficiently flexible to allow the two portions which define the
longitudinal section    16b to    be   folded   between   closed  and    open   conditions
corresponding to assembled and disassembled conditions of the tubular structure 21.
[00121]     The connection means 19 comprises a slider connector means in the form of
a zipper. A particularly suitable slider connector means is the type disclosed in United
States patent 6,467,136 in the name of Neil Deryck Bray Graham, the contents of which
are incorporated herein by way of reference.       In the arrangement shown, the slider
connector means 19 comprises two connector elements 23, 25 which are identical in
construction, each presenting a contact face 26 and spaced apart longitudinal ribs
integral with and projecting from the contact face to define a series of ridges 27 and
recesses. The ridges 27 and recesses 28 on the two connector elements 23, 25 are
arranged to interact with each other in order to releasable connect the two connector
elements together. The two connector elements 23, 25 are shown in an interconnected
condition in Figure 8 and in a separated condition in Figure 9.     In the interconnected
condition, the ridges 27 on one connector element engage with the recess 28 on the
other connector element, and vice versa, as shown in Figure 8.
[00122]     The endless belt structure 11 further comprises two endless funicular
elements 31 connected to the belt portion 15 by connecting portions 28. The funicular
elements 31 are adapted to support the belt portion 15 therebetween.          Further, the
funicular elements 31 not only support the belt portion 15 therebetween but also guide
and drive the endless belt structure 11 around the path 12. The connecting portions 28
allow the assembled tubular structure 21 to pass around the guide roller structures 13
without damage. Further, the connecting portions 28 serve to transfer loading between
the funicular elements 31 and the belt portion 15. The loading typically comprises loads
arising from the driving and/or guiding functions performed by the funicular elements 31.
[00123]     In the arrangement shown, each connecting portion 28 comprises a flexible
connection strip 29 extending laterally between the belt portion 15 and the respective
funicular element 31 and also extending longitudinally with respect thereto.           The
connection strip 29 is connected to the belt portion 15 at the adjacent junction 16c

between the longitudinal sections 16a, 16b thereof. Each connecting portion 28 may, of
course, take any other appropriate form. By way of example, in one other arrangement
each connecting portion 28 may comprise a plurality of connecting elements spaced at
intervals along the marginal area between the belt portion 15 and the respective
funicular element 31. In yet another arrangement, each connecting portion 28 may be
configured as a perforated sheet or belt.         In still yet another arrangement, each
connecting portion 28 may be configured as net or webbing comprising fibres or fibre
bundles disposed angularly (say at 45/45) to the funicular elements 31 and the
longitudinal extent of the belt portion 15 to transfer the guide or drive loads between the
funicular elements and the belt portion. With such an arrangement, the net or webbing
would be open to allow the water that is being expelled from the tubular structure to exit
the arrangement and drain therefrom efficiently.
[00124]     The funicular elements 31 may be of any appropriate form, such as, for
example, bolt ropes, cables or drive transmission chains. In the arrangement shown,
each funicular element 31 comprise several drive transmission belts 32 positioned in
side-by-side relation and connected together to function as a unit. Each funicular
element 31 may be formed as an integral structure incorporating integral formations
which provide the function of the drive transmission belts 32.
[00125]     The funicular elements 31 engage the roller structures 13, as will be
explained later.
[00126]     Each roller structure 13 comprises two wheels 14 supported on a shaft 16.
Each wheel 14 has an outer periphery 14a configured to guidingly receive a respective
one of the funicular elements 31.     In the arrangement where the funicular elements 31
comprise ropes or cables, the outer peripheries 14a may be configured as rims having
peripheral grooves in which the funicular elements are received.         In the arrangement
where the funicular elements 31 comprise drive transmission chains, the wheels 14 may
comprise sprockets having teeth at outer peripheries 14a for engaging the chains.
[00127]     In the arrangement shown (in which the funicular elements 31 each comprise
several drive transmission belts 32 positioned in side-by-side relation and connected
together to function as a unit), each wheel 14 is configured as a pulley wheel having a
rim 14b which defines the outer periphery 14a and which includes several grooves 14c
for receiving the respective drive transmission belts 32.

[00128]      A support 20 is typically provided in opposed relation to each wheel 14 to
cooperate with the wheel to assisting in maintaining the respective funicular element in
engagement with the wheel. The support acts onto the opposed side of the funicular
element to guide and constrain the funicular elements so as to maintain engagement
with the wheel. In the arrangement shown, the support comprises a roller, as best seen
in Figures 10 and 11.
[00129]      The circulating path 12 includes an assembly zone 33 at which the
longitudinal edges 17, 18 of the belt portion 15 are brought together and interconnected
by way of the connection means 19 to form the tubular structure 21, and a disassembly
zone 35 at which the connection means 19 is released to separate the longitudinal
edges 17, 18 and the tubular structure 21 subsequently opened. The locations of the
assembly zone 33 and the disassembly zone 35 are identified schematically in Figure 3.
[00130]      The assembly zone 33 includes a slider 34 which operates in conjunction
with the two connector elements 23, 25 to move them together into zipping engagement
as the endless belt 11 circulates around path 12.
[00131]      The disassembly zone 35 includes a splitter 36 operable to progressively pull
the two connector elements 23, 25 apart in an unzipping action as the endless belt 11
circulates around path 12.
[00132]      With this arrangement, the longitudinal edges 17, 18 of the belt portion 15 are
continuously connected together at the assembly station 33, and the interconnected
longitudinal edges 17, 18 are continuously separated at the disassembly zone 35 so as
to split the tubular structure 21 as the endless belt 11 circulates around the path 12.
[00133]      The assembly zone 33 comprises supplementary guide rollers (not shown) to
progressively move the belt portion 15 from an open generally flat condition, through an
arcuate condition, and to ultimately assume a closed condition at which the longitudinal
edges 17, 18 are connected together by way of the connection means 19 (under the
action of the first slider 34) to form the tubular structure 21. The supplementary guide
rollers may comprise "V" rollers (not shown) for tensioning the belt portion 15 to
maintain a generally uniform tension on the belt portion 15 as it is zipped closed.
[00134]      At the disassembly zone 35, the splitter 36 acts to progressively unfurl the
belt portion 15 from the closed condition forming the tubular structure 21 to the condition
in which it is open. In the arrangement shown in Figure 12, the splitter 36 comprises

scrapers 37 each presenting an edge 37a over which the inner surface 15a of the belt
portion 15 passes, with the edge 37a being configured to cause the interconnected
longitudinal edges 18, 19 of the approaching tubular structure 21 to separate. In other
words, the scraper 37 functions as a guide arrangement for progressively moving the
belt portion 15 from the closed condition forming the tubular structure 21 to the condition
in which it is open such that the inner surface 15a of the belt portion 15 is exposed. The
scraper edge 37a also serves to scrape remnant dewatered sludge material from the
inner side 15a of the belt portion 15. The scraper 37 presents a surface at edge 37a for
sliding contact with the inner surface 15a of the belt portion 15 whereby the belt portion
15 is maintained in a taut condition as is unfurls from the closed condition to the open
condition, thereby avoiding folds or wrinkles in the unfurling belt portion 15. While not
shown in Figure 12, there is also provided lifting means for lifting the path of each
funicular element 31 such that the funicular elements 31 each assume the elevated
disposition.    Such lifting means may comprise a roller over which the respective
funicular element 31 travels to be pushed-up thereby into the elevated disposition.
[00135]     With this arrangement, the scraper 37 is pressed into the belt portion 15 as it
unfurls from the closed condition forming the tubular structure 21 to the condition in
which it is open. This combined with the lifting of the funicular elements 31 causes a
corner to be formed by the point of the scraper 37 and thus the outside of the corner
has a greater distance to travel than the inside. In this way the relative distance of the
inside track is less than the outside track, reducing the tension/stress on the slider
connector means 19. This reduction in the tension/stress on the slider connector means
19 of the approaching tubular structure 21 assists in the separation of           connector
elements 23, 25 and allowing the material to be easily drawn down the side of the
scraper for effective cleaning.
[00136]     The scrapers 37 are pressed into the belt portion 15 as the latter unfurls from
the closed condition forming the tubular structure 21 to the open condition, with edge
37a in sliding contact with the inner surface 15a of the belt portion 15 so that the belt
portion 15 is maintained in a taut condition as is unfurls from the closed condition to the
open condition.
The scraper 37 comprises a body 38 having a central portion 38a and a peripheral edge
portion 38b, which defines the edge 37a, for contacting the belt portion 15 as it unfurls
from the closed condition to the open condition.        The peripheral edge portion 38b

projects from the central portion 38a towards the approaching tubular structure 21. With
this arrangement, the peripheral edge portion 38b presents the leading edge 37a to the
oncoming belt portion 15 to scrape remnant sludge material from the inner surface 15a.
Because of the configuration of the peripheral edge portion 38b, remnant sludge
material scrapped from the inner surface 15a of the oncoming belt portion 15 is directed
inwardly towards the central portion 38a rather than accumulating at the edge 38b. The
body 38 incorporates mounting holes 40 for mounting the scraper 37 in position.
[00137]     The path 12 around which the endless belt structure 11 circulates comprises
a downwardly inclined working run 41, an upwardly extending working run 42, and a
generally horizontal discharge and return run 44. The assembled tubular structure 21
extends from the assembly zone 33, along the downwardly inclined working run 41,
along the upwardly extending working run 42, and part way along the horizontal
discharge and return run 44 to the disassembly zone, as shown in Figure 3.
[00138]     The roller structures 13 incorporated in the path 12 comprises first and
second upper turn rollers 51, 52, and a lower turn roller 53. The roller structures 13 also
include intervening support rollers.
[00139]     In the arrangement shown, the downwardly inclined working run 41 extends
between first upper turn roller 51 and the lower turn roller 52.     Further, the upwardly
extending working run 42 extends between the lower turn roller 52 and the second
upper turn roller 52. Still further, the generally horizontal discharge and return run 44
extends between the second upper turn roller 52 and the first upper turn roller 51.
[00140]     At least one of the roller structures 13 is adapted to be driven to move the
endless belt structure 11 around the path 12.
[00141]     The belt portion 15 has a closed condition in which the longitudinal edges 17,
18 are interconnected to form the tubular structure 21. Otherwise, the belt portion 15 is
in an open condition in which the inner surface 15a is exposed. In the arrangement
shown, the belt portion 15 occupies the closed condition in which the longitudinal edges
17, 18 are interconnected to form the tubular structure 21 in travelling from the
assembly zone 33 to the disassembly zone 35. Further, the belt portion 15 occupies the
open condition in which the longitudinal edges 17, 18 are separated in travelling from
the disassembly zone 35 to the assembly zone 33.

[00142]    The belt portion 15 is in an open condition when the belt structure 11 passes
around first upper turn roller 51; at that stage, assembly of the tubular structure 21 has
not yet commenced. The belt portion 15 undergoes assembly into the configuration of
the tubular structure 21 as it advances through the assembly zone 33. The assembly is
completed once the two longitudinal edges 17, 18 are interconnected by being zippered
together by the slider 34; at that stage the belt portion 15 is closed and forms the tubular
structure 21. The slider 34 is adapted to hold, align, support, clean, lubricate, and press
the connector element 23 provided along longitudinal edge 17 and the complimentary
connector element 25 provided along longitudinal edge 18 together so as to reliably
connect one longitudinal edge to the other. As the belt portion 15 progressively moves
from the open condition to the closed condition, it forms an open channel portion which
progressively closes upon itself until the tubular structure 21 is formed.
[00143]    A delivery means 70 is provided for introducing sludge material into the
tubular structure 21. The delivery means 70 includes a delivery pipe 71 extending into
the almost assembled tubular structure 21 through the open upper end thereof between
the two longitudinal edges 17, 18 immediately before the latter are interconnected by
being zippered together to complete assembly of the tubular structure.         The delivery
pipe 71 is configured to present a narrow profile to the oncoming belt structure as it
approaches the assembly zone 33. Typically, the delivery pipe 71 is elongate in cross
section, with the major axis extending in the direction of travel of the oncoming belt
structure and the minor axis disposed transversely to the direction of travel thereby
presenting the narrow profile to the oncoming belt structure.         The delivery pipe 71
communicates with a distribution head (not shown) which is configured to distribute the
sludge material within the assembled tubular structure 21 across the width thereof.
[00144]     In the downwardly inclined working run 41, liquid within the sludge material
can drain from the tubular structure 21 through the permeable side wall thereof under
the influences of gravity, as will be explained in more detail later. Similarly, liquid can
be expressed from the tubular structure 21 through the permeable side walls thereof in
the upward working run 42 under the influences of compressive and compaction forces
exerted on the corresponding portion of the tubular structure 21, as will also            be
explained in more detail later.
[00145]    A collection structure 80 is positioned below the working runs 41, 42 for
collection of liquid discharging therefrom.    The collection structure 80 incorporates a

discharge path (not shown) from which the collected liquid can be removed and
delivered to another location for further processing or handling as required.
[00146]     The downwardly inclined working run 41 comprises a descending portion
along which the assembled tubular structure 21 passes. Liquid draining from the liquid
within the sludge material can drain from the tubular structure 21 through the permeable
side wall thereof under the influences of gravity, as depicted schematically in Figures 14
and 15 by arrows 81.
[00147]     There is, however, a tendency for solid particulates in the sludge material to
migrate onto the side wall 22 of the tubular structure 21, particularly onto the lower
surface section 22a thereof, and accumulate into a cake which eventually blinds the
tubular structure, leading to a loss of or reduction in its permeability. The lower surface
section 22a effectively constitutes a bed over which the sludge material flows.
[00148]     This is addressed in the present embodiment by appropriate selection of the
inclination of the working run 41 along which the descending portion 21a of the tubular
structure 21 travels whereby at least some of the particulate solids in the sludge
material are caused to move downwardly within and relative to the tubular structure 21
along the descending portion 21a under the influence of gravity to facilitate cleaning of
the permeable tubular structure.      The cleaning of the interior surface of the tubular
structure   comprises    removal    of accumulated     solid   matter,   particularly matter
accumulating on the lower surface section 22a, which would otherwise cause blinding of
the permeable tubular structure 21 and prevent or inhibit drainage of liquid therefrom.
[00149]     With this arrangement, particulate solids are mobilized in the descending
portion 21a of the permeable tubular structure 21, serving to scour the lower surface
section 22a to erode or otherwise remove accumulated material which might otherwise
lead to blinding of the tubular structure and a resultant loss of or reduction in its
permeability.
[00150]     The scouring action developed by the mobilized particulate solids comprises
removal of accumulated material by frictional effects on the accumulated material and/or
hydrodynamic forces developed in the liquid within the tubular structure through
movement of the particulate solids. This is illustrated in Figure 15 of the drawings in
which arrows 83 depict the path of particulate solids rolling and tumbling down the
descending portion 21a of the tubular structure 21, causing the scouring action.

[00151]     As a result of the rolling and tumbling action down the descending portion
21 a of the permeable tubular structure 21, the interstitial spaces between the particulate
solids expand and contract, facilitating the release liquid trapped in those spaces.
[00152]     The delivery of sludge material into the tubular structure at the delivery
means 70 is controlled such that the tubular structure 21 does not completely fill.
Rather, the delivery is controlled to allow the sludge material to flow downwardly along
at least an upper section of the inclined descending portion 21a thereby encouraging
particulate solids within the sludge material to move downwardly along the descending
portion in a tumbling and rolling action under the influence of gravity, as mentioned
previously, to facilitate cleaning of the permeable tubular structure 21.
[00153]     The descending portion of the path 12 along which the assembled tubular
structure 21 passes is configured to provide support for the inclined descending portion
21a of the tubular structure 21 advancing therealong.         The support is configured to
cause disturbance of material flow within the tubular structure and to also spreading of
the material within the tubular structure. More particularly, the support is configured to
create turbulence in the downwards flow and spread the flow to optimise the area within
the tubular structure being utilised to allow the scouring process to occur and also
optimise the area over which liquid can leave the tubular structure.
[00154]     The support is provided by at least support portion over which the
descending portion of the tubular structure travels, and preferably a series of support
portions located at intervals along the descending portion of the path.        The support
portions may be of any appropriate form, including discrete elements such as rollers or
bars, and a structure which incorporates integral support portions such as for example a
washboard structure.       Typically, the support elements would establish locally raised
sections within the bottom of the descending portion of the tubular structure 21 to
thereby define an uneven bed over which material within the descending portion of the
tubular structure flows.
[00155]     In the arrangement shown, the support is provided by a series of support
elements 82 located at intervals along the descending portion of the path. The support
elements 82 comprise cylindrical rollers 84 and roller assemblies 86 disposed in
alternating relation along the descending portion of the path. The cylindrical rollers 84
each present a rolling surface 84a for supporting the underside of the tubular structure
21 continuously across the width thereof. The roller assemblies 86 comprise rollers 86a

rotatably supported in spaced apart relation on a common axle 86b. In the arrangement
shown there are three rollers 86a, being two end rollers and an intermediate roller. The
intermediate roller may be of a larger diameter than the end roller, although this is not
necessarily so. The end rollers 86a may also function as rollers providing support 20 as
previously described on the opposed side of the respective funicular elements 31 to
guide and constrain the funicular elements so as to maintain engagement with the
respective wheels 14.
[00156]     The combination of support elements 82 located at intervals along the
descending portion of the path causes the underside of the descending portion of the
tubular structure 21 to be deformed in a manner which induces deformations locally in
the tubular structure, thereby established the uneven bed over which material within the
descending portion of the tubular structure flows.      The uneven bed serves to create
turbulence in the downwards flow and spread the flow to optimise the area within the
tubular structure being utilised to allow the scouring process to occur and also optimise
the area over which liquid can leave the tubular structure.
[00157]     The flow of sludge material along the inclined descending portion 21a of the
tubular structure 21     slows towards the bottom section thereof, leading to an
accumulation of solids. The slowing occurs because of increased friction arising from
the loss of liquid, the friction being between particulate solids and also between the
particulate solids and the surface of the tubular structure. As the liquid is released from
between the particulate solids and escapes from the tubular structure 21, the friction
between the particles increases and the flow slows, causing the particulate solids to
commence to agglomerate.         This leads to caking and also thickening of the caked
mass, with the progressively developing caked mass rolling or tumbling down the
inclined descending portion 21a of the tubular structure 21, as depicted in Figure 14 in
which the agglomerated mass is depicted in outline and identified by reference numeral
85.
[00158]     The agglomerated mass 85 advances down the inclined descending portion
21a of the tubular structure 21, with the front face 85a thereof progressively everting in
the downward advance, as depicted by arrow 87 in Figure 14. As shown, the eversion
is such that the front face 85a turns downwardly and rearwardly with respect to the
direction of advance. This action slows the flow and also assists in dewatering the
agglomerated mass 85. In particular, the front face 85a is continually pulled under the

advancing agglomerated mass 85 by virtue of friction between the particulate solids and
the side wall 22 of the tubular structure 21.
[00159]     Further, the leading section of the agglomerated mass 85 acts as a dam for
following particulate solids, retarding their flow and allowing further release of liquid.
[00160]     The agglomerated mass 85 accumulates at the bottom of the inclined
descending portion 21a of the tubular structure 21 as a thickened solids cake as
depicted in Figure 15 (in which the thickened solids cake is depicted in outline and
identified by reference numeral 88). The agglomerated mass 85 accumulates in such a
manner because it cannot escape from within the enclosed tubular structure 21.
[00161]      The accumulating thickened solids cake 88 is transported around turn
section 89 defined by the lower turn roller 53.       The turn section 89 is configured to
progressively convey the thickened solids cake 88 within the tubular structure 21 to the
upwardly extending working run 42 without subjecting it to compaction.                 This is
facilitated by the tubular structure being an enclosed arrangement from which the
thickened solids cake 88 cannot escape.
[00162]     In particular, the turn section 89 is configured to propagate radial expansion
and contraction of successive sections of the tubular structure 21 as it advances about
the turn section, thereby to convey the thickened solids cake 88 within the tubular
structure around the turn section.
[00163]     In this embodiment, the lower turn roller 53 comprises a roller having an
outer periphery about which the tubular structure passes, the outer periphery being
defined by a plurality of circumferentially spaced elements (not shown) with cavities
(also not shown) therebetween.         Such a roller will hereinafter be referred to as a
"squirrel cage roller" for ease of reference. With this arrangement, the circumferentially
spaced elements cause contraction of successive sections of the tubular structure 21 as
it advances about the turn section 89 and the intervening cavities accommodate
corresponding radial expansion of successive sections of the tubular structure.            The
radial expansion of successive sections of the tubular structure 21 establishes a series
of pockets within the tubular structure about the turn section 89.            This action is
somewhat akin to a peristaltic action in that there is radial contraction and radial
expansion of successive sections of the tubular structure 21, although the thickened
solids cake within the tubular structure is not pumped along the tubular structure.
Rather, the thickened solids cake continues to advance with the tubular structure 21

and move upwards with the tubular structure 21 (instead of falling down the tubular
structure after having passed through the turn section 89), the radial expansion merely
accommodating material displaced as a result of the radial contraction arising from
engagement with the lower turn roller 53.         In particular, the thickened solids cake is
trapped in the pockets established in the tubular structure by the circumferentially
spaced elements of the squirrel cage roller and thus is forced to continue to advance
with the tubular structure 21
[00164]     The upwardly inclined working run 42 includes a pressing station 90 at which
the tubular structure 21 is subjected to compaction to extract further liquid from the
sludge material contained therein and then compression to assist in drying the remnant
solids material. The liquid so extracted discharges from the tubular structure 21 through
the permeable side walls thereof and drains into the collection structure 80.
[00165]     With this arrangement, the turn section 89 is at the bottom of the descending
portion of the path 12, and the pressing station 90 is along a portion of the path 12 after
the turn section.
[00166]     The pressing station 90 comprises a press configured as a series of
compaction rollers 91 about which the upwardly inclined working run 42 successively
passes in a serpentine path section to effect compaction of the solids cake 88.
[00167]     The press further comprises a series of compression rollers 93 disposed on
opposed sides of the tubular structure to apply a pressing action to the portion of the
tubular structure 21 passing therebetween to squeeze the tubular structure 21 and thus
extract further liquid from the solids cake 88.
[00168]     In this embodiment, the uppermost compression roller 93 also constitutes the
second upper turn roller 52.
[00169]     As part of the process of lifting the tubular structure 21 upwards and away
from the turn section 89, water continues to be displaced from within the tubular
structure.   Some of the displaced water can adhere to the exterior of the tubular
structure 21 and be carried therewith.      It is advantageous that this adhering water is
removed as quickly as possible to enhance the escape of the water from the tubular
structure. Accordingly, a scraper/wiper system is provided to engage the exterior of the
tubular structure 21 to cause liquid adhering thereto to be released. The scraper/wiper
system may comprise one or more scrapers or wipers. The scrapers or wipers may

comprise plastic scraper blades. In this way, the adhering water is removed as quickly
as possible thus enhancing the release of water from the tubular structure 21 between
and on the compaction rollers 91. In this way the tubular structure 21 is dried further
prior to being presented to compression roller 93.
[00170]     The discharge run 44 includes the disassembly zone 35 at which the
connection means 19 is released to separate the longitudinal edges 17, 18 of the
tubular structure 21 and at which the tubular structure 21 is subsequently opened. The
interconnected longitudinal edges 17, 18 are continuously separated at the disassembly
zone 35 so as to split the tubular structure 21 as the endless belt 11 circulates around
the path 12 and expose the inner surface 15a of the belt portion 15.
[00171]     At this stage, longitudinal sections 16b of the belt portion 15, which
incorporates the two longitudinal edges 17, 18, is on the underside. As the belt portion
15 opens, dewatered sludge material falls from the circulating belt structure 11. The
scraper 37 acts to scrape any remnant dewatered sludge material from the inner side
15a of the belt portion 15.
[00172]     A collection zone 94 is provided for receiving dewatered sludge material
falling from the belt portion 15 as it opens from the tubular structure 21. The collection
zone 94 may be configured to receive and transfer the collected sludge material to
another location for subsequent processing.
[00173]     The discharge run 44 also includes a washing station 95 as best seen in
Figure 12. The washing station 95 comprises a spray system 96 above the belt portion
15 for spraying a washing fluid such as water onto the belt portion 15 from the outer
side thereof. The spray system 96 comprises an overhead spray bar arranged to spray
washing fluid onto and into the belt portion 15. The spray can penetrate the permeable
side walls of the belt portion 15, so cleaning the inner surface 15a thereof. Additionally,
or alternatively, the washing station 95 may comprise means for generating a fine
curtain of washing fluid such as water arranged to be directed through the filter material
of the belt portion 15 to dislodge trapped remnant material. By way of example, such
means may comprise a tube provided with a longitudinally extending slot through which
water can issue under pressure to provide the fine curtain of water, the tube being
pressed into direct contact with the belt portion 15 so that the water exiting the slot in
the tube is driven through the filter material dislodging any trapped materials in the filter.

[00174]     The washing station 95 further comprises a further spray system 98 for
cleaning the connector elements 23, 25 prior to them being brought together into
zipping engagement as the endless belt 11 circulates around path 12.               In the
arrangement shown, the further spray system 98 comprises two sprays 98a, 98b for
spraying a cleaning fluid such as water onto the connector elements 23, 25 to wash any
accumulated remnant material from the connector elements 23, 25 prior to them being
brought together into zipping engagement.
[00175]    After passing along the discharge run 44, the belt structure 11, with the belt
portion 15 now in an open condition, turns about the first upper turn roller 51 and
commences the downwardly inclined working run 41 which comprises the descending
portion along which the assembled tubular structure 21 passes.
[00176]    As mentioned above, the assembly zone 33 includes slider 34 which
operates in conjunction with the two connector elements 23, 25 to move them together
into zipping engagement as the endless belt 11 circulates around path 12. As shown in
Figures 19 and 20, the slider 34 comprises a slider assembly 101 comprising a support
bracket 103 carrying an alignment mechanism 105, and a closure mechanism 107.
[00177]     The alignment mechanism 105 comprises a body 109 having opposed faces
110 and two passages 111, 112, each configured to receive one of the connector
elements 23, 25. The two passages 111, 112 are disposed on opposed sides of the
body 109, one above the other in order to align the connector elements 23, 25 in
preparation for being brought together into the interconnected condition. Each passage
111, 112 has an outer longitudinal side 113 which opens onto the respective side of the
body 109 and a closed inner longitudinal side 115. With this arrangement, the body 109
is disposed between the two connector elements 23, 25, with one connector element
passing along passage 111 and the other passing along passage 112.               The free
longitudinal edge of each connector element 23, 25 is innermost in the respective
passage so as to locate adjacent the closed inner longitudinal side 115. Each connector
element 23, 25 extends sidewardly out of its respective passage 111, 112 through the
respective outer longitudinal side 113 to the respective longitudinal edges of the belt
portion 15
[00178]     Each passage 111, 112 is of a cross-sectional configuration which is a
counterpart to the cross-sectional profile of the respective the connector element 23, 25.
Specifically, each passage 111, 112 includes longitudinal ribs which are in spaced

relation and which cooperate to define recesses 116 and ridges 117 which mate with
the respective ridges 27 and recesses 28 on the respective the connector element 23,
25. In this way, the connector elements 23, 25 are captively guided along the passages
111, 112 and maintained in alignment in readiness to be later brought together into the
interconnected condition, as will be explained in more detail shortly.
[00179]     The body 109 also has provision for lubricating the connector elements 23,
25 before they are brought together into the interconnected condition. The lubricant is
applied to the contact face 26, ridges 27 and recesses 28 of each connector element
23, 25 as it passes along the respective passage 111, 112. In the arrangement shown,
the lubricant is delivered into the passages 111, 112 for application to the connect
elements 23, 25 via lubricant galleries 118 within the body 109.           Lubricant may be
delivered into the lubricant galleries 118 in any suitable way, such as via a nipple
connection (not shown) fitted to port 119 on the body.
[00180]     The alignment mechanism 105 further comprises a guide element 120
adjacent the entry end of each passage 111, 112 for guiding the respective connector
elements 23, 25 into an entry position as it approaches the passage.
[00181]     The closure mechanism 107 is provided for urging the aligned connector
elements 23, 25 into the interconnected condition after they have moved out of the
passages 111, 112.        Once the connector elements 23, 25 have moved out of the
passages 111, 112, they are disposed one above the other, with the contact faces 26 in
face-to-face relation and the respective ridges 27 and recesses 28 in alignment for
registration with each other. The closure mechanism 107 operates to press the two
connector elements 23,         25 into registration with      each other to assume the
interconnected condition, as will be explained below.
[00182]     The closure mechanism 107 comprises two press rollers 121, 122 positioned
one above the other, the arrangement being that the aligned connector elements 23, 25
are passed between the two press rollers and pressed into registration with each other
to assume the interconnected condition.
[00183]     The two press rollers 121, 122 are yielding biased towards each other. In
particular, press roller 121 comprises a fixed roller, and press roller 122 comprises a
floating roller in the sense that it is yielding movable with respect to the fixed roller. The

fixed roller 121 is fixed in the sense that it is not movable laterally; it is, however, freely
rotatable about its rotational axis.
[00184]     In the arrangement shown, fixed roller 121 is mounted on a fixed arm 123
and floating roller 122 is mounted on a swing arm 124. The fixed arm 123 is fixed with
respect to body 109 and the swing arm 123 is mounted for swinging movement about
pivot 125 on the support bracket 103. A biasing mechanism 126 biases the swing arm
124 towards fixed arm 123, thereby to biasing floating roller 122 towards the fixed roller
121. The biasing mechanism 126 comprises spring mechanism 127 which is selectively
adjustable for varying the compressible force which can be exerted by the cooperating
press rollers 121, 122 to press the aligned connector elements 23, 25 into registration
with each other to assume the interconnected condition.
[00185]     The closure mechanism 107 further comprises two guide rollers 129 mounted
on the arms 123, 124 for guiding the connected assembly comprising the two
interconnected connector elements 23, 25 as it moves away from the slider 34.
[00186]      As the endless belt structure 11 circulates around the endless path 12,
cooperation between the funicular elements 31 and the roller structures 13 ensure
proper tracking of the circulating endless belt structure. Further, cooperation between
the funicular elements 31 and the roller structures 13 retains the funicular elements 31
away from each other at stages where the tubular structure 21 is undergoing
compression. This is to ensure that the compressed tubular structure 21 assumes a
taut condition without folds, creases or wrinkles. The presence of folds, creases or
wrinkles can be problematic in relation to uniform compression of the material confined
within the tubular structure.
[00187]     As mentioned above, the inclination of the working run 41 along which the
descending portion 21a of the tubular structure 21 travels is such at least some of the
particulate solids in the sludge material are caused to move downwardly relative to and
within the tubular structure 21 along the descending portion 21a under the influence of
gravity to facilitate cleaning of the permeable tubular structure.
[00188]     By way of example, in the arrangement shown the working run 41 along
which the descending portion 21a of the tubular structure 21 travels for a sludge
material such as sewerage or bio materials has an inclination in the order of 30 to 40
degrees from the horizontal (and more particularly about 36 degrees from the

horizontal) and is about 2.3 metres long for a production rate of 4201/min of paper pulp
@ 3% solids with a 5mm cake thickness and 50-70% solids. The belt portion 15 has a
nominal width of about 300mm between the funicular elements 31.
[00189]      From the foregoing, it is evident that the first embodiment provides a simple
yet highly effective belt filter apparatus 10 for separating solid and liquid components in
a material such as sewage undergoing treatment, with provision to inhibit accumulation
of particulate solids causing blinding of the permeable belt portion 15. Because of the
belt filter apparatus 10 is of a configuration and size to facilitate transportation to and
from a site of intended use, and to be manoeuvred around the site, it can be used in the
field, such as for example to treat animal sewage undergoing digestion to produce
methane.
[00190]      Referring now to Figure 21, there is shown a belt filter apparatus 130
according to a second embodiment. This embodiment is similar in some respects to the
previous embodiment and similar reference numerals are used to denote corresponding
parts. In this second embodiment, the configuration of the compaction rollers 91 and the
compression rollers 93 at the pressing station 90 is different from the first embodiment.
Further, there is shown a support arrangement 131 adapted to provide support for the
inclined descending portion 21a of the tubular structure 21 advancing therealong. The
support arrangement 131 is configured to cause disturbance of material flow within the
tubular structure 21 and to also spreading of the material within the tubular structure.
More particularly, the support is configured to create turbulence in the downwards flow
and spread the flow to optimise the area within the tubular structure being utilised to
allow the scouring process to occur and also optimise the area over which liquid can
leave the tubular structure. In the arrangement shown, the support arrangement 131
comprises two support roller structures 133 over which the descending portion 21a of
the tubular structure 21 travels at intervals along the descending portion of the path.
[00191]      One roller structure 133 may comprise an elongate roller extending
crosswise of the tubular structure 21 for the purpose of spreading the sludge material
across the width of the tubular structure.
[00192]       The other roller structure 133 may comprise a central roller (not shown) and
two side rollers (also not shown) on a common axle In an arrangement similar to that
described in the first embodiment.

[00193]     In the arrangement shown in Figure 21, the return run 44 is depicted by lines
44a, 44b, 44c and 44d. Lines 44a and 44b represent the path of the belt portion 15 to
release the tension on the connector means 19 to facilitate splitting thereof. Line 44c
represents the location to which the connector element 23 and the complimentary
connector element 25 fall and along which they travel after splitting of the connection
means 19. Line 44d represents the paths of the funicular elements 31.
[00194]     Figure 21 also depicts a scraper 132 for scraping the inner surface 15a of the
belt portion 15 as the tubular structure 21 opens, thereby assisting in removal of the
dewatered sludge material. The scraper 132 is similar to counterpart scraper 37 in the
first embodiment.
[00195]     Further, Figure 21 depicts a roller 134 for elevating the path 44d of each
funicular element 31.     There are two rollers 134, one associated with the path 44d of
each funicular element 31. This corresponds to the arrangement depicted in Figure 12,
with the rollers 134 providing the lifting means for lifting the path of each funicular
element 31 such that the funicular elements 31 assume the respective elevated
dispositions referred to previously.
[00196]     Referring now to Figure 22, there is shown a belt filter apparatus 140
according to a third embodiment. This embodiment is similar in some respects to the
previous embodiment and similar reference numerals are used to denote corresponding
parts.
[00197]     In this third embodiment, the circulating path 12 around which the      along
which the tubular structure 21 travels is also of a different configuration to that of the
first embodiment but nevertheless includes a downwardly inclined working run 41 which
comprises the descending portion along which the assembled tubular structure 21
passes.
[00198]     Referring now to Figures 23 to 27, there is shown a belt filter apparatus 150
according to a fourth embodiment. This embodiment is similar in some respects to the
first embodiment and similar reference numerals are used to denote corresponding
parts. In this third embodiment, the path 12 around which the endless belt structure 11
circulates comprises downwardly inclined working run 41, a further working run 42, and
a generally horizontal discharge and return run 44. With this arrangement, the turn
section 89 is at the bottom of the descending portion of the path 12, and the pressing

station 90 within the further working run 42 is associated with a portion of the path 12
after the turn section 89.
[00199]     In this embodiment, the working run 42 comprises a first ascending run
section 151, a descending run section 153, second ascending run section 155, and a
transition run section 157 which extends to the discharge and return run 44. The
working run 42 further comprises a first bridging run section 158 between the first
ascending run section 151 and the descending run section 153, and a second bridging
run section 159 between the descending run section 153 and the second ascending run
section 155. The further working run 42 also includes intervening turn rollers 152, 154
and 156.
[00200]     The pressing station 90 comprises a first press 161 associated with the first
ascending run section 151, a second press 162 associated with the descending run
section 153, and a third press 163 associated with the second ascending run section
155.
[00201]     The first press 161 a series of compaction rollers 171 about which the first
ascending run section 151 successively passes in a serpentine manner to effect
compaction of the solids cake within the tubular structure.
[00202]     The path 12 passes around turn section 89 before commencing the first
ascending run section 151. As with the first embodiment, the turn section 89 is defined
by lower turn roller 53. In this third embodiment, turn roller 53 comprises a first squirrel
cage roller 175. The first ascending run section 151 then passes around a second
squirrel cage roller 177 above the first squirrel cage roller 175 before encountering the
series of compaction rollers 171.
[00203]     Each squirrel cage roller 175, 177 has an outer periphery 181 about which
the tubular structure 21 passes. The outer periphery 181 is defined by a plurality of
circumferentially spaced elements 183 with spacings between the elements 183
defining cavities 185 in the outer periphery 181.           With   this arrangement, the
circumferentially spaced elements 183 cause contraction of successive sections of the
tubular structure 21 as it advances about the rollers 175, 177 and the intervening
cavities 185 accommodate corresponding radial expansion of successive sections of
the tubular structure 21.    The radial expansion of successive sections of the tubular
structure 21 establishes a series of pockets within the tubular structure as it turns about

each roller 175, 177. This action is somewhat akin to a peristaltic action in that there is
radial contraction and radial expansion of successive sections of the tubular structure
21, although the thickened solids cake within the tubular structure is not pumped along
the tubular structure. Rather, the thickened solids cake continues to advance with the
tubular structure 21 and move upwards with the tubular structure 21 (instead of falling
down the tubular structure after having passed through the two squirrel cage rollers 175,
177), the radial expansion merely accommodating material displaced as a result of the
radial contraction arising from engagement with the squirrel cage roller 175, 177.       In
particular, the thickened solids cake is trapped in the pockets established in the tubular
structure by the circumferentially spaced elements of each of the squirrel cage rollers
175, 177 and thus is forced to continue to advance with the tubular structure 21.
[00204]     The second press 162 is adapted to subject the tubular structure 21 to
compression (hereinafter referred to as primary compression) to further expel liquid
from the compacted solids cake within the tubular structure 21. The second press 162
comprises a series of compression rollers 191 between which the descending run
section 153 passes to effect compression of the compacted solids cake to further expel
liquid therefrom.
[00205]     The series of compression rollers 191 comprises a plurality of rollers 193
arranged in pairs, with the descending run section 153 passing between each
respective pair to be compressed thereby.
[00206]     From the second press 162, the tubular structure 21 advances to the third
press 163, passing around intervening turn rollers 154, each of which is configured as a
squirrel cage roller of the type described above.
[00207]     The third press 163 is adapted to subject the tubular structure 21 to further
compression (hereinafter referred to as secondary compression) to further expel liquid
from the compacted and compressed solids cake within the tubular structure 21.
[00208]     The third press 163 is configured to squeeze the tubular structure 21 and
thus extract any available remnant liquid from the compacted and compressed solids
cake contained therein.
[00209]     The third press 163 comprise two press portions 201 defining press faces
202 disposed in opposed, spaced apart relation to define a pressing zone 203 through
which the tubular structure 21 can pass. The tubular structure 21 is drawn through the

pressing zone 203 between the two press portions 201, with the opposed press faces
202 exerting a pressing action on the tubular structure as it is drawn though the
pressing zone. The tubular structure 21 is drawn through the pressing zone 203 as it
circulates around the path 12.
[00210]     The pressing zone 203 between the two press portions 201 is configured to
contract progressively in the direction of travel of the tubular structure 21 through the
pressing zone so as to progressively increase the pressing action on the tubular
structure as it advances through the pressing zone. In the arrangement shown, the
contraction is for substantially the entire pressing zone and is represented by the press
faces 202 tapering towards each other along the pressing zone 203.. With this
arrangement, the pressing action comprises a reactionary pressing action in the sense
that the two press portions 201 do not undergo inward movement with respect to each
other to effect the pressing action, but rather the pressing action arises from interaction
between the two press portions 201 and the portion of the tubular structure 21 being
compressed as it is drawn through the pressing zone. In other words, the reaction of
the tubular structure 21 acting on each press portion 201 as the tubular structure 21
moves through the narrowing pressing zone 203 exerts the compressive force on the
tubular structure to express any available remnant liquid from the compacted and
compressed solids cake contained in the tubular structure 21.
[00211]     In this embodiment, the press portions 201 comprise an arrangement
involving two cyclically movable structures 211, 212 each having an inner run 213 and
an outer run 215, with the two cyclically movable structures being so positioned that the
two inners runs comprise the press portions 210.          In the arrangement shown, the
cyclically moveable structures 211, 212 comprise two endless bands 217 passing
around end rollers 218.     The two endless bands 217 are disposed in spaced apart
relation, with the inner runs 213 cooperating to define a gap 215 which represents the
pressing zone 203 in which the tubular structure 21 is subjected to compressive action.
The cyclically movable structures 211, 212 are perforated or otherwise configured to
allow liquid extracted as a result of the pressing action to flow away from the press
zone. By way of example, each endless band 217 may be formed of mesh material,
with pores in the mesh providing perforations to allow liquid extracted as a result of the
pressing action to flow away from the press zone. Each endless band may comprise a
metal endless band, including in particular a steel endless band.

[00212]     The pressing zone 203 defined by the gap 215 between the inner runs 213
has an entry end 203a through which the tubular structure continuously moves into the
pressing zone and an exit end 203b from which the tubular structure continuously
leaves the pressing zone as the belt portion 15 circulates around the path 12.          The
pressing zone 203 narrows in the direction from the entry end 203a to the exit end
203bby reason of the tapering press faces 202, as previously described.
[00213]     While not shown in the drawings, each inner run 213 is supported along its
length by a support structure. The support structures are configured to guide the inner
runs 213 in a manner inducing the necessary tapering in the support faces 202 defined
by the inner runs. In one arrangement, each support structure may comprise a support
face formed of low-friction material.   The low-friction material may be of any suitable
type, such as a thermoplastic polyethylene. Ultra-high-molecular-weight polyethylene
(UHMWPE) is believed to be particularly suitable. In another arrangement, each support
structure may comprise a series of support rollers.        Still other arrangements of the
support structures are also possible.
[00214]    An adjustment mechanism 220 is provided for selectively adjusting the width
of the gap 215. In the arrangement shown, the adjustment mechanism 220 is operable
to move one of the cyclically movable structures 211, 212 with respect to the other.
[00215]     The press portions 201 defining the pressing zone 203 need not necessarily
comprise the arrangement        described and illustrated,       and may comprise other
arrangements.      By way of example, the press portions 201 may comprise platens
defining press surfaces in opposed relation for exerting a pressing action on the tubular
structure as it is drawn through the pressing zone. The press surfaces, or at least one
of the press surfaces, may be perforated or otherwise configured to allow liquid
extracted as a result of the pressing action to flow away from the press zone. The
platens may be made of low friction material to facilitate sliding movement of the tubular
structure in a compressed condition as it passes through the pressing zone. The low
friction material may be of any suitable type, such as a thermoplastic polyethylene.
Ultra-high-molecular-weight polyethylene (UHMWPE) is believed to be particularly
suitable, owing to its low coefficient of friction, resistance to abrasion, self-lubricating
nature, and high resistance to most corrosive chemicals.
[00216]     The transition run section 157 of the working run 42 incorporates two
opposed pinch rollers 221 configured to configured to squeeze the tubular structure 21

a final time to extract any available remnant liquid from the compacted and compressed
solids cake contained in the tubular structure before the latter advances to the
discharge and return run 44 of the path 12.
[00217]      In this fourth embodiment, the descending portion of the path 12 along which
the assembled tubular structure 21 passes is configured to provide support for the
inclined descending portion 21a of the tubular structure 21 advancing therealong, as is
the case in the previous embodiments.           In this fourth embodiment, the support is
provided by a series of support structure 231 each configured as a wash board
arrangement comprising a plurality of spaced apart ribs 233 extending transversely of
the descending portion of the path 12, as shown in Figure 23. The ribs 233 provides
support for the descending portion 21a and also induce deformations locally in the
descending portion 21a, thereby established the uneven bed over which material within
the descending portion of the tubular structure flows.
[00218]      In the embodiments described previously, each belt filter apparatus 10, 130,
150 is configured to provide a single tubular structure 21. Other embodiments, of the
belt filter apparatus according to the invention may be configured to provide a plurality
of tubular structures operable in side-by-side parallel relation.      The use of apparatus
configured to provide a plurality of tubular structures may be advantageous in certain
circumstances.        By way of example, such apparatus may offer large areas for
processing with opening and closing areas that are relatively small. This is due to the
length relationship between a narrow tubular structure and a wide tubular structure.
With a wide tubular structure there is a requirement for a disproportionately long length
to open and close the tubular structure. In contrast, a series of relatively narrow tubular
structures operating in concert only requires the same length as any one of the
component small tubular structures within the series to open and close the tubular
structure.    This provides packaging advantages that are not available with a large
tubular structure.
[00219]      The two following embodiments exhibit such arrangements involving a
plurality of tubular structures operable in side-by-side parallel relation.
[00220]      Referring now to Figure 28, there is shown, in cross-section, an endless belt
structure for a belt filter apparatus 250 according to a fifth embodiment.             This
embodiment is similar in some respects to the previous embodiment and similar
reference numerals are used to denote corresponding parts.

[00221]     In the belt filter apparatus 250, the endless structure 11 comprises a plurality
of belt portions 15 each adapted to be assembled into a respective one of the tubular
structures 21.     Each belt portion 15 is connected to, and supported between, two
funicular elements 31.       Further, the belt portions 15 are connected one to another to
provide a common assembly 251. With this arrangement, adjacent belt portions 15 may
share a common funicular element 31 disposed therebetween.
[00222]     With this arrangement, there are a plurality of funicular elements 31 spaced
at intervals across the common assembly 251. While not shown in Figure 28, the roller
structures over and around which the funicular elements 31 pass would comprise a
corresponding number of wheels (similar to wheels 14 supported on a shaft 16 in the
first embodiment).
[00223]     While not shown in the drawing, each belt portion 15 would be constructed in
a similar fashion to the single belt portion 15 of preceding embodiments in that it would
comprise two opposed longitudinal edges and two interconnected longitudinal sections,
with one longitudinal section being split to provide the two longitudinal edges, as well as
a connection means for releasably connecting the two longitudinal edges of the belt
portion together so as to form a tubular structure 21.
[00224]     Referring now to Figure 29, there is shown, in cross-section, an endless belt
structure for a belt filter apparatus 260 according to a sixth embodiment.             This
embodiment is similar in some respects to the previous embodiment and similar
reference numerals are used to denote corresponding parts.
[00225]     In the belt filter apparatus 260, the endless structure 11 comprises a plurality
of belt portions 15 each adapted to be assembled into a respective one of the tubular
structures 21.     Each belt portion 15 is connected to, and supported between, two
funicular elements 31. In this embodiment, the belt portions 15 exist separately of each
other, with each belt portion supported between discrete funicular elements 31. In other
words, each belt portion 15 and its associated funicular elements 31 constitute an
independent unit. This arrangement is advantageous in that it facilitates replacement of
any one of the belt portions 15 without necessitating replacement of other belt potions at
the same time.

[00226]      While not shown in Figure 29, the roller structures over and around which the
funicular elements 31 pass would comprise a corresponding number of wheels (similar
to wheels 14 supported on a shaft 16 in the first embodiment).
[00227]      In certain of the embodiments described, there was reference to the turn
roller structure at turn section 89 being configured as a squirrel cage roller.
[00228]      In another arrangement, the turn roller structure may be configured to
present a plurality of roller elements to the turning tubular structure, with roller elements
being disposed in circumferentially spaced relation and rotating independently of the
speed of movement of the tubular structure.          Such an arrangement is used in the
seventh embodiment of the apparatus according to the invention.
[00229]      Referring now to Figure 30, there is shown part of apparatus 270 according
to a seventh
[00230]       embodiment. The apparatus 270 has turn roller structure 53 at turn section
89 configured as a rotatable structure 271 comprising a central hub 273 rotatably
mounted on an axle (not shown) and an outer periphery 275 supported on the hub. In
the arrangement shown, the outer periphery 275 is supported on the hub 273 by way of
spokes 277.
[00231]      The outer periphery 275 comprises a plurality of roller elements 277 disposed
in   circumferentially spaced     relation.    The   roller elements     277 are     rotatable
independently of each, each about an axis of rotation parallel to the axis of rotation of
the   rotatable structure 271 (being the central axis of the axles on which the hub 273 is
rotatable.
[00232]      The outer periphery 275 has cavities 281. With this arrangement, the
circumferentially roller elements 277 cause contraction of successive sections of the
tubular structure 21 as it advances about the turn section and the intervening cavities
281 accommodate corresponding radial expansion of successive sections of the tubular
structure
[00233]      In one arrangement, the rotatable structure 271 may be arranged to free
wheel.
[00234]      In another arrangement, the rotatable structure 271 may be adapted to be
driven.

[00235]      With this latter arrangement, the rotatable structure 271 may be operable to
force material to move along the tubular structure 21 at a rate faster than the speed of
the tubular structure. The funicular elements 31 may be used in this arrangement to
guide the rotatable structure 271 and the tubular structure 21 together so that they do
not get out of alignment as a result of the rotatable structure 271 being driven
independently of the tubular structure.
[00236]      While the present invention has been described in terms of a preferred
embodiments in order to facilitate better understanding of the invention, it should be
appreciated that various modifications can be made without departing from the
principles of the invention. Therefore, the invention should be understood to include all
such modifications within its scope.
[00237]      Furthermore, it should be understood that any feature described in relation to
one embodiment may, as and when appropriate, be incorporated in any other
embodiment even though the feature may not have necessarily been described and
illustrated in relation to that other embodiment. By way of example, the support
arrangement adapted to provide support for the inclined descending portion of the
tubular structure described and illustrated in several embodiments may be implemented
in the first embodiment even though the latter is not described and illustrated with this
feature.
[00238]      Reference to positional descriptions, such as "upper", "lower", "top" and
"bottom", are to be taken in context of the embodiments depicted in the drawings, and
are not to be taken as limiting the invention to the literal interpretation of the term but
rather as would be understood by the skilled addressee.
[00239]      Additionally, where the terms "system", "device", and "apparatus" are used in
the context of the invention, they are to be understood as including reference to any
group of functionally related or interacting, interrelated, interdependent or associated
components or elements that may be located in proximity to, separate from, integrated
with, or discrete from, each other.
[00240]      Throughout this specification, unless the context requires otherwise, the word
"comprise" or variations such as "comprises" or "comprising", will be understood to
imply the inclusion of a stated integer or group of integers but not the exclusion of any
other integer or group of integers.

CLAIMS
   1. An apparatus for performing an operation on a fluid material to separate liquid
      from solid matter within the fluid material,       the apparatus comprising a belt
      structure movable along a path, the belt structure comprising a belt portion
      adapted to be assembled into a movable tubular structure within which at least
      part of the operation is to be performed, the tubular structure being permeable to
      liquid for separation of liquid from solid matter within the fluid material, the tubular
      structure being continuously assembled at one end thereof and continuously
      disassembled at another end thereof during movement of the belt structure, the
      path including a descending portion along which the assembled tubular structure
      passes, the descending portion being inclined whereby at least some of the solid
      matter within fluid material in the tubular structure is caused to move downwardly
      along the descending portion under the influence of gravity to facilitate cleaning
      of the permeable tubular structure.
   2. The apparatus according to claim 1 wherein the cleaning of the tubular structure
      comprises removal of accumulated solid matter to prevent or at least reduce
      blinding of the permeable tubular structure.
   3. The apparatus according to claim 1 or 2 wherein the belt portion has longitudinal
      edges adapted to be connected together to assemble the movable tubular
      structure.
   4. The apparatus according to claim 3 wherein the longitudinal edges are adapted
      to be releasably connected together by a slidable connector means.
   5.  The apparatus according to claim 4 wherein the slidable connector means
      comprises two connector elements adapted to interact with each other to provide
      a connection therebetween.
   6. The apparatus according to claim 5 wherein each connector element presents a
      contact face, and also ridges and recesses arranged to interact with each other.
   7. The apparatus according to claim 6 wherein the two connector elements are
      substantially identical in construction and configured for mating engagement.

8.   The apparatus according to any one of the preceding claims wherein the belt
    structure further comprises two funicular elements connected to the belt portion,
    the funicular elements being adapted to support the belt portion therebetween.
9. The apparatus according to claim 8 wherein the funicular elements are adapted
    to guide and drive the belt structure along the path.
10. The apparatus according to any one of the preceding claims wherein the belt
    structure comprises an endless belt structure and the path comprises an endless
    path about which the endless belt structure circulates.
11.The apparatus according to any one of the preceding claims wherein the endless
    path incorporates guide roller structures around which the belt structure passes
   with the funicular elements in engagement with the guide roller structures.
12.The apparatus according to claim 11 wherein the guide roller structures are
    configured to guidingly receive the funicular elements.
13.The apparatus according to any one of the preceding claims wherein the tubular
    structure is configured to define a single interior compartment along which at
    least part of the operation is to be performed.
14.The apparatus according to any one of claims 1 to 13 wherein the tubular
    structure is configured to define a plurality of interior compartments along which
    at least part of the operation is to be performed.
15.The apparatus according to any one of claims 11 to 14 wherein the guide roller
    structure comprises two wheels each having an outer periphery configured to
    guidingly receive a respective one of the funicular elements.
16.The apparatus according to claim 15 wherein the two wheels are in a spaced
    part relation defining a space therebetween of a size sufficient to allow the
    assembled tubular structure to advance along a path defined between the two
   wheels.
17.The apparatus according to any one of the preceding claims further comprising
    means for introducing fluid material on which an operation is to be performed into
    the tubular structure.
18.The apparatus according to claim 17 wherein delivery of fluid material into the
    tubular structure is controlled to allow fluid flow downwardly along at least a

   section of the inclined descending portion thereby encouraging solids to move
   downwardly along the descending portion under the influence of gravity to
   establish relative movement between the solids within the tubular structure and
   the tubular structure itself to facilitate cleaning of the permeable tubular structure.
19.The apparatus according to any one of the preceding claims wherein the
   descending portion of the path along which the assembled tubular structure
   passes is configured to provide support for the inclined descending portion of the
   tubular structure advancing therealong.
20. The apparatus according to claim 19 wherein the support is configured to cause
   disturbance of material flow within the tubular structure and to also spreading of
   the material within the tubular structure.          More particularly, the support is
   preferably configured to create turbulence in the downwards flow and spread the
   flow to optimise the area within the tubular structure being utilised thereby to
   allow the scouring process to occur and also optimise the area over which liquid
   can leave the tubular structure.
21.The apparatus according to claim 20 wherein the support is configured to
   establish raised sections within the bottom of the tubular structure constituting a
   bed over which the material flows.
22. The apparatus according to any one of the preceding claims wherein the
   arrangement is such that flow of fluid material along the inclined descending
   portion of the tubular structure slows towards the bottom end thereof, leading to
   an accumulation of solids in the bottom section, the accumulation of solids in the
   bottom section establishing a blockage to assist in slowing liquid flow within the
   tubular structure..
23.The apparatus according to any one of the preceding claims wherein the path at
   the bottom of the descending portion along which the assembled tubular
   structure passes includes a turn section configured to propagate radial
   expansion and contraction of successive sections of the tubular structure as it
   advances about the turn section, thereby assisting to convey the agglomerated
   material within the tubular structure around the turn section.
24.The apparatus according to claim 23 wherein the turn section is defined by a turn
   roller structure having an outer periphery about which the tubular structure

   passes, the outer periphery comprising a plurality of circumferentially spaced
   portions with intervening cavities therebetween.
25.The apparatus according to claim 23 wherein the outer periphery of the turn roller
   structure is defined by a plurality of circumferentially spaced elements, with
   spacing therebetween defining the cavities.
26.The apparatus according to claim 23 wherein the turn section is defined by a turn
   roller structure configured to present a plurality of roller elements to the turning
   tubular structure, with roller elements being disposed in circumferentially spaced
   relation and rotating independently of the speed of movement of the tubular
   structure.
27.The apparatus according to any one of the preceding claims further comprising
   press means for pressing the tubular structure along a portion thereof. n.
28.The apparatus according to claim 27 wherein the press means comprises a
   confined and tortuous section of the path along which the tubular structure
   passes.
29.The apparatus according to claim 28 wherein the confined and tortuous section
   of the path is defined by and between press rollers disposed on opposed sides of
   the path.
30.The apparatus according to claim 27 wherein the press means comprises a
   press for mechanically compressing the tubular structure.
31.The apparatus according to claim 27 wherein the press is located at a pressing
   station at which a pressing action is applied to that portion of the tubular structure
   passing therethrough to squeeze the tubular structure to extract liquid from the
   material contained therein.
32.The apparatus according to claim 31 wherein the press comprises comprise two
   press portions disposed in opposed, spaced apart relation to define a pressing
   zone through which the tubular structure can pass.
33.The apparatus according to claim 32 wherein the tubular structure is drawn
   through the pressing zone between the two press portions, with the opposed

   press portions exerting a pressing action on the tubular structure as it is drawn
   though the pressing zone.
34.The apparatus according to claim 32 or 33 wherein the pressing zone between
   the two press portions contracts in the direction of travel of the tubular structure
   through the pressing zone so as to increase the pressing action on the tubular
   structure as it advances through the pressing zone.
35.The apparatus according to claim 34 wherein the press portions define press
   faces tapering towards each other in the direction of intended movement of the
   tubular structure through the pressing zone.
36.The apparatus according to any one of claims 32 to 35 wherein the press
   portions comprise platens defining press surfaces in opposed relation for
   exerting a pressing action on the tubular structure as it is drawn through the
   pressing zone.
37.The apparatus according to claim 34 wherein the press surfaces are, or at least
   one of the press surfaces is, perforated or otherwise configured to allow liquid
   extracted as a result of the pressing action to flow away from the press zone.
38.The apparatus according to any one of claims 32 to 35 wherein the press
   portions are defined by two cyclically movable structures each having an inner
   run and an outer run, with the two cyclically movable structures being so
   positioned that the two inners runs comprise the press portions.
39.The apparatus according to claim 38 wherein the cyclically moveable structures
   comprise two endless bands disposed in spaced apart relation with the inner
   runs cooperating to subject the tubular structure to a compressive action.
40. The apparatus according to claim 38 or 39 wherein the cyclically movable
   structures are, or at least one of the cyclically movable structures is, perforated
   or otherwise configured to allow liquid extracted as a result of the pressing action
   to flow away from the press zone.
41.The apparatus according to any one of claims 32 to 35 wherein the press
   portions are defined by a plurality of spaced parts press elements arranged in

   two sets, with one set defining one of the press portions and the other set
   defining the other press portion.
42.The apparatus according to any one of claims 11 to 41 wherein tubular structure
   is subjected to a compression as it undergoes deflection in passing around one
   or more of the guide roller structures.
43.The apparatus according to any one of the preceding claims wherein the tubular
   structure is caused to undergo compression as a result of tension exerted on the
   tubular structure by virtue of axial tension on the belt portion and also tension
   arising from the loading exerted by material contained within the tubular
   structure.
44.The apparatus according to any one of the preceding claims further comprising a
   liquid removal system operable to engage the exterior of the tubular structure to
   cause liquid adhering thereto to be released.
45.The apparatus according to any one of the preceding claims further comprising
   separating means for longitudinally splitting the tubular structure for discharge of
   matter contained therein.
46.The apparatus according to claim 45 wherein the longitudinal splitting comprises
   disassembly of the tubular structure.
47.The apparatus according to claim 45 or 46 further comprising a removal means
   may be provided for removing remnant matter from the belt portion after splitting
   of the tubular structure.
48.The apparatus according to claim 47 wherein the removal means is operable to
   subject the belt portion to a cleaning.
49.The apparatus according to any one of the preceding claims, the apparatus
   being of a configuration and size to facilitate transportation to and from a site of
   intended use and to be manoeuvred around the site.
50.The apparatus according to any one of the preceding claims configured to
   provide a single tubular structure or a plurality of tubular structures.
51.The apparatus according to claim 50 comprising a plurality of tubular structures
   operable in side-by-side parallel relation, and a plurality of belt portions each
   adapted to be assembled into a respective one of the tubular structures.

52.The apparatus according to claim 50 wherein each belt portion is connected to
   and supported between two funicular elements.
53.The apparatus according to claim 50 wherein the belt portions are connected one
   to another to provide a common assembly. .
54.The apparatus according to claim 50 wherein the belt portions are separate of
   each other, with each belt portion supported between discrete funicular
   elements.
55.The apparatus according to claim 50 wherein there are multiple belt portions
   connected one to another to provide a common assembly, with there being a
   plurality of the multiple assemblies.
56.The apparatus according to any one of claims 5 to 55 further comprising a slider
   is operable in conjunction with the two connector elements to move them
   together into engagement as the endless belt circulates around path. .
57.The apparatus according to claim 56 wherein the slider comprises an alignment
   mechanism.
58.The apparatus according to claim 57 wherein the alignment mechanism
   comprises a body having two passages, each configured to receive one of the
   connector elements, the two passages being disposed to align the connector
   elements in preparation for them being brought together into a interconnected
   condition.
59.The apparatus according to claim 58 wherein the two passages are disposed on
   opposed sides of the body, one above the other in order to align the connector
   elements in preparation for being brought together into the interconnected
   condition.
60.The apparatus according to claim 58 or 59 wherein each passage has an outer
   longitudinal side which opens onto the respective side of the body and a closed
   inner longitudinal side.
61.The apparatus according to claim 58, 59 or 60 wherein each passage is
   configured to guide the respective connector element along the passage.

62.The apparatus according to any one of claims claim 56 to 61 further comprising
   provision for lubricating the connector elements before they are brought together
   in to the interconnected condition.
63.The apparatus according to any one of claims claim 57 to 62 wherein the
   alignment mechanism further comprises a guide element adjacent the entry end
   of each passage for guiding the respective connector element into an entry
   position as it approaches the passage.
64.The apparatus according to any one of claims claim 56 to 64 wherein the slider
   comprises a closure mechanism for urging the aligned connector elements into
   the interconnected condition after they have moved out of the passages in the
   alignment mechanism.
65.The apparatus according to claim 64 wherein the closure mechanism comprises
   two press rollers so positioned that the aligned connector elements pass
   between the two press rollers and are pressed into registration with each other to
   assume the interconnected condition.
66.The apparatus according to claim 65 wherein the two press rollers are yielding
   biased towards each other.
67.The apparatus according to claim 66 wherein the press rollers may comprise a
   fixed roller and a floating roller yielding movable with respect to the fixed roller.
68.A method of removal of liquids from solids in fluid material, the method
   comprising use of apparatus according to any one of the preceding claims.
69.A method of removal of liquids from solids in fluid material, the method
   comprising assembling a movable tubular structure within which at least part of
   the removal operation is to be performed, the tubular structure being permeable
   to the liquid, moving the tubular structure along a path including a descending
   portion, introducing the fluid material into the tubular structure whereby the fluid
   material flows down the descending portion, the descending portion being
   inclined whereby at least some of the solid matter is caused to move downwardly
   along the descending portion under the influence of gravity to facilitate cleaning
   of the permeable tubular structure.

70.The method according to claim 69 further comprising subjecting the tubular
   structure to a pressing action along a portion of the path after the descending
   portion.
71.The method according to claim 69 or 70 further comprising longitudinally splitting
   the tubular structure for discharge of matter contained therein.
72.The method according to claim 69, 70 or 71 further comprising discharging
   material from the belt portion after longitudinal splitting of the tubular structure.
73.The method according to any one of claims 69 to 73 wherein delivery of fluid
   material into the tubular structure is controlled such that to allow fluid flow
   downwardly along at least a section of the inclined descending portion thereby
   encouraging solids to move downwardly along the descending portion under the
   influence of gravity to establish relative movement between the solids within the
   tubular structure and the tubular structure itself to facilitate cleaning of the
   permeable tubular structure.
74.The method according to any one of claims 69 to 73 further comprising
   supporting the inclined descending portion of the tubular structure.
75. The method according to claim 74 wherein thhe support is rendered in a manner
   to disturb material flow within the tubular structure and to also spread the
   material within the tubular structure.
76.A apparatus for performing an operation on a fluid material to separate liquid
   from solid matter within the fluid material,       the apparatus comprising a belt
   structure movable along a path, the belt structure comprising a belt portion
   adapted to be assembled into a movable tubular structure within which at least
   part of the operation is to be performed, the tubular structure being permeable to
   liquid for separation of liquid from solid matter within the fluid material, the tubular
   structure being continuously assembled at one end thereof and continuously
   disassembled at another end thereof during movement of the belt structure, the
   path including a descending portion along which the assembled tubular structure
   passes, the path further including a turn section at the bottom of the descending
   portion, and compression means for compressing the tubular structure along a
   portion thereof after the turn section.

77.The apparatus according tot claim 76 wherein the path further includes an
   ascending portion, the compression means being provided along the ascending
   portion.
78.The apparatus according to claim 76 or 77 wherein the turn section is configured
   to propagate radial expansion and contraction of successive sections of the
   tubular structure as it advances about the turn section, thereby assisting to
   convey the agglomerated material within the tubular structure around the turn
   section.
79.Apparatus for performing an operation on a fluid material to separate liquid from
   solid matter within the fluid material, the apparatus comprising a belt structure
   movable along a path, the belt structure comprising a belt portion adapted to be
   assembled into a movable tubular structure within which at least part of the
   operation is to be performed, the tubular structure being permeable to liquid for
   separation of liquid from solid matter within the fluid material, the tubular
   structure being continuously assembled at one end thereof and continuously
   disassembled at another end thereof during movement of the belt structure, the
   path including a descending portion along which the assembled tubular structure
   passes, the descending portion being configured to provide support for the
   portion of the tubular structure advancing therealong, the support being
   configured to cause disturbance of material flow within the tubular structure and
   to also spreading of the material within the tubular structure.
80.Apparatus for performing an operation on a fluid material to separate liquid from
   solid matter within the fluid material, the apparatus comprising a belt structure
   movable along a path, the belt structure comprising a belt portion adapted to be
   assembled into a movable tubular structure within which at least part of the
   operation is to be performed, the tubular structure being permeable to liquid for
   separation of liquid from solid matter within the fluid material, the tubular
   structure being continuously assembled at one end thereof and continuously
   disassembled at another end thereof during movement of the belt structure, the
   belt portion having longitudinal edges adapted to be connected together by a
   slidable connector means to assemble the movable tubular structure,            the
   slidable connector means comprising two connector elements adapted to interact
   with each other to provide a connection therebetween, and a slider operable in

   conjunction with the two connector elements to move them together into
   engagement as the endless belt circulates around path, the slider comprising a
   body having two passages each configured to receive one of the connector
   elements, the two passages being disposed to align the connector elements in
   preparation for them being brought together into a interconnected condition.
81.Apparatus for performing an operation on a material, the apparatus comprising a
   belt structure movable along a path, the belt structure comprising a belt portion
   adapted to be assembled into a movable tubular structure within which at least
   part of the operation is to be performed, the tubular structure being continuously
   assembled at one end thereof and continuously disassembled at another end
   thereof during movement of the belt structure, the belt portion having longitudinal
   edges adapted to be connected together by a slidable connector means to
   assemble the movable tubular structure,          the slidable connector means
   comprising two connector elements adapted to interact with each other to
   provide a connection therebetween, and a slider operable in conjunction with the
   two connector elements to move them together into engagement as the endless
   belt circulates around path, the slider comprising a body having two passages
   each configured to receive one of the connector elements, the two passages
   being disposed to align the connector elements in preparation for them being
   brought together into an interconnected condition.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
