                                        Abstract
         The present invention relates to the field of methods for providing
  pharmaceutical compositions comprising poorly water-soluble drugs. In
  particular the present invention relates to compositions comprising stable,
5 amorphous hybrid nanoparticles, comprising at least one protein kinase inhibitor
  and at least one polymeric stabilizing and matrix-forming component, useful in
  pharmaceutical compositions and in therapy.

A pharmaceutical composition comprising stable, amorphous hybrid nanopraticles
of at least one protein kinase inhibitor and at least one polymeric stabilizing and
matrix-forming component.
       Field of the invention
       The present invention relates to the field of pharmaceutical compositions
       comprising poorly water-soluble drugs. In particular the present invention
  5    relates to pharmaceutical compositions comprising stable, amorphous
       hybrid nanoparticles of protein kinase inhibitors (PKIs) and polymeric
       stabilizing and matrix-forming components. Furthermore, the present
       invention relates to a method of treating proliferative disorders in a patient
       in need thereof, comprising administering a therapeutically effective
10     amount of said compositions.
       Background of the and invention
       Components of cellular signal transduction pathways that regulate the
       growth and differentiation of normal cells can, when dysregulated, lead to
15     the development of cellular proliferative disorders and cancer. Mutations in
       cellular signaling proteins may cause such proteins to become expressed
       or activated at inappropriate levels or at inappropriate times during the cell
       cycle, which in turn may lead to uncontrolled cellular growth or changes in
       cell-cell attachment properties.
20
       Many proliferative disorders, such as tumors and cancers, have been
       shown to involve overexpresion or upregulation of protein kinase activity.
       Protein kinases are kinase enzymes that modify proteins by chemically
       adding phosphate groups (phosphorylation). Phosphorylation usually
25     results in a functional change of the target protein by changing enzyme
       activity, cellular location, or association with other proteins. Protein kinases
       can be subdivided or characterised by the amino acids of the target protein
       whose phosphorylation they control: most kinases act on both serine and
       threonine, the tyrosine kinases act on tyrosine, and a number (dual
30     specificity kinases) act on all three. There are also protein kinases that
       phosphorylate other amino acids, including histidine kinases that
       phosphorylate histidine residues. The human genome contains about 500

                                          2
   protein kinase genes and up to 30% of all human proteins may be modified
   by protein kinases. Kinases are known to regulate the majority of cellular
   pathways, especially those involved in signal transduction. Dysregulation
   of protein kinases by mutation, gene rearrangement, gene amplification,
 5 and overexpression of both receptor and ligand has been implicated in the
   development and progression of human cancers. Protein kinase inhibiting
   compounds or protein kinase inhibitors (PKIs) are therefore useful for
   treating diseases caused by or exacerbated by overexpression or
   upregulation of protein kinases. For example, tyrosine kinase inhibitors
10 (TKIs also known as tyrphostins) have been shown be effective anti-tumor
   agents and anti-leukemic agents (Lowery A et. al., Front Biosci. 2011 Jun
   1;17:1996-2007).
   A major objective of formulation chemistry is to improve drug efficiency and
15 safety, by e.g. improving bioavailability and stability as well as convenience
   to the patient. Bioavailability means the rate and extent to which an active
   substance or therapeutic is absorbed from a pharmaceutical form and
   becomes available at the site of action. The most common and preferred
   method of delivery due to convenience, ease of ingestion, and high patient
20 compliance to treatment is the oral route of drug delivery. However, for
   certain drugs, drug absorption from the gastrointestinal tract is limited by
   poor aqueous solubility and/or poor membrane permeability of the drug
   molecules.
25 PKIs are generally weak bases that dissolve only slightly at low pH (e.g.
    100-1000 mg/L) and are practically insoluble at neutral pH (e.g. 0.1-10
   mg/L). Therefore, enhancing the solubility and dissolution rate of PKI
   based drugs is important for improving the bioavailabitity and efficacy of
   most of these drugs. Typical PKIs exhibit non-polypetide structure and
30 have relatively low molecular weights, such as 5 10000 dalton or s 5000
   dalton.

                                            3
   Several methods to improve the dissolution characteristics of poorly water
   soluble drugs have been reported, including micronisation, formation of
   salts or solvates, complexes and microspheres. Additionally, attempts
   have been made to improve bioavailability provided by solid dosage forms
 5 by forming particles comprising the drug or by mixing the poorly water
   soluble drug with hydrophilic excipients. Traditionally, however, these
   methods carry inherent limitations concerning physical stabilities of the
   particles on storage, problems with grinding or difficulty of removal of the
   frequently toxic solvent. Furthermore, it is important that the drug released
10 from the solid phase does not precitipitate in the gastrointestinal tract, or
   precipitates as little as possible, but remains water-soluble in the aqueous
   fluids of the gastrointestinal tract, since such precipitation results in low
   bioavailability (see e.g. Herv6 J. et al. Pharm Dev Technol. 2011 Jun;
   16(3):278-86).
15
   pH-dependent solubility is a well-known issue for many oral formulations of
   poorly water-soluble substances, such as PKIs, since most of the
   absorption of the drug occurs in the small and large intestine, where pH is
   close to neutral. There is thus a continuing need to develop and improve
20 the dissolution characteristics of oral solid dosage forms of PKI-based
   drugs. (Budha NR, Frymoyer A, Smelick GS, Jin JY, Yago MR, Dresser
   MJ, Holden SN, Benet LZ, Ware JA. Clin Pharmacol Ther. 2012
   Aug;92(2):203-13). Therefore, methods for improving dissolution of PKI
   based drugs, as well as of other poorly water-soluble drugs, at neutral
25 (intestinal) pH are highly desirable.
   US20090203709 discloses a pharmaceutical dosage form comprising a
   solid dispersion product of at least one tyrosine kinase inhibitor, at least
   one pharmaceutically acceptable polymer and at least one
30 pharmaceutically acceptable solubilizer. Further the reference discloses
   methods for preparing the above-mentioned pharmaceutical dosage form,
   comprising preparing the homogenous melt of at least one tyrosine kinase

                                           4
   inhibitor, at least one pharmaceutically acceptable polymer and at least
   one pharmaceutically acceptable solubilizer, and allowing the melt to
   solidify to obtain a solid dispersion product.
 5 EP2105130 discloses pharmaceutical formulations comprising a solid
   dispersion or solid solution, containing a polymer and an active agent in
   amorphous form. Further, the formulation comprises an external polymer
   to stabilize the solution, such that the % by weight of the external polymer
   is less than 20% of the total weight of the pharmaceutical formulation.
10 Additionally, the reference discloses a hot melt extrusion method for
   production of the above-mentioned formulation.
   Summary of the invention
   The present invention relates pharmaceutical compositions comprising
15 stable, amorphous hybrid nanoparticles, comprising at least one protein
   kinase inhibitor and at least one polymeric stabilizing and matrix-forming
   component. Optionally, one or more solubilizers may be added to the
   particles, present separately from the particles, or within the particles.
20 Brief description of the drawings
   Figure 1 provides a graph showing the apparent solubility for nilotinib in
   representative compositions of the invention. Further experimentation with
   both nilotinib base and nilotinib HCI is found in Example 1. The details of
   the particles are described in Example 1, Table 1, for experiment 3, 30 and
25 37, respectively. Briefly, experiment 30 represents stable, amorphous
   hybrid nanoparticles comprising nilotinib HCl and HPMCP HP55 and
   wherein the solubilizer polyvinyl caprolactam-polyvinyl acetate
   polyethylene glycol copolymer is present separately from the hybrid
   nanoparticles. Experiment 3 represents raw, crystalline nilotinib HCI and
30 experiment 37 represents hybrid nanoparticles of nilotinib HCI, HPMCP
    HP55 and the solubilizer polyvinyl caprolactam-polyvinyl acetate
    polyethylene glycol copolymer, present within the hybrid nanoparticles.

                                          5
   The experiments illustrated in the graphs were carried out at pH 6.5, in
   FaSSIF.
   Figure 2 provides a graph showing the apparent solubility for erlotinib in
 5 representative compositions of the invention. Further experimentation with
   erlotinib is found in Example 2. The details of the stable, amorphous hybrid
   nanoparticles are described in Example 2, Table 7, for experiment 58, 65
   and 67, respectively. Briefly, experiment 65 represents stable, amorphous
   hybrid nanoparticles with erlotinib HCI and HPMC-AS, wherein the
10 solubilizer polyvinyl caprolactam-polyvinyl acetate-polyethylene glycol
   copolymer is present separately from the stable, amorphous hybrid
   nanoparticles. Experiment 58 represents raw, crystalline erlotinib HCt and
   experiment 67 represents stable, amorphous hybrid nanoparticles of
   erlotinib HCi, HPMC-AS and the solubilizer polyvinyl caprolactam-polyvinyl
15 acetate-polyethylene glycol copolymer present within the hybrid
   nanoparticles. The experiments illustrated in the graphs were carried out at
   pH 6.5 in FaSSIF.
   Figure 3 provides a graph showing the apparent solubility for pazopanib in
20 representative compositions of the invention. Further experimentation with
   pazopanib is found in Example 3. The details of the stable, amorphous
   hybrid nanoparticles are described in Example 3, Table 13, for experiment
   84, 91 and 93, respectively. Briefly, experiment 91 represents stable,
   amorphous hybrid nanoparticles comprising pazopanib and PVP 90K and
25 wherein the solubilizer polyvinyl caprolactam-polyvinyl acetate
   polyethylene glycol copolymer is present separately from the stable,
   amorphous hybrid nanoparticles, experiment 93 represents hybrid
   nanoparticles comprising pazopanib, PVP 90K and the solubilizer polyvinyl
   caprolactam-polyvinyl acetate-polyethylene glycol copolymer, present
30 within the stable, amorphous hybrid nanoparticles. Experiment 84
   represents raw, crystalline pazopanib. The experiments illustrated in the
   graphs were carried out at pH 6.5, in FaSSIF.

                                          6
   Figure 4 provides a graph showing the apparent solubility for lapatinib in
   representative compositions of the invention. Further experimentation with
   both lapatinib base and lapatinib ditosylate salt is found in Example 4. The
 5 details of the stable, amorphous hybrid nanoparticles are described in
   Example 4, Table 19, for experiment 110, 122 and 126, respectively.
   Briefly, experiment 122 represents stable, amorphous hybrid nanoparticles
   comprising lapatinib base and HPC EF, wherein the solubilizer polyvinyl
   caprolactam-polyvinyl acetate-polyethylene glycol copolymer is present
10 separately from the stable, amorphous hybrid nanoparticles. Experiment
   110 represents raw, lapatinib base and experiment 126 represents stable,
   amorphous hybrid nanoparticles of lapatinib base, HPC LF and the
   solubilizer polyvinyl caprolactam-polyvinyl acetate-polyethylene glycol
   copolymer present within the hybrid nanoparticles. The experiments
15 illustrated in the graphs were carried out at pH 6.5 in FaSSIF.
   Figure 5 provides a graph showing the apparent solubility for nilotinib in
   representative compositions of the invention. The details of the stable,
   amorphous hybrid nanoparticles are described in Example 5, Table 21, for
20 experiment 127, 128 and 129, respectively. Briefly, experiment 129
   represents a physical mixture of raw, crystalline nilotinib HCl, HPMCP
   HP55 and the solubilizer polyvinyl caprolactam-polyvinyl acetate
   polyethylene glycol copolymer. Experiment 128 represents stable,
   amorphous hybrid nanoparticles comprising nilotinib HCI and HPMCP
25 HP55, wherein the solubilizer polyvinyl caprolactam-polyvinyl acetate
   polyethylene glycol copolymer is present separately from the stable,
   amorphous hybrid nanoparticles. Experiment 127 represents stable,
   amorphous hybrid nanoparticles of nilotinib HCi and HPMCP HPSS. The
   experiments illustrated in the graphs were carried out at pH 1.4 in SGF.
30
   Figure 6 provides a graph showing the apparent solubility for gefitinib in
   representative compositions of the invention. Further experimentation with

                                         7
   gefitinib is found in Example 6. The details of the compositions are
   described in Example 6, Table 22, for experiment 131, 133, 135 and 137,
   respectively. Briefly, experiment 131 represents raw, crystalline gefitinib.
   Experiment 133 represents a mixture of raw, crystalline gefitinib, HPMCP
 5 HP55 and the solubilizer polyvinyl caprolactam-polyvinyl acetate
   polyethylene glycol copolymer. Experiment 135 represents stable,
   amorphous hybrid nanoparticles of gefitinib and HPMCP HP55.
   Experiment 137 represents stable, amorphous hybrid nanoparticles of
   gefitinib and HPMCP HP55 wherein the solubilizer polyvinyl caprolactam
10 polyvinyl acetate-polyethylene glycol copolymer is present separately from
   the stable, amorphous hybrid nanoparticles. The experiments illustrated in
   the graphs were carried out at pH 6.5 in FaSSIF.
   Figure 7 provides a graph showing the apparent solubility for dasatinib in
15 representative compositions of the invention. The details of the stable,
   amorphous hybrid nanoparticles are described in Example 7, Table 24, for
   experiments 138-141. Briefly, experiment 138 represents raw, crystalline
   dasatinib. Experiment 139 represents a mixture of raw, crystalline
   dasatinib, Kollidon VA64 and the solubilizer polyvinyl caprolactam-polyvinyl
20 acetate-polyethylene glycol copolymer. Experiment 140 represents hybrid
   nanoparticles of dasatinib and Kollidon VA64. Experiment 141 represents
   stable, amorphous hybrid nanoparticles of dasatinib and Kollidon VA64
   wherein the solubilizer polyvinyl caprolactam-polyvinyl acetate
   polyethylene glycol copolymer is present separately from the stable,
25 amorphous hybrid nanoparticles. The experiments illustrated in the graphs
   were carried out at pH 6.5 in FaSSIF.
   Figure 8 provides a graph showing the apparent solubility for sorafenib in
   representative compositions of the invention. The details of the stable,
30 amorphous hybrid nanoparticles are described in Example 8, Table 26, for
   experiments 142-145. Briefly, experiment 142 represents raw, crystalline
   sorafenib tosylate. Experiment 143 represents a mixture of raw, crystalline

                                          8
   sorafenib tosylate, HPMCP HP55 and the solubilizer polyvinyl
   caprolactam-polyvinyl acetate-polyethylene glycol copolymer. Experiment
   144 represents stable, amorphous hybrid nanoparticles of sorafenib
   tosylate and HPMCP HP55. Experiment 145 represents hybrid
 5 nanoparticles of sorafenib tosylate and HPMCP HP55 wherein the
   solubilizer polyvinyl caprolactam-polyvinyl acetate-polyethylene glycol
   copolymer is present separately from the stable, amorphous hybrid
   nanoparticles. The experiments illustrated in the graphs were carried out at
   pH 6.5 in FaSSIF.
10
   Figure 9 provides a graph showing the apparent solubility for crizotinib in
   representative compositions of the invention. Further experimentation with
   crizotinib is found in Example 10. The details of the compositions are
   described in Example 10, Table 30, for experiment 150, 152, 153 and 156,
15 respectively. Briefly, experiment 150 represents raw, crystalline crizotinib.
    Experiment 152 represents a mixture of raw, crystalline crizotinib, PVP
   30K and the solubilizer Cremophor RH40. Experiment 153 represents
   stable, amorphous hybrid nanoparticles of crizotinib and PVP 30K.
    Experiment 156 represents stable, amorphous hybrid nanoparticles of
20 crizotinib and PVP 30K wherein the solubilizer Cremophor RH40 is present
    separately from the stable, amorphous hybrid nanoparticles. The
    experiments illustrated in the graphs were carried out at pH 6.5 in FaSSIF.
    Figure 10 provides a graph showing the apparent solubility for axitinib in
25  representative compositions of the invention. Further experimentation with
    axitinib is found in Example 11. The details of the compositions are
    described in Example 11, Table 32, for experiment 157, 158, 160 and 162,
    respectively. Briefly, experiment 157 represents raw, crystalline axitinib.
    Experiment 158 represents a mixture of raw, crystalline axitinib, Kollidon
30 VA64 and the solubilizer polyvinyl caprolactam-polyvinyl acetate
    polyethylene glycol copolymer. Experiment 160 represents stable,
    amorphous hybrid nanoparticles of axitinib and Kollidon VA64. Experiment

                                         9
   162 represents stable, amorphous hybrid nanoparticles of axitinib and
   Kollidon VA64 wherein the solubilizer polyvinyl caprolactam-polyvinyl
   acetate-polyethylene glycol copolymer is present separately from the
   stable, amorphous hybrid nanoparticles. The experiments illustrated in the
 5 graphs were carried out at pH 6.5 in FaSSiF.
   Figure 11 provides a graph showing the apparent solubility for vemurafenib
   in representative compositions of the invention. Further experimentation
   with vemurafenib is found in Example 12. The details of the compositions
10 are described in Example 12, Table 34, for experiment 164, 166, 168 and
   170, respectively. Briefly, experiment 164 represents raw, crystalline
   vemurafenib. Experiment 166 represents a mixture of raw, crystalline
   vemurafenib, CAP and the solubilizer polyvinyl caprolactam-polyvinyl
   acetate-polyethylene glycol copolymer. Experiment 168 represents stable,
15 amorphous hybrid nanoparticles of vemurafenib and CAP. Experiment 170
   represents stable, amorphous hybrid nanoparticles of vemurafenib and
   CAP wherein the solubilizer polyvinyl caprolactam-polyvinyl acetate
   polyethylene glycol copolymer is present separately from the stable,
   amorphous hybrid nanoparticles. The experiments illustrated in the graphs
20 were carried out at pH 6.5 in FaSSIF.
   Figure 12 provides a graph showing the dissolution rate for nilotinib base in
   representative compositions of the invention, measured under sink
   conditions. Details are found in Examples 13 and 13.1, and Table 36 for
25 experiments 500 and 501. Briefly, experiment 500 represents raw, nilotinib
   HCL. Experiment 501 represents stable, amorphous hybrid nanoparticles of
   nilotinib base and HPMCP HP55. The experiments illustrated in the graphs
   were carried out at pH 6.5 in FaSSIF.
30 Figure 13 provides a graph showing the dissolution rate for erlotinib in
   representative compositions of the invention, measured under sink
   conditions. Details are found in Examples 13 and 13.2, Table 37 for

                                        10
   experiments 510 and 511. Briefly, experiment 510 represents raw, erlotinib
   HC. Experiment 511 represents stable, amorphous hybrid nanoparticles of
   erlotinib HCI and HPMC AS.
 5 Figure 14 provides a graph showing the dissolution rate for pazopanib in
   representative compositions of the invention, measured under sink
   conditions. Details are found in Examples 13 and 13.3, Table 38 for
   experiments 520 and 521. Briefly, experiment 520 represents raw,
   pazopanib HCl. Experiment 521 represents stable, amorphous hybrid
10 nanoparticles of pazopanib HCI and PVP90K.
   Figure 15 provides a graph showing the dissolution rate for lapatinib in
   representative compositions of the invention, measured under sink
   conditions. Details are found in Examples 13 and 13.4, Table 39 for
15 experiments 530 and 531. Briefly, experiment 530 represents raw,
   lapatinib ditosylate. Experiment 531 represents stable, amorphous hybrid
   nanoparticles of lapatinib base and HPC If.
   Figure 16 provides a graph showing the dissolution rate for gefitinib in
20 representative compositions of the invention, measured under sink
   conditions. Details are found in Examples 13 and 13.5., Table 40 for
   experiments 540 and 541. Briefly, experiment 540 represents raw,
   gefitinib. Experiment 541 represents stable, amorphous hybrid
   nanoparticles of gefitinib and HPMCP HP55.
25
   Figure 17 provides a graph showing the dissolution rate for dasatinib in
   representative compositions of the invention, measured under sink
   conditions. Details are found in Examples 13 and 13.6., Table 41 for
   experiments 550 and 551. Briefly, experiment 550 represents raw,
30 dasatinib. Experiment 551 represents stable, amorphous hybrid
   nanoparticles of dasatinib and Kollidon VA64.

                                         11
   Figure 18 provides a graph showing the dissolution rate for sorafenib in
   representative compositions of the invention, measured under sink
   conditions. Details are found in Examples 13 and 13.7., Table 42 for
   experiments 560 and 561. Briefly, experiment 560 represents raw,
 5 sorafenib tosylate. Experiment 561 represents stable, amorphous hybrid
   nanoparticles of sorafenib tosylate and HPMCP HP55,
   Figure 19 provides a graph showing the dissolution rate for crizotinib in
   representative compositions of the invention, measured under sink
10 conditions. Details are found in Examples 13 and 13.8., Table 43 for
   experiments 570 and 571. Briefly, experiment 570 represents raw,
   crizotinib. Experiment 571 represents stable, amorphous hybrid
   nanoparticles of crizotinib and PVP 30K.
15 Figure 20 provides a graph showing the dissolution rate for axitinib in
   representative compositions of the invention, measured under sink
   conditions. Details are found in Examples 13 and 13. 9., Table 44 for
   experiments 580, 581 and 582. Briefly, experiment 580 represents raw,
   axitinib. Experiment 581 represents hybrid nanoparticles of axitinib and
20 Kollidon VA64 and experiment 582 represents stable, amorphous hybrid
   nanoparticles of axitinib and HPMC AS.
   Figure 21 provides a graph showing the dissolution rate for vemurafenib in
   representative compositions of the invention, measured under sink
25 conditions. Details are found in Examples 13 and 13.10., Table 45 for
   experiments 590, 591 and 592. Briefly, experiment 590 represents raw,
   vemurafenib. Experiment 591 represents hybrid nanoparticles of
   vemurafenib and Kollidon VA64 and experiment 592 represents stable,
   amorphous hybrid nanoparticles of vemurafenib and CAP.
30
   Figure 22 provides graphs showing in vivo measurement of plasma levels
   after oral administration to beagle dogs of representative compositions

                                          12
   comprising stable, amorphous hybrid nanoparticles of nilotinib base and
   the polymeric stabilizing and matrix-forming components PVAP and
   HPMCP HP55, respectively (I/P), denoted PVAP and HP55, as well as
   wherein the solubilizer polyvinyl caprolactam-polyvinyl acetate
 5 polyethylene glycol copolymer was added (I/P+S), denoted HP55s and
    PVAPs, respectively. The experiments were carried out in beagle dogs
   pre-treated to have neutral stomach content. The stable, amorphous hybrid
   nanoparticles are further described in experiments 146 and 147 (Example
   9) and details of the in vivo experiments are set out in Example 14. The
10 experiments used a marketed formulation comprising nilotinib HCI
    ("Tasigna") as reference,
    Figure 23 provides graphs showing in vivo measurement of plasma levels
   after oral administration to beagle dogs of representative compositions
15  comprising stable, amorphous hybrid nanoparticles of nilotinib base and
   the polymeric stabilizing and matrix-forming components PVAP and
    HPMCP HP55, respectively (lIP), denoted PVAP and HP55, as well as
   wherein the solubilizer polyvinyl caprolactam-polyvinyl acetate
    polyethylene glycol copolymer was added (1/P+S) denoted PVAPs and
20  HP55s, respectively. The experiments were carried out in beagle dogs pre
    treated to have acidic stomach content. The stable, amorphous hybrid
    nanoparticles are further described in experiments 146 and 147 (Example
    9) and details of the in vivo experiments are set out in Example 14. The
    experiments used a marketed formulation comprising nilotinib HCI
25  ("Tasigna") as reference.
    Figure 24 provides graphs showing in vivo measurement of plasma levels
    after oral administration to beagle dogs of representative compositions
    comprising stable, amorphous hybrid nanoparticles of nilotinib base and
30  the polymeric stabilizing and matrix-forming components PVAP and
    HPMCP HP55, respectively (I/P), denoted PVAP and HP55, as well as
    wherein the solubilizer polyvinyl caprolactam-polyvinyl acetate-

                                         13
   polyethylene glycol copolymer was added after hybrid nanoparticle
   formation (l/P+S), denoted PVAPs and HP55s, respectively. The
   experiments were carried out in beagle dogs pre-treated to have acidic or
   neutral stomach content. The stable, amorphous hybrid nanoparticles are
 5 further described in experiments 146 and 147 (Example 9) and details of
   the in vivo experiments are set out in Example 14.
   Figure 25 provides graphs showing in vivo measurement of plasma levels
   after oral administration to beagle dogs of representative compositions
10 comprising stable, amorphous hybrid nanoparticles of nilotinib base and
   the polymeric stabilizing and matrix-forming components PVAP and
    HPMCP HP55, denoted PVAP and HP55, respectively (l/P). The
   experiments were carried out in beagle dogs pre-treated to have acidic or
    neutral stomach content. The stable, amorphous hybrid nanoparticles are
15 further described in experiments 146 and 147 (Example 9) and details of
   the in vivo experiments are set out in Example 14.
    Figure 26 provides a graph showing the apparent solubility of
    representative compositions before and after 11 months of storage at room
20 temperature. The experiment provides stable, amorphous hybrid
    nanoparticles comprising nilotinib base, HPMCP HP55 and the addition of
    the solubilizer polyvinyl caprolactam-polyvinyl acetate-polyethylene glycol
    copolymer (I/P+S) as Exp 171 & Exp 172 with further details set out in
    Example 15.
25
    Figure 27 provides overlayed X-ray powder diffraction (XRPD) patterns of
    stable hybrid nanoparticles at 40% drug load, /P nilotinib base/HPMCP
    HP55. Initial (top) and after 12 months storage at ambient temperature
    (bottom). The XRPD patterns are offset in order improve the visual
30  comparison. Further details are set out in Example 15.

                                          14
   Detailed description of the invention
   All patents, patent applications, and publications cited herein are hereby
   incorporated by reference in their entirety.
 5 As used herein, the phrase "hybrid nanoparticles" refers to a group of
   particles, typically in the average size range of from I to 1000 nm,
   composed of at least two components, one of which is the PKI and the
   other a polymeric stabilizing and matrix-forming component. The particles
   can be either crystalline or amorphous, or a mixture thereof. Typically, in
10 the sense of the present disclosure, the particles are "amorphous", or
   "essentially amorphous". This means that almost all, if not all, content of
   the particles comprise amorphous protein kinase inhibitor and polymeric
   stabilizing and matrix-forming component. The level or degree of
   amorphicity is at least 60%, such as 70%, such as 80% or 85%, preferably
15 at least 90% and more preferably >95%, wherein 100% represents that all
   material is amorphous in the particles.
   Quantification of crystalline PKI or absence of crysalline PKI may be
   measured by X-ray powder diffraction metods as described in Saleki
20 Gerhardt A et al. Int J Pharm. 1994;101:237-247) or by water vapor
   sorption as described in Dash AK et al. J Pharm Sci. 2002 Apr;91(4):983
   90.
   The term "solid dispersion particles" relates to "hybrid nanoparticles" as
25 defined above, however, solid dispersion particles are typically larger or
   much larger in size (typically gm-mm, as decribed in Wu K. et al. J Pharm
   Sci. 2009 Jul;98(7):2422-3). The smaller size of hybrid nanoparticles
   contributes to further stabilizing the PK against crystallization. Typically,
    hybrid nanoparticles is in the average size range of from 1 to 1000 nm,
30 such as below 500 nm, preferably below 250 nm.

                                           15
   The phrase "stable" refers to the level of stability of produced particles by
   the methods of the present invention and may be measured as the
   capability of the hybrid nanoparticles to remain in their physical state for 6
   12 months storage at ambient temperature (e.g. 18-250 C). The level of
 5 stability may be measured by AUC measurements of dissolution rate over
   for instance 80 minutes of the particles, after such storage.
   By the phrase "protein kinase inhibitor" or "PKI" is meant a type of enzyme
   inhibitor that specifically blocks the action of one or more protein kinases.
10 PKIs include, but are not limited, to protein kinase inhibitors and tyrosine
   kinase inhibitors, such as axitinib, afatinib, bosutinib, crizotinib, cediranib,
   dasatinib, erlotinib, fostamatinib, gefitinib, imatinib, lapatinib, lenvatinib,
   lestaurtinib, motesanib, mubritinib, nilotinib, pazopanib, pegaptanib,
   ruxolitinib, sorafenib, semaxanib, sunitinib, tandunitib, tipifamib, vandetanib
15 and vemurafenib; or salts or hydrates or solvates thereof, or combinations
   thereof.
   By the phrase "polymeric stabilizing and matrix-forming component" is
   meant the component present in the hybrid nanoparticles together with the
20 PKI. Typically, said polymeric stabilizing and matrix-forming component
   exhibits a polymeric structure, such as, but not limited to, methyl cellulose,
   hydroxyethyl cellulose, hydroxypropyl cellulose (e.g. HPC ef, HPC If and
   HPC jf), hydroxypropyl methylcellulose (e.g. Methocel E3 and E15 and
   Pharmacoat), hydroxypropyl methylcellulose acetate succinate (HPMC
25 AS), hydroxypropyl methylcellulose phthalate (e.g. HPMCP-HP55),
   polyvinylpyrrolidone (e.g. PVP 30K and PVP 90K), polyvinyl acetate
   phthalate (PVAP), copolyvidone (e.g. Kollidon VA 64), crospovidon (e.g.
   Kollidon CL), methacrylic acid and ethylacrylate copolymer (e.g. Kollicoat
   ME), methacrylate acid and methyl methacrylate copolymer (e.g. Eudragit
30 Li 00), polyethylene glycol (PEG), DL lactide/glycolide copolymer, poly DL
   lactide, cellulose acetate phthalate (CAP), aminoalkyl methacrylate
   copolymers (e.g. Eudragit RL100, RL PO or RS PO), carbomer

                                         16
   homopolymer Type A (e.g. Carbopol 971 P), carbomer homopolymer Type
   B (e.g. Carbopol 974P) and Poloxamers (e.g. Pluronics, Kolliphor).
   The term "polymer" or "polymeric" is here used to mean a compound that
 5 is made of monomers connected together to form a larger molecule. A
   polymer generally consists of 20 or more monomers connected together,
   however less than 20 monomers connected together are here also referred
   to as polymers.
10 The term "solubilizer" is here used to mean a compound that increases the
   solubility of a substance, such as, but not limited to, polyvinyl caprolactam
   polyvinyl acetate-polyethylene glycol copolymer (Soluplus), d-a-tocopherol
   acid polyethylene glycol 1000 succinate (TPGS), PEG-40 hydrogenated
   castor oil (Cremophor RH40), PEG-35 castor oil (Cremophor EL), PEG-40
15 stearate (MYRJ 540), hard fat (e.g. Gelucire 33/01), polyoxylglycerides
   (e.g. Gelucire 44/14), stearoyl polyoxylglycerides (e.g. Gelucire 50/13),
   PEG-8 caprylic/capric glycerides (e.g. Labrasol) and Poloxamers (e.g.
   Pluronics, Kolliphor).
20 As used herein, the phrase "primary particles" refers to the smallest
   particulate entities formed during the precipitation process. The boundaries
   of the particles are analyzed by SEM microscopy. Depending on process
   parameters, the primary particles may build together a more or less dense
   and porous network forming larger, agglomerated or bridging particles.
25  Parameters affecting the agglomeration are e.g. temperature that may
    modify the softness of the primary particles; ratio solvent/antisolvent
   affecting precipitation time, concentration of the PKI solution; and the
    nature of the polymeric stabilizing and matrix-forming agent(s). The
    average size of the primary particles is typically between 1 to 1000 nm,
30  preferably below 500 nm, more preferably below 250 nm.

                                           17
   As used herein, the phrases "supercritical" and "supercritical fluid" refer to
   that a chemical substance that is set to both a temperature higher or equal
   than its critical temperature (Tc) and a pressure higher or equal than its
   critical pressure (Pc).
 5
   As used herein, the phrases "subcritical" and "subcritical fluid" refer here to
   that one of critical temperature (Tc) or critical pressure (Pc) is set to a
   temperature or pressure higher than its critical temperature (Tc) or critical
   pressure (Pc), respectively, and the other of critical temperature (Tc) or
10 critical pressure (Pc) is set to a temperature or pressure lower than its
   critical temperature (Tc) or critical pressure (Pc), respectively.
   By the phrase "area under the curve (AUC)" is meant the area under the
   concentration-time curve, where the x-axis represents time and the y-axis
15 represents solubilized drug concentration.
   By the phrase "apparent solubility" is meant the concentration of material
   at apparent equilibrium. See further in the Examples section.
20 The term "supersaturation" is here used to mean that a solution contains
   more of the dissolved substance than could be dissolved by the solvent or
   media under normal circumstances.
   As used herein, the term "Soluplus" or "soluplus" refers to polyvinyl
25 caprolactam-polyvinyl acetate-polyethylene glycol copolymer.
   As used herein, the term "TPGS" refers to d-a-tocopherol acid
   polyethylene glycol 1000 succinate.
30 As used herein, the term "Chremophor RH40" refers to PEG-40
    hydrogenated castor oil.

                                          18
   As used herein, the term "PVAP" refers to polyvinyl acetate phthalate.
   As used herein, the term "PVP 90K" refers to polyvinylpyrrolidone K-90.
 5 As used herein, the term "PVP 30K" refers to polyvinylpyrrolidone K-30,
   As used herein, the term "HPMC-AS" refers to hydroxypropyl
   methylcellulose acetate succinate.
10 As used herein, the term "HPMCP HP55" refers to hydroxypropyl methyl
   cellulose phthalate.
   As used herein, the term "HPC" refers to hydroxypropyl cellulose, such as
   HPC EF and HPC LF.
15
   As used herein, the term "Kollidon VA64" refers to copolyvidone.
   As used herein, the term "CAP" refers to cellulose acetate phthalate.
20 The dissolution mediums used for purposes of testing hybrid nanoparticles
   of the present invention, includes Fasted State Stimulated Intestinal Fluid,
   referred to as FaSSIF, Fed State Stimulated Intestinal Fluid, referred to as
   FeSSIF, and Simulated Gastric Fluid, referred to as SGF. FaSSIF media is
   tailored to represent a fasting state and has a pH of about 6.5 as well as
25 particular osmolaric properties. FeSSIF media is tailored to represent a fed
   state and has a pH of about 5 as well as specific osmolaric properties.
   SGF is tailored to represent gastric fluid and has a pH of about 1.4 as well
   as particular osmolaric properties. FaSSIF, FeSSIF and SGF media are
   generally used in in vitro models for dissolution of poorly water-soluble
30 drugs. The choice of medium will be dependent of the where in the
   intestinal tract and under what conditions (fasted or fed) particles are
   desired to dissolve and be taken up. Further details regarding these fluids

                                          19
   are described in e.g. Herv6 J. et al. Pharm Dev Technol. 2011 Jun;
   16(3):278-86 and Jantratid, E., and Dressman, J. Dissolut. Technol. 2009
   8, 21-25.
 5 By the phrase "amorphous form" is meant non-crystalline solid form. The
   ease of dissolution may at least in part be attributed to the amount of
   energy required for dissolution of the components from a crystalline or
   amorphous solid phase. Amorphous particles require less energy for
   dissolution as compared to crystalline particles of the same compound.
10
   The inventive compositions comprise particles with a PKI or a combination
   of two or more PKIs. However, the particles may comprise a combination
   of one or more PKIs and at least one further active ingredient, such as one
   or more drugs. Various kinds of PKIs can be effectively utilized.
15
   The term PKIs (protein kinase inhibitors) as used herein, is intended to
   include also the hydrates, solvates (alcoholates), pharmaceutically
   acceptable acid salts, base salts or co-crystals of such protein kinase
   inhibiting compounds.
20
   As used herein, the term water-insoluble or poorly water soluble (or
   hydrophobic) compounds, refers to compounds whose solubility in water at
   250 C is less than 1 g/100 ml, especially less than 0.1 g/100 ml in pure
   water at neutral pH.
25
   The stable, amorphous hybrid nanoparticles comprised in the compositions
   of the present invention are typically in the form of particles as described
   elsewhere in this specification. There are a number of different methods for
   the formation of larger particles, e.g. granulation, melt extrusion, spray
30 drying, precipitation etc. all of which typically encompass starting with
   formation of a mixture between the Active Pharmaceutical Ingredient (API)
   and the polymeric stabilizing and matrix-forming component. The particles

                                           20
   comprised in the compositions of the present invention are produced with
   continous processes for generating hybrid nanoparticles. Continuous
   processes in this context means that particle formation is continuously
   ongoing while at the same time continuously withdrawing/collecting/
 5 retaining hybrid nanoparticles from the mixture after their formation. In the
   preferred methods, i.e. precipitation methods, this means that a fluid which
   is a solution of the PKI, preferably in the form of a fluid stream, is mixed
   with an antisolvent fluid, preferably in the form of an antisolvent fluid
   stream. The polymeric stabilizing and matrix-forming component may be
10 present in either one or both of the two fluids depending on its solubility
   characteristics. The mixing of the two fluids is taking place in a mixing
   function, e.g. a mixing chamber. In the case the process is continuous, i.e.
   the two fluids are fluid streams, the mixing function typically is associated
   with a particle formation and separation function wherein the mixed fluid
15 stream may pass through while retaining the hybrid nanoparticles. Agents
   modifying the particle characteristics without being incorporated into the
   particles may be added to either one or both of the two fluids before the
   mixing step. The fluids typically are conventional liquids or supercritical
   fluids, where supercritical fluids also include subcritical fluids (i.e. fluids for
20 which only one of pressure and temperature is above its supercritical
   value). Typical combinations are, a) conventional (i.e., non-supercritical)
   liquids for both the API solution and the antisolvent, b) supercritical
   solution of the API combined with conventional liquid for the antisolvent, c)
   conventional liquid for the API solution combined with supercritical fluid for
25 the antisolvent, and d) supercitical fluids for both of the two fluids. In
   certain variants the antisolvent may be omitted. A fluid stream, preferably
   supercritical, containing both the API and the polymeric stabilizing and
   matrix-forming component is then allowed to expand into the particle
   formation function. It is preferred that at least one of the fluids is in a
30 supercritical state in the preciptiation methods described above. These
   kinds of precipitation methods are discussed in WO 2005061090
    (Censdelivery AB), WO 2009072950 (XSpray Microparticles AB), WO

                                          21
   2009072953 (XSpray Microparticles AB), WO 2011159218 (XSpray
   Microparticles AB) and references cited in these publications.
   The term "solution" encompasses that the solute is either a true solute or
 5 minute particles of colloidial dimensions (typically 1-1000 nm) and less
   than the particles to be produced.
   A preferred particle formation system is the "Right Size system" developed
   by XSpray Microparticles AB, Sweden. A detailed description of the
10 technology can be found in the WO-publications given in the preceding
   paragraph. An important characteristic of the system is that the two fluid
   streams should merge within a nozzle at an angle in the interval 45-1350,
   with preference for about 900 and sprayed into a particle
   formation/separation function. In principle the system allows for producing
15 particles of predetermined size and/or morphology. Here the Right Size
   system and apparatus will be described using the non-limiting example of
   a PKI as the drug and C02 as a supercrititcal fluid antisolvent.
   The system consists of one pumping set-up for the PKl dissolved in a
20 liquid solvent, referred to as the API solution, and one pumping set-up for
   an antisolvent, for example C02, however also other antisolvents may be
   used when suitable. Each pumping set-up includes instruments such as a
   flow meter and a pressure meter that are used to control the process
   conditions. These two pumping set-ups are fluidically connected at a spray
25 nozzle.
   A stream of liquid API solution is mixed with a stream of C02 under flow
   conditions within the spray nozzle. The polymeric stabilizing and matrix
   forming component is present in either the API solution or in the stream of
30 C02.  These streams are sprayed at the outlet of the nozzle into a
   precipitation vessel under controlled conditions (typically pressure and
   temperature). C02 acts as an antisolvent and makes the API to precipitate

                                           22
   together with the polymeric stabilizing and matrix-forming component into
   fine particles. Particles are retained in the vessel by a filtering set-up. A
    back pressure regulator is typically used to control the pressure inside the
    precipitation vessel.
 5
    For preparing hybrid nanoparticles of certain drugs, for example but not
    limited to pazopanib and erlotinib, it may be advantageous to have an
    extra pumping set-up for injecting an additional solvent, referred to as a
    modifier, into the C02. Here a pumping set-up control is set up for the
10  modifier and the modifier is mixed with the C02 in a mixer before entering
   the nozzle.
    When using the system, the system operator typically starts by
    equilibrating the system by pumping C02, an "PKI like solution" (a solution
15  similar in composition to the PKI solution but containing no PKI and no
    excipient) and the modifier (if used) through the system until flow rates,
    pressure and temperature have reached a desired steady state. Critical
    parameters for setting up the system are PKI solution composition, PKI
    solution flow rate, C02 flow rate, C02 pressure and temperature, nature of
20  the modifier and modifier flow rate, if such is used.
    Next, the "PKI like solution" is exchanged for the PKI solution and
    particles are produced and retained downstream of the mixing, e.g.
    downstream of the outlet of the nozzle. Afterwards, the system is typically
25  cleaned by pumping the "PKI like solution" through the system. The
    particles are dried by flushing C02 through the retained particles in order to
    extract any remaining solvent. The precipitation vessel is then
    depressurized and the particles can be collected.
30  The solution/solvent and the antisolvent are typically miscible with each
    other. The pressure and temperature in the particle formation function,

                                            23
   and/or upstream of this function, such as in the mixing function, provide
   supercritical or subcritical conditions in relation to the antisolvent.
   The concentration of the PKI in the solution is typically below its saturation
 5 concentration, such as s 50 %, such as         60 %, such as s 75 %, such as
   5 85 % or such as 5 95 % of the saturation concentration. Suitable
   concentrations are typically found in the interval ! 20 %, such as       10 % or
   5 5 % or s 3 % with lower limits being s 005 % or 0.1 % (all in w/v-%). The
   term "volatile" for solvents typically means boiling points of s 2000C, such
10 as     150*C or s 100*C, at atmospheric pressure. Examples are inorganic
   solvents and organic solvents with particular emphasis of dimethyl
   sulfoxide and trifluoroethanol and mixtures thereof. The term solvent
   includes mixtures of liquids which are miscible with each other. The
   solutions may contain agents that enhance or diminish the solubility of the
15 PKI, e.g. acidic, alkaline, buffer components and/or other organic solvents.
   Illustrative fluids which can be used as an antisolvent are
     a) gaseous at room temperature and atmospheric pressures, or
     b) liquid at room temperature and atmospheric pressure.
20
   The antisolvent is typically selected for its ability to be readily dispersed
   into small droplets and for its ability to act as an atomizing agent and
   antisolvent against the PKI present in the solution.
25 Compounds/elements according to group (a) may be selected from carbon
   dioxide (Pc = 74 bar and Tc = 310C) (preferred), nitrous oxide (Pc = 72
   bar and Tc = 36*C), sulphur hexafluoride (Pc = 37 bar and Tc = 450C),
   ethane (Pc = 48 bar and Tc = 320C), ethylene (Pc = 51 bar and Tc =
   10'C), xenon (Pc = 58 bar and Tc = 160C), trifluoromethane (Pc = 47 bar
30 and Tc = 26*C), chlorotrifluoromethane (Pc = 39 bar and Tc = 290C) and
   nitrogen (Pc = 34 bar and Tc = -147*C) and mixtures containing these
   compounds/elements. Pc stands for critical pressure and Tc for critical

                                           24
   temperature. Compounds according to group (b) are typically selected
   amongst conventional liquids of the same general types as discussed for
   solvents above but with the difference that the PKI present in the solution
   must be poorly soluble in the antisolvent. Particular liquids of group (b)
 5 comprise methanol, ethanol, acetone water and mixtures containing one or
   more of these fluids.
   The antisolvents of group (a) above are typically used at pressures and
   temperatures providing i) supercritical conditions (supercritical fluid) or ii) a
10 subcritical conditions (subcritical fluid) in the particle formation function
   and/or upstream of this function, such as in the mixing function and
   upstream of this latter function.
   Variant (i) means pressures and temperatures which are typically above
15 the critical pressure Pc and critical temperature Tc of the antisolvent used.
   For the pressure this typically means pressures in the interval (1.0-7.0) x
   Pc or in the interval   10 bar, suitably     20 bar with preference for : 30 bar,
   higher than Pc with illustrative upper limits being 100 bar, 200 bar and 300
   bar higher than Pc. For the temperature this typically means temperatures
20 within (1.0-4.0) x Tc or in the interval of    5*C, suitably   10'C with
   preference for    150C above Tc with illustrative upper limits being 100C,
   40*C and 50T above Tc.
   Variant (ii) means that at least one of temperature and pressure, with
25 preference for only the temperature, is/are below the critical value. (Tc and
   Pc, respectively). Thus the temperature may be in the interval of (0.1-1) x
   Tc, such as (0.5-1) x Tc, or lower. Further, the temperature may be low,
   such as -10C or -30*C. These temperatures may be combined with
   pressures as defined in the preceding paragraph or with pressures lower
30 than the Pc of the used antisolvent. For carbon dioxide this means that the
   temperarture in the particle formation function is < +31 C, such as about
   +25T0 or lower combined with a pressure above or below 74 bar.

                                            25
   The antisolvents of group (b) above are typically used in the subcritical
   state, i.e. as a subcritical fluid.
   In one aspect of the invention, there is provided a pharmaceutical
 5 composition comprising stable, amorphous hybrid nanoparticles of at least
   one protein kinase inhibitor and at least one polymeric stabilizing and
   matrix-forming component; which composition optionally further comprises
   at least one pharmaceutically acceptable solubilizer.
10 In one embodiment of this aspect, there is provided a pharmaceutical
   composition comprising stable, amorphous hybrid nanoparticles of at least
   one protein kinase inhibitor and at least one polymeric stabilizing and
   matrix-forming component; which composition further comprises at least
   one pharmaceutically acceptable solubilizer. Typically, said solubilizer is
15 present separated from the hybrid nanoparticles in the composition. Or,
   typically, said solubilizer is distributed to the surface of the hybrid
   nanoparticles. Said solubilizer may be selected from polyvinyl
   caprolactam-polyvinyl acetate-polyethylene glycol copolymer, d-a
   tocopherol acid polyethylene glycol 1000 succinate and a hydrogenated
20 castor oil, such as PEG-40 hydrogenated castor oil or PEG-35
   hydrogenated castor oil. Furthermore, said solubilizer may be a poloxamer.
   The compositions comprising stable, amorphous hybrid nanoparticles
   comprising at least one protein kinase inhibitor and at least one polymeric
25 stabilizing and matrix-forming component, display increased dissolution
   rate.
   Consequently, in another embodiment of this aspect, there is provided a
   composition comprising stable, amorphous hybrid nanoparticles,
30 comprising at least one protein kinase inhibitor and at least one polymeric
   stabilizing and matrix-forming component, wherein said hybrid
    nanoparticles display an increased dissolution rate of said protein kinase

                                          26
   inhibitor, compared to the dissolution rate of said protein kinase inhibitor in
   raw, crystalline form.
   Typically, said dissolution rate is measured by a flow through cell system in
 5 sink conditions, e.g., according to the US Pharmacopea (USP4).
   Dissolution measurement in sink conditions of hybrid nanoparticles may be
   measured in a method consisting of adding the wished amount of powder
   into a flow through cell system (SOTAX, Allschwill, Switzerland), mounting
   the cell onto its apparatus and then pumping the appropriate medium
10 (typically FaSSIF, FeSSIF, SGF) through the powder. The temperature of
   the apparatus is typically set to 37*C. The amount of powder added into
   the cell depends on drug load of the powder: The exact amount of powder
   can be calculated from results obtained from drug load analysis of the
   powders. The PKI may be added into the flow through cell and a flow rate
15 between 5 and 25 ml medium/min is pumped through the powder. One ml
   samples of the medium passing through the cell is collected at
   predetermined times and subsequently analyzed by HPLC (e.g. C18
   column Eclipse, 4.6 mm x 15 cm, 1 ml/min, detection 254 to 400 nm).
   Samples are typically taken after 0, 0.5, 1, 1.5, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 15,
20 20, 25, 30, 35 and 40 min from the moment the medium comes out from
   the flow through cell. The accumulated % solubilized of the amount of
   active substance added into the flow through cell can be calculated and
   plotted against time (min). The initial slope ("initial dissolution rate",
   representing 0-10 minutes) of the graph may be estimated and taken as
25 the dissolution rate of the material in sink condition at 37C in the given
   dissolution medium.
   Preferably, the dissolution rate is measured within the initial 0 to 10
   minutes of dissolution.
30
   The increased dissolution rate is preferably measured in a solution as a
   dissolution rate ratio of said stable, amorphous hybrid nanoparticles and

                                               27
   said protein kinase inhibitor in raw, crystalline form. Preferably said ratio is
   from about 1.5:1 to about 500:1, such as from about 10:1 to about 30:1.
   Preferably, the dissolution rate is measured in a solution with intestinal pH,
 5 such as FaSSIF or FeSSIF or in a solution with gastric pH, such as SGF.
   Typically, said dissolution rate is measured by a flow through cell system,
   for instance in sink conditions. Dissolution measurement in sink conditions
   of stable, amorphous hybrid nanoparticles may be measured in a method
10 consisting of adding the wished amount of powder into a flow through cell
   system (SOTAX, Allschwill, Switzerland), mounting the cell onto its
   apparatus and then pumping the appropriate medium (typically FaSSIF,
   FeSSIF, SGF) through the powder. The temperature of the apparatus is
   typically set to 370C. The amount of powder added into the cell depends
15 on drug load of the powder: The exact amount of powder can be calculated
   from results obtained from drug load analysis of the powders. The PKI may
   be added into the flow through cell and a flow rate between 5 and 25 ml
   medium/min is pumped through the powder. One ml samples of the
    medium passing through the cell is collected at predetermined times and
20 subsequently analyzed by HPLC (e.g. C18 column Eclipse, 4.6 mm x 15
   cm, 1 ml/min, detection 254 to 400 nm). Samples are typically taken after
   0, 0.5, 1, 1.5, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 15, 20, 25, 30, 35 and 40 min from
   the moment the medium comes out from the flow through cell. The
    accumulated % solubilized of the amount of active substance added into
25 the flow through cell, can be calculated and plotted against time (min). The
    initial slope ("initial dissolution rate", representing 0-10 minutes) of the
    graph can be estimated and taken as the dissolution rate of the material in
    sink condition at 37*C in the given dissolution medium.
30  In another embodiment of this aspect, there is provided a composition
    comprising stable, amorphous hybrid nanoparticles, comprising at least
    one protein kinase inhibitor and at least one polymeric stabilizing and

                                          28
   matrix-forming component, which provides a solubility increase of inhibitor
   in a solution, said increase measured as the area under the curve (AUC)
   during about from 40 minutes to about 90 minutes, in said solution as
   compared with the AUC of inhibitor in raw, crystalline form. Typically, said
 5 increase is from about 2:1 to about 10 000:1, wherein I represents AUC of
   inhibitor in raw, crystalline form. The increase may be measured in a
   solution with intestinal pH, such as FaSSIF or FeSSIF, or in a solution with
   gastric pH, such as SGF.
10 The polymeric stabilizing and matrix-forming component of the present
   invention includes, but not limited to, methyl cellulose, hydroxyethyl
   cellulose, hydroxypropyl cellulose (e.g. HPC ef, HPC If and HPC jf),
   hydroxypropyl methylcellulose (e.g. Methocel E3 and E15 and
   Pharmacoat), hydroxypropyl methylcellulose acetate succinate (HPMC
15 AS), hydroxypropyl methylcellulose phthalate (e.g. HPMCP HP55),
   polyvinylpyrrolidone (e.g. PVP 30K and PVP 90K), polyvinyl acetate
   phthalate (PVAP), copolyvidone (e.g. Kollidon VA 64), crospovidon (e.g.
   Kollidon CL), methacrylic acid and ethylacrylate copolymer (e.g. Kollicoat
   ME), methacrylate acid and methyl methacrylate copolymer (e.g. Eudragit
20 L100), polyethylene glycol (PEG), DL lactide/glycolide copolymer, poly DL
   lactide, cellulose acetate phthalate (CAP), carbomer homopolymer Type A
   (Carbopol 971 P), carbomer homopolymer Type B (Carbopol 974P),
   aminoalkyl methacrylate copolymers (e.g. Eudragit RL1 00, RL PO or RS
   PO) and Poloxamers (e.g. Pluronics, Kolliphor).
25
    Consequently, in another embodiment of this aspect, said polymeric
   stabilizing and matrix-forming component is selected from from methyl
   cellulose, hydroxyethyl cellulose, hydroxypropyl cellulose, hydroxypropyl
    methylcellulose, hydroxypropyl methylcellulose acetate succinate,
30  hydroxypropyl methylcellulose phthalate, polyvinylpyrrolidone, polyvinyl
    acetate phthalate, copolyvidone, crospovidon, methacrylic acid and
    ethylacrylate copolymer, methacrylate acid and methyl methacrylate

                                          29
   copolymer, polyethylene glycol, DL lactidelglycolide copolymer, poly DL
   lactide, cellulose acetate phthalate, carbomer homopolymer Type A,
   carbomer homopolymer Type B, aminoalkyl methacrylate copolymers and
   polaxamers. Preferably, said polymeric stabilizing and matrix-forming
 5 component is selected from hydroxypropyl methylcellulose phthalate,
   hydroxypropyl cellulose, copolyvidon, hydroxypropyl methylcellulose
   acetate succinate, polyvinyl acetate phthalate, cellulose acetate phthalate
   and polyvinylpyrrolidone.
10 In another embodiment of this aspect, there is provided a composition
   comprising stable, amorphous hybrid nanoparticles comprising at least one
   protein kinase inhibitor and at least one polymeric stabilizing and matrix
   forming component, characterized by providing an amorphous powder X
   ray diffraction pattern.
15
   In another embodiment of this aspect, there is provided a composition
   comprising stable, amorphous hybrid nanoparticles comprising at least one
   protein kinase inhibitor and at least one polymeric stabilizing and matrix
   forming component, wherein the dissolution rate of said stable, amorphous
20 hybrid nanoparticles remain stable to at least about 90%, after 6 months of
   storage or more, at room temperature.
    In another embodiment of this aspect, said protein kinase inhibitor is a
   tyrosine kinase inhibitor selected from the group consisting of lapatinib,
25 pazopanib, nilotinib, erlotinib, dasatinib, gefitinib, sorafenib, crizotinib,
   vemurafenib and axitinib; or salts or hydrates or solvates thereof, or
   combinations thereof. In some embodiments it may be advantageous to
   use other PKIs. Examples of PKI include, but are not limited to afatinib,
   bosutinib, cediranib, fostamatinib, imatinib, lenvatinib, lestaurtinib,
30 motesanib, mubritinib, pegaptanib, ruxolitinib, semaxanib, sunitinib,
   tandunitib, tipifamib and vandetanib; or salts or hydrates or solvates
   thereof, or combinations thereof.

                                          30
   In another embodiment of this aspect, said stable, amorphous hybrid
   nanoparticles has an average particle diameter size of less than about
   1000 nm, such as less than about 500 nm, preferably less than 250 nm.
 5 In another embodiment of this aspect, said solvent is an organic solvent
   selected from DMSO and trifluoroethanol, or a mixture of these solvents, or
   mixture of these solvents with other organic solvent such as
   DMSO/acetone, DMSO/tetrahydrofurane or trifluoroethanol/ethyl acetate.
10 The compositions of the present invention may also dissolve and the
   protein kinase inhibitor may be systemically absorbed independently of the
   pH in the surrounding environment, and typically approximately in equal
   amounts, especially at both a gastric pH, such as from about pH 1.2 to
   about pH 2.1, preferably about 1.7 and at a intestinal pH such as from
15 about pH 4.5 to about pH 8, preferably at a pH of about 6. With
   systemically absorbed, is meant that the protein kinase inhibitor is released
   from the stable, amorphous hybrid nanoparticles and taken up by the
   systemic blood stream. Therefore, in another embodiment of this aspect,
   there is provided a composition, wherein said protein kinase inhibitor is
20 systemically absorbed independently of the pH, Typically, said protein
   kinase inhibitor is systemically absorbed with approximately equal amounts
   at both a gastric pH and at an intestinal pH. Preferably, said acid pH is
   about pH 1.4 and preferably said neutral pH is about pH 6.5.
25 With approximately equal amounts is meant that the concentration of
   protein kinase inhibitor in the blood stream, after exposure is
   approximately similar. This may be illustrated by a ratio, wherein the
   concentration of protein kinase inhibitor in the blood stream is measured
   after administration in gastric pH conditions (A) and compared with the
30 concentration of protein kinase inhibitor in the blood stream is measured
   after administration in intestinal pH conditions (N). Typically, the ratio A:N
   is from about 0.75:1 to about 1.5:1 and preferably from about 1:1 to about
    1.25:1. The concentration measurement of protein kinase inhibitor in the

                                           31
   blood stream may be carried out as an area under the curve (AUC) during
   0-24 hours, the maximum concentration (Cmax) or as bioavailability.
   Consequently, in another embodiment of this aspect, there is provided a
 5 composition comprising stable, amorphous hybrid nanoparticles,
   comprising at least one protein kinase inhibitor and at least one polymeric
   stabilizing and matrix-forming component, wherein the concentration of
   systemically absorbed protein kinase inhibitor in gastric pH conditions
   compared with the concentration of systemically absorbed protein kinase
10 inhibitor in intestinal pH conditions is in a ratio of from about 0.75:1 to
   about 1.5:1, preferably of from about 1:1 to about 1.25:1. Typically said
   gastric pH condition represents a pH of about 1.4 and said intestinal pH
   condition represents a pH of about 6. Typically, the concentration is
   measured as area under the curve (AUC) during 0-24 hours of exposure of
15 the composition or as the maximum concentration (Cmax).
   The amounts of systemically absorbed protein kinase inhibitor may be
   measured in various ways. There is provided, in Example 14 in the present
   disclosure, a method for measurement of systemically absorbed protein
20 kinase inhibitors at various pHs, i.e. under both acid and neutral
   conditions.
   In another embodiment of this aspect, there is provided a composition
   comprising stable, amorphous hybrid nanoparticles, comprising at least
25 one protein kinase inhibitor and at least one polymeric stabilizing and
   matrix-forming component, which produces a solubility increase of inhibitor
   in a solution up to supersaturation, said increase measured as the area
   under the curve (AUC) during about 90 minutes, in said solution and
   compared with the AUC of inhibitor in crystalline form. Said increase may
30 be from to about 2:1 to about 1000:1, wherein 1 represents AUC of
   inhibitor in crystalline form.

                                          32
   For understanding how the hybrid nanoparticles in the compositons of the
   invention will dissolve in vivo in the different environments of the stomach,
   small intestine, large intestine and colon, it is important to choose an
   appropriate solution for in vitro dissolution testing. It is critical that the in
 5 vitro test conditions mimic the in vivo environment as closely as possible,
   for example pH and osmolarity. Typically, for intestinal uptake, the pH is
   between 6 and 7. Therefore, the solution may hold a pH from about pH 6
   to about pH 7, such as about pH 6.5.
10 Therefore, in embodiments of the invention, the solution for testing has a
   pH from about pH 4.5 to about pH 8, such as about pH 6.5 or such as
   about pH 5. The solutions may represent Fasted Simulated State Intestinal
   Fluid (FaSSIF) or Fed Simulated State Intestinal Fluid (FeSSIF).
15 Typically, for gastric uptake, the pH is between 1 and 2. Therefore, the
   solution may hold a pH from about pH 1 to about pH 2, such as about pH
   1.4. Therefore, in embodiments of the invention, the solution for testing
   may represent Simulated Gastric Fluid (SGF).
20 The choice of solution will be dependent on where in the intestinal tract
   and under what conditions (fasted or fed) the composition is desired to
   dissolve and be taken up. Recepies and preparation of these solutions are
   obtainable from the manufacturer (Biorelevant, Croydon, U.K.). Further
   details are also disclosed in Jantratid, E., and Dressman, J. (2009)
25 Dissolut. Technol. 8, 21-25).
   The amount of PKI in the hybrid nanoparticles in the compositions of the
   present invention may be less or more, such as wherein the amount of PKI
   in the hybrid nanoparticles is from about 0.01% by weight to about 99.9%
30 by weight.

                                           33
    In another embodiment of this aspect, there is provided compositions
   comprising stable, amorphous hybrid nanoparticles of the present
   invention, wherein the amount of PKI in the hybrid nanoparticles is from
   about 10% by weight to about 70% by weight.
 5
    In another embodiment of this aspect, there is provided provided
   compositions comprising stable, amorphous hybrid nanoparticles of the
   present invention, wherein the amount of PKI in the hybrid nanoparticles is
   from about 10% by weight to about 50% by weight.
10
    In some embodiments, it may be advantagous that the amount of PKI in
   the stable, amorphous hybrid nanoparticles is from 5% by weight to about
   50% by weight, from 10% by weight to about 40% by weight, from about
    10% by weight to about 30% by weight, or from about 10 % by weight to
15  about 20% by weight.
    Control of the characteristics of the particles may be convenient for specific
    applications. Particle size, particle agglomeration, particles porosity and
   the choice and ratio of the polymeric stabilizing and matrix-forming agent
20  could be modified in order to increase or decrease the surface area to
    volume ratio of the particle or behaviour of the particles in a
    gastroinstestinal fluids, leading to an increase or decrease of the
    dissolution rate. Dependent on the desired dissolution characteristics such
    particles characteristics may be adapted. Furthermore, particles with
25  differents characteristics may be present in the same pharmaceutical
    composition to provide an initial dose and a prolonged or delayed dose of
    active ingredient. Additionally, it may be advantageous to provide different
    PKIs and/or other active ingredient(s) in different primary particles with
    different characteristics adapted to provide desired dissolution rates for
30  each active ingredient(s).

                                             34
   Other embodiments of the invention provide pharmaceutical compositions
   comprising the stable, amorphous hybrid nanoparticles. Such compositions
   may further comprise at least one pharmaceutically acceptable solubilizer.
   Said solubilizer may be present separated from the stable, amorphous
 5 hybrid nanoparticles (i.e. physically mixed with pre-prepared solid
   nanoparticles) in the composition or be randomly intermixed within the
   stable, amorphous hybrid nanoparticles in the pharmaceutical composition.
   The pharmaceutical compositon may also be in a dosage form consisting
   of several layers, for example laminated or multilayered tablets, such that
10 the hybrid nanoparticles are separated from the solubilizer. The solubilizer
   may be selected from polyvinyl caprolactam-polyvinyl acetate-polyethylene
   glycol copolymer, d-a-tocopherol acid polyethylene glycol 1000 succinate
   and a hydrogenated castor oil, such as PEG-40 hydrogenated castor oil or
   PEG-35 hydrogenated castor oil. Said solubilizer may also be a
15 poloxamer.
   In another embodiment of this aspect, said inhibitor is a tyrosine kinase
   inhibitor selected from the group consisting of lapatinib, pazopanib,
   nilotinib, erlotinib, dasatinib, gefitinib, sorafenib axitinib, crizotinib and
   vemurafenib; or salts or hydrates or solvates thereof, or combinations
20 thereof.
   In another embodiment of this aspect, said inhibitor is nilotinib; and said
   polymeric stabilizing and matrix-forming component is hydroxy propyl
   methyl cellulose phthalate or polyvinyl acetate phthalate.
25
    In another embodiment of this aspect, said inhibitor is nilotinib; said
   polymeric stabilizing and matrix-forming component is hydroxy propyl
   methyl cellulose phthalate or polyvinyl acetate phthalate; and said
   solubilizer is polyvinyl caprolactam-polyvinyl acetate-polyethylene glycol
30 copolymer or or d-a-tocopherol acid polyethylene glycol 1000 succinate.

                                          35
   In another embodiment of this aspect, said inhibitor is erlotinib, and said
   polymeric stabilizing and matrix-forming component is hydroxypropyl
   methylcellulose acetate succinate.
 5 In another embodiment of this aspect, said inhibitor is erlotinib; said
   polymeric stabilizing and matrix-forming component is hydroxypropyl
   methylcellulose acetate succinate; and said solubilizer is polyvinyl
   caprolactam-polyvinyl acetate-polyethylene glycol copolymer or d-a
   tocopherol acid polyethylene glycol 1000 succinate.
10
   In another embodiment of this aspect, said inhibitor is pazopanib; and said
   polymeric stabilizing and matrix-forming component is polyvinyl pyrrolidone.
   In another embodiment of this aspect, said inhibitor is pazopanib; said
15 polymeric stabilizing and matrix-forming component is polyvinylpyrrolidone;
   and said solubilizer is polyvinyl caprolactam-polyvinyl acetate-polyethylene
   glycol copolymer or d-a-tocopherol acid polyethylene glycol 1000
   succinate.
20 In another embodiment of this aspect, said inhibitor is lapatinib; and said
   polymeric stabilizing and matrix-forming component is hydroxypropyl
   cellulose.
   In another embodiment of this aspect, said inhibitor is lapatinib; said
25 polymeric stabilizing and matrix-forming component is hydroxypropyl
   cellulose; and said solubilizer is polyvinyl caprolactam-polyvinyl acetate
   polyethylene glycol copolymer or d- a-tocopherol acid polyethylene glycol
   1000 succinate.
30  In another embodiment of this aspect, said inhibitor is gefitinib; and said
   polymeric stabilizing and matrix-forming component is hydroxy propyl
   methyl cellulose phthalate or polyvinyl acetate phthalate or
   polyvinylpyrrolidone.

                                          36
   In another embodiment of this aspect, said inhibitor is gefitinib; said
   polymeric stabilizing and matrix-forming component is hydroxy propyl
   methyl cellulose phthalate or polyvinyl acetate phthalate or
   polyvinylpyrrolidone; and said solubilizer is polyvinyl caprolactam-polyvinyl
 5 acetate-polyethylene glycol copolymer.
   In another embodiment of this aspect, said inhibitor is dasatinib; and said
   polymeric stabilizing and matrix-forming component is copolyvidone.
10 In another embodiment of this aspect, said inhibitor is dasatinib; said
   polymeric stabilizing and matrix-forming component is copolyvidone; and
   said solubilizer is polyvinyl caprolactam-polyvinyl acetate-polyethylene
   glycol copolymer.
15 In another embodiment of this aspect, said inhibitor is sorafenib; and said
   polymeric stabilizing and matrix-forming component is hydroxy propyl
   methyl cellulose phthalate.
   In another embodiment of this aspect, said inhibitor is sorafenib; said
20 polymeric stabilizing and matrix-forming component is hydroxy propyl
   methyl cellulose phthalate; and said solubilizer is polyvinyl caprolactam
   polyvinyl acetate-polyethylene glycol copolymer.
   In another embodiment of this aspect, said inhibitor is nilotinib base; and
25 said polymeric stabilizing and matrix-forming component is hydroxy propyl
   methyl cellulose phthalate or polyvinyl acetate phthalate.
    In another embodiment of this aspect, said inhibitor is nilotinib base; said
   polymeric stabilizing and matrix-forming component is hydroxy propyl
30 methyl cellulose phthalate or polyvinyl acetate phthalate; and said
   solubilizer is polyvinyl caprolactam-polyvinyl acetate-polyethylene glycol
   copolymer.

                                          37
   In another embodiment of this aspect, said inhibitor is axitinib; and said
   polymeric stabilizing and matrix-forming component is copolyvidone or
   hydroxypropyl methylcellulose acetate succinate,
 5 In another embodiment of this aspect, said inhibitor is axitinib; said
   polymeric stabilizing and matrix-forming component is copolyvidone or
   hydroxypropyl methylcellulose acetate succinate; and said solubilizer is
   polyvinyl caprolactam-polyvinyl acetate-polyethylene glycol copolymer.
10 In another embodiment of this aspect, said inhibitor is crizotinib; and said
   polymeric stabilizing and matrix-forming component is copolyvidone or
   polyvinyl pyrrol idone.
   In another embodiment of this aspect, said inhibitor is crizotinib; said
15 polymeric stabilizing and matrix-forming component is copolyvidone or
   polyvinylpyrrolidone; and said solubilizer is polyvinyl caprolactam-polyvinyl
   acetate-polyethylene glycol copolymer or PEG-40 hydrogenated castor oil.
   In another embodiment of this aspect, said inhibitor is vemurafenib; and
20 said polymeric stabilizing and matrix-forming component is copolyvidone or
   cellulose acetate phthalate.
   In another embodiment of this aspect, said inhibitor is vemurafenib; said
   polymeric stabilizing and matrix-forming component is copolyvidone or
25 cellulose acetate phthalate; and said solubilizer is polyvinyl caprolactam
   polyvinyl acetate-polyethylene glycol.
   In another embodiment of this aspect, said protein kinase inhibitor is
   partially released from the composition, at a pH of from about 1 to about 2,
30 preferably at about pH 1.4.
    In another aspect of the invention, there is provided stable, amorphous
   hybrid nanoparticles, comprising at least one protein kinase inhibitor and at
   least one polymeric stabilizing and matrix-forming component, as defined
35 in the present disclosure.

                                            38
    In another embodiment of this aspect, there is provided a composition of
   the invention, for use in therapy.
 5  In another embodiment of this aspect, there is provided a composition of
   the invention, for use in the treatment of proliferative disorders. Typically,
   said proliferative disorder is selected from tumours and cancers, including,
   but not limited to, neurofibromatosis, tuberous sclerosis, hemangiomas
   and lymphangiogenesis, cervical, anal and oral cancers, eye or ocular
10 cancer, stomach cancer, colon cancer, bladder cancer, rectal cancer, liver
   cancer, pancreas cancer, lung cancer, breast cancer, cervix uteri cancer,
   corpus uteri cancer, ovary cancer, prostate cancer, testis cancer, renal
   cancer, brain cancer, cancer of the central nervous system, head and neck
   cancer, throat cancer, skin melanoma, acute lymphocytic leukemia, acute
15  myelogenous leukemia, Ewing's Sarcoma, Kaposi's Sarcoma, basal cell
    carcinoma and squamous cell carcinoma, small cell lung cancer,
    choriocarcinoma, rhabdomyosarcoma, angiosarcoma,
    hemangioendothellioma, Wilms Tumor, neuroblastoma, mouth/pharynx
    cancer, esophageal cancer, larynx cancer, lymphoma, multiple myeloma;
20  cardiac hypertrophy, age-related macular degeneration and diabetic
    retinopathy.
    In another embodiment of this aspect, there is provided a composition of
    the invention, said composition is provided during food intake.
25
    In another aspect of the invention, there is provided a method of treating
    proliferative disorder in a patient in need thereof, comprising administering
    a therapeutically effective amount of a composition according to the
    present invention. Said proliferative disorder is typically selected from
30  tumours and cancers including, but not limited to, neurofibromatosis,
    tuberous sclerosis, hemangiomas and lymphangiogenesis, cervical, anal
    and oral cancers, eye or ocular cancer, stomach cancer, colon cancer,
    bladder cancer, rectal cancer, liver cancer, pancreas cancer, lung cancer,
    breast cancer, cervix uteri cancer, corpus uteri cancer, ovary cancer,

                                          39
   prostate cancer, testis cancer, renal cancer, brain cancer, cancer of the
   central nervous system, head and neck cancer, throat cancer, skin
   melanoma, acute lymphocytic leukemia, acute myelogenous leukemia,
   Ewing's Sarcoma, Kaposi's Sarcoma, basal cell carcinoma and squamous
 5 cell carcinoma, small cell lung cancer, choriocarcinoma,
   rhabdomyosarcoma, angiosarcoma, hemangioendothelioma, Wilms
   Tumor, neuroblastoma, mouth/pharynx cancer, esophageal cancer, larynx
   cancer, lymphoma, multiple myeloma; cardiac hypertrophy, age-related
   macular degeneration and diabetic retinopathy.
10 It will be appreciated that the amount of a protein kinase inhibitor in the
   stable, amorphous hybrid nanoparticles of the present invention required
   for use in treatment will vary not only with the particular inhibitor selected
   but also with the route of administration, the nature of the condition for
   which treatment is required and the age, weight and condition of the
15 patient and will be ultimately at the discretion of the attendant physician. In
   general however a suitable dose may be in the range of from about 0.005
   to about 30 mg/kg of body weight per day, preferably in the range of 0.05
   to 10 mg/kg/day.
   The desired dose is conveniently presented in a single dose or as a
20 divided dose administered at appropriate intervals, for example as two,
   three, four or more doses per day. Dependent on the need of the treatment
    and/or prevention, the desired dose may also be, for example, once every
    two days, once every three days, or even once a week.
    The composition is conveniently administered in unit dosage form; for
25  example containing 0.5 to 1500 mg, conveniently 1 to 1000 mg, most
    conveniently 5 to 700 mg of active ingredient per unit dosage form. The
    compositions of the invention will normally be administrated via the oral,
    parenteral, intravenous, intramuscular, subcutaneous or other injectable
    ways, buccal, rectal, vaginal, transdermal and/or nasal route and/or via
30  inhalation, in a pharmaceutically acceptable dosage form. Depending upon

                                            40
   the disorder and patient to be treated and the route of administration, the
   compositions may be administered at varying doses.
   Pharmaceutical compositions include but are not limited to those suitable
   for oral, rectal, nasal, topical (including buccal and sub-lingual),
 5 transdermal, vaginal or parenteral (including intramuscular, subcutaneous
   and intravenous) administration or in a form suitable for administration by
   inhalation or insufflation. The compositions may, where appropriate, be
   conveniently presented in discrete dosage units and may be prepared by
   any of the methods well known in the art of pharmacy. Pharmaceutical
10 compositions suitable for oral administration are conveniently presented as
   discrete units such as capsules, cachets or tablets, each containing a
   predetermined amount of the active substance.
   Tablets and capsules for oral administration may contain conventional
   excipients such as binding agents, fillers, lubricants, disintegrants, or
15 wetting agents. The tablets may be coated according to methods well
    known in the art.
   The compositions may be formulated for parenteral administration (e.g. by
    injection, for example bolus injection or continuous infusion) and may be
    presented in unit dose form in ampoules, pre-filled syringes, small volume
20  infusion or in multi-dose containers with an added preservative. The
    compositions may take such forms as suspensions, solutions, or
    emulsions in oily or aqueous vehicles, and may contain formulation agents
    such as suspending, stabilizing and/or dispersing agents.
    The above described compositions may be adapted to give sustained
25  release of the active inhibitor.
    The following examples are provided to illustrate various embodiments of
    the present invention and shall not be considered as limiting in scope.
    Examples

                                          41
   Below follows a number of non-limiting examples of compositions
   comprising stable, amorphous hybrid nanoparticles. In the tables, the
   following abbreviations to "compositions" apply:
 5 "I"represents the protein kinase inhibitor (PKI);
   "P" represents the polymeric stabilizing and matrix-forming component;
   "S"represents the solubilizer;
   "I+P" represents a physical mix of the inhibitor with the polymeric
   stabilizing and matrix-forming component, i.e. without further processing;
10 "l+S" represents a physical mix of the inhibitor with the solubilizer;
   "l+P+S" represents a physical mix of the inhibitor, the polymeric stabilizing
   and matrix-forming component and the solubilizer;
   "I/P" represents stable, amorphous hybrid nanoparticles with the inhibitor
   and the polymeric stabilizing and matrix-forming component;
15 "I/P+S" represents stable, amorphous hybrid nanoparticles with the
   inhibitor and the polymeric stabilizing and matrix-forming component and a
   separate solubilizer added;
   "I/P/S" represents stable, amorphous hybrid nanoparticles with the
   inhibitor, the polymeric stabilizing and matrix-forming component and the
20 solubilizer.
   "Exp" represents the experiment number.
   The stable, amorphous hybrid nanoparticles were produced with
   exemplary PKIs, polymeric stabilizing and matrix-forming components
25 ("Polymers"), solubilizers, solution concentrations, ratios, solvents,
   antisolvents, temperatures and pressures as set out below and in Table A.
   A 3-6 % w/v PKI / polymer solution in solvent, with a ratio PKI/polymer of
   about 20-70% w/w, was pumped through XSpray's RightSize nozzle at the
30 flow rate of 1 ml/min using a high-performance liquid chromatography
    pump, together with a 100 g/min CO 2 (super- or subcritical) stream. The
    pressure in the precipitation chamber was set to about 100 - 175 bar and

                                             42
   the temperature was set to about 10 to 500C. Both streams contact within
   the nozzle and the hybrid nanoparticles were formed and subsequently
   collected in the particle in the collecting chamber. The C02 and solvent
   passed through the filtering system of the collecting chamber and were
 5 drained via the back pressure regulator outlet which maintains the
   pressure within the precipitation and collecting chambers. After pumping of
   the PKI/polymer solution and cleaning of the tubing with the same solvent
   used to prepare the PKI/polymer solution, residual solvents left within both
   the precipitation and collecting chambers were removed by flushing these
10 chambers with pure scCO 2 . After the flushing process, the C02 was slowly
   drained off from the collecting chamber. Once the C02 had been
   completely removed, the particles on the filtering system were collected for
   analysis.
15 For I/P/S type particles, a defined amount of solubilizer is added and
   dissolved into the PKI/polymer solution before pumping the solution
   through the nozzle for precipitation according to the methods described
   above.
20  For I/P+S type particles, a defined amount of solubilizer is added to the
   stable, amorphous hybrid nanoparticles in a glass vial. The glass vial is
   slowly rotated for mixing of the solubilizer with the hybrid nanoparticles.
   Table A Stable, amorphous hybrid nanoparticles with exemplary PKIs,
25  polymeric stabilizing and matrix-forming components, solvents,
   antisolvents and conditions.
    PKI/Polymer  Exp. #     Solution    Ratio       Solvent       Temperature
                            conc. %     PKI/Polymer & Antisolvent & Pressure
                            (w/v)       %(w/w)
   Axitinib      160, 162 &     5%            25%   DMSO          25"C
   /Kollidon     581                                & C02         & 125 Bars
   VA64
    Crizotinib   153,155,       5%            25%   DMSO          25'C
   /PVP 30K      156 & 571                          & CO2         & 125 Bars
    Dasatinib    140, 141 &     4%            35%   DMSO/Acetone  15*C
   /Kollidon     551                                (1:2) & C02   & 125 Bars
   VA64

                                        43
    Erlotinib HCI  511        3.6%      35%      TFE           25*C
   /HPMC AS                                      & C0 2        & 150 Bars
    Gefitinib      135, 137 &  4%        35%     DMSO/Acetone  40'C
   /HPMCP HP55     541                           (1:2) & C02   & 150 Bars
    Lapatinib base 531         5%        66%     DMSO/Acetone  40'C
   /HPC If                                       (1:2) & C02   & 150 Bars
    Nilotinib base 501         5%       40%      TFE           15"C
   /HPMCP HP55                                   & CO2         & 125 Bars
    Pazopanib HCI  521        3.6%       35%     TFE           25*C
   /PVP 90K                                      &C0 2         & 150 Bars
    Sorafenib      561         4%        35%     DMSO/Acetone  40'C
    tosylate                                     (1:2) & C02   & 150 Bars
   /HPMCP HP55
   Vemurafenib     168, 170 &  5%        25%     DM50          25*C
   /CAP            592                           & CO 2        & 125 Bars
    General description of dissolution measurement assay
    The method consists of adding the wished amount of powder of stable,
 5  amorphous hybrid nanoparticles into a glass vial and then pouring in it the
    appropriate medium (typically FaSSIF, FeSSIF or SGF). The medium was
    prepared in accordance with the manufacturer's instructions. The amount
    of powder added depends on the wished "total PKI concentration". For
    some experiments where powders with high drug loads were tested and
10  compared, the real amount of PKI in the stable, amorphous hybrid
    nanoparticles was not taken in account. For other experiments, the drug
    load was first estimated by HPLC and the amount of powder to obtain the
    drug concentration was calculated.
15  Typically, the powder was added in a 8 mL glass bottle and 7 mL of
    solution was added (typically FaSSIF, FeSSIF or SGF). The glass bottle
    was put on a shaker (approximately 1 rotation per minute) for dissolution.
    Samples of 500 pI where taken after different times, and subsequently
    centrifuged at approximately 15000 g for 3 minutes. The resulting
20  supernatant was then analyzed by HPLC (Cis column Eclipse, 4.6 mm x
     15 cm, 1mL/min, detection at 254-400 nM. Generally samples were taken
    after 5, 30 and 90 min and eventually 150 min.

                                                     44
   Example 1. Compositions with stable, amorphous hybrid
   nanoparticles with nilotinib - solubility at pH 6.5 and pH 5.
   A number of experiments were carried out, wherein nilotinib base or
   nilotinib HCI represented the protein kinase inhibitor. The experiments
 5 were carried out by measuring concentration of solubilized PKI (mg/L) after
   5, 30 and 90 minutes dissolution in a solution at about pH 6.5, namely
   FaSSIF (Fasted State Simulated Intestinal Fluid). Further, experiments
   were carried out in an alternative solution at about pH 5, namely FeSSIF
   (Fed State Simulated Intestinal Fluid). Samples of the solution were taken
10 at various time intervals and the amount of protein kinase inhibitor was
   measured by the dissolution measurement assay described above.
   Representative results in FaSSIF solution are provided below in Table 1
   and 2, where Table 1 provides data of concentration of nilotinib HCI (mg/L)
15 after 5, 30 and 90 minutes dissolution, whereas Table 2 provides data of %
   solubilized nilotinib HCI after 30 minutes dissolution, the Area Under the
   Curve (AUC - mg/min/L) during 90 minutes dissolution and the AUC
   increase of stable, amorphous hybrid nanoparticles, compared to nilotinib
   HCi in raw, crystalline form added to the solution (experiments 1-40). In
20 Tables 3 and 4, there is provided dissolution data in FeSSIF solution,
   presented similarly as Table I and 2 (experiments 41-55). Table 5
   provides data from a comparative experiment with similar stable,
   amorphous hybrid nanoparticles, carried out in FaSSIF and FeSSIF,
   respectively (experiments 56-57). Table 6 presents further comparative
25 data for experiments carried out in FaSSIF and FeSSIF, respectively.
   Table 1. Nilotinib - concentration of nilotinib HCI (mg/L) after 5, 30 and 90
   minutes dissolution in FaSSIF solution (pH 6.5).
                                      Drug     Polymeric                 Conc      Conc       Conc
   Exp   Comp.   Inhibitor (1)        load     stab. matrix. Solubilizer (mg/L)    (mg/L)     (mg/L)
                                      ratio    Component     (S)          5 min     30 min     90 min
                                      (%)      (P)
    1          i    Nilotinib HCI       10-                       -         0.1        0.2        0.1
                   (raw) 100 mg
    2          1    Nilotin1b HCI-                                -         0.2        0.2        0.2
       - _____      raw) 500 mg    ,___     I______                             I_____
                                                                                  ____     I____
                                                                                               __

                                         45
 3      I     Nilotinib HCI
             (raw) 1000 mg    1. 0       -                 0.2   0.3   0.2
4            N  ilotinib
              (raw)   500Base
                          mg  100        -           -     0.6   0.5   0.2
 5    1+P     Nilotinib HC    100  HPMCP HP55        -     0.2   0.5   0.5
             (raw) 1000 mg           2000 mg
 6    I+P     Nilotinib HCI   100      PVAP          -     1.3   0.2   0.4
             (raw) 1000 mg           2000 mg
              Nilotinib HCi   100  Eudragit L100           0.2   0A    0.2
           7 (raw) 1000 mg           2000 mg
 8    1+P     Nilotinib HCI   100  Methocel E15      -     0.1   0.1   0.1
             (raw) 1000 mg           2000 mg
 9    1+S     Nilotinib HCI   100         -      Soluplus  0.4   0.3   0.4
             (raw) 1000 mg                       357.5 mg
10    1+S     Nilotinib HCI   100         -      Soluplus  0.4   0.5   0.5
             (raw) 1000 mg                        715 mg
11    1+S     Nilotinib HCI   100         -      Soluplus  0.4   0.5   0.6
             (raw) 1000 mg                       1072 mg
12 I+P+S      Nilotinib HCI   100  HPMCP HP55    Soluplus  0.4   0.6    1.0
              (raw) 500 mg            750 mg      715 mg
13 I+P+S      Nilotinib HCI   100      PVAP      Soluplus  0.2   0.2   0.3
              (raw) 500 mg            750 mg      715 mg
14 1+P+5      Nilotinib HCI   100  HPMCP HPSS      TPGS    0.5   0.9   1.1
              (raw) 500 mg            750 mg     1000 mg
15 I+P+S      Nilotinib HCI   100      PVAP        TPGS    0.2   0.4   0.5
              (raw) 500 mg            750 mg     1000 mg
16 I+P+S     Nilotinib Base   100  HPMCP HP55    Soluplus  0.2   0.5   0.4
              (raw) 500 mg            750 mg      715 mg
17     1/P    Nilotinib HCI    50  HPMCP HP55        -     9.5   5.6   4.5
                  100 mg              100 mg
18     1/P     Nilotinib HCI   40  HPMCP HP55             10.4   5.0    3.7
                  100 mg              150 mg
19     1/P     Nilotinib HCI   50      PVAP                7.3   5.0    4.1
                  100 mg         0    100 mg
20     1/P     Nilotinib HCI
                   100 mg
                               4       PVAP                8.7   5.0    3.4
                                      150mg
21     1/P     Nilotinib HCI   50  Methocel ElS            1.4   1.5    1.8
                   100 mg             100 mg
22     1/P     Nilotinib HCI   50  Eudragit L100
                                      100 mg
                                                           5.1   5.9    4.9
           2       100 mg
23     1/P    Nilotinib Base   40  HPMCP HPSS              9.7   4.7    3.8
                   100 mg             150 mg
24  I/P+5S     Nilotinib HCI       HPMCP HP55    Soluplus 53.4  46.1   35.6
                  500 mg              500 mg      715 mg
25 l/P+S       Nilotinib HCI     0 HPMCP HPS5    Soluplus 85.9  87.9   80.8
                  500 mg              500 mg     1430 mg
26 I/P+5       Nilotinib HCI   50  HPMCP HPSS    Soluplus 117.0 127.1 116.9
           1      500 mg              500 mg     2145 mg
27 I/P+S       Nilotinib HCI   50  HPMCP HP55      TPGS   49.6  30.1   22.3
                   500 mg             500 mg     1000 mg
28 I/P+5       Nilotinib HCI   50  HPMCP HPSS      TPGS   98.4  57.4   42.6
                   500 mg             500 mg     2000mg
29 1/P+5       Nilotinib HCI   40  HPMCP HP55    Soluplus   3.5 45.2   14.1
                   500 mg             750 mg     357.5 mg
30  I/P+S      Nilotinib HCI   40  HPMCP HP55    Soluplus 145.0 134.3  36.8
                   500 mg             750 mg      715 mg
31  I/P+S      Nilotinib HCI   40  HPMCP HP55      TPGS   93.8  31.0   22.4
                   500 mg             750 mg     1000 mg
32  I/P+S      Nilotinib HCI   40      PVAP      Soluplus 82.9  137.9  42.9

                                                    46
                            500 mg                750 mg          715 mg
   33   1/P+5           Nilotinib HCI
                            500 mg
                                         40        PVAP
                                                  750 mg
                                                                    TPGS
                                                                  1000 mg
                                                                               77.8     32.3    22.8
   34   1/P+5           Nilotinib HCI     50  Methocel E1S        Soluplus      3.3     4.0      5.8
                            500 mg                500 mg          715 mg
   35   1/P+5           Nilotinib HCI     50  Methocel E15          TPGS        4.8      5.4     6.7
                   3        500 mg        5       500 mg          1000 mg
   36   I/P+S          Nilotinib Base     40   HPMCP HP55         Soluplus     178.1   120.4    33.7
                            500 mg                750 mg          715 mg
   37    1/P/5          Nilotinib HCI    25.4  HPMCP HP55         Soluplus     25.9     15.8    16.3
                            500 mg                750 mg          715 mg
   38    I/P/S          Nilotinib HCI    25.4      PVAP           Soluplus      9.5     13.2    10.1
                            500 mg                750 mg          715 mg
   39    1/P/S          Nilotinib HCI    22.2  HPMCP HP55           TPGS       16.2     13.7     3.9
                            500 mg                750 mg          1000 mg
   40    I/P/S          Nilotinib HCI    22.2      PVAP             TPGS       13.3     12.1     9.7
                            500 mg                750 mg          1000 mg
  Table 2. Percentage solubilized nilotinib HCI after 30 minutes dissolution,
  the Area Under the Curve (AUC - mg/min/L) during 90 minutes dissolution
  and the AUC increase of compositions comprising stable, amorphous
5 hybrid nanoparticles with nilotinib, compared to nilotinib HCI in raw,
  crystalline form added to the FaSSIF solution (pH 6.5).
                                        Drug  Polymeric                     % solub-  AUC/
  Exp  Comp.         Inhibitor (1)     load   stab. matrix.     Solubilizer ilized 30 90 min     AiC
                                       ratio  Component         (S)         min.      Mg/min/L   increase
                 _______(%)                   (P)
    1        I          Nilotinib HCI    100         -                -        0.20       13.0
                        (raw) 100 mg
    2        I          Nilotinib HCI    100         -                -        0.04       23.5
               1 1(raw) 500 Mg
    3        1 ____     Nilotinib
                       (raw)  1000HCI
                                    mg   100         -                -         0.03      21.8
    4                   (raw) 500Base
                       Nilotinib   mg    100         -                -         0.50      36.5
    5      1+P          Nilotinib HCI    100   HPMCP HP55             -         0.05      39.3       2.0
                      (raw) 1000 mg              2000 mg
    6      [+P          Nilotinib HCl    100    PVAP 2000-                      0.02      40.0       2.1
                       (raw) 1000 mg                mg
                        Nilotinib HCI    100   Eudragit LIGO                    0.04      26.0       1.3
                       (raw) 1000 mg             2000 mg
    8      I+P           Nilotinib HCI   100   Methocel E15           -         0.01       8.8       0.5
                       (raw) 1000 mg             2000 mg
                        Nilotinib MCI                             Soluplus
    9      1+S5 (raw)      ioinbC
                              1000 mg
                                         100          -           Souls
                                                                 357.5 mg
                                                                                0.03      30.8       1.6
   10      1+S           Nilotinib HCl   100          -Soluplus                 0.05      42.3       2.2
                       (raw) 1000 mg                               715 mg                      L
   11      1+S           Nilotinib HCI   100          -Soluplus                 0.05      45.3       2.3
                       (raw) 1000 mg                              1072 mg.
   12    1+P+5           Nilotinib HCI   100   HPMCP HP55         Soluplus      0.12      61.5       3.2
                        (raw) 500 mg              750 mg           715 mg
   13    1+P+5           Nilotinib HCI
                        (raw) 500 mg
                                         100       PVAP
                                                  750 mg
                                                                  Soluplus
                                                                   715 mg
                                                                                0.04      20.5       1.1
   14    I+P+S           Nilotinib HCI   100   HPMCP HP55           TPGS        0.18      78.8       4.1

                                            47
               (raw) 500 mg             750 mg         1000 mg
15   1+P+S      Nilotinib HCI  100        PVAP           TPGS        0.08       35,0       1.8
               (raw) 500 mg              750 mg        1000 Mg
16   1+P+S     Nilotinib Base  100    HPMCP HPS5       Soluplus      0.10       36.3       1.9
               (raw) 500 mg              750 mg        715 mg
17      1/P     Nilotinib HCI  50     HPMCP HP55           -          5.6      515.5      26.6
                   100Mg                 100 mg
18      I/P     N1otinib HCI   40     HPMCP HPSS           -          5.0      479.5      24.7
                   100Mg                 150 mg
19      I/P     Nilotinib HCI  50         PVAP                        5.0      445.0      22.9
                   100 Mg                100 Mg
20      I/P     Nilotinib HCI  40         PVAP             -          5.0      445.0      22.9
                   100 mg                150 mg
21      I/P     Nilotinib HCI  50     Methocel E15         -          1.5      138.8       7.2
                   100 mg                200 mg
22      I/P     Nilotinib HCI  50     Eudragit L100        -          5.9      474.3      24.2
                   100 mg                100mg
23      I/P    Nilotinib Base  40     HPMCP HP55            -         4.7      459.3      23.7
                   100 mg                150 mg
24   1/P+S      Nilotinib HCI         HPMCP HP55       Soluplus       9.2     3828.3     197.3
                   500 mg                500 mg         715 mg
25   I/P+S      Nilotinib HCI   50    HPMCP HP55       Soluplus      17.6     7448.3     383.9
                   500 mg                500 mg        1430 mg
26   I/P+S      Nilotinib HCI   50    HPMCP HP55       Soluplus      25.4     10663.8    549.7
                   500 mg                500 mg        2145 mg
27    l/P+5     Nilotinib HCI   50    HPMCP HP55         TPGS          6.0    2692.3     138.8
                   500 mg       5        500 mg        1000 mg
28   I/P+S      Nilotinib HCI         HPMCP HP55         TPGS         11.5    5193.5     267.7
                   500 mg                500 mg        2000 mg       11.S     513.           _27.
29   I/P+S      Nilotinib HCI   40    HPMCP HP55       Soluplus        9.0    3746.5     193.1
                   500 mg                750 mg        357,5 mg
30   I/P+S      Nilotinib HCl   40    HPMCP HP55       Soluplus      26.9     8974.8     462.6
                   500 mg                750 mg         715 mg
31    l/P+S     Nilotinib HCI   40    HPMCP HP55         TPGS          6.2    3396.5     175.1
                   500mg                 750 mg        1000 mg
32    I/P+S     Nilotinib HCI   40        PVAP         Soluplus       27.6    8391.3     432.5
                   500 mg                750 mg         715 mg
33    I/P+S     Nilotinib HCI   40        PVAP           TPGS          6.5    3223.8     166.2
                   500mg                 750mg         1000mg
34   I/P+S      Nilotinib HCI   50    Methocel E15     Soluplus        0.8     393.5      20.3
                   500 mg                500 mg         715 mg
35   1/P+S      Nilotinib HCI   50    Methocel E15       TPGS          1.1     505.5      25.9
                   500 mg                500 mg        1000 mg
36   1/P+5     Nilotinib Base   40    HPMCP HP55       Soluplus       24.1     8799.5    453.6
                   500 mg                750 mg         715 mg
37                 500 MgHCI
      [/P/S IPs Nilotinib      25.4   HPMCP   HP55
                                         750 mg        Soluplus
                                                        715 mg         3.2     1549.0     79.8
38      */PS    Nilotinib HCI  25.4       PVAP         Soluplus        2.6     1006.5     51.9
                   500 mg                750 mg         715 mg         2.       _065      5.
39    1/P/S     Nilotinib HCI  22.2   HPMCP HP55         TPGS          2.7     942.3      48.6
      I//          500 mg                750 mg        1000 mg
40     I/P/S    Nilotinib HCI  22.2       PVAP           TPGS          2.4     1004.8     51.8
                   500 mg                750 mg     ,  1000 mg    I        I
Table 3. Nilotinib - concentration of nilotinib HCI (mg/L) after 5, 30 and 90
minutes dissolution in FeSSIF solution (pH 5).
Exp Comp.     Inhibitor (I)   Drug  I Polymeric       Solubilizer   Conc     Conc     Conc

                                                  48
                                  load    stab. matrix. (S)         (mg/L)      (mg/L)   (mg/L)
                                  ratio   Component                  5 min       30 min   90 min
                                  (%)     (P)
   41       I      Nilotinib HCI     100          -           -         0.6        0.9       0.9
                  (raw) 500 mg           ______
   42   1+P+S      Nilatinib HCI     100   HPMCP HP55     Soluplus      0.4        0.6       1.0
                  (raw) 500 mg                750 mg      715 mg
   43   I+P+S      Nilotinib HCI     100   HPMCP HP55     Soluplus      0.2        0.2       0.3
                  (raw) 500 mg                750 mg      1000 mg
   44   t+P+S      Nilotinib HCI     100        PVAP      Soluplus      0.5        0.9       1.1
                  (raw) 500 mg                750 mg      715 mg
   45   (+P+5      Nilotinib HCI
                  (raw) 500 mg
                                     100        PVAP
                                              750 mg
                                                            TPGS
                                                          1000 mg
                                                                        0.2        0.4       0.5
   46      1/P     Nilotinib HCI      40   HPMCP HP55         -         16,2      45.6      63.3
                      500 mg                  750mg
   47      1/P     Nilotinib HCI      40        PVAP                      3        7.7      11.2
                      500 mg                   150 mg
   48   I/P+S      Nilotinib HCl      40   HPMCP HP55     Soluplus     47.7       85.5     109.4
                      500 mgC                  750 mg     715 mg
   49   1/P+S      Nilotinib HCI      40   HPMCP HPSS       TPGS       74.8       112.4    125.5
                      500mg                    750mg      1000mg
   50   1/P+5      Nilotinib HCI      40        PVAP      Soluplus      12.9      21.3      27.3
                      500 mg                   750 mg     715 mg
   51   1/P+S      Nilotinib HCI      40        PVAP        TPGS        20.5      29.8      31.8
                      500mg                    750mg      1000mg
   52    I/P/S     Nilotinib HCI      40   HPMCP HP55     Soluplus     42.3       81.5     108.1
                      500 mg                   750 mg      715 mg
   53    1/P/S     Nilotinib HCI
                      500 mg
                                      40   HPMCP HP55
                                               750 mg
                                                            TPGS
                                                          1000 mg
                                                                        86.3      116.3    128.8
   54    1/P/S     Nilotinib HCI      40        PVAP      Soluplus       6.3       18.8     28.2
                      500 mg                   750 mg      715 mg             I
   55    I/P/S     Nilotinib HCI      40        PVAP        TPGS        20.5       29.8     31.8
               t      500 mg                   750 mg     1000_mg             I
  Table 4. Percentage solubilized nilotinib HCI after 30 minutes dissolution,
  the Area Under the Curve (AUC - mg/min/L) during 90 minutes dissolution
  and the AUC increase of compositions comprising stable, amorphous
5 hybrid nanoparticles with nilotinib, compared to nilotinib HCI in raw,
  crystalline form added to the FeSSIF solution (pH 5).
                                   Drug   Polymeric                 % solub-    AUC/
  Exp  Comp.     Inhibitor (1)     load   stab. matrix. Solubilizer ilized 30   90 min       AUC
                                   ratio  Component     (S)         min.        Mgmin        increase
                                   (%)    (P)
   41       1       Nlotnib CI       100           -           -        0.18        74.3
                   (raw) 500 mg                                                           I_____
                                                                                             ____
   42   1+P+5       Nilotinib HCI    100   HPMCP HP55     Soluplus      0.12        61.5        0.8
                   (raw) 500 mg                750 mg      715 mg
   43   I+P+S       Nilotinib HCI    100   HPMCP HP55     Soluplus      0.04        20.5        0.3
                   (raw) 500 mg                750 mg     1000 mg
   44    I+P+S      Nilotinib HCI    100        PVAP      Soluplus      0.18        78.8         1.1
                   (raw) 500 mg                750 mg      715 mg
   45    1+P+S      Nilotinib HCI    100        PVAP        TPGS        0.08        35.0        0.5
                   (raw) 500 mg                750 mg     1000 mg
   46  1I/P         Nilotinib HCI     40   HPMCP HP55          -         9.1      4080.0        54.9

                                                         49
                           500 mg                    750 mg
  47        1/P         Nilotinib HCI      40          PVAP            -         7.7         708.3          9.5
                           500 mg                     150Mg
  48      l/P+5         Nilotinib HCl      40    HPMCP HP55      Solupius        17.1       7631.3         102.8
                           500 mg                    750 mg       715 mg
  49      I/P+S         Nilotinib HCI      40    HPMCP HP55        TPGS          22.5       9664.0         130.2
                           500 mg                    750 mg      1000 mg
  50      1/P+5         Nilotinib HCI      40          PVAP      Soluplus        4.3         1917.8         25.8
                           500 mg                    750 mg       715 mng
  51      1/P+5         Nilotinib HCI      40          PVAP        TPGS          6.0         2528.0         34,0
                           500 mg                    750 mg       1000 mg
  52       I/P/S        Nilotinib HCI      40    HPMCP HP55       Soluplus       16.3        7341.3         98.9
                           500 mg                    750 mg       715 mg
  53       1/P/5        Nilotinib HCI      40    HPMCP HP55        TPGS          23.3       10101.3        136.0
                           500 mg                     750mg       1000mg
  54       I/P/S        Nilotinib HCI      40          PVAP       Soluplus       3.8         1739.5         23.4
                           500mg                      750mg       715mg
  55       I/P/S        Nilotinib HCI      40          PVAP        TPGS          6.0         2528.0         34.0
                           500 mg                     750 mg      1000 mg
  Table 5. Nilotinib - concentration of nilotinib HCI (mg/L) after 5, 30, 90 and
  150 minutes dissolution in FaSSIF and FeSSIF solution, res ectively.
                                         Drug    Polymeric                                                         Cnc
                                         load    stab. matrix. Solubilize  Conc         Conc         Conc          (mg/L
  Exp        Comp.        Inhibitor (1)  ratio   Component     r (S)       (mg/L)       (mg/L)       (mg/L)
                                            )    (P)                        5 min        30 min       90 min        150
                                                                                                                   mim
    56                    Nilotinib HCI    40     HPMCP HPSS     Soluplus     51.2         66          62.3          53.2
  FaSS     Il/P+S             75 mg        40        112.5 mg    715 mg       512          6           6.3            32
    FF    I                                    I                                      I            1             1
    FS                    Nilotinib HCI    40     MPMCP HP55     Soluplus     24.8        43.1         50.7           53
  FeSSI        I/E+S          75 mg        40        112.5 mg    715 mg       243         4.           5G7             3
    FF1
5 Table 6. Nilotinib - concentration of nilotinib HCI (mg/L) after 5, 30, 90 and
  150 minutes dissolution in FaSSIF and FeSSIF solution, respectively
  prese ted as comparative data.
                                         Drug    Polymeric                                                         Comp
                                                               Solubilize  Compar       Compar       Compar        are
                                         load    stab. matrix.
  Exp           Comp.      Inhibitor (I) ratio   Component     r (S)       e (%)        e (%)        e (%)         (%)
                                          %      (P)                        5 min        30 min       90 min        150
                                                                                                                   mim
                           Nilotinib HCi
   2 & 41             I        (raw)       100           -           -        300          450          225
                             1000 mg
                           Nilotinib HCI          MPMCP HP55     Soluplus
  12 & 42        l+E*S         (raw)       100        750 mg      715 mg       100         200          250
                              500 mg           1
  18 & 46           I/P    Nilotinib HCI   40     HPMCP HP55         -        156          912         1711
                           100/500 mg              150/750 mg                                            jo_
  30 & 48         I/P+S    Nilotinib HCI   40     HPMCP HP55     Soluplus       33          64          301
                              500 mg                  750 mg      715 mg
  56 & 57         I/P+S    Nilotinib HCI   40     HPMCP HP5S     Soluplus       48          65           81          100
                           (raw) 75 mg               112.5 mg     715 mg

                                           50
   37 & 52   1/P/S Nilotinib HCI 40  HPMCP HP55    Soluplus  163     516      663
                      500 mg            750 mg     715 mg
   Conclusions Example 1
   Experiments 17-23 show that a solubility increase is obtained with
   compositions comprising stable, amorphous hybrid nanoparticles with
 5 nilotinib HCI and a polymeric stabilizing and matrix-forming component.
   Particular improvements are achieved with the polymeric stabilizing and
   matrix-forming components hydroxypropyl methylcellulose phthalate
   (HPMCP HP55) and polyvinyl acetate phthalate (PVAP). These
   improvements are not obtained when physically mixing nilotinib HC with a
10 polymeric stabilizing and matrix-forming component. Experiments 24-36
   clearly shows that a further solubility increase is obtained with stable,
   amorphous hybrid nanoparticles with nilotinib HCI and a polymeric
   stabilizing and matrix-forming component, wherein a separate solubilizer is
   added. Particular improvements are achieved by the addition of a separate
15 solubilizer such as polyvinyl caprolactam-polyvinyl acetate-polyethylene
   glycol copolymer (Soluplus) or d-a-tocopherol acid polyethylene glycol
   1000 succinate (TPGS). These improvements were not obtained when
   physically mixing nilotinib HCI, solubilizer and/or polymeric stabilizing and
   matrix-forming component (1+S or l+P+S). No particular improvements
20 were obtained with stable, amorphous hybrid nanoparticles with nilotinib
   HCI, a polymeric stabilizing and matrix-forming and a solubilizer (I/P/S).
   The results carried out in FaSSIF and FeSSIF, respectively, indicate that
   the stable, amorphous hybrid nanoparticles of the invention provide a similar
25 increase in solubility. One issue with PKI formulation is the food effect.
   Several of the PKIs are labeled for administration in fasted state despite
   the fact that food in most cases increases their bioavailability. Low
   bioavailability might partly explain the digestive problems that are
   associated with the PKIs. The similar dissolution rate in FaSSIF and
30 FeSSIF indicates that the stable, amorphous hybrid nanoparticles of the
   invention (e.g. experiments 56/57) may reduce food effect and patient
   digestive problems by its solubility improvement that allows reducing

                                           51
   dosage. Thus stable, amorphous hybrid nanoparticles of the invention may
   be given in conjunction with food intake.
   Example 2. Compositions with stable, amorphous hybrid
 5 nanoparticles with erlotinib HCI - solubility at pH 6.5 and pH 5.
   A number of experiments were carried out, wherein erlotinib HCI
   represented the PKI. The experiments were carried out by measuring
   concentration of PKI (mg/L) after 5, 30 and 90 minutes dissolution in a
   solution at about pH 6.5, namely FaSSIF (Fasted State Simulated
10 Intestinal Fluid). Further, experiments were carried out in an alternative
   solution at about pH 5, namely FeSSIF (Fed State Simulated Intestinal
   Fluid). Samples of the solution were taken at various time intervals and the
   amount of PKI was measured by the dissolution measurement assay
   described above.
15
   Representative results in FaSSIF solution are provided below in Table 7
   and 8, where Table 7 provides data of concentration of erlotinib HCI (mg/L)
   after 5, 30 and 90 minutes dissolution, whereas Table 8 provides data of %
   solubilized erlotinib HCI after 30 minutes dissolution, the Area Under the
20 Curve (AUC - mg/min/L) during 90 minutes dissolution and the AUC
   increase of stable, amorphous hybrid nanoparticles, compared to erlotinib
   HCI in raw, crystalline form added to the solution (experiments 58-68). In
   Tables 9 and 10, there is provided dissolution data in FeSSlF solution,
   presented similarly as Table 7 and 8 (experiments 69-73). In Table 11,
25 data from a comparative experiment with similar stable, amorphous hybrid
   nanoparticles, carried out in FaSSIF and FeSSIF, respectively
   (experiments 74-83). Table 12 presents further comparative data for
   experiments carried out in FaSSIF and FeSSIF, respectively.
30 Table 7. Erlotinib - concentration of erlotinib HCI (mg/L) after 5, 30 and 90
   minutes dissolution in FaSSIF solution (pH 6.5).
                               Drug  Polymeric     Solubilizer Conc   Conc   Conc
   Exp  Comp.   Inhibitor (1)
       xC p     Iload                stab. matrix. (5)         (mg/L) (mg/L) (mg/L)

                                                  52
                                   ratio   Component                    5 min     30 min   90 min
                                   (%)     (P)
  58        1       Erlatinib HCI     100         -              -         28.9     6.25     4.6
                  (raw) 1000 mg
  59      1+P       Erlotinib HCI     100     HPMC-AS            -          23      53.2     84
                   (raw) 1000 mg              2000 mg
  60      l+5       Erlotinib HCI     100          -        Soluplus       92.8    156.6    176
                   (raw) 1000 mg                             715 mg
  61      1+S       Erlotinib HCI     100          -          TPGS         51.4     14.7    11.6
                   (raw) 1000 mg                             1000 mg
  62    1+P+S       Erlotinib HCI     100     HPMC-AS       Soluplus       96.7    256.6   361.8
                   (raw) 1000 mg              1850 mg        715 mg
  63     +P+S        Erlotinib HCI    100     HPMC-AS         TPGS         81.3    188.1   256.6
                I (raw) 1000 mg               1850 mg        1000 mg
  64       1/P       Erlotinib HCI     35     HPMC-AS             -        83,4     79.6    44.8
                6      1000 mg                1850mg
  65    I/P+S        Erlotinib HCI     35     HPMC-AS       Soluplus      187.3    269.7    284
                       1000 mg                1850 mg        715 mg
  66    1/P+S        Erlotinib HCI     35     HPMC-AS          TPGS       155.2    210.6   225.3
                       1000 mg                1850 mg        1000 mg
  67    1/P/S        Erlotinib HCI     28     HPMC-AS       Soluplus       90.1      95     96.4
                1      1000mg                 1850mg         715mg    I
  68    I/P/S        Erlatinib HC      26     HPMC-AS          TPGS        93.7     85.4    52.8
                       1000 mg                1850 mg        1000 mg  I                              I
  Table 8. Percentage solubilized erlotinib HCI after 30 minutes dissolution,
  the Area Under the Curve (AUC - mg/min/L) during 90 minutes dissolution
  and the AUC increase of stable, amorphous hybrid nanoparticles,
5 compared to erlotinib in raw, crystalline form added to the FaSSIF solution
  (pH 6.5).
                                    Drug    Polymeric                   % solub-  AUC/
  Exp  Comp.      Inhibitor (1)     load   stab. matrix.  Solubilizer   ilized 30 90 min    AiC
                                    ratio   Component     (s)           min.      Mg/min/L   increase
                                    (%)     (P)
   58        1       Erlotinib HCI    100           -              -        0.6       837
                   (raw) 1000 mg
   59      1+P       Erlotinib HCI    100     HPMC-AS              -        5.3      5126        6.1
                   (raw) 1000 mg               2000 mg
   60      1+S       Erlotinib HCI    100           -        Soluplus      15.7     13328       15.9
                   (raw) 1000 mg                              725 mg               ____
   61      1+S       Erlotinib HC     100           -TPGS                    1.5      1744       2.1
                   (raw) 1000 mg                             1000 mg
   62   1+P+S        Erlotinib HCI    100     HPMC-AS        Soluplus      25.7     23210       27.7
                   (raw) 1000 mg               1850 mg        715 mg
   63   l+P+S        Erlotinib HCI    100     HPMC-AS          TPGS         18.8    16912       20.2
                   (raw) 1000 mg               1850 mg       1000 mg
   64      I/P       Erlotinib HCI     35     HPMC-AS              -         8.0      5978       7.1
                       1000 mg                 1850 mg
   65    I/P+S       Erlotinib HCI      35    HPMC-AS        Soluplus       27.0    22792       27.2
                       1000mg                  1850mg         715mg
   66    I/P+S       Erlotinib HCI      35    HPMC-AS          TPGS         21.1    18038       21.5
                       1000 mg                 1850 mg        1000 mg
   67     l/P/S      Erlotinib HC       28    HPMC-AS        Soluplus        9.5      8281       9.9
                       1000mg                  1850mg         715mg   I

                                                     53
        68 /P/S       Erlotinib HC l              HPMC-A5          TPGS        8.5        6619
                        1000 mg                   1850 mg        1000 mg
   Table 9. Erlotinib - concentration of erlotinib HCI (mg/L) after 5, 30 and 90
   minutes dissolution in FeSSIF solution (pH 5).
                                       Drug    Polymeric                   Conc       Conc       Conc
   Exp   Comp.     Inhibitor (1)       load    stab. matrix.  Solubilizer  (mg/I)     (mg/I)     (mg/L)
                                       ratio   Component      (5)           5 min      30 min    90 min
                                       (%)     (P)
    69        1       Erlotinib HCI      100          -              -        156.8     189.9       196
                    (raw) 1000 mg                                                              1______
    70    i+P+S       Erlotinib HCI      100      HPMC-AS       Soluplus      25.5      75.1      126.2
                    (raw) 1000 mg                 1850 mg         715 mg
    71      I/P       Erlotinib HCI      35       HPMC-AS            -        258.2     402.1     464.5
                        1000 mg                   1850 mg
    72    I/P+S       Erlotinib HCI      35       HPMC-AS       Soluplus      260.1     422.8     498,8
                        1000 mg                   1850 mg         715 mg
    73      /PS       Erlotinib HC1      28       HPMC-AS        Soluplus     293.6     395.2     434.9
                        1000 mg                   1850 mg         715 mg
 5 Table 10. Percentage solubilized erlotinib HCI after 30 minutes dissolution,
   the Area Under the Curve (AUC - mg/min/L) during 90 minutes dissolution
   and the AUC increase of stable, amorphous hybrid nanoparticles,
   compared to erlotinib in raw, crystalline form added to the FeSSIF solution
   (pH 5).
                                       Drug    Polymeric                   % solub-   AUC/
   Exp   Comp.     Inhibitor (1)       load    stab. matrix.  Solubilizer  ilized 30  90 min        AUC
                                       ratio   Component      (S)          min.       Mg/min/L      increase
                                       (%)     (P)
    69         1 I  (raw)   1000HCI
                      Erlotinib  mgII    100          -              -         19.0      16303
    70    1+P+S       Erlotinib HCI      100      HPMC-AS        Soluplus      7.5        7360         0.5
                    (raw) 1000 mg                 1850 mg         715 mg
    71       I/P      Erlotinib HCI      35       HPMC-AS            -         40.2      34897         2.1
                        1000 mg                   1850 mg
    72     I/P+S      Erlotinib HCI      35       HPMC-AS        Soluplus      42.3      36835         2.3
                        1000 mg                   1850 mg         715 mg
    73     I/P/S      Erlotinib HCI       28      HPMC-AS        Soluplus      35.5      34244         2.1
                      Et1000 mg                   1850 mg         715 mg
10
   Table 11. Erlotinib - concentration of erlotinib HC after 5, 30 and 90
   minutes dissolution in FaSSIF and FeSSIF solution, respectively.
                                        Drug   Polymeric                   Conc       Conc       Conc
   Exp   Comp.     Inhibitor (1)       load    stab. matrix.  Solubilizer  (mg/L)     (mg/L)     (mg/L)
                                       ratio   Component      (S)           5 min      30 min     90 min
                                       (%)     (P)
    74                Erlotinib HCI               HPMC-AS        Soluplus
    FaS   I+P+S     (raw) 1000 mg        100      1850 mg        1430 mg      134.1     369.8      533.4
    SIF     ++        EtiH               1        HM-S             oul         244       88        1.
    75 1l+P+S         Erlotinib HO    1100   1    HPMC-AS    1Soluplus    124.4      188.8         154.4

                                                       54
  FeS                 (raw) 1000 mg                1850 mg      1430 mg
  SIF
  76                    Erlotinib HCI              HPMC-AS      Soluplus
  FaS    I/P+S            1000 mg         35       1850 mg      1430 mg     275.4 441.4      508
  SIF
                        Erlotinib HCI              HPMC-AS      Soluplus
  FeS    I/P+S            1000 mg         35       1850 mg      1430 mg     292.2 476,2     546.5
  SIF
  78                    Erlotinib HCI              HPMC-AS      Soluplus
  FaS     I/P/S           1000 mg         23       1850 mg      1430 mg      90.4   108     114.8
  SIF               I                          1                                          1
  79                    Erlotinib HCI              HPMC-AS      Soluplus
  FeS     I/P/S           1000 mg         23       1850 mg      1430 mg     259.3  354.8    405.5
  SIF
  8a                    Erlotinib HCI              HPMC-AS      Soluplus
  Fas    1+P+S         (raw) 500 mg       100       925 mg       715 mg      78.6  216.4    304.6
  SIF
  81                    Erlotinib HCI              HPMC-AS      Soluplus
  FeS     I+P+S        (raw) 500 mg       100       925 mg       715 mg      16.2  55.8     104.7
  SIF
   82                   Erlotinib HCI              HPMC-AS      Soluplus    171.6 284.6     334.6
  FaS     I/PtS            500 Mg                   925 mg       715 mg
   83                   Erlotinib HCI              HPMC-AS      Soluplus    168.3  268.7    317.9
  FeS     I/P+S            500 mg          35       925 mg       715 mg     16.    267      379
  Table 12. Erlotinib - concentration of erlotinib HCI (mg/L) after 5, 30 and 90
  minutes dissolution in FaSSIF and FeSSIF solution, respectively presented
  as comparative data.
                                         Drug      Polymeric              Compare Compare     Compare
     Exp      Comp.        Inhibitor (1) load    stab. matrix. Solubilize    N        N           M
                                         ratio    Component       r (S)    5 min   30 min      90 min
                                          (%)         (P)
                          Erlotinib HCI
  58 & 69         I        (raw) 1000     100          -            -       543      3038       4261
                                 mg
                          Erlotunib MCI            MPMC-AS      Soluplus
  74 & 75       +P+S       (raw) 1000     100      1850 mg      1430 mg      18       24          29
                                 mg
                                     HCI             PErlotin
                                                   HPMC-AS      Soluplus
  80 & 81      I+iP+S          (raw)      100       95m         71mg         21       26          34
                              500mg
  64 & 71        1/P      Erlotinib HCI    35      HPMC-A5          -       310      505        1037
                             1000 Mg                1850 mg
  76 & 77       1/P+S     Erlotinib HCI    35      HPMC-AS      Soluplus    106      108         108
                             1000 Mg                1850 mg     1430 mg
  82 & 83       1/P+5     Erlotinib HCI    35      HPMC-AS      Soluplus     98       94          95
                              500 mg                925 mg      715 mg
  78 & 79       1/P/S     Erlotinib HCI    23      HPMC-AS      Soluplus    287      329         353
                             1000 Mg                1850 mg     1430 mg
5
  Conclusions Example 2

                                          55
   The experiments show that a solubility increase is obtained with
   compositions comprising stable, amorphous hybrid nanoparticles with
   erlotinib HCI and a polymeric stabilizing and matrix-forming component.
   Particular improvements are achieved with the polymeric stabilizing and
 5 matrix-forming component hydroxypropyl methylcellulose acetate
   succinate (HPMC-AS). Experiments 65-66 and 72 show that a further
   solubility increase is obtained with stable, amorphous hybrid nanoparticles
   with erlotinib HCI and a polymeric stabilizing and matrix-forming
   component, wherein a separate solubilizer is added. Particular
10 improvements are achieved by the addition of a separate solubilizer
   added, wherein said solubilizer is selected from polyvinyl caprolactam
   polyvinyl acetate-polyethylene glycol copolymer (Soluplus) and d-a
   tocopherol acid polyethylene glycol 1000 succinate (TPGS). This
   improvement was not observed when the solubilizer was incorporated into
15 the stable, amorphous hybrid nanoparticles.
   Physical mixes of erlotinib HCI with a solubilizer and/or HPMC AS improve
   also the solubility in FaSSIF (experiments 59, 60-61, 62-63) but not in
   FeSSIF (experiment 69-72). One issue with PKI formulation is the food
20 effect. Several of the PKIs are labeled for administration in fasted state
   despite the fact that food in most cases increases their bioavailability. Low
   bioavailability might partly explain the digestive problems that are
   associated with the PKIs. The data indicates that the stable, amorphous
   hybrid nanoparticles may reduce food effect and patient digestive
25 problems by its equal solubility improvement in both FaSSIF and FeSSIF
   (experiment 76/77 and 82/83) that moreover potentially may allow reducing
   of dosage. Thus, compositions comprising these stable, amorphous hybrid
   nanoparticles may be given in conjunction with food intake.
30 Example 3. Compositions with stable, amorphous hybrid nanoparticles
   with pazopanib - solubility at pH 6.5 and pH 5.
   A number of experiments were carried out, wherein pazopanib represented
   the PKI. The experiments were carried out by measuring concentration of

                                            56
   PKI (mg/L) after 5, 30 and 90 minutes dissolution in a solution at about pH
   6.5, namely FaSSIF (Fasted State Simulated Intestinal Fluid). Further,
   experiments were carried out in an alternative solution at about pH 5,
   namely FeSSIF (Fed State Simulated Intestinal Fluid). Samples of the
 5 solution were taken at various time intervals and the amount of PKI was
   measured by the dissolution measurement assay described above.
   Representative results in FaSSIF solution are provided below in Table 13
   and 14, where Table 13 provides data of concentration of pazopanib
10 (mg/L) after 5, 30 and 90 minutes dissolution, whereas Table 14 provides
   data of % solubilized pazopanib after 30 minutes dissolution, the Area
   Under the Curve (AUC - mg/min/L) during 90 minutes dissolution and the
   AUC increase with stable, amorphous hybrid nanoparticles, compared to
   pazopanib in raw, crystalline form added to the solution (experiments 84
15 93). In Tables 15 and 16, there is provided dissolution data in FeSSIF
   solution, presented similarly as Table 13 and 14 (experiments 94-101). In
   Table 17, data from a comparative experiment with similar stable,
   amorphous hybrid nanoparticles, carried out in FaSSIF and FeSSIF,
   respectively (experiments 102-109). Table 18 presents further comparative
20 data for experiments carried out in FaSSIF and FeSSIF, respectively, with
   stable, amorphous hybrid nanoparticles.
   Table 13. Pazopanib - concentration of pazopanib (mg/L) after 5, 30 and
   90 minutes dissolution in FaSSIF solution (pH 6.5).
                                Drug  Polymeric                    Conc    Conc    Conc
   Exp  Comp.   Inhibitor (1)   load  stab. matrix.    Solubilizer (mg/L)  (mg/L)  (mg/L)
                                ratio Component        ()           5 min   30 min 90 min
                                (%)   (P)
    84      I   Pazopanib (raw)   100        -                -      46.2    24.4    15.0
                    1000 Mg
    85     1+P  Pazopanib (raw)   100    PVP 90-                     82.7    83.8   67.7
                    1000 mg              2000 mg
    86     1+S  Pazopanib (raw)   100        -            Soluplus   116.3   177.7  204.3
                    1000 mg                                357 mg
    87     1+S  Pazopanib (raw)   100        -Soluplus               177.6   270.8  324.2
                    1000 mg                                715 mg
      S   +P+S  Pazopanib (raw)   100    PVP 90K          Soluplus   198.8   312.2  394,1
                    1000 mg              1857 mg           715 mg
    89   1+P+S  Pazopanib (raw)   100    PvP 90K            TPGS     182.6   196.7  49.2

                                                         57
                         1000 mg                     1857 mg     1000 mg
     90         1/P     Pazopanib         35           P790K          -         89.4      103.4       92.8
                         1000 Mg                     1857 mg                                       ____
     91       1/P+5     Pazopanib         35         PVP 90K     Soluplus      238.9      409.4      469.3
                         1000Mg                      1857 mg      715 mg
     92       1/P+S     Pazopanib         35         PVP 90K        TPGS       207.5      244.8       76.3
                         1000 mg                     1857 mg     1000 mg       2
     93       1/P/S     Pazopanib         28         PVP 90K     Soluplus       127.2      128.3      82.0
                         1000 mg                     1857 mg      715 mg               I
    Table 14. Percentage solubilized pazopanib after 30 minutes dissolution,
    the Area Under the Curve (AUC - mg/min/L) during 90 minutes dissolution
    and the AUC increase with stable, amorphous hybrid nanoparticles,
5   compared to pazopanib in raw, crystalline form added to the FaSSIF
    solution (pH 6.5).
                                       Drug      Polymeric                   % solub-    AUC/
    Exp      Comp.   Inhibitor (1)     load      stab. matrix. Solubilizer   ilized 30   90 min        AUC
                                       ratio     Component     (5)           min.        Mg/min/L      increase
                                       (%)       (P)
     84            I Pazopanib (raw)      100            -            -          2.4        2180
                         1000 mg
     85         I+P  Pazopanib (raw)      100         PVP90K                     8.4        6833           3.1
                         1000 mg                     2000 mg
     86         1+5  Pazopanib (raw)      100            -       Soluplus       17.8       15426           7.1
                         1000mg                                   357 mg
     87          1+5 Pazopanib (raw)      100-                   Soluplus       27.1       23899          11.0
                         1000 mg                                  715 mg
     88       I+P+S  Pazopanib (raw)      100         PVP90K     Soluplus       31.2       28074          12.9
                         1000 mg                     1857 mg      715 mg
     89       I+P+S  Pazopanib (raw)      100         PVP90K        TPGS        19.7       12575           5.8
                         1000 mg                     1857 mg     1000 mg
     90          I/P    Pazopanib          35         PVP 90K         -          10.3       8520           3.9
                         1000 mg:                    1857 mg
     91       I/P+s     Pazopanib          35         PVP90K     Soluplus       40.9       35062          16.1
                         1000 mg                     1857 mg      715 mg
     92       i/P+5     Pazopanib          35         PVP 90K       TPGS        24.5       15806           7.3
                         1000 mg                     1857 mg      1000 mg
     93        I/P/S    Pazopanib          28         PVP 90K    Soluplus        12.8       9821           4.5
                         1000 mg                     1857 mg      715 mg   I           I
    Table 15. Pazopanib - concentration of pazopanib (mg/L) after 5, 30 and
     90 minutes dissolution in FeSSIF solution (pH 5).
                                        Drug      Polymeric                  Conc        Conc       Conc
  Exp        Comp.   Inhibitor (I)     load      stab. matrix. Solubilizer   (mg/L)      (mg/L)     (mg/L)
                                       ratio     Component     (S)            5 min       30 min     90 min
                                       (%)       (P)
   94              1 Pazopanib (raw)      100            -            -         231.3      321.4      239.3
                         1000 Mg
   95            1+P Pazopanib (raw)      100         PVP 90K         -         234.8      309.7      269.7
                         1000 mg                      2000 mg
   96            1+S Pazopanib (raw)      100            -       Soluplus       209.3      309.6      229.1
        ____ _____       1000 Mg     1___      1______             357 mg                        I_____________

                                                                       58
     97         I+P+5        Pazopanib (raw)           100        PVP 90K      Soluplus      307.5       475.3   578.0
                                  1000 Mg                         1857 mg      715 mg
     98         I+P+S        Pazopanib (raw)           100        PVP 90K        TPGS        320.9       395.1   325.6
                                  1000 mg                         1857 mg      1000 mg
     99             I/P          Pazopanib              35        PVP 90K           -        348.4       362.1   335.8
                                 1000 mg                          1857 mg
    100          l/P+S           Pazopanib              35        PVP90K       Soluplus      450.0       684.4   777.6
                                  1000 mg                         1857 mg      715 mg
    101          1/P/S           Pazopanib              28        PVP 90K      Soluplus      226.1       347.3   361.0
                                  1000 mg                         1857 mg      715 mg
      Table 16. Percentage solubilized pazopanib after 30 minutes dissolution,
       the Area Under the Curve (AUC - mg/min/L) during 90 minutes dissolution
 5     and the AUC increase with stable, amorphous hybrid nanoparticles,
       compared to pazopanib in raw, crystalline form added to the FeSSIF
       solution (pH 5).
                                                     Drug     Polymeric                    % solub- AUC/
   Exp        Camp.          Inhibitor (1)          load      stab. matrix.  Solubilizer   ilized 30AUC
                                                     ratio    Component      (5)           mine        90 min     increase
                                                      %       (M                                       Mg/min/L
      94               1     Pazopanib (raw)           100             -            -         32.1        24308
         ______                   1000 mg                                                               ____
      95            I+P      Pazopanib (raw)           100         PVP 90K-                   31.0        24775       1.0
                                  1000 mg                         2000 mg
      96            1+5      Pazopanib (raw)
                                  1000 mg
                                                       100             -       Soluplus
                                                                                357 mg
                                                                                              31.0        23171       1.0
      97         1+P+S       Pazopanib (raw)           100         PVP 90K     Soluplus       47.5        42153       1.7
                                  1000 mg                         1857 mg       715 mg
      98         I+P+S       Pazopanib (raw)           100         PVP 90K        TPGS        39.5        31373       1.3
                                  1000 mg                         1857 mg      1000 mg
      99             I/P                                35           8              -         36.2        30689       1.3
                               1  1000 mg                                                                         __857_mg
     200          I/P+S          Pazopanib                          PVP 90K    Soluplus       68.4        59165       2.4
                                  1000 mg                          1857 mg       715 mg       684         516__
     101          I/P/S          Pazopanib              28          PVP 90K    Soluplus       34.7        28982       1.2
                                  1000 mg                          1857 mg       715 mg  I                      I
       Table 17. Pazopanib - concentration of pazopanib after 5, 30 and 90
10     minutes dissolution in FaSSIF and FeSSIF solution, respectively.
                                                     Drug      Polymeric                   Conc        Conc     Conc
   Exp        Comp.           Inhibitor (1)          load     stab. matrix.  Solubilizer   (mg/L)      (mg/L)   (mg/L)
                                                     ratio    Component      IS)            5 min       30 min   90 min
                         _______                     (%)      (P)5m                                     som     90m
    FaSSI          +P+        Pazopanib (raw)           100         PVP  90K   Solupus         76.8      23.8    139.6
    FeSSI         1+P+S       P z      i                100         557mg        428mg              11      3.6  246
    Fe103~ +                  Pazopanilb (raw)                      PVP 90K    Soluplus       16.        296     249
     103I         I++              300 mg               200         557 mg       428 mg       16.        196     249
       F                                          I_____
                                               -_____       I______

                                                      59
   104                     Pazopanib              PVP 90K       soluplus    157     24      23
  FaSSI      [/P+S          300n           35      5    m               u   154,7   214.7   223
   105                     Pazopanib               55790mg       428mg
  FeSSI      I/P+S         Paopni          35                           u    186    273.3  303,1
    FI
  FaSI        +P+S       Pazopanib (raw)          PVP90K261.1                      421.6   508.5
  Fe5SI       +P+5          1000 Mg        100    1857 mg       1428 mg     27.     495.4  588.5
    F
   107I     ~+           Pazopanib (raw)          PVP 90K       Soluplus    27.    494     580
   107I     I++             1000 Mg         0     1857 mg       1428 mg:     7.      9.     8.
    F
  108F        /P+S         Pazopanib       35     PVP 90K       Soluplus    508.9   705.8  758.4
  eS5IF                     1000 mg               1857 mg       1428 mg
   109                     Pazopanib              18570mg       1428mg
  FeSSI      I/P+S         Pazoani         35                               469.1   715.2  747.4
    Table 18. Pazopanib - concentration of pazopanib (mg/L) after 5, 30 and
    90 minutes dissolution in FaSSIF and FeSSIF solution, respectively
     prese ted as comparative data.
                                          Drug   Polymeric                Compare  Compare   Compare
                                          load  stab. matrix. Solubilize      M         N          N
       Exp       Comp.      Inhibitor (1)
                                          ratio Component         r (5)    5 min    30 min     90 min
                                           (%)       (P)
                             Pazopanib
     84 & 94           I       (raw)       100        -             -       501      1317       1595
                              1000 mg
                             Pazopanib            PVP 90K
     85 & 95        1+P        (raw)       100    1857 mg-                  284       370       398
                              1000 mg
                             Pazopanib
                                                               Soluplus
     87 & 96         1+S       (raw)       100        -715            mg    118       114         71
                              1000 mg
                             Pazopaniib            PVP 90K     Soluplus
     88 & 97       l+P+S       (raw)       100    1857         Solup5usg    155       152        147
                              1000 mg
      102 &                  Pazopanib             PVP90K152                          170       177
       103        I++          (raw)       100     557 mg      428 mg       151717
                              300 mg
     90 & 99         I/P     Pazopanib     3      185790K           -       390       350        362
                              1000 trig5                 m
       89 &        1/P+S     Pazopanib      35     PVP90K      Soluplus     188       167        166
        100                   1000 mg             1857 mg       715 mg
      104 &        1/P+S     Pazopanib      35     PVP 90K     Soluplus     120       127        136
        105                   300 mg               557 mg       428 mg
       93 &                  Pazopanib      28     PVP 90K     Soluplus     178       271        440
        101     1//s          1000 mg             1857 mg       715 mg
5
     Conclusions Example 3
     The experiments show that a solubility increase is obtained with
     compositions comprising stable, amorphous hybrid nanoparticles with

                                          60
   pazopanib and a polymeric stabilizing and matrix-forming component.
   Particular improvements are achieved with the polymeric stabilizing and
   matrix-forming component polyvinylpyrrolidone K-90 (PVP 90K).
   Experiments 91-92 show that a further solubility increase is obtained with
 5 stable, amorphous hybrid nanoparticles with pazopanib and a polymeric
   stabilizing and matrix-forming component, wherein a separate solubilizer is
   added. Particular improvements are achieved by the addition of a separate
   solubilizer added, wherein said solubilizer is selected from polyvinyl
   caprolactam-polyvinyl acetate-polyethylene glycol copolymer (Soluplus)
10 and d-a-tocopherol acid polyethylene glycol 1000 succinate (TPGS). This
   improvement was not observed when the solubilizer was incorporated into
   the stable, amorphous hybrid nanoparticles of the invention.
   The results carried out in FaSSIF and FeSSIF, respectively, indicates that
15 the stable, amorphous hybrid nanoparticles of the invention provide a
   similar increase in solubility. One issue with PKI formulation is the food
   effect. Several of the PKIs are labeled for administration in fasted state
   despite the fact that food in most cases increases their bioavailability. Low
   bioavailability might partly explain the digestive problems that are
20 associated with the PKIs. The similar dissolution rate in FaSSIF and
   FeSSIF indicates that the stable, amorphous hybrid nanoparticles may
   reduce food effect and patient digestive problems by its equal solubility
   improvement in both FaSSIF and FeSSIF (experiments 89/100 and
    104/105) that moreover allows reducing dosage. Thus stable, amorphous
25 hybrid nanoparticles of the invention may be given in conjunction with food
   intake.
   Example 4. Compositions with stable, amorphous hybrid
   nanoparticles with lapatinib - solubility at pH 6.5.
30 A number of experiments were carried out, wherein lapatinib base or
   lapatinib ditosylate salt represented the PKI. The experiments were carried
   out by measuring concentration of PKI (mg/L) after 5, 30 and 90 minutes
   dissolution in a solution at about pH 6.5, namely FaSSIF (Fasted State

                                                  61
     Simulated Intestinal Fluid). Samples of the solution were taken at various
     time intervals and the amount of PKI was measured by the dissolution
     measurement assay described above.
 5   Representative results in FaSSIF solution are provided below in Table 19
     and 20, where Table 19 provides data of concentration of lapatinib (mg/L)
     after 5, 30 and 90 minutes dissolution, whereas Table 20 provides data of
     % solubilized lapatinib after 30 minutes dissolution, the Area Under the
     Curve (AUC - mg/min/L) during 90 minutes dissolution and the AUC
10   increase with stable, amorphous hybrid nanoparticles of the invention,
     compared to non-formulated lapatinib ditosylate salt added to the solution
     (experiments 110-126).
     Table 19. Lapatinib - concentration of lapatinib (mg/L) after 5, 30 and 90
15   minutes dissolution in FaSSIF solution (pH 6.5).
                                    Drug    Polymeric                    Conc      Conc      Conc
   Exp    Comp.   Inhibitor (1)     load    stab. matrix. Solubilizer    (mg/L)    (mg/L)    (mg/L)
                                    ratio   Component     (S)             5 min     30 min    90 min
                                    (%)     (P)
    110       I   Lapatinib (base)    10-                       -            2.9      6.0        6.5
                      2000 mg
                   Lapatinib (salt)   100          -            -           57.7     132.2    124.2
                         200mg
    112     1+S    Lapatnib (salt)    100                   Souplus         67.6     142.9     140.0
                      2000 mg         10285                       mg    ____
    113     1+5    Lapatinib (salt)   100-                  Soluplus       144.7     283.6    204.0
                      2000 mg         10645                       mg
    114     1+P   Lapatinib (base)    100       HPC LF          -            1.9      4.9        6.1
                      2000mg                   4000 mg
    115     l+P    Lapatinib (salt)   100       HPC LF          -           56.7     93.8       81.8
                      2000mg                   4000mg
    116    1+P+5  Lapatinib (base)    100       HPC LF      Soluplus         5.5      22.5      52.0
                      660 mg                    340 mg      715 mg
    117    I+P+5   Lapatinib (salt)   100       HPC LF      Soluplus        71.7     182.5    240.4
                      660 mg                    340 mg      715 mg
    118    1+P+5   Lapatinib (base)   100       HPC LF        TPGS          11.8     40.6       82.9
                      660Lmg                    340 mg      1000 mg
    119    1+P+S   Lapatinib (salt)   100       HPC LF        TPGS          65.1     176.7     175.3
                      660 mg                    340 mg      1000 mg         6.       177       15.
    120      l/P   Lapatinib (base)
                      660mg
                                       66       HPC EF
                                                340 mg
                                                                -          162.5     184.0     157.1
    121      1/P   Lapatinib (base)
                      660mg
                                       66       HPC LF
                                                340 mg
                                                                -          190.9     193.5      48.0
    122    1/P+S                                HPC EF      Soluplus       220.4     259.6     280,0
                  LLapatinib
                      660 mg
                             (base)    66
                                                340 mg       715 mg   I          1         1
    123   1/P+S    Lapatinib (base)    66       HPC LF      Soluplus       200.7     315.6     327.6

                                                  62
                        660 mg                 340 mg       715 mg
   124    I/P+5     Lapatinib (base)    66      HPC EF        TPGS         202.2   237.5    242.5
                        660 mg                 340 mg       500 mg
   125    I/P+S     Lapatinib (base)    66      HPC LF        TPGS         288.4   327.3    301.5
                        660 mg                 340 mg       500 mg
   126     1/P/S    Lapatinib (base)    66      HPC LF      Soluplus       57.6    107.2    126.3
                  1     660 mg                  340 mg      715 mg         5       1        1
    Table 20. Percentage solubilized lapatinib after 30 minutes dissolution, the
    Area Under the Curve (AUC - mg/min/L) during 90 minutes dissolution and
    the AUC increase with stable, amorphous hybrid nanoparticles of the
5   invention, compared to non-formulated lapatinib ditosylate salt added to
    the FaSSIF solution (pH 6.5).
                                      Drug  Polymeric                   %solub-   AUC/
                    Inhibitor (1)     load  stab. matrix. Solubilizer   ilized 30 90 min     inc
  Exp    Comp.
                                      ratio Component     (S)           min.      Mg/min/L   increase
                                      ()    (P)
   110        I     Lapatinib (base)    100        -            -           0.3      494
                        2000 mg
   111        |      Lapatinib (salt)   100        -            -           6.6     10210
                        2000 mg                                                            1_______________
   112       I+S    Lapatinib (salt)    100        -        Soluplus        7.1     11287        1.1
                        2000mg                               285 mg
   113       1+S     Lapatinib (salt)   100        -        Soluplus        14.2    20344        2.0
                        2000 mg                              645 mg
   114       1+P    Lapatinib (base)    100     HPC LF           -          0.2      420         0.04
                        2000 mg                4000 mg
   115       I+P    Lapatinib (salt)    100     HPC LF           -          4.7      7291        0.7
                        2000 mg                4000 mg
   116    I+P+5     Lapatinib (base)    100     HPC LF      Soluplus        3.4      2599        0.3
                        660mg                   340 mg       715 mg
   117     l+P+S    Lapatinib (salt)    100     HPC LF      Soluplus        27.7    16044        1.6
                        660 mg                  340 mg       715 mg
   118     l+P+S    Lapatinib (base)    100     HPC LF        TPGS          6.2      4390        0.4
                        660 mg                  340 mg      1000 mg
   119     I+P+S     Lapatinib (salt)   100     HPC LF        TPGS          26.8    13745        1.3
                        660 mg                  340 mg      1000 mg
   120       i/P    Lapatinib(base)      66     HPCEF            -          27.9    14971         1.5
                        660 mg                  340 mg
   121       1/P    Lapatinib (base)     66     HPC LF-                     29.3    12527         1.2
                        660 mg                  340mg
   122     1/P+S    Lapatinib (base)
                        660mg
                                         66     HPC EF
                                                340mg
                                                            Soluplus
                                                             715mg
                                                                            39.3    22739        2.2
   123     I/P+5    Lapatinib (base)     66     HPC LF      Soluplus        47.8    26252        2.6
                  1     660 mg                  340 mg       715 mg
   124      1/P+5   Lapatinib (base)     66     HPC EF        TPGS          36.0    20402         2.0
                        660 mg           6      340 mg       500 mg
   125      1/P+S   Lapatinib (base)     66     HPC LF        TPGS          49.6    27281         2.7
                        660 mg                  340 mg       500 mg
   126      1/P/S   Lapatinib (base)     66     HPC LF      Soluplus        16.2     9209        0.9
                        660 mg                  340 mg       715 mg   I

                                             63
   Conclusions Example 4
   The experiments 122-125 clearly shows that a solubility increase is
   obtained with stable, amorphous hybrid nanoparticles of the invention, with
   lapatinib, in particular lapatinib base and a polymeric stabilizing and matrix
 5 forming component, wherein a separate solubilizer is added to the
   composition. Particular improvements are achieved with the polymeric
   stabilizing and matrix-forming component hydroxypropyl cellulose EF and
   hydroxypropyl cellulose LF. Further, improvements are achieved by the
   addition of a separate solubilizer added, wherein said solubilizer is
10 selected from polyvinyl caprolactam-polyvinyl acetate-polyethylene glycol
   copolymer (Soluplus) and d-a-tocopherol acid polyethylene glycol 1000
   succinate (TPGS).
    Example 5. Compositions with stable, amorphous hybrid
15  nanoparticles with nilotinib HCI - solubility at pH 1.4
   A number of experiments were carried out, wherein nilotinib HCI
    represented the PKI. The experiments were carried out by measuring
    concentration of PKl (mg/L) after 5, 30 and 90 minutes dissolution in a
    solution at about pH 1.4, namely SGF (Simulated Gastric Fluid). Samples
20  of the solution were taken at various time intervals and the amount of PKI
   was measured by the dissolution measurement assay described above.
    Representative results in SGF solution are provided below in Table 21,
   which provides percentage of solubilized nilotinib HCI from both a physical
25  mix with nilotinib HCI in raw, crystalline form and stable, amorphous hybrid
    nanoparticles of the invention after 5, 30 and 90 minutes dissolution.
    Nilotinib present in the physical mix of nilotinib HCI raw with the polymeric
    stabilizing and matrix-forming component PVAP and the solubilizer
    Soluplus (Exp. 129) is dissolved completely within 5 minutes in SGF while
30  nilotinib is only partially dissolved after 90 min in SGF with stable,
    amorphous hybrid nanoparticles of the invention, wherein the components
    are comprised as stable, amorphous hybrid nanoparticles, with the addition
    of a solubilizer (Exp. 128) or without the addition of a solubilizer (Exp. 127).

                                                 64
   Table 21. Nilotinib HCI - concentration of nilotinib HCI (mg/L) after 5, 30
   and 90 minutes dissolution in SGF solution (pH 1.4).
                                 Drug     Polymeric
    Exp Comp.    Inhibitor (1)   load  stab. matrix. Solubilizer solubilized solubilized solubilized
                                 ratio  Component        ()        5 min       30 min      90 min
                                  (%)       (P)
   127      1/P Nilotinib HCI
                   500 mg
                                  100       PVAP
                                           750 mg
                                                                     32          40           42
   128    I/P+S Nilotinib HCI     100       PVAP      Soluplus       38          48           50
                   500 mg                  750 mg     715 mg
                Nilotinib HCI               PvAP      Soluplus
   129   i+P+S      (raw)         100      750 mg     715 mg         100         100         100
                   1000 mg     I       111
 5 Conclusions Example 5
   The experiments 127-129 shows that a nilotinib HCI, in stable, amorphous
   hybrid nanoparticles of the invention (exp 127 and 128) are partially
   solubilized at pH 1.4. The stable, amorphous hybrid nanoparticles with a
   polymeric stabilizing and matrix-forming component such as PVAP is
10 partially protected from the acidic environement.
   Example 6. Compositions with stable, amorphous hybrid
   nanoparticles with gefitinib - solubility at pH 6.5.
   A number of experiments were carried out, wherein gefitinib represented
15 the PKI. The experiments were carried out by measuring concentration of
   PKi (mg/L) after 3, 40 and 80 minutes dissolution in a solution at about pH
   6.5, namely FaSSIF (Fasted State Simulated Intestinal Fluid). Samples of
   the solution were taken at various time intervals and the amount of PK
   was measured by the dissolution measurement assay described above.
20
   Representative results in FaSSIF solution are provided below in Table 22
   and 23, where Table 22 provides data of concentration of gefitinib (mg/L)
   after 3, 40 and 80 minutes dissolution, whereas Table 23 provides data of
   % solubilized gefitinib after 40 minutes dissolution, the Area Under the
25 Curve (AUC - mg/min/L) during 80 minutes dissolution and the AUC
   increase with stable, amorphous hybrid nanoparticles of the invention,

                                                     65
     compared to non-formulated gefitinib added to the solution (experiments
     131-137).
     Table 22. Gefitinib - concentration of gefitinib (mg/L) after 3, 40 and 80
 5   minutes dissolution in FaSSIF solution (pH 6.5).
                                        Drug   Polymeric                  Conc      Conc     Conc
   Exp   Camp.         Inhibitor (1)    load   stab. matrix. Solubilizer  (mg/L)    (mg/L)   (mg/L)
                                        ratio  Component     (S)           3 min     40 min  80 min
                                        (%)    (P)
    131         I       Gefitinib (raw)    100        -            -         121.8    153.1   148.1
               _______     1000 Mg
    132    I+P+S        Gefitinib (raw)            PVP30K      Soluplus      63.6     158.3   191.1
                           1000 mg                1850 mg      715 mg
    133    l+P+5        Gefitinib (raw)
                           1000 mg
                                           35   HPMCP HP55
                                                  1850 mg
                                                               Soluplus
                                                               715 mg
                                                                             70.6     230.3   296.4
    134      l/P           Gefitinib               PVP30K          -         501.2    267.2   250.9
               _____       1000 Mg                1850 mg                ____
    135      I/P           Gefitinib       35   HPMCP HP55         -         254.1    321.4   332.1
                           1000 mg                1850 mg
    136     1/P+5          Gefitinib       35      PVP30K      Soluplus      561.4    430.2   410.9
                           1000 mg                1850 mg      715 mg
    137     1/P+S          Gefitinib       35   HPMCP HP55     Soluplus      319.8    576.3   594.2
                           1000 mg                1850 mg      715 mg
     Table 23. Percentage solubilized gefitinib after 40 minutes dissolution, the
     Area Under the Curve (AUC - mg/min/L) during 80 minutes dissolution and
     the AUC increase with stable, amorphous hybrid nanoparticles of the
10   invention, compared to non-formulated gefitinib added to the FaSSlF
     solution (pH 6.5).
                                         Drug  Polymeric                  % solub-  AUC/
   Exp    Camp.        Inhibitor (1)     load  stab. matrix. Solubilizer  ilized 40 80 min     AiUC
                                         ratio Component     (S)          min.      Mg/min/L   increase
                                         (%)   (P)
    131         1       Gefitinib (raw)    100         -            -         15.3      5967
                           1000 Mg
    132     (+P+5       Gefitinib (raw)     35     PVP30K      Soluplus       15.8      6630      1.1
                           1000 mg                1850 mg       715 mg
    133     1+P+5       Gefitinib (raw)     35  HPMCP HP55     Soluplus       23.0      9826      1.6
                           1000 mg                1850 mg       715 mg
    134       I/P          Gefitinib               PVP30K           -         26.7     10954      1.8
    135       I/P          Gefitinib        35  HPMCP HP5           -         32.1     12794      2.1
                           1000 mg                1850mg
    136     1/P+5          Gefitinib        35     PVP30K      SolupIus       43.0     12282      2.9
                           1000 mg                1850 mg       715 mg
    137     (/P+5          Gefitinib        35  HPMCP HP55     Soluplus       57.6     22774      3.8
                           1000 mg                1850 mg       715 mg

                                               66
     The experiments 131-137 show that a solubility increase is obtained with
     compositions comprising stable, amorphous hybrid nanoparticles of the
     invention, with gefitinib, in particular gefitinib and a polymeric stabilizing and
     matrix-forming component, wherein a separate solubilizer is added to the
 5   composition. Particular improvements are achieved with the polymeric
     stabilizing and matrix-forming component polyvinylpyrrolidone K-30 (PVP
     30K) and hydroxy propyl methyl cellulose phthalate (HPMCP HP55).
     Further, improvements are achieved by the addition of a separate
     solubilizer added, wherein said solubilizer is polyvinyl caprolactam-polyvinyl
10   acetate-polyethylene glycol copolymer (Soluplus).
     Example 7. Compositions with stable, amorphous hybrid
     nanoparticles with dasatinib - solubility at pH 6.5.
     A number of experiments were carried out, wherein dasatinib represented
15   the PKl. The experiments were carried out by measuring concentration of
     PKI (mg/L) after 3, 40 and 80 minutes dissolution in a solution at about pH
     6.5, namely FaSSIF (Fasted State Simulated Intestinal Fluid). Samples of
     the solution were taken at various time intervals and the amount of PKI
     was measured by the dissolution measurement assay described above.
20
     Representative results in FaSSIF solution are provided below in Table 24
     and 25, where Table 24 provides data of concentration of dasatinib (mg/L)
     after 3, 40 and 80 minutes dissolution, whereas Table 25 provides data of
     % solubilized dasatinib after 40 minutes dissolution, the Area Under the
25   Curve (AUC - mg/min/L) during 80 minutes dissolution and the AUC
     increase with stable, amorphous hybrid nanoparticles of the invention,
     compared to non-formulated dasatinib added to the solution (experiments
     138-141).
30   Table 24. Dasatinib - concentration of dasatinib (mg/L) after 3, 40 and 80
     minutes dissolution in FaSSIF solution (pH 6.5).
                   Inhibitor (1)  Drug   Polymeric     Solubilizer Conc   Conc     Conc
   Exp     Comp.
         IExp
            omp   Ih     t    I   load   stab, matrix. (5)         (mg/L) (mg/L)   (mg/L)

                                                   67
                                     ratio Component                     3 min    40 min    80 min
                                     (%)   (P)
    138        I     Dasatinib (raw)   100         -            -          34.5     59.7     63.5
                        1000 mg            ______
    139    [+P+5     Dasatinib (raw)   35   Kollidon VA64   Soluplus        24.2    64.9     82.5
                        1000mg                 1850 mg      715mg                         1
    140      I/P       Dasatinib       35   Kollidon VA64       -           54.7   382.0    417.6
                        1000 mg                1850 mg                                               I
    141    I/P+S       Dasatinib       35   Kollidan VA64   Soluplus       199.9   599.8    643.8
                  1     1000 mg                1850 mg      715 mg    I
     Table 25. Percentage solubilized dasatinib after 40 minutes dissolution, the
     Area Under the Curve (AUC - mg/min/L) during 80 minutes dissolution and
     the AUC increase with stable, amorphous hybrid nanoparticles of the
 5   invention, compared to non-formulated dasatinib added to the FaSSIF
     solution (pH 6.5).
                                     Drug   Polymeric                   % solub-  AUC/
   Exp    Comp.     Inhibitor (1)    load  stab. matrix.  Solubilizer   ilized 40 80 min     AUC
                                     ratio  Component     (S)           min.      Mg/min/L   increase
                                     (%)    (P)
    138        I     Dasatinib (raw)   100          -            -          6,0      2396
                        1000 mg
    139    1+P+S     Dasatinib (raw)   35   Kollidon VA64   Soluplus        6.5      2750        1.1
                        1000 mg                1850 mg       715m g
    140      I/P        Dasatinib       35  Kollidon VA64        -          35.3    15252        6.4
                        1000 mg                1850 mg
    141     1/P+S       Dasatinib       35  Kollidon VA64   Soluplus        58.6    24156       10.1
                        1000mg                 1850mg        715mg
     Experiments 138-141 show that a solubility increase is obtained with
     compositions comprising stable, amorphous hybrid nanoparticles of the
10   invention, with dasatinib, in particular dasatinib and a polymeric stabilizing
     and matrix-forming component, wherein a separate solubilizer is added to
     the composition. Particular improvements are achieved with the polymeric
     stabilizing and matrix-forming component copolyvidone (Kollidon VA64).
      Further, improvements are achieved by the addition of a separate
15   solubilizer added, wherein said solubilizer is polyvinyl caprolactam-polyvinyl
     acetate-polyethylene glycol copolymer (Soluplus).
      Example 8. Compositions with stable, amorphous hybrid
      nanoparticles with Sorafenib tosylate - solubility at pH 6.5.

                                                  68
     A number of experiments were carried out, wherein sorafenib tosylate
     represented the PKI. The experiments were carried out by measuring
     concentration of PKI (mg/L) after 3, 40 and 80 minutes dissolution in a
     solution at about pH 6.5, namely FaSSIF (Fasted State Simulated
 5   Intestinal Fluid). Samples of the solution were taken at various time
     intervals and the amount of PKI was measured by the dissolution
     measurement assay described above,
     Representative results in FaSSIF solution are provided below in Table 26
10   and 27, where Table 26 provides data of concentration of sorafenib (mg/L)
     after 3, 40 and 80 minutes dissolution, whereas Table 27 provides data of
     % solubilized sorafenib after 40 minutes dissolution, the Area Under the
     Curve (AUC - mg/min/L) during 80 minutes dissolution and the AUC
     increase of compositions, compared to non-formulated sorafenib tosylate
15   added to the solution (experiments 142-145).
     Table 26. Sorafenib tosylate - concentration of sorafenib (mg/L) after 3, 40
     and 80 minutes dissolution in FaSSIF solution (pH 6.5).
                                  Drug     Polymeric
   Exp    Comp.   Inhibitor
                  Ihbtr()   (I)   load
                                  ratio    stab. matrix.
                                           Component     Solubilizer
                                                         (5)         Conc
                                                                     (mg/I)  Conc
                                                                             (mg/I)  Conc
                                                                                     (mg/L)
                                           (P)
                                            Co m                      3 min   40 min  8 0 m in
                                   ratNo
                     Sorafenib
    142        1   tosylate (raw)   100           -            -        59.1   343.5  311.5
                      1000 mg
                     Sorafenib              HPMCP HPF55    Soluplus
    143    1+P+S   tosylate (raw)   35         1850 Mg     715 mg       33.9   297.1  352.2
                      1000 mg
                     Sorafenib              HPMCP HPS5
    144      I/P      tosylate      35      HP5CP              -       245.3   520.3  613.8
                      1000 mg            I
                     Sorafenilb             HPMCP HP55     Soluplus
    145    [/P+S      tosylate      35         1 CP HP5    So          335.1  1202.6  1738.1
                      2000 mg
20   Table 27. Percentage solubilized sorafenib after 40 minutes dissolution,
     the Area Under the Curve (AUC - mg/min/L) during 80 minutes dissolution
     and the AUC increase with stable, amorphous hybrid nanoparticles of the
     invention, compared to non-formulated sorafenib tosylate added to the
     FaSSIF solution (pH 6.5).

                                               69
                                   Drug  Polymeric                 %solub-  AUC/
                   Inhibitor (1)   load  stab. matrix. Solubilizer  ized 40 80 min   AUC
   Exp     Comp.
                                   ratio Component     (S)         min.     Mg/min/L increase
                                   (%)   (P)
                      Sorafenib
    142         I   tosylate (raw)   100        -            -        34.4    12001
                       1000 mg
         143 +P+S     Sorafenib           HPMCP HP55     Soluplus     39      153       1
    143     [+P+S   tosylate (raw)   35     1850 mg      715 mg       33.9    11588     1.0
                       1000 mg
                      Sorafenib           HMPH5
    144       I/P      tosylate      35   HP5CP              -       245.3    21838     1.8
                       1000 mg
                      Sorafenib             PCHP5        Slpu
    145     l/P+S      tosylate           HPMCP 5HP      Sou pu s    335.1    52943     4.4
                             mg             1302000      7     m
      Experiments 138-141 show that a solubility increase is obtained with
     compositions comprising stable, amorphous hybrid nanoparticles of the
      invention, with dasatinib, in particular dasatinib and a polymeric stabilizing
 5   and matrix-forming component, wherein a separate solubilizer is added to
     the composition. Particular improvements are achieved with the polymeric
      stabilizing and matrix-forming component hydroxy propyl methyl cellulose
      phthalate (HPMCP HP55). Further, improvements are achieved by the
      addition of a separate solubilizer added, wherein said solubilizer is polyvinyl
10    caprolactam-polyvinyl acetate-polyethylene glycol copolymer (Soluplus).
      Example 9. Compositions with stable, amorphous hybrid
      nanoparticles with nilotinib base - solubility at pH 6.5.
     A number of experiments were carried out, wherein nilotinib base
15    represented the PKI. The experiments were carried out by measuring
      concentration of PKI (mg/L) after 3, 40 and 80 minutes dissolution in a
      solution at about pH 6.5, namely FaSSIF (Fasted State Simulated
      Intestinal Fluid). Samples of the solution were taken at various time
      intervals and the amount of PKI was measured by the dissolution
20    measurement assay described above.
      Representative results in FaSSIF solution are provided below in Table 28
      and 29, where Table 28 provides data of concentration of nilotinib base
      (mg/L) after 3, 40 and 80 minutes dissolution, whereas Table 29 provides

                                                 70
     data of % solubilized nilotinib base after 40 minutes dissolution, the Area
     Under the Curve (AUC - mg/min/L) during 80 minutes dissolution and the
     AUC increase of compositions, compared to non-formulated nilotinib base
     added to the solution (experiments 146-149).
 5
     Table 28. Nilotinib base - concentration of nilotinib base (mg/L) after 3, 40
     and 80 minutes dissolution in FaSSIF solution (pH 6.5).
                                    Drug  Polymeric                 Conc      Conc     Conc
   Exp    Comp.    Inhibitor (I)    load  stab. matrix. Solubilizer (mg/L)    (mg/L)   (mg/L)
                                    ratio Component     (S)          3 min     40 min   80 min
                                    (%)   (P)
    146      I/P    Nilotinib base    40   HPMCP HP55         -        12.7      5.3     3.7
                        500 mg                750 mg
    147      1/P    Nilotinib base             PVAP                    12.3      8.6      7.0
                        500 mg                750 mg
    148    1/P+5    Nilotinib base    40   HPM P HP55     Soluplus     136.8    88.8     41.2
                        500 mg                750 mg      715 mg
    149    I/P+S    Nilotinib base    40       PVAP       Soluplus     20.7     115.9    60.4
                        500 mg                750 mg      715 mg
     Table 29. Percentage solubilized nilotinib base after 40 minutes
10   dissolution, the Area Under the Curve (AUC - mg/min/L) during 80 minutes
     dissolution and the AUC increase with stable, amorphous hybrid
     nanoparticles of the invention, compared to non-formulated nilotinib base
     added to the FaSSIF solution (pH 6.5).
                                    Drug  Polymeric                 % solub-  AUC/
   Exp    Comp.    Inhibitor (1)    load  stab. matrix. Solubilizer ilized 40 80 min     AUC
                                    ratio Component     (S)         min.      Mg/min/L   increase
                                    (%)   (P)
    146      I/P     Nilotinib base   40   HPMCP HP55          -         1.1      242         8.3
                        500 mg                750 mg
    147      I/P     Nilotinib base   40       PVAP            -         1.7      328        11.2
                        500 mg                750 mg
    148    [/P+S     Nilotinib base   40   HPMCP HP55     Soluplus      17.8     3529       120.9
                        500 mg                750 mg      715 mg
    149    1/P+5     Nilotinib base   40       PVAP       Soluplus      23.2     3544       121.4
                 1      500 mg                750mg       715 mg
15    Example 10. Compositions with stable, amorphous hybrid
      nanoparticles with crizotinib - solubility at pH 6.5.
     A number of experiments were carried out, wherein crizotinib represented
      the PK. The experiments were carried out by measuring concentration of
      PKI (mg/L) after 3, 40 and 80 minutes dissolution in a solution at about pH

                                              71
     6.5, namely FaSSIF (Fasted State Simulated Intestinal Fluid). Samples of
     the solution were taken at various time intervals and the amount of PKI
     was measured by the dissolution measurement assay described above.
     Representative results in FaSSIF solution are provided below in Table 30
 5   and 31, where Table 30 provides data of concentration of crizotinib (mg/L)
     after 3, 40 and 80 minutes dissolution, whereas Table 31 provides data of
     % solubilized crizotinib after 40 minutes dissolution, the Area Under the
     Curve (AUC - mg/min/L) during 80 minutes dissolution and the AUC
     increase with stable, amorphous hybrid nanoparticles of the invention,
10   compared to non-formulated crizotinib added to the solution (experiments
     150-156).
     Table 30. Crizotinib - concentration of crizotinib (mg/L) after 3, 40 and 80
     minutes dissolution in FaSSIF solution (pH 6.5).
                                  Drug  Polymeric                  Conc       Conc   Conc
   Exp    Comp.    Inhibitor (1)  load  stab. matrix. Solubilizer  (mg/L)     (mg/L) (mg/L)
                                  ratio Component     (5)           3 min     40 min  80 min
                                  (%)   (P)                         3mi        0mi     Omi
    150         l   (rawiztinib     100        -             -         89.3    226.5  295.6
    151     I+P+       Crizotinib    25     PVP30K       Soluplus     176.2    368.5  414,6
                    (raw) 1000 mg          3000 mg        715 mg
                       Crizotinib           PVP30K     Cremophor
    152     i+P+5    raC zotinib     25    3R000       CRH4o          161.2    428.4  497.7
                                                          715 mg
    153       1/P      Crizoti b     25    3000K              -       325.9    390.4  398.8
    154        /P      Crizotinib    25 Kollidon VA64         -       297,5    447.6  449.9
                        1000 mg            3000 mg
    155      I/P+5     Crizotinib    25     PVP30K        Soluplus    457.6    581.4  578.9
                        1000 mg            3000 mg        715 mg
                       Crizotinib           PVP30K     Cremophor
    156      I/P+5     C0rzin        25    30 P3           RH40       573.9    855.1  867.2
                        10 mg              3715                 mg
15
     Table 31. Percentage solubilized crizotinib after 40 minutes dissolution, the
     Area Under the Curve (AUC - mg/min/L) during 80 minutes dissolution and
     the AUC increase with stable, amorphous hybrid nanoparticles of the
      invention, compared to non-formulated crizotinib added to the FaSSIF
20    solution (pH 6.5).
                   inhibitor (1)   Drug Polymeric     Solubilizer  % solub-   AUC/     AUC
   Exp     Comp.
         EC p      Ihi        (I)  load stab. matrix. (S)           ilized 40 80 min   increase

                                               72
                                 ratio  Component                  min.    Mg/min/L
                                 (%)    (P)
   150         1      Crizotinib   100         -             -        22.7  16773
                   (raw) 1000 mg                                  ____
   151    I+P+S       Crizotinib   25      PVP30K        Soluplus     36.8  27185    1.6
                 1 (raw) 1000 mg    2     3000 mg         715 mg
   152    1+P+5       Crizotinib   25      PVP30K      Cremophor
                 15ra)100IPS g     25     300mg            R40        42.8  30423    1.8
                                                          715 mg
   153       l/P      Crizotinib   25      PVP30K             -       39.1  29958    1.8
                      1000 Mg             3000 mg      _____
   154       l/P      Crizotinib   25   Kollidon VA64         -       44.8  33611    2.0
                      1000 mg             3000 mg
   155     I/P+S      Crizotinib   25      PVP30K        Soluplus     58.1  44862    2.7
   155     I/P+S      1000 mg             3000 mg         715 mg  _81       486__
       16 I/P+S       Crizotinib   25      PVP30K      Cremophor
                      100 g        25     300Mg            R40        85.5  64338    3.8
                                                      10 g715 mg
    Experiments 150-156 show that a solubility increase is obtained with
    compositions comprising stable, amorphous hybrid nanoparticles of the
    invention, with crizotinib, in particular crizotinib and a polymeric stabilizing
 5  and matrix-forming component, wherein a separate solubilizer is added to
    the composition. Particular improvements are achieved with the polymeric
    stabilizing and matrix-forming component polyvinylpyrrolidone K-30 (PVP
    30K) and copolyvidone (Kollidon VA64). Further, improvements are
    achieved by the addition of a separate solubilizer added, wherein said
10  solubilizer is selected from polyvinyl caprolactam-polyvinyl acetate
    polyethylene glycol copolymer (Soluplus) and PEG-40 hydrogenated castor
    oil (Cremophor RH40).
    Example 11. Compositions with stable, amorphous hybrid
15  nanoparticles with axitinib - solubility at pH 6.5.
    A number of experiments were carried out, wherein axitinib represented
    the PKI. The experiments were carried out by measuring concentration of
    PKI (mg/L) after 3, 40 and 80 minutes dissolution in a solution at about pH
    6.5, namely FaSSlF (Fasted State Simulated Intestinal Fluid). Samples of
20  the solution were taken at various time intervals and the amount of PKI
    was measured by the dissolution measurement assay described above.

                                                         73
     Representative results in FaSSIF solution are provided below in Table 32
     and 33, where Table 32 provides data of concentration of axitinib (mg/L)
     after 3, 40 and 80 minutes dissolution, whereas Table 33 provides data of
     % solubilized axitinib after 40 minutes dissolution, the Area Under the
 5   Curve (AUC - mg/min/L) during 80 minutes dissolution and the AUG
     increase with stable, amorphous hybrid nanoparticles of the invention,
     compared to non-formulated axitinib added to the solution (experiments
     157-163).
10   Table 32. Axitinib - concentration of axitinib (mg/L) after 3, 40 and 80
     minutes dissolution in FaSSIF solution (pH 6.5).
                                           Drug  Polymeric                  Conc      Conc     Conc
   Exp       Comp.        Inhibitor (1)   load   stab. matrix.  Solubilizer (mg/L)    (mg/L)   (mg/L)
                                          ratio  Component      (S)          3 min    40 min
                                          (%)    (P)                         3mn      4   ~     800mmin
    157 157       I1           Axitinib
                             raw)  500 mg    10-                     -          0.6     0.6       0.6
    158        I+P+S           Axitinib       25  Kollidon VA64   Soluplus      0.2     0.8       4.3
                            (raw) 500 mg             1500 mg      715 mg
    159        I+P+S           Axitinib       25     HPMCAS       Soluplus      0.2     3.0       3.1
                            (raw) 500 mg             1500 mg      715 mg
    160          I/P           Axitinib       25  Kollidon VA64       -        71.1     25.9      9.1
                               500 mg                1500 mg
    161          1/P           Axtinib        25     HPMCAS           -         17.6    21.0      16.4
        ____ _____             500 mg                1500 Mg
    162        I/P+S           Axitinib       25  Kollidon VA64   Soluplus     77.6    223.6     266.1
                               500 mg                1500 mg       715 mg
                               Axitinib              HPMCAS       Soluplus
    163        I/P+S                          25     H                         40.3    110.3     129.9
                               500 mg                1500 mg       715 mg
     Table 33. Percentage solubilized axitinib after 40 minutes dissolution, the
     Area Under the Curve (AUG - mg/min/L) during 80 minutes dissolution and
15   the AUG increase with stable, amorphous hybrid nanoparticles of the
      invention, compared to non-formulated axitinib added to the FaSSIF
     solution (pH 6.5).
                                           Drug  Polymeric                  % solub-  AUC/
   Exp       Comp.        Inhibitor (1)    load  stab. matrix.  Solubilizer ilized 40 80 min      AUC
                                           ratio Component      (S)         min.      Mg/min/L    increase
              __________ __________(%)           (P)
    157
        ______(raw)
                   I           Axitinib
                                   500 mg
                                             100         -            -         0.1       47
    158        I+P+S           Axitinib       25  Kollidon VA64   Soluplus      0.2      126          2.7
                            (raw) 500 mg             1500 mg       715 mg
    159        I+P+S           Axitinib       25     HPMCAS       Soluplus      0.6      193          4.1
                            (raw) 500 mg             1500 mg       715 mg

                                               74
   160      I/P     Axitinib      25    Kollidon VA64      -        5.2    3255     69.0
                    500 mg                1500 mg
   161      I/P     Axitinib      25      HPMCAS                    4.2    1571     33.0
                    500 mg                1500 mg
   162    1/P+S     Axitinib            Kollidon VA64  Soluplus    447     16070    341.0
                    500 mg        25      1500 mg      715 mg      4.    1  67   13    .
                    Axitinib              HPMCAS       Soluplus      2.1
   163500                mg               1500 mg      715 mg169.0
    Experiments 157-163 show that a solubility increase is obtained with
    compositions comprising stable, amorphous hybrid nanoparticles of the
    invention, with axitinib, in particular axitinib and a polymeric stabilizing and
 5  matrix-forming component, wherein a separate solubilizer is added to the
    composition. Particular improvements are achieved with the polymeric
    stabilizing and matrix-forming component copolyvidone (Kollidon VA64) and
    hydroxypropyl methylcellulose acetate succinate (HPMC AS). Further,
    improvements are achieved by the addition of a separate solubilizer added,
10  wherein said solubilizer is polyvinyl caprolactam-polyvinyl acetate
    polyethylene glycol copolymer (Soluplus).
    Example 12. Compositions with stable, amorphous hybrid
    nanoparticles with vemurafenib - solubility at pH 6.5.
15  A number of experiments were carried out, wherein vemurafenib
    represented the PKI. The experiments were carried out by measuring
    concentration of PKI (mg/L) after 3, 40 and 80 minutes dissolution in a
    solution at about pH 6.5, namely FaSSIF (Fasted State Simulated
    Intestinal Fluid). Samples of the solution were taken at various time
20  intervals and the amount of PKI was measured by the dissolution
    measurement assay described above
    Representative results in FaSSIF solution are provided below in Table 34
    and 35, where Table 34 provides data of concentration of vemurafenib
25  (mg/L) after 3, 40 and 80 minutes dissolution, whereas Table 35 provides
    data of % solubilized vemurafenib after 40 minutes dissolution, the Area
    Under the Curve (AUC - mg/min/L) during 80 minutes dissolution and the
    AUC increase with stable, amorphous hybrid nanoparticles of the

                                                        75
     invention, compared to non-formulated vemurafenib added to the solution
     (experiments 164-170).
     Table 34. Vemurafenib - concentration of vemurafenib (mg/L) after 3, 40
 5   and 80 minutes dissolution in FaSSIF solution (pH 6.5).
                                        Drug     Polymeric                    Canc      Conc       Conc
   Exp        Comp.      Inhibitor (1)  load    stab. matrix.   Solubilizer   (mg/L)    (mg/L)     (mg/L)
                                        ratio                                    min     40 min
              ______                    (%)~    (P)                            3m         0m        80
                                                                                                     0m min
    164             I      Vemurafenib    100            -           -            0.3      0.3         0.4
       ______         I_   (raw) 500 mg       1___1
    165        I+P+S       Vemurafenib    25     Kollidon VA64    Soluplus        0.2      0.2         0.4
                           (raw) 500 mg             1500 mg       715 mg
    166        1+P+S       Vemurafenib    25           CAP        Soluplus        0.1      0.2         0.4
                           (raw) 500 mg             1500 mg       715 mg
    167           I/P      Vemurafenib    25     Kollidon VA64        -          35.5     107.6      122.9
                              500 mg                1500 mg                                      1
    168           1/P      Vemurafenib    25           CAP            -          75.1      47.5       11.8
                              500 mg                1500 Mg                                       ____
    169        I/P+s       Vemurafenib    25     Kollidon VA64    Soluplus       27.4     111.3      172.3
                              500 mg                1500 mg       715 mg
    170        1/P+5       Vemurafenib    25           CAP        Soluplus       55.4     105.7      118.9
                      1       500 mg                1500   mg     715 mg    I                    I
     Table 35. Percentage solubilized vemurafenib after 40 minutes dissolution,
     the Area Under the Curve (AUC - mg/min/L) during 80 minutes dissolution
10    and the AUC increase with stable, amorphous hybrid nanoparticles of the
      invention, compared to non-formulated vemurafenib added to the FaSSIF
      solution (pH 6.5).
                                        Drug     Polymeric                    % solub-  AUC/
   Exp        Camp.      Inhibitor (1)  load     stab. matrix.  Solubilizer   ilized 40 80 mi         AUC
                                        ratio    Component      (S)             i e4    8min          increase
                                        (mi.                                            Mg/in/I
    164             1      Vemurafenib    100                                     0.1        27
                           (raw) 500 mg
    165        1+P+5       Vemurafenib    25     Kollidon VA64    Soluplus        0.1        21           0.8
                           (raw) 500 mg             1500 mg       715 mg
    166         I+P+S      Vemurafenib     25          CAP        Soluplus        0.0        18           0.7
                           (raw) 500 mg             1500 mg       715 mg
    167           I/P      Vemurafenib     25    Kollidon VA64        -           21.5      7669         288.0
                              500 mg                1500 mg
    168           I/P      Vemurafenib     25          CAP            -           9.5       3761         141.0
         _____500                  mg:              1500 Mg
    169         l/P+S      Vemurafenib     25    1(ollidon VA64   Soluplus        22.3      8564         322.0
                              500mg                 1500mg         715mg
    170         I/P+s      Vemurafenib     25          CAP        Soluplus        21.1      7899         297.0
                              500mg                 1500mg         715mg          21.1      7899         297.0

                                           76
   Experiments 164-170 show that a solubility increase is obtained with
   compositions comprising stable, amorphous hybrid nanoparticles of the
   invention, with vemurafenib, in particular vemurafenib and a polymeric
   stabilizing and matrix-forming component, wherein a separate solubilizer is
 5 added to the composition. Particular improvements are achieved with the
   polymeric stabilizing and matrix-forming component copolyvidone (Kollidon
   VA64) and cellulose acetate phthalate (CAP). Further, improvements are
   achieved by the addition of a separate solubilizer added, wherein said
   solubilizer is polyvinyl caprolactam-polyvinyl acetate-polyethylene glycol
10 copolymer (Soluplus).
   Example 13. Dissolution rate measurement in sink conditions of
   compositions of the invention
   Dissolution measurement in sink conditions of compositions of the
15 invention were measured in a method consisting of adding the wished
   amount of powder into a flow through cell system (SOTAX, Allschwill,
   Switzerland), mounting the cell onto its apparatus and then pumping the
   appropriate medium (typically FaSSIF, FeSSIF, SGF) through the powder.
   The temperature of the apparatus was set to 370C. The amount of powder
20 added into the cell depends on drug load of the powder: The exact amount
   of powder was calculated from results obtained from drug load analysis of
   the powders.
   Typically, 3.5 to 7 mg PKI was added into the flow through cell and a flow
25 rate between 8 and 16 ml medium/min (preferably about 8 ml medium/min)
   was pumped through the powder. One ml samples of the medium passing
   through the cell were collected at predetermined times. These samples
   were analyzed by HPLC (e.g. C18 column Eclipse, 4.6 mm x 15 cm, 1
   ml/min, detection 254-400 nm). Samples were taken after 0, 0.5, 1, 1.5, 2,
30 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 15, 20, 25, 30, 35 and 40 min from the moment the
   medium comes out from the flow through cell. The accumulated %
   solubilized of the amount of active substance added into the flow through

                                                    77
   cell was calculated and plotted against time (min). The initial slope ("initial
   dissolution rate") of the graph was estimated, as measured during 0 to 10
   minutes, and taken as the dissolution rate of the material in sink condition
   at 37*C in the given dissolution medium.
 5
   Each experiment comprises a comparison between the PKI in raw form
   with compositions comprising stable, amorphous hybrid particles of the
   invention with the inhibitor and a representative polymeric stabilizing and
   matrix-forming component.
10
   Example 13.1. Dissolution rate measurement in sink conditions of
   compositions of the invention, comprising nilotinib HCI
   In experiments with nilotinib HCI, 4 mg was weighed in the flow through
   cell (experiment 500) and compared with stable, amorphous hybrid
15 nanoparticles of the invention with nilotinib base and the polymeric
   stabilizing and matrix-forming component HPMCP HP55 (experiment 501).
   The results are depicted in Table 36 below.
   Table 36. Nilotinib HCI sink condition in FaSSIF.
                                Experiment 500                 Experiment 501
       Composition type                  I                            I/P
          Inhibitor (I)        nilotinib HCI (raw)              nilotinib base
        Polymeric stab.
      matrix. Component                  -                      HPMCP HP55
               (P)
         Drug load %                                                 40%
      Accumulated % of solubilized of remaining active substance at a given time (min)
             Min.                        %                           %
                0                      0.13                          3.07
              0.5                      0.33                          7.96
                1                      0.49                          12.23
              1.5                      0.63                          15.22
                2                      0.76                          17.91
                3                      1.02                         23.25
                4                      1.24                         28.03
                5                      1.48                         32.70
                6                      1.71                         37.32
                7                      1.92                         42.04
                8                      2.13                         45.78
                9                      2.34                         49.52

                                                    78
               10                       2.56                         52.34
               15                       3.51                         59.66
              20                        4.31                         66.28
              25                        5.04                         70.92
              30                        5.7                          74.38
              35                        6.4                          76.25
              40                        7.0                          80.33
                                                                Initial Dissolution Rate
                          EXP 500                                     0.27
                          EXP 501                                     6.58
                       Ratio 501/500                                  24.0
   Experiments 500-501 show that the initial dissolution rate of the stable,
   amorphous hybrid nanoparticles of the invention, with nilotinib base, is
   superior to the initial dissolution rate of nilotinib HCI in raw, crystalline form.
 5
   Example 13.2. Dissolution rate measurement in sink conditions of
   compositions of the invention comprising erlotinib HCI
   In experiments with erlotinib HCl, 3.5 mg was weighed in the flow through
   cell (experiment 510) and compared with stable, amorphous hybrid
10 nanoparticles of the invention with erlotinib HCI and the polymeric
   stabilizing and matrix-forming component HPMC AS (experiment 511). The
   results are depicted in Table 37 below.
   Table 37. Erlotinib HCI sink condition in FaSSIF.
                                 Experiment 510                Experiment 511
      Composition type                     I                           i/P
         Inhibitor (1)          erlotinib HC1(raw)               erlotinib HCI
        Polymeric stab.
      matrix. Component                   -                        HPMCAS
               (P)
         Drug load %                                                  35%
      Accumulated % of solubilized of remaining active substance at a given time (min)
             Min.                         %                           %
                0                       0.26                           2,3
              0.5                       0.49                           3.9
                1                       0.63                           5.4
              1.5                       0.71                           6.4
                2                       0.77                           7.2
                3                       0.85                           8.5
                4                       0.91                           9.5
                5                       0.96                          10.3

                                                      79
                6                        1.01                          11.1
                7                        1.06                          11.8
                 8                       1.10                          12.5
                 9                       1.13                          13.1
                10                       1.17                          13.8
               20                        1.58                          19.3
               30                        1.93                          22.0
               40                        2.24                          24.6
                                                                 Initial Dissolution Rate
                            EXP 510                                   0.303
                            EXP 512                                   2.754
                         Ratio 511/510                                  9.1
   Experiments 510-511 show that the initial dissolution rate of the
   compositions comprising stable, amorphous hybrid nanoparticles of the
   invention, with erlotinib HCI and the polymeric stabilizing and matrix
 5 forming component HPMC AS, is superior to the initial dissolution rate of
   erlotinib HCI in raw, crystalline form.
    Example 13.3. Dissolution rate measurement in sink conditions of
   compositions of the invention comprising pazopanib HCI
10  In experiments with pazopanib HCl, 3.5 mg was weighed in the flow
   through cell (experiment 520) and compared with stable, amorphous
    hybrid nanoparticles of the invention with pazopanib HCI and the
    polymeric stabilizing and matrix-forming component PVP90K (experiment
   521). The results are depicted in Table 38 below.
15
   Table 38. Pazopanib HCl sink condition in FaSSIF.
                                    Experiment 520              Experiment 521
       Composition type                     I                            1/P
           Inhibitor (1)          pazopanib HCI (raw)            pazopanib HCI
        Polymeric stab.
       matrix. Component                   -                         PVP90K
                (P)
          Drug load %                                                  35%
       Accumulated % of solubilized of remaining active substance at a given time (min)
              Min.                         %                           %
                 0                        1.6                            1.9
                0.5                       4.7                           4.6
                 1                        7.7                            6.8
                1.5                       9.6                            8.8

                                                         80
                2                       11.2                               10.6
                3                       13.4                               15.2
                4                       14.7                               19.7
                5                       15.4                               22.7
                6                       16.0                               26.2
                7                       16.4                               30.1
                8                       16.9                               33.8
                9                       17.2                               38.2
               10                       17.6                               41.7
               20                       19.2                               73.2
               30                       20.5                               91.3
               40                       21.6                               97.1
                                                            Initial Dissolution Rate    Dissolution Rate (5-10 min)
                           EXP 520                                     4.8                         0.428
                           EXP 521                                    4.33                         3.85
                        Ratio 521/520                                  0.9                          9.0
   Experiments 520-521 show that the initial dissolution rate of the
   compositions comprising stable, amorphous hybrid nanoparticles of the
   invention, with pazopanib HCI and the polymeric stabilizing and matrix
 5 forming component PVP90K, is superior to the initial dissolution rate of
   pazopanib HCI in raw, crystalline form.
    Example 13.4. Dissolution rate measurement in sink conditions of
   compositions of the invention comprising lapatinib ditosylate
10  In experiments with lapatinib ditosylate, 4 mg was weighed in the flow
   through cell (experiment 530) and compared with stable, amorphous
    hybrid nanoparticles of the invention with lapatinib base and the polymeric
    stabilizing and matrix-forming component HPC If (experiment 531). The
    results are depicted in Table 39 below.
15
   Table 39. Lapatinib ditosylate sink condition in FaSSIF.
                                   Experiment 530                           Experiment 531
       Composition type                    i                                       I/P
          Inhibitor (1)       Lapatinib ditosylate (raw)                     Lapatinib base
        Polymeric stab.
       matrix. Component                   -                                    HPC If
               (P)
          Drug load %                                                            66%
              Accumulated % of solubilized of remaining active substance at a given time (min)
             Min.                          %                                %

                                                   81
               0                      0.032                      0.442
              0.5                     0.088                      1.736
               1                      0.141                      3.053
              1.5                     0.190                      4.448
               2                       0.238                     5.771
               3                      0.332                      7.504
               4                      0.422                      8.783
               5                       0.505                     9.736
               6                       0.582                     10.573
               7                       0.655                     11.209
               8                       0.725                     11.732
               9                       0.790                     12.179
               10                      0.851                     12.576
              20                       1.272                     14.128
              30                       1.607                     15.168
              40                       1.944                     15.802
                                                                    Initial Dissolution Rate
                           EXP 530                               0.103
                           EXP 531                                2.674
                        Ratio 531/530                             25.9
   Experiments 530-531 show that the initial dissolution rate of the
   compositions comprising stable, amorphous hybrid nanoparticles of the
   invention, with lapatinib base and the polymeric stabilizing and matrix
 5 forming component HPC If, is superior to the initial dissolution rate of
   lapatinib ditosylate in raw, crystalline form.
   Example 13.5. Dissolution rate measurement in sink conditions of
   compositions of the invention comprising gefitinib
10 In experiments with gefitinib, 3.5 mg was weighed in the flow through cell
   (experiment 540) and compared with stable, amorphous hybrid
   nanoparticles of the invention with gefitinib and the polymeric stabilizing
   and matrix-forming component HPMCP HP55 (experiment 541). The
   results are depicted in Table 40 below.
15
   Table 40. Gefitinib sink condition in FaSSIF.
                                   Experiment 540     Experiment 541
       Composition type                   I                 I/P
          Inhibitor (1)            Gefitinib (raw)       Gefitinib
        Polymeric stab.                                HPMCP HP55
      matrix. Component

                                                     82
                         J                            I
             (P)
         Drug load %     I
                                _       __
                                         -            J               35%
      Accumulated % of solubilized of remaining active substance at a given time (min)
           Min.                          %                            %
              0                        0.1                             1.8
             0.5                       0.9                             6.7
              1                        1.9                            11.3
             1.5                       3.2                            15.4
              2                        4.5                            19.0
              3                        7.0                            23.6
              4                        9.5                            27.4
              5                       11.9                            30.5
              6                       14.3                            33.5
              7                       16.6                            36.0
              8                       18.8                            37.8
              9                       20.7                            39.9
             10                       22.7                            42.6
             20                       29.9                            50.6
             30                       34.1                            56.7
             40                       36.7                            61.8
                                                                Initial Dissolution Rate
                        EXP 540                                        2.2
                        EXP 541                                        8.6
                     Ratio 541/540                                     3.9
   Experiments 540-541 show that the initial dissolution rate of the
   compositions comprising stable, amorphous hybrid nanoparticles of the
   invention, with gefitinib and the polymeric stabilizing and matrix-forming
 5 component HPMCP HP55, is superior to the initial dissolution rate of the
   gefinib in raw, crystalline form.
   Example 13.6. Dissolution rate measurement in sink conditions of
   compositions of the invention comprising dasatinib
10 In experiments with dasatinib, 3.5 mg was weighed in the flow through cell
   (experiment 550) and compared with stable, amorphous hybrid
   nanoparticles of the invention with dasatinib and the polymeric stabilizing
   and matrix-forming component copolyvidon - Kollidon VA64 (experiment
   551). The results are depicted in Table 41 below.
15
   Table 41. Dasatinib sink condition in FaSSIF.
                                  Experiment 550               Experiment 551

                                                     83
      Composition type                   i                             U
         inhibitor (1)            Dasatinib (raw)                  Dasatinib
       Polymeric stab.
     matrix. Component                   -                      Kollidon VA64
             (P)
         Drug load %                                                  35%
      Accumulated % of solubilized of remaining active substance at a given time (min)
           Min.                          %                            %
              0                         0.3                           0.4
             0.5                        0.7                            10
              1                         1.2                            1.7
             1.5                        1.6                            2.3
              2                         2.0                            2.9
              3                         2.8                            4.2
              4                         3.7                            5.5
              5                         4.4                            6.8
              6                         5.2                            8.2
              7                         6.0                            9.5
              8                         6.8                           10.8
              9                         7.6                           12.1
              10                        8.3                           13.4
              20                       15.9                           25.9
              30                       22.1                           40.9
              40                       26.4                           54.9
                                                                Initial Dissolution Rate
                          EXP 550                                      0.8
                          EXP 551                                      1.3
                       Ratio 551/550                                   1.6
   Experiments 550-551 show that the initial dissolution rate of the
   compositions comprising stable, amorphous hybrid of the invention, with
   dasatinib and the polymeric stabilizing and matrix-forming component
 5 copolyvidon (Kollidon VA64), is superior to the initial dissolution rate of the
   dasatinib raw, crystalline form.
   Example 13.7. Dissolution rate measurement in sink conditions of
   compositions the invention comprising sorafenib tosylate
10 In experiments with sorafenib tosylate, 3.5 mg was weighed in the flow
   through cell (experiment 560) and compared with stable, amorphous
   hybrid nanoparticles of the invention with sorafenib tosylate and the
   polymeric stabilizing and matrix-forming component HPMCP HP55
   (experiment 561). The results are depicted in Table 42 below.

                                                      84
   Table 42. Sorafenib tosylate sink condition in FaSSIF.
                                 Experiment 560                Experiment 561
      Composition type                    |                              P
         inhibitor (I)       Sorafenib tosylate (raw)         Sorafenib tosylate
       Polymeric stab.
      matrix. Component                  -                       HPMCP HP55
              (P)
         Drug load %                                                  35%
      Accumulated % of solubilized of remaining active substance at a given time (min)
            Min.                          %                           %
                0                       0.2                            0.8
              0.5                       0.4                            1,7
                1                       0.7                            2.4
              1.5                       1.0                            3.1
                2                       1.3                            3.7
                3                       1.8                            4.8
                4                       2.2                            5.8
                5                       2.6                            6.9
                6                       3.0                            8.1
                7                       3.4                            9.7
                8                       3.8                           11.3
                9                       4.2                           13.3
               10                       4.6                           15.6
               20                       8.8                           32.7
               30                      12.6                           61.5
               40                      16.4                           96.1
                                                                initial Dissolution Rate
                          EXP 560                                     0.47
                          EXP 561                                     1.17
                       Ratio 561/560                                   2.5
   Experiments 560-561 show that the initial dissolution rate of the
 5 compositions comprising stable, amorphous hybrid nanoparticles of the
   invention, with sorafenib tosylate and the polymeric stabilizing and matrix
   forming component HPMCP HP55, is superior to the initial dissolution rate
   of sorafenib tosylate in raw, crystalline form.
10 Example 13.8. Dissolution rate measurement in sink conditions of
   compositions of the invention comprising crizotinib
   In experiments with crizotinib, 3.5 mg was weighed in the flow through cell
   (experiment 570) and compared with stable, amorphous hybrid

                                                    85
   nanoparticles of the invention with crizotinib and the polymeric stabilizing
   and matrix-forming component PVP 30K (experiment 571). The results are
   depicted in Table 43 below.
 5 Table 43. Crizotinib sink condition in FaSSIF.
                                 Experiment 570                Experiment 571
      Composition type                   I                             I/p
         Inhibitor (1)           Crizotinib (raw)                  Crizotinib
       Polymeric stab.
     matrix. Component                   -                         PVP 30K
              (P)
         Drug load %                                                  25%
      Accumulated %of solubilized of remaining active substance at a given time (min)
            Min.                         %                           %
               0                        2.0                            8.8
             0.5                        5.7                           30.3
               1                        8.9                          47.9
              1.5                      11.9                           58.3
               2                       14.6                           67.5
               4                       23.1                           81.7
               6                       30.1                           83.8
               8                       36.0                           84.2
              10                       41.0                           84.4
              20                       58.9                           85.1
              30                       73.1                           85.3
              40                       86.3                           85.5
                                                           Initial Dissolution Rate
                          EXP 570                                      6.6
                          EXP 571                                     33.3
                       Ratio 571/570                                   5.0
   Experiments 570-571 show that the initial dissolution rate of the
   compositions comprising stable, amorphous hybrid nanoparticles of the
   invention, with crizotinib and the polymeric stabilizing and matrix-forming
10 component PVP 30K, is superior to the initial dissolution rate of crizotinib in
   raw, crystalline form.
   Example 13.9. Dissolution rate measurement in sink conditions of
   compositions of the invention comprising axitinib
15 In experiments with axitinib, 3.5 mg was weighed in the flow through cell
   (experiment 580) and compared with stable, amorphous hybrid
   nanoparticles of the invention with axitinib and the polymeric stabilizing

                                                     86
   and matrix-forming component Kollidon VA64 (experiment 581) or HPMC
   AS (experiment 582). The results are depicted in Table 44 below.
   Table 44. Axitinib sink condition in FaSSIF.
                              Experiment 580            Experiment 581            Experiment 582
     Composition type                 II/P                                                I/P
         Inhibitor (1)         Axitinib (raw)               Axitinib                   Axitinib
      Polymeric stab.
           matrix.                                       Kollidon VA64                HPMC AS
       Component (P)
        Drug load %                                            25%                      25%
             Accumulated % of solubilized of remaining active substance at a given time (min)
             Min.                    %                         %                         %
               0                    0.03                       0.75                     0.22
             0.5                    0.06                       1.60                     0.59
               1                    0.08                       2.33                     1.04
             1.5                    0.11                       2.97                      1.50
               2                    0.13                       3.56                      1.92
               4                    0.23                       6.03                     3.25
               6                    0.31                       7.76                     4.39
               8                    0.40                       9.74                     5.34
              10                    0.49                      11.81                     6.17
              20                    0.97                      22.04                     9.03
              30                    1.46                      27.42                     11.43
              40                    1.96                      30.53                     13.52
                                                    Initial Dissolution Rate
                        EXP 580                               0.051
                     EXP 581 & 582                            1.396                     0.865
               Ratio 581/580 & 582/580                         27.5                      17.1
 5
   Experiments 580-582 show that the initial dissolution rate of the
   compositions comprising stable, amorphous hybrid nanoparticles of the
   invention, with axitinib and the polymeric stabilizing and matrix-forming
   component Kollidon VA64 or HPMC AS, is superior to the initial dissolution
10 rate of axitinib in raw, crystalline form.
   Example 13.10. Dissolution rate measurement in sink conditions of
   compositions of the invention comprising vemurafenib
   In experiments with vemurafenib, 3.5 mg was weighed in the flow through
15 cell (experiment 590) and compared with stable, amorphous hybrid
   nanoparticles of the invention with vemurafenib and the polymeric

                                                    87
   stabilizing and matrix-forming component Kollidon VA64 (experiment 591)
   or CAP (experiment 592). The results are depicted in Table 45 below.
   Table 45. Vemurafenib sink condition in FaSSIF.
                             Experiment 590           Experiment 591             Experiment 592
      Composition type               I                         I/P                      [/P
        Inhibitor (1)      Vemu rafenib (raw)           Vemurafenib                Vemurafenib
       Polymeric stab.
           matrix.                  .                   Kollidon VA64                  CAP
       Component (P)
        Drug load %                                           25%                      25%
            Accumulated % of solubilized of remaining active substance at a given time (min)
            Min.                   %                          %                        %
             0                     0.0                         0.1                      0.4
            0.5                    0.0                         0.2                      1.1
             1                     0.0                         0.3                      1.8
            1.5                    0.0                         0.4                      2.4
             2                     0.0                         0.5                      3.1
             4                     0.0                         1.2                      6.3
             6                     0.0                         1.9                      9.4
             8                     0.0                         2.4                     11.0
            10                     0.0                         2.9                     12.1
            20                     0.0                         4.7                     14.9
            30                     0.1                         5.9                     16.8
            40                     0.1                         7.1                     18.3
                                                   Initial Dissolution Rate
                       EXP 590                               0.002
                    EXP 591 & 592                            0.209                    1.346
              Ratio 591/590 & 592/590                          104                     673
 5
   Experiments 590-592 clearly shows that the initial dissolution rate of the
   compositions comprising stable, amorphous hybrid nanoparticles of the
   invention, with vemurafenib and the polymeric stabilizing and matrix
   forming component Kollidon VA64 or CAP, is superior to the initial
10 dissolution rate of vemurafenib in raw, crystalline form.
   Example 14. In vivo measurement of plasma levels after oral
   administration of compositions of the invention
   Groups of four beagle dogs received single oral doses (5 mg/kg) of
15 capsule compositions comprising stable, amorphous hybrid nanoparticles
   of the invention with nilotinib base and either of the polymeric stabilizing
   and matrix-forming components PVAP or HPMCP HP55, optionally with

                                           88
   addition of the solubilizer polyvinyl caprolactam-polyvinyl acetate
   polyethylene glycol copolymer, and compared with a marketed formulation
   comprising nilotinib HCI. The stable, amorphous hybrid nanoparticles
   tested are as set out in experiments 146-149, in Example 9. The stomach
 5 contents of the dogs were either neutralized with a sodium bicarbonate
   solution 5 min prior to capsule dosing or acidified with an HCI-KCI buffer 10
   min prior to dose. One group of dogs also received a single iv dose (1
   mg/kg) of nilotinib. Plasma levels of nilotinib were determined with a
   selective LC-MS/MS method. There were no side-effects observed in any
10 animal studied.
   Results and conclusions
   MeanSEM plasma concentration-time profiles of nilotinib base are shown
   in Figures 22-25, and pharmacokinetic parameters and results are
15 displayed in Tables 46A and 46B.
    Outliers were calculated and excluded based on if one value is a
   significant outlier from the rest at 95% confidence intervals (alpha = 5%)
    according to Grubb's test. The critical Z value for the Grubb's test at the
20  95% confidence interval with n=4 is 1.48. Z = (Mean - Questionable
   value)/SD
   Table 46A. Pharmacokinetic data following single oral administration of
    different nilotinib compositions of the invention, in dogs.
                   Marketed    Marketed           I/P          I/P+S            I/P
                    nilotinib   nilotinib     Nilotinib     Nilotinib    Nilotinib base/
                  formulation formulation   base/ PVAP    base/ PVAP +         PVAP
                                               Exp 147      Soluplus         Exp 147
                                                             Exp 149
                      Acidic     Neutral        Acidic        Acidic         Neutral
                    Stomach     Stomach       Stomach       Stomach         Stomach
    Cmax,            86 52       73 26       240 87         360 89         490  350
    ng/ml
    Tmax, hr        7.6 11      1.3  0.3     1.3    0.3     1.3  0.3       1.4  0.5
    T %2, hr        9.9; 10.7   1.9  0.3     4.3     3.0    3.3  2.0       3.4  1.2
    AUC 0-24h,     400 140     220  90      650     240   1260  70     1820 1200
    ng*hr/mL                                                           I                 I

                                                89
   F(              7.9  2.9     4.4 1.8          13  5             25 1          3624
   Values are given as Mean+SD, except for T A of the Marketed nilotinib
   formulation given too acid stomach where only two values were obtained.
 5 Intravenous (IV) data were obtained by constant rate IV infusion of 1
   mg/kg, of a solution of Nilotinib at 0.2 mg/mL, in a 10% HPBCD, pH
   adjustment to pH 3.3 to 3.5. Co: 51146 ng/mL; TA: 3.31.8 hr; AUCO
   24hr: 1000300 ng*hr/mL
10 Table 46B. Pharmacokinetic data following single oral administration of
   different nilotinib formulations of the invention, in dogs.
                        I/P               I/P                  I/P                 I/P
                 Nilotinib base/   Nilotinib base/      Nilotinib base/     Nilotinib base/
                  HPMCP HP55       HPMCP HP55 +           HPMCP HP55        HPMCP HP55 +
                      Exp 146         Soluplus              Exp 146            Soluplus
                                       Exp 148                                  Exp 148
                Neutral Stomach   Neutral Stomach            Acidic              Acidic
                                                            Stomach            Stomach
   Cmax,             210     97       560    220            380 90             270 130
   ng/mL
   Tmax, hr          1.10.5          1.3 0.29              1.2    0.3          1.0 0.0
   TM, hr            1.9 0.2           3.0 1.4              3.3    1.3          3.8 0.8
   AUC0-24h,         730     390     1600     580          1230     110        910  630
   flg* hr/rnL   ___      _____
   F(%)                15    8         32     12              24   2             18 13
   Values are given as MeanSD
    Intravenous (IV) data were obtained by constant rate IV infusion of 1
15 mg/kg, of a solution of Nilotinib at 0.2 mg/mL, in a 10% HPRCD, pH
   adjustment to pH 3.3 to 3.5. Co: 51146 ng/mL; TA: 3.31.8 hr; AUCO
   24hr: 1000300 ng*hr/mL.
   The marketed nilotinib formulation administrated to an acidified stomach
20 showed plasma levels about 2 times higher than those after the same
   formulation administered to a neutralized stomach. Both formulations
   comprising stable, amorphous hybrid nanoparticles of the invention with
    nilotinib base with PVAP and HPMCP HP55 as polymeric stabilizing and
    matrix-forming components showed significant improvements in plasma

                                           90
   exposure, with plasma levels about 2-fold higher than those of the
   marketed formulation given to an acidified stomach. In addition, combining
   stable, amorphous hybrid nanoparticles produced by the methods of the
   invention could give a plasma exposure that is be more or less
 5 independent of stomach pH.
   Further improvements in oral availability were observed when formulations
   with stable, amorphous hybrid nanoparticles of the invention were
   combined with the solubilizer polyvinyl caprolactam-polyvinyl acetate
10 polyethylene glycol copolymer. Thus, compositions of the invention with
   nilotinib base with PVAP and HPMCP HP55 as polymeric stabilizing and
   matrix-forming components, where the solubilizer polyvinyl caprolactam
   polyvinyl acetate-polyethylene glycol copolymer was added and
   administered to an acidified stomach resulted in plasma levels 2.3- to 3.1
15 fold higher than those of the marketed formulation. In this study, high oral
   bioavailability was achieved with stable, amorphous hybrid nanoparticles of
   the invention with nilotinib base with HPMCP HP55 as polymeric stabilizing
   and matrix-forming components, where the solubilizer polyvinyl
   caprolactam-polyvinyl acetate-polyethylene glycol copolymer was added
20  (l/P+S) and administrated to neutralized stomach contents. In this case the
    exposure increased about 7-fold over that of the marketed oral formulation
    administered under the same neutralized conditions. Highest bioavalability,
    3624%, in this study was achieved when stable, amorphous hybrid
    nanoparticles of the invention with nilotinib base with PVAP as polymeric
25  stabilizing and matrix-forming component was administered to a
    neutralized stomach. However, this study leg was also accompanied with
    the highest standard deviation in the study.
    There was an improvement in the in vivo performance of the compositions
30  of the present invention with of nilotinib stable, amorphous hybrid
    nanoparticles, that are based on improving absorption and bioavailability
    by optimization of the solid state properties of the dosage form. The results

                                         91
   of the in vivo study in dogs may predict similar absorption properties of
   stable, amorphous hybrid nanoparticles of the invention, in patients, as
   there appears to be a close correlation in dog-human gastrointestinal drug
   absorption processes (Persson, E.M. et al. Pharm. Res. 2005, 22, 2141
 5 2151). The stable, amorphous hybrid nanoparticles of the invention, with
   advantageous absorption properties, also predict that the oral doses used
   in clinical practice today may be lowered. Furthermore, the stable,
   amorphous hybrid nanoparticles of the invention may cause less pH
   dependency in the absorption and bioavailability of PKIs.
10
   Example 15. Measurement of degree/level of stability of compositions
   with hybrid nanoparticles of the invention
   In stability tests of compositions comprising hybrid nanoparticles of the
   invention, it was shown that particles were stable over at least 11 months
15 at room temperature (18-25"C), as measured by X-Ray powder diffraction
   and dissolution rate by measurement of AUC.
    In series of experiments with stable, amorphous hybrid nanoparticles
   comprising nilotinib and HPMCP HP55 produced by the methods of the
20 invention, the resulting particles provided stable, amorphous hybrid
   nanoparticles at 40% drug load (I/P nilotinib base/HPMCP HP55: exp 146),
   as measured by XRPD as well as dissolution rate by measurement of
   AUC. The material showed one glass transition temperature at ca 127 OC,
   which indicate a single amorphous phase with inherent stability. Partially
25  crystalline batches also processed similar inherent stability. 6 months
    storage at room temperature (18-25 OC) of partly crystalline hybrid
    nanoparticles at 40% drug load, /P nilotinib base/HPMCP HP55, did not
    show any signs of physical instability.
30  Thermalgravimetric analysis provided a mass loss of 1.7 % from ambient
    temperature to 1200C.

                                           92
   Dynamic vapor absorption analysis at 25 'C gave a relative mass increase
   of ca 7% from 0 to 90% RH (Three cycles from 0 to 90% RH, did not
   induce a phase change).
 5 The high glass transition temperature, 1.7% mass loss from ambient
   temperature to 1200C and moderate hygrospopicity propose an inherent
   stability. This is supported by stability testing of several batches at various
   conditions. The longest stability point is 12 months at room temperature
   (18 - 25*C). No batches or conditions have shown any signs of physical
10 instability (Figure 27).
   Modulated Differential Scanning Calorimetry (mDSC)
   Modulated Differential Scanning Calorimetry (mDSC) analysis was run on
   a TA Instruments Model Q200 (New Castle, USA), equipped with a RC90
15 refrigerated cooling system (Home Automation, New Orleans, USA).
   Samples were weighed to 72 mg in Tzero Low-mass aluminum pans and
   sealed with Tzero lids. They were then heated at a heating rate of 3'C/min
   from 0 to 170 0 C with conventional modulation temperature amplitude of
   1*C and a modulation period of 40 seconds. Ultra-high purity nitrogen was
20 used as purge gas at a flow rate of 50 mL/min. All data analyses were
   performed using TA Universal Analysis software, version 4.7A. Cell
   constant and temperature calibrations were conducted with the use of an
   indium standard prior to instrument operation. DSC results were evaluated
   in terms of both forward and reverse components of heat flow.
25
   Thermogravimetry (TG) was performed on a Seiko TG/DTA 6200 and
   open 90 I.1   Pt-pans with ca 10 to 20 mg of sample and a nitrogen flow of
   200 mL/min. The temperature program was ambient (200C) to 400*C with
    a heating rate of 10 0Clmin. A blank was subtracted and the TG data was
30  normalized with respect to sample size and analyzed using the Muse
    Standard Analysis software, version 6.1 U.

                                         93
   Dynamic Vapour Sorption (DVS)
   The hygroscopicity of the samples was studied by Dynamic Vapor Sorption
   Gravimetry (DVS), using a DVS-1 (Surface Measurement Ltd., UK).
   Approximately 10 mg of the substance was weighed into a glass cup. The
 5 relative weight was recorded at 20 second interval when the target relative
   humidity (RH) over the sample was increased stepwise from 0% to 90%,
   and then similarly decreased back to 0% RH, with 10% RH per step. Each
   sample was run in three consecutive full cycles. The condition to proceed
   to the next level of RH was a weight change below or equal to 0.002%
10 within 15 minutes, with a maximum total time per step of 24 hours. Due to
   slow equilibration in experiments of this type, the numbers obtained should
   be regarded as lower estimates of water uptake. The temperature was
   kept at 250C.
15 X-Ray Powder Diffraction (XRPD)
   XRD experiments were run on an X'Pert Pro diffractometer
   (PANanalytical, Almelo, Netherlands) set in Bragg-Brentano geometry. The
   diffractometer was equipped with 20 pm nickel filter and an X'Celerator
   RTMS detector with an active length of 2.122     o20. A representative
20 sample was placed on a zero background quarts single crystal specimen
   support (Siltronix, Archamps, France). Experiments were run using Cu Ka
   radiation (45kV and 40 mA) at ambient temperature and humidity. Scans
   were run in continuous mode in the range 4.5-40o 20 using automatic
   divergence and anti-scatter slits with observed length of 10 mm, a common
25 counting time of 299.72 seconds, and step size of 0.01670 20. Data
   collection was done using the application software X'Pert Data Collector
   V.2.2j and instrument control software V.2.1 E, while pattern analysis was
   done using X'Pert Data Viewer V.1.2c (all software being from
   PANanalytical, Almelo, Netherlands).
30
   Dissolution rate by measurement of AUC

                                             94
   The stable hybrid nanoparticles described in Exp 171 & Expl72 (l/P) as
   set out below, were produced according to Exp 148, with nilotinib base,
   HPMCP HP55 and stored at room temperature for 11 months. The non
   sink dissolution rate was tested at different different time points and the
 5 results are presented in Table 47 and Figure 26. Polyvinyl caprolactam
   polyvinyl acetate-polyethylene glycol copolymer was added to enhance
   solubility. A comparison of the AUC over 80 minuntes show clearly that the
   dissolution rate profile of the particles is practically unchanged after 11
   months storage, e.g. the ratio between the AUC of particles produced and
10 tested, compared to particles produced, tested and stored for 11 months is
   over 97%.
   Table 47.
                   0    1min     5 min  10 min   20 min   40 min 80 min  AUC
   Exp 171 (t= ,   0    70,5     144,8  172,8    155,     67,7   46,0    7411,9
   n=1)
   Exp 171 (t=11   0    20,2     110,7  149,5    158,5    83,6   34,0    7234,5 97,6
   months, n=2;)                                                                _   __
   Standard
        dvain0          5,8      14,3   19,6     19,6     3,5    1,5
15

                                          95
   Claims
   1.   A pharmaceutical composition comprising stable, amorphous hybrid
        nanoparticles of at least one protein kinase inhibitor and at least one
 5      polymeric stabilizing and matrix-forming component; which
        composition optionally further comprises at least one
        pharmaceutically acceptable solubilizer.
   2.   The composition of claim 1, which composition further comprises at
10      least one pharmaceutically acceptable solubilizer.
   3.   The composition of claim 1 or 2, wherein said solubilizer is present
        separated from the hybrid nanoparticles in the composition.
15 4.   The composition according to any one of claims 1 to 3, wherein said
        solubilizer is distributed to the surface of the hybrid nanoparticles.
   5.   The composition according to any one of claims 1 to 4, wherein said
        composition provides an increased dissolution rate, compared to the
20      dissolution rate of said protein kinase inhibitor in raw, crystalline form.
   6.   The composition of claim 5, wherein said dissolution rate is measured
        by a flow through cell system.
25 7.   The composition of claim 5 or 6, wherein said dissolution rate is
        measured within the initial 0 to 10 minutes of dissolution.
   8.   The composition according to any one of claims 5 to 7, wherein said
        increased dissolution rate is measured in a solution as dissolution
30      rate ratio of said hybrid nanoparticles comprising said protein kinase
        inhibitor; and said protein kinase inhibitor in raw, crystalline form.
   9.   The composition of claim 8, wherein said ratio is from about 1.5:1 to
        about 500:1, such as from about 10:1 to about 30:1.
35

                                         96
   10. The composition according to any one of claims 5 to 9, wherein said
       dissolution rate is measured in a solution with intestinal pH, such as
       FaSSIF or FeSSIF.
 5 11. The composition according to any one of claims 5 to 9, wherein said
       dissolution rate is measured in a solution with gastric pH, such as
       SGF.
   12. The composition according to any one of claims 1 to 11, which
10     provides a solubility increase of inhibitor in a solution, said increase
       measured as the area under the curve (AUC) during about from 40
       minutes to about 90 minutes, in said solution as compared with the
       AUC of inhibitor in raw, crystalline form.
15 13. The composition of claim 12, wherein said increase is from about 2:1
       to about 10 000:1, wherein 1 represents AUC of inhibitor in raw,
       crystalline form.
   14. The composition according to claim 12 or 13, wherein said increase
20     is measured in a solution with intestinal pH, such as FaSSIF or
       FeSSIF.
   15. The composition of claim 12 or 13, wherein said increase is
       measured in a solution with gastric pH, such as SGF.
25
   16. The composition according to any one of claims 1 to 15, wherein said
       stable, amorphous hybrid nanoparticles are characterized by
       providing an amorphous powder X-ray diffraction pattern.
30 17. The composition according to any one of claims 1 to 16, wherein the
       dissolution rate of said stable, amorphous hybrid nanoparticles
       remain stable to at least about 90%, after 9 months of storage or
       more, at room temperature.

                                        97
   18. The composition according to any one of claims 1 to 17, wherein said
       polymeric stabilizing and matrix-forming component is selected from
       methyl cellulose, hydroxyethyl cellulose, hydroxypropyl cellulose,
       hydroxypropyl methylcellulose, hydroxypropyl methylcellulose acetate
 5     succinate, hydroxypropyl methylcellulose phthalate,
       polyvinylpyrrolidone, polyvinyl acetate phthalate, copolyvidone,
       crospovidon, methacrylic acid and ethylacrylate copolymer,
       methacrylate acid and methyl methacrylate copolymer, polyethylene
       glycol, DL lactide/glycolide copolymer, poly DL-lactide, cellulose
10     acetate phthalate, carbomer homopolymer Type A, carbomer
       homopolymer Type B, aminoalkyl methacrylate copolymers and
       poloxamers.
   19. The composition according to any one of claims 1 to 17, wherein said
15     polymeric stabilizing and matrix-forming component is selected from
       hydroxypropyl methylcellulose phthalate, hydroxypropyl cellulose,
       copolyvidon, hydroxypropyl methylcellulose acetate succinate,
       polyvinyl acetate phthalate, cellulose acetate phthalate and
       polyvinyl pyrrolidone.
20
   20. The composition according to any one of claims 1 to 19, wherein said
       solubilizer is selected from polyvinyl caprolactam-polyvinyl acetate
       polyethylene glycol copolymer, d-a-tocopherol acid polyethylene
       glycol 1000 succinate and a hydrogenated castor oil, such as PEG
25     40 hydrogenated castor oil or PEG-35 hydrogenated castor oil.
   21. The composition according to any one of claims 1 to 19, wherein said
       solubilizer is polyvinyl caprolactam-polyvinyl acetate-polyethylene
       glycol copolymer.
30
   22. The composition according to any one of claims 1 to 21, wherein said
       inhibitor is a tyrosine kinase inhibitor selected from the group
       consisting of lapatinib, pazopanib, nilotinib, erlotinib, dasatinib,

                                          98
       gefitinib, sorafenib axitinib, crizotinib and vemurafenib; or salts or
       hydrates or solvates thereof, or combinations thereof.
   23. The composition according to any one of claims I to 22, wherein said
 5     inhibitor is nilotinib; and said polymeric stabilizing and matrix-forming
       component is hydroxypropyl methylcellulose phthalate or polyvinyl
       acetate phthalate.
   24, The composition according to any one of claims 1 to 22, wherein said
10     inhibitor is nilotinib; said polymeric stabilizing and matrix-forming
       component is hydroxy propyl methyl cellulose phthalate or polyvinyl
       acetate phthalate; and said solubilizer is polyvinyl caprolactam
       polyvinyl acetate-polyethylene glycol copolymer or d-a-tocopherol
       acid polyethylene glycol 1000 succinate.
15
   25. The composition according to any one of claims 1 to 22, wherein said
       inhibitor is erlotinib, and said polymeric stabilizing and matrix-forming
       component is hydroxypropyl methylcellulose acetate succinate.
20 26. The composition according to any one of claims I to 22, wherein said
       inhibitor is erlotinib; said polymeric stabilizing and matrix-forming
       component is hydroxypropyl methylcellulose acetate succinate; and
       said solubilizer is polyvinyl caprolactam-polyvinyl acetate
       polyethylene glycol copolymer or d-a-tocopherol acid polyethylene
25     glycol 1000 succinate.
   27. The composition according to any one of claims 1 to 22, wherein said
        inhibitor is pazopanib; and said polymeric stabilizing and matrix
       forming component is polyvinylpyrrolidone.
30
   28. The composition according to any one of claims 1 to 22, wherein said
        inhibitor is pazopanib; said polymeric stabilizing and matrix-forming
        component is polyvinylpyrrolidone; and said solubilizer is polyvinyl
        caprolactam-polyvinyl acetate-polyethylene glycol copolymer or d-a
35      tocopherol acid polyethylene glycol 1000 succinate.

                                         99
   29. The composition according to any one of claims 1 to 22, wherein said
       inhibitor is lapatinib; and said polymeric stabilizing and matrix-forming
       component is hydroxypropyl cellulose.
 5
   30. The composition according to any one of claims 1 to 22, wherein said
       inhibitor is lapatinib; said polymeric stabilizing and matrix-forming
       component is hydroxypropyl cellulose; and said solubilizer is polyvinyl
       caprolactam-polyvinyl acetate-polyethylene glycol copolymer or d-a
10     tocopherol acid polyethylene glycol 1000 succinate.
   31. The composition according to any one of claims 1 to 22, wherein said
       inhibitor is gefitinib; and said polymeric stabilizing and matrix-forming
       component is hydroxy propyl methylcellulose phthalate or polyvinyl
15     acetate phthalate or polyvinylpyrrolidone.
   32. The composition according to any one of claims 1 to 22, wherein said
       inhibitor is gefitinib; said polymeric stabilizing and matrix-forming
       component is hydroxypropyl methylcellulose phthalate or polyvinyl
20     acetate phthalate or polyvinylpyrrolidone; and said solubilizer is
       polyvinyl caprolactam-polyvinyl acetate-polyethylene glycol
       copolymer.
   33. The composition according to any one of claims 1 to 22, wherein said
25      inhibitor is dasatinib; and said polymeric stabilizing and matrix
       forming component is copolyvidone.
   34. The composition according to any one of claims 1 to 22, wherein said
        inhibitor is dasatinib; said polymeric stabilizing and matrix-forming
30      component is copolyvidone; and said solubilizer is polyvinyl
        caprolactam-polyvinyl acetate-polyethylene glycol copolymer.

                                          100
   35. The composition according to any one of claims 1 to 22, wherein said
       inhibitor is sorafenib; and said polymeric stabilizing and matrix
       forming component is hydroxypropyl methylcellulose phthalate.
 5 36. The composition according to any one of claims I to 22, wherein said
       inhibitor is sorafenib; said polymeric stabilizing and matrix-forming
       component is hydroxypropyl methylcellulose phthalate; and said
       solubilizer is polyvinyl caprolactam-polyvinyl acetate-polyethylene
       glycol copolymer.
10
   37. The composition according to any one of claims 1 to 22, wherein said
       inhibitor is nilotinib base; and said polymeric stabilizing and matrix
       forming component is hydroxypropyl methylcellulose phthalate or
       polyvinyl acetate phthalate.
15
   38. The composition according to any one of claims 1 to 22, wherein said
       inhibitor is nilotinib base; said polymeric stabilizing and matrix
       forming component is hydroxypropyl methylcellulose phthalate or
       polyvinyl acetate phthalate; and said solubilizer is polyvinyl
20     caprolactam-polyvinyl acetate-polyethylene glycol copolymer.
   39. The composition according to any one of claims 1 to 22, wherein said
       inhibitor is axitinib; and said polymeric stabilizing and matrix-forming
       component is copolyvidone or hydroxypropyl methylcellulose acetate
25     succinate.
   40. The composition according to any one of claims 1 to 22, wherein said
        inhibitor is axitinib; said polymeric stabilizing and matrix-forming
       component is copolyvidone or hydroxypropyl methylcellulose acetate
30     succinate; and said solubilizer is polyvinyl caprolactam-polyvinyl
        acetate-polyethylene glycol copolymer.
   41. The composition according to any one of claims I to 22, wherein said
        inhibitor is crizotinib; and said polymeric stabilizing and matrix
35     forming component is copolyvidone or polyvinylpyrrolidone.

                                         101
   42. The composition according to any one of claims 1 to 22, wherein said
       inhibitor is crizotinib; said polymeric stabilizing and matrix-forming
       component is copolyvidone or polyvinylpyrrolidone; and said
 5     solubilizer is polyvinyl caprolactam-polyvinyl acetate-polyethylene
       glycol copolymer or PEG-40 hydrogenated castor oil.
   43. The composition according to any one of claims 1 to 22, wherein said
       inhibitor is vemurafenib; and said polymeric stabilizing and matrix
10     forming component is copolyvidone or cellulose acetate phthalate.
   44. The composition according to any one of claims I to 22, wherein said
       inhibitor is vemurafenib; said polymeric stabilizing and matrix-forming
       component is copolyvidone or cellulose acetate phthalate; and said
15     solubilizer is polyvinyl caprolactam-polyvinyl acetate-polyethylene
       glycol.
   45. The composition according to any one of claims 1 to 44, wherein said
       stable, amorphous hybrid nanoparticles has an average particle
20     diameter size of less than about 1000 nm.
   46. The composition of claim 45, wherein said particle diameter size is
        less than about 500 nm, preferably less than 250 nm.
25 47. The composition according to any one of claims 1 to 46, wherein said
        protein kinase inhibitor is partially released from the composition, at a
        pH of from about 1 to about 2, preferably at about pH 1.4.
   48. A composition according to any one of claims 1 to 47, for use in
30     therapy.
   49. A composition according to any one of claims 1 to 47, for use in the
        treatment of proliferative disorders.

                                        102
   50. The composition for use, according to claim 49, wherein said
       proliferative disorder is selected from tumours and cancers.
   51. The composition for use, according to claim 49, wherein said
 5     proliferative disorder is selected from neurofibromatosis, tuberous
       sclerosis, hemangiomas and lymphangiogenesis, cervical, anal and
       oral cancers, eye or ocular cancer, stomach cancer, colon cancer,
       bladder cancer, rectal cancer, liver cancer, pancreas cancer, lung
       cancer, breast cancer, cervix uteri cancer, corpus uteri cancer, ovary
10     cancer, prostate cancer, testis cancer, renal cancer, brain cancer,
       cancer of the central nervous system, head and neck cancer, throat
       cancer, skin melanoma, acute lymphocytic leukemia, acute
       myelogenous leukemia, Ewing's Sarcoma, Kaposi's Sarcoma, basal
       cell carcinoma and squamous cell carcinoma, small cell lung cancer,
15     choriocarcinoma, rhabdomyosarcoma, angiosarcoma,
       hemangioendothelioma, Wilms Tumor, neuroblastoma,
       mouth/pharynx cancer, esophageal cancer, larynx cancer,
       lymphoma, multiple myeloma; cardiac hypertrophy, age-related
       macular degeneration and diabetic retinopathy.
20
   52. The composition for use, according to any one of claims 49 to 51,
       wherein said composition is provided during food intake.
   53. A method of treating proliferative disorder in a patient in need thereof,
25     comprising administering a therapeutically effective amount of a
       composition according to any one of claims 1 to 47.
   54. The method of claim 53, wherein said proliferative disorder is
       selected from tumours and cancers.
30
   55. The method of claim 53, wherein said proliferative disorder is
       selected from neurofibromatosis, tuberous sclerosis, hemangiomas
       and lymphangiogenesis, cervical, anal and oral cancers, eye or
       ocular cancer, stomach cancer, colon cancer, bladder cancer, rectal
35     cancer, liver cancer, pancreas cancer, lung cancer, breast cancer,

                                       103
       cervix uteri cancer, corpus uteri cancer , ovary cancer, prostate
       cancer, testis cancer, renal cancer, brain cancer, cancer of the
       central nervous system, head and neck cancer, throat cancer, skin
       melanoma, acute lymphocytic leukemia, acute myelogenous
 5     leukemia, Ewing's Sarcoma, Kaposi's Sarcoma, basal cell carcinoma
       and squamous cell carcinoma, small cell lung cancer,
       choriocarcinoma, rhabdomyosarcoma, angiosarcoma,
       hemangioendothelioma, Wilms Tumor, neuroblastoma,
       mouth/pharynx cancer, esophageal cancer, larynx cancer,
10     lymphoma, multiple myeloma; cardiac hypertrophy, age-related
       macular degeneration and diabetic retinopathy.
   56. The method of any one of claims 54 to 56, wherein said composition
       is provided during food intake.
15
   57. Stable, amorphous hybrid nanoparticles, comprising at least one
       protein kinase inhibitor and at least one polymeric stabilizing and
       matrix-forming component, as defined in any one of claims I to 47.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
