ABSTRACT
A patient interface assembly for interfacing an ophthalmic intervention system with an eye of a
patient includes a housing, an optical lens coupled to the housing, an eye engagement assembly
coupled to the housing, the eye engagement assembly including an inner seal and an outer seal, and a
tissue migration bolster structure positioned between the inner seal and outer seal and configured to
apply a resisting load against portions of the eye in a vacuum zone which are capable of distending
upon application of the vacuum load. The eye engagement assembly is adapted to be placed into
contact with the eye of the patient by sealably engaging the eye with the inner and outer seals, thereby
defining the vacuum zone as being between the inner and outer seals when placed into contact with
the eye.

    PATIENT INTERFACE FOR OPHTHALMOLOGIC DIAGNOSTIC
                       AND INTERVENTIONAL PROCEDURES
                                        CROSS-REFERENCE
[00011 This application claims priority to U.S. Patent Application No. 13/279,126 filed October 21,
2011; U.S. Patent Application No. 13/279,152 filed October 21, 2011; U.S. Patent Application No.
13/279,155 filed October 21, 2011; and U.S. Patent Application No. 13/279,181, filed October 21,
2011, the entirety of each of which are hereby incorporated by reference.
[0001A] The present specification is a divisional of AU<removed-apn>, the disclosure of which is
incorporated herein by reference and the reader is directed to that earlier specification for aspects
which are described herein but not claimed.
                                     FIELD OF THE INVENTION
[00021 The present invention relates to ophthalmic surgical procedures and systems.
                               BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
[0003] Cataract extraction is one of the most commonly performed surgical procedures in the world
with approximately 4 million cases performed annually in the United States and 15 million cases
worldwide. This market is composed of various segments including intraocular lenses for
implantation, viscoelastic polymers to facilitate surgical maneuvers, disposable instrumentation
including ultrasonic phacoemulsification tips, tubing, and various knives and forceps. Modem cataract
surgery is typically performed using a technique termed "phacoemulsification" in which an ultrasonic
tip with an associated water stream for cooling purposes is used to sculpt the relatively hard nucleus
of the lens after creation of an opening in the anterior lens capsule termed "anterior capsulotomy" or
more recently "capsulorhexis". Following these steps as well as removal of residual softer lens cortex
by aspiration methods without fragmentation, a synthetic foldable intraocular lens, or "IOL", may be
inserted into the eye through a small incision.
[0004] One of the earliest and most critical steps in the procedure is the creation, or performance, of
capsulorhexis. This step evolved from an earlier technique termed "can-opener capsulotomy" in which
a sharp needle was used to perforate the anterior lens capsule in a circular fashion followed by the
removal of a circular fragment of lens capsule typically in the range of 5-8 mm in diameter. This
facilitated the next step of nuclear sculpting by phacoemulsification. Due to a variety of complications
associated with variations of the can opener technique, attempts were made by leading experts in the
field to develop a better technique for removal of the anterior lens capsule preceding the
emulsification step. The concept of the capsulorhexis is to provide a smooth continuous circular
opening through which not only the phacoemulsification of the nucleus can be performed safely and
easily, but also for easy insertion of the intraocular lens. It provides both a clear central access for
insertion, a permanent aperture for transmission of the image to the retina by the patient, and also a
support of the IOL inside the remaining capsule that would limit the potential for dislocation.
                                                     1

 [0005] More modern techniques, such as those employing lasers to assist with the creation of
 precision capsulorhexis geometries as well as other desired incisions, such as tissue structure relaxing
 incisions of various types, are disclosed, for example, in U.S. Patent Application Serial Nos.
 11/328,970, 12/510,148, 12/048,182, 12/048,185, 12/702,242, 12/048,186, 61/289,837, 61/293,357,
 61/297,624, and 61/302,437, each of which is incorporated by reference herein in its entirety. Each of
these technologies generally requires a patient interface - a structure to join the patient's eye and the
 laser and associated imaging systems, and to optimize the interaction between the diagnostic and
 imaging technologies and the pertinent patient tissue structures. There is a need for further
 optimization of the patient interface options to advance the standard of care of the cataract patient.
 [0005A] Reference to any prior art in the specification is not an acknowledgment or suggestion that
this prior art forms part of the common general knowledge in any jurisdiction or that this prior art
could reasonably be expected to be combined with other pieces of prior art by a skilled person in the
art.
                                   SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
 [00061 One in accordance with an aspect of the invention, there is provided a patient interface
assembly for interfacing an ophthalmic intervention system with an eye of a patient, comprising: a
housing; an optical lens coupled to the housing; an eye engagement assembly coupled to the housing,
the eye engagement assembly comprising an inner seal and an outer seal, the eye engagement
assembly adapted to be placed into contact with the eye of the patient by sealably engaging the eye
with the inner and outer seals, thereby defining a vacuum zone between the inner and outer seals
when placed into contact with the eye; and a tissue migration bolster structure positioned between the
inner seal and outer seal and configured to apply a resisting load against portions of the eye in the
vacuum zone which are capable of distending upon application of a vacuum load, wherein one or
more surfaces of the tissue migration bolster structure occupies a majority of a surface area defined
between the inner and outer seal.
10006A] The housing may comprise a frustoconical shape having proximal and distal ends and
defining a substantially open volume therebetween. The housing may define a liquid containment
reservoir when the inner and outer seals are sealably engaged against the eye. The eye surface
engagement assembly may be configured to be removably coupled to the eye such that the optical axis
of the optical lens is substantially parallel with a visual axis of the eye of the patient. The optical lens
may have a proximal side and a distal side, the distal side being configured to be interfaced with a
surface of the eye. The convex radius of curvature may be between about 7mm and about 9mm. The
tissue migration bolster structure may comprise a spherical surface configured to be interfaced with
the eye of the patient. The tissue migration bolster structure may define one or more ports configured
to allow gases to pass across the tissue migration bolster structure from a position immediately
adjacent the eye to a position opposite of the tissue migration bolster structure from the eye. The one
or more ports may have a diameter between about 1/2 mm and about 2mm. The system may further
comprise a channel in fluid communication with two or more of the ports, the tissue migration bolster
                                                      2

 structure being disposed between the eye and the channel, the channel being configured to equalize
pressure amongst the two or more ports. The tissue migration bolster structure may be fixedly coupled
between the inner and outer seals. The tissue migration bolster structure may be removable. The tissue
migration bolster structure may comprise a metal selected from the group consisting of: aluminum,
stainless steel, titanium, and alloys thereof The tissue migration bolster structure may comprise a
polymer selected from the group consisting of: polycarbonate, polyethylene, nylon, polypropylene,
isoprene, and copolymers thereof The inner and outer seals may extend proximally to form inner and
outer seal walls that are joined to a proximal circumferential seal member. A vacuum chamber may be
formed between the inner and outer seal walls and the proximal circumferential seal member when the
seals are engaged with the eye. The tissue migration bolster structure may be substantially
encapsulated by the vacuum chamber. The inner and outer seal walls may be substantially cylindrical
in shape. The vacuum chamber may have a width defined between the outer and inner seal walls,
wherein the tissue migration bolster structure is configured to substantially completely occupy at least
a portion of the width about a circumference of the vacuum chamber. The tissue migration bolster
structure may substantially engage both the outer and inner walls of the base structure about the
circumference of the vacuum chamber. The system may further comprise a vacuum source fluidly
coupled to the vacuum chamber.
[0007] Also disclosed herein, but not claimed, is a system for ophthalmic intervention on an eye of a
patient. The system includes a detection device having a detection field oriented toward the eye of the
patient; a patient interface housing having proximal and distal ends and defining a passage
therethrough, wherein the distal end is coupled to one or more seals configured to be directly engaged
with one or more surfaces of the eye of the patient, and wherein the proximal end is configured to be
coupled to a patient workstation such that at least a portion of the detection field of the detection
device passes through the passage; and two or more registration fiducials coupled to the patient
interface housing in a predetermined geometric configuration relative to the patient interface housing
within the detection field of the detection device such that the registration fiducials can be located by
the detection device in reference to predetermined geometric markers on the eye of the patient, the
system being operable to locate the geometric markers.
[0008] Variations of the system for ophthalmic intervention on an eye of a patient are disclosed. For
example, the system can include a laser system operatively coupled to the detection device. The laser
system can be configured to produce a treatment beam
                                                    3

 directed through the passage of the patient interface housing and into the eye of the patient. The
system can be configured to use the detected locations of the registration fiducials to determine
an angular orientation of the patient interface housing. The detection device can employ at least
one of Optical Coherence Tomography ("OCT"), Purkinje imaging, Scheimpflug imaging,
confocal or nonlinear optical microscopy, fluorescence imaging, or ultrasound. The treatment
beam can be suitable for creating dielectric breakdown within a cataractous crystalline lens of
the eye. The laser system can be configured to produce a pulsed treatment beam with a pulse
repetition rate between about 1kHz and about 200kHz. The laser system can configured to
produce a treatment beam having a wavelength between about 800 nm and about 1,100 nm. The
laser system can be configured to produce a pulsed treatment beam having a pulse energy
between about 1 microjoule and about 1,000 microjoules. The laser system can be configured to
produce a pulsed treatment beam with a pulse duration between about 100 femtoseconds and
about 10 picoseconds. The system can include an optical lens coupled to the housing and having
an optical axis aligned to pass through the passage of the housing. The system can include an
illumination source configured to direct illumination radiation toward the eye of the patient. The
illumination source can be configured to direct at least a portion of the illumination radiation
through the passage of the patient interface housing. At least a portion of the patient interface
housing can be at least partially translucent to the illumination radiation. The illumination
source can be configured to direct at least a portion of the illumination radiation across the
translucent portion of the patient interface housing toward the eye of the patient. The
illumination radiation can be infrared radiation. The illumination radiation can be visible light
radiation. The detection device can include an optical coherence tomography system configured
to measure the coherence of radiation scattered into an interferometer from the detection field.
The fiducials can include one or more materials that fluoresce in infrared radiation. The
fiducials can include one or more materials that highly contrast in infrared radiation relative to
other surrounding materials. The fiducials can include one or more materials that fluoresce in
visible light radiation. The fiducials can include one or more materials that highly contrast in
visible light radiation relative to other surrounding materials. The fiducials can include one or
more surface irregularities relative to other surrounding surfaces. The one or more surface
irregularities can be selected from the group consisting of: a concave feature, a convex feature, a
depressed edge, a depressed step, a projecting edge, a projecting step, and an intersection of
lines. The two or more fiducials can be distributed around the passage of the patient interface
housing. The two or more fiducials can include two fiducials positioned at opposite sides of the
                                                  -4-

 passage of the patient interface housing. The two or more fiducials can include three fiducials
 distributed nonhomogeneously about the passage of the patient interface housing.
                           BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
  [0009] Figure 1 illustrates one embodiment of a diagnostic/interventional ophthalmic system.
  [0010] Figures 2A-2C illustrate aspects of patient interface configurations featuring a focusing
 lens engaged adjacent a cornea of a patient.
 [00111 Figures 3A-3C illustrate aspects of one-piece patient interface embodiments.
 [0012] Figures 4A-4E illustrate aspects of two-piece patient interface embodiments.
 [00131 Figures 5A-5C illustrate aspects of liquid interface two-piece patient interface
 embodiments.
 [0014] Figures 6A-6D illustrate aspects of techniques for utilizing configurations such as those
 described in reference to Figures 1-5C.
 [00151 Figures 7A-7V illustrate aspects of a patient interface embodiment that features a tissue
 migration bolster structure interposed between two portions of a sealing structure.
 [00161 Figure 8 illustrates aspects of a technique for utilizing configurations such as those
 described in reference to Figures 7A-7V.
 [0017] Figure 9 illustrates aspects of a technique for utilizing configurations such as those
 described in reference to Figures 7A-7V.
 [0018] Figures 10A-10L illustrate aspects of a patient interface embodiment that features a
 fidicial configuration selected to assist with in-situ eye orientation determination.
 [00191 Figure 11 illustrates aspects of a technique for utilizing configurations such as those
 described in reference to Figures 1OA-1OL.
 [0020] Figure 12 illustrates aspects of a patient interface configuration having various
illumination sources associated therewith.
                       DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION
 [00211 As described briefly above, one embodiment of a cataract diagnostic and interventional
system may be implemented by a system that projects or scans an optical beam into a patient's
eye (68), such as system (2) shown in Figure 1 which includes an ultrafast ("UF") light source or
treatment beam 4 (e.g. a femtosecond laser suitable for creating dielectric breakdown within a
cataractous crystalline lens of an eye). Using this system, a treatment beam may be scanned
through a patient interface and into a patient's eye in three dimensions: X, Y, Z. In this
embodiment, the UF wavelength can vary between about 800 nm and about 1100 nim and the
pulse width can vary from about 100 fs to about 10 picoseconds. The pulse energy of a suitable
                                                   -5-

 pulsed treatment beam may have a pulse energy of between about 1 microjoule and about 1,000
 microjoules. The pulse repetition frequency can also vary from about 1 kHz to about 250 kHz.
 Safety limits with regard to unintended damage to non-targeted tissue bound the upper limit with
 regard to repetition rate and pulse energy; while threshold energy, time to complete the
 procedure and stability bound the lower limit for pulse energy and repetition rate. The peak
 power of the focused spot in the eye (68) and specifically within the crystalline lens (69) and
 anterior capsule of the eye is sufficient to produce optical breakdown and initiate a plasma
 mediated ablation process. Near-infrared wavelengths are preferred because linear optical
 absorption and scattering in biological tissue is reduced across that spectral range. As an
 example, laser (4) may be a repetitively pulsed 1035 nm device that produces 500 fs pulses at a
 repetition rate of 100 kHz and an individual pulse energy in the ten microjoule range.
 [00221 The laser (4) is controlled by control electronics (300), via an input and output device
 (302), to create optical beam (6). Control electronics (300) may be a computer, microcontroller,
 etc. In this example, the entire system is controlled by the controller (300), and data moved
through input/output device 10 (302). A graphical user interface GUI (304) may be used to set
 system operating parameters, process user input (UI) (306) on the GUI (304), and display
 gathered information such as images of ocular structures.
 [0023] The generated UF light beam (6) proceeds towards the patient eye (68) passing through
half-wave plate, (8), and linear polarizer, (10). The polarization state of the beam can be adjusted
so that the desired amount of light passes through half-wave plate (8) and linear polarizer (10),
which together act as a variable attenuator for the UF beam (6). Additionally, the orientation of
linear polarizer (10) determines the incident polarization state incident upon beamcombiner (34),
thereby optimizing beamcombiner throughput.
 [00241 The UF beam proceeds through a shutter (12), aperture (14), and a pickoff device (16).
The system controlled shutter (12) ensures on/off control of the laser for procedural and safety
reasons. The aperture sets an outer useful diameter for the laser beam and the pickoff monitors
the output of the useful beam. The pickoff device (16) includes of a partially reflecting mirror
(20) and a detector (18). Pulse energy, average power, or a combination may be measured using
detector (18). The information can be used for feedback to the half-wave plate (8) for attenuation
and to verify whether the shutter (12) is open or closed. In addition, the shutter (12) may have
position sensors to provide a redundant state detection.
[0025] The beam passes through a beam conditioning stage (22), in which beam parameters such
as beam diameter, divergence, circularity, and astigmatism can be modified. In this illustrative
example, the beam conditioning stage (22) includes a 2 element beam expanding telescope
                                                  -6-

  comprised of spherical optics (24) and (26) in order to achieve the intended beam size and
  collimation. Although not illustrated here, an anamorphic or other optical system can be used to
  achieve the desired beam parameters. The factors used to determine these beam parameters
 include the output beam parameters of the laser, the overall magnification of the system, and the
 desired numerical aperture (NA) at the treatment location. In addition, the optical system (22)
 can be used to image aperture (14) to a desired location (e.g. the center location between the 2
 axis scanning device 50 described below). In this way, the amount of light that makes it through
 the aperture (14) is assured to make it through the scanning system. Pickoff device (16) is then a
 reliable measure of the usable light.
  [00261 After exiting conditioning stage (22), beam (6) reflects off of fold mirrors (28, 30, & 32).
 These mirrors can be adjustable for alignment purposes. The beam (6) is then incident upon
 beam combiner (34). Beamcombiner (34) reflects the UF beam (6) (and transmits both the OCT
  114 and aim 202 beams described below). For efficient beamcombiner operation, the angle of
 incidence is preferably kept below 45 degrees and the polarization where possible of the beams
 is fixed. For the UF beam (6), the orientation of linear polarizer (10) provides fixed polarization.
 [00271 Following the beam combiner (34), the beam (6) continues onto the z-adjust or Z scan
 device (40). In this illustrative example the z-adjust includes a Galilean telescope with two lens
 groups (42 and 44) (each lens group includes one or more lenses). Lens group (42) moves along
 the z-axis about the collimation position of the telescope. In this way, the focus position of the
 spot in the patient's eye (68) moves along the z-axis as indicated. In general there is a fixed linear
relationship between the motion of lens (42) and the motion of the focus. In this case, the z
 adjust telescope has an approximate 2.times.beam expansion ratio and a 1:1 relationship of the
movement of lens (42) to the movement of the focus. Alternatively, lens group (44) could be
moved along the z-axis to actuate the z-adjust, and scan. The z-adjust is the z-scan device for
treatment in the eye (68). It can be controlled automatically and dynamically by the system and
selected to be independent or to interplay with the X-Y scan device described next. Mirrors (36
and 38) can be used for aligning the optical axis with the axis of z-adjust device (40). After
passing through the z-adjust device (40), the beam (6) is directed to the x-y scan device by
mirrors (46 & 48). Mirrors (46 & 48) can be adjustable for alignment purposes. X-Y scanning is
achieved by the scanning device (50) preferably using two mirrors (52 & 54) under the control of
control electronics (300), which rotate in orthogonal directions using motors, galvanometers, or
any other well known optic moving device. Mirrors (52 & 54) are located near the telecentric
position of the objective lens (58) and focusing lens (66) combination described below. Tilting
these mirrors (52/54) causes them to deflect beam (6), causing lateral displacements in the plane
                                                  -7-

of UF focus located in the patient's eye (68). Objective lens (58) may be a complex multi
 element lens element, as shown, and represented by lenses (60, 62, and 64). The complexity of
the lens (58) will be dictated by the scan field size, the focused spot size, the available working
distance on both the proximal and distal sides of objective 58, as well as the amount of
aberration control. An f-theta lens 58 of focal length 60 mm generating a spot size of 10 .mu.m,
over a field of 10 mm, with an input beam size of 15 mm diameter is an example. Alternatively,
X-Y scanning by scanner (50) may be achieved by using one or more moveable optical elements
(e.g. lenses, gratings) which also may be controlled by control electronics (300), via input and
output device (302).
 [00281 The aiming and treatment scan patterns can be automatically generated by the scanner
(50) under the control of controller (300). Such patterns may be comprised of a single spot of
light, multiple spots of light, a continuous pattern of light, multiple continuous patterns of light,
and/or any combination of these. In addition, the aiming pattern (using aim beam 202 described
below) need not be identical to the treatment pattern (using light beam 6), but preferably at least
defines its boundaries in order to assure that the treatment light is delivered only within the
desired target area for patient safety. This may be done, for example, by having the aiming
pattern provide an outline of the intended treatment pattern. This way the spatial extent of the
treatment pattern may be made known to the user, if not the exact locations of the individual
spots themselves, and the scanning thus optimized for speed, efficiency and accuracy. The
aiming pattern may also be made to be perceived as blinking in order to further enhance its
visibility to the user.
[0029] An optional focusing lens (66), which also may be loosely termed a "contact lens", which
can be any suitable ophthalmic lens, can be used to help further focus the optical beam (6) into
the patient's eye (68) while helping to stabilize eye position. The positioning and character of
optical beam 6 and/or the scan pattern the beam 6 forms on the eye (68) may be further
controlled by use of an input device such as a joystick, or any other appropriate user input device
(e.g. GUI 304) to position the patient and/or the optical system.
[0030] The UF laser (4) and controller (300) can be set to target the surfaces of the targeted
structures in the eye (68) and ensure that the beam (6) will be focused where appropriate and not
unintentionally damage non-targeted tissue. Imaging modalities and techniques described herein,
such as for example, Optical Coherence Tomography ("OCT"), Purkinje imaging, Scheimpflug
imaging, confocal or nonlinear optical microscopy, fluorescence imaging, or ultrasound may be
used to determine the location and measure the thickness of the lens and lens capsule to provide
greater precision to the laser focusing methods, including 2D and 3D patterning. Laser focusing
                                                  -8-

 may also be accomplished using one or more methods including direct observation of an aiming
 beam, Optical Coherence Tomography, Purkinje imaging, Scheimpflug imaging, confocal or
 nonlinear optical microscopy, fluorescence imaging, ultrasound, or other known ophthalmic or
 medical imaging modalities and/or combinations thereof In the embodiment of Figure 1, an
 OCT device (100) is described, although other modalities are within the scope of the present
 invention. Preferably the OCT imaging device will be configured to measure the coherence of
 radiation scattered into an interferometer from structures within the "field of view" of the
 associated beam as it is scanned. An OCT scan of the eye will provide information about the
 axial location of the anterior and posterior lens capsule, the boundaries of the cataract nucleus, as
 well as the depth of the anterior chamber. This information is then be loaded into the control
 electronics (300), and used to program and control the subsequent laser-assisted surgical
 procedure. The information may also be used to determine a wide variety of parameters related
to the procedure such as, for example, the upper and lower axial limits of the focal planes used
 for cutting the lens capsule and segmentation of the lens cortex and nucleus, and the thickness of
the lens capsule among others.
 [00311 The OCT device (100) in Figure 1 includes a broadband or a swept light source (102) that
is split by a fiber coupler (104) into a reference arm (106) and a sample arm (110). The reference
arm (106) includes a module (108) containing a reference reflection along with suitable
dispersion and path length compensation. The sample arm (110) of the OCT device (100) has an
output connector (112) that serves as an interface to the rest of the UF laser system. The return
signals from both the reference and sample arms (106, 110) are then directed by coupler (104) to
a detection device (128), which employs either time domain, frequency or single point detection
techniques. In Figure 1, a frequency domain technique is used with an OCT wavelength of 920
nm and bandwidth of 100 nm. Exiting connector (112), the OCT beam (114) is collimated using
lens (116). The size of the collimated beam (114) is determined by the focal length of lens (116).
The size of the beam (114) is dictated by the desired NA at the focus in the eye and the
magnification of the beam train leading to the eye (68). Generally, OCT beam (114) does not
require as high an NA as the UF beam (6) in the focal plane and therefore the OCT beam (114) is
smaller in diameter than the UF beam (6) at the beamcombiner (34) location. Following
collimating lens (116) is aperture (118) which further modifies the resultant NA of the OCT
beam (114) at the eye. The diameter of aperture (118) is chosen to optimize OCT light incident
on the target tissue and the strength of the return signal. Polarization control element (120),
which may be active or dynamic, is used to compensate for polarization state changes which may
be induced by individual differences in corneal birefringence, for example. Mirrors (122 & 124)
                                                   -9-

are then used to direct the OCT beam 114 towards beamcombiners (126 & 34). Mirrors (122 &
 124) may be adjustable for alignment purposes and in particular for overlaying of OCT beam
(114) to UF beam (6) subsequent to beamcombiner (34). Similarly, beamcombiner (126) is used
to combine the OCT beam (114) with the aim beam (202) described below. Once combined with
the UF beam (6) subsequent to beamcombiner (34), OCT beam (114) follows the same path as
UF beam (6) through the rest of the system. In this way, OCT beam (114) is indicative of the
location of UF beam (6). OCT beam (114) passes through the z-scan 40 and x-y scan (50)
devices then the objective lens (58), focusing lens (66) and on into the eye (68). Reflections and
scatter off of structures within the eye provide return beams that retrace back through the optical
system, into connector (112), through coupler (104), and to OCT detector (128). These return
back reflections provide the OCT signals that are in turn interpreted by the system as to the
location in X, Y, Z of UF beam (6) focal location.
 [0032] OCT device (100) works on the principle of measuring differences in optical path length
between its reference and sample arms. Therefore, passing the OCT through z-adjust 40 does not
extend the z-range of OCT system (100) because the optical path length does not change as a
function of movement of 42. OCT system (100) has an inherent z-range that is related to the
detection scheme, and in the case of frequency domain detection it is specifically related to the
spectrometer and the optical bandwidth of the light source. In the case of OCT system (100) used
in Figure 1, the z-range is approximately 3-5 mm in an aqueous environment. Passing the OCT
beam (114) in the sample arm through the z-scan of z-adjust (40) allows for optimization of the
OCT signal strength. This is accomplished by focusing the OCT beam (114) onto the targeted
structure while accommodating the extended optical path length by commensurately increasing
the path within the reference arm (106) of OCT system (100).
[0033] Because of the fundamental differences in the OCT measurement with respect to the UF
focus device due to influences such as immersion index, refraction, and aberration, both
chromatic and monochromatic, care must be taken in analyzing the OCT signal with respect to
the UF beam focal location. A calibration or registration procedure as a function of X, Y Z
should be conducted in order to match the OCT signal information to the UF focus location and
also to the relate to absolute dimensional quantities.
[0034] Observation of an aim beam may also be used to assist the user to directing the UF laser
focus. Additionally, an aim beam visible to the unaided eye in lieu of the infrared OCT and UF
beams can be helpful with alignment provided the aim beam accurately represents the infrared
beam parameters. An aim subsystem (200) is employed in the configuration shown in Figure 1.
The aim beam (202) is generated by an aim beam light source (201), such as a helium-neon laser
                                                 -10-

 operating at a wavelength of 633 nm. Alternatively a laser diode in the 630-650 nm range could
 be used. The advantage of using the helium neon 633 nm beam is its long coherence length,
 which would enable the use of the aim path as a laser unequal path interferometer (LUPI) to
 measure the optical quality of the beam train, for example. Once the aim beam light source
 generates aim beam (202), the aim beam (202) is collimated using lens (204). The size of the
 collimated beam is determined by the focal length of lens (204). The size of the aim beam (202)
 is dictated by the desired NA at the focus in the eye and the magnification of the beam train
 leading to the eye (68). Generally, aim beam (202) should have close to the same NA as UF
 beam (6) in the focal plane and therefore aim beam (202) is of similar diameter to the UF beam
 at the beamcombiner (34) location. Because the aim beam is meant to stand-in for the UF beam
 (6) during system alignment to the target tissue of the eye, much of the aim path mimics the UF
path as described previously. The aim beam (202) proceeds through a half-wave plate (206) and
 linear polarizer (208). The polarization state of the aim beam (202) can be adjusted so that the
 desired amount of light passes through polarizer (208). Elements 206 & 208 therefore act as a
 variable attenuator for the aim beam (202). Additionally, the orientation of polarizer (208)
 determines the incident polarization state incident upon beamcombiners (126 and 34), thereby
fixing the polarization state and allowing for optimization of the beamcombiners' throughput Of
 course, if a semiconductor laser is used as aim beam light source (200), the drive current can be
varied to adjust the optical power. The aim beam (202) proceeds through a shutter (210) and
aperture (212). The system controlled shutter (210) provides on/off control of the aim beam
(202). The aperture (212) sets an outer useful diameter for the aim beam (202) and can be
adjusted appropriately. A calibration procedure measuring the output of the aim beam (202) at
the eye can be used to set the attenuation of aim beam (202) via control of polarizer (206). The
aim beam (202) next passes through a beam conditioning device (214). Beam parameters such as
beam diameter, divergence, circularity, and astigmatism can be modified using one or more well
known beaming conditioning optical elements. In the case of an aim beam (202) emerging from
an optical fiber, the beam conditioning device (214) can simply include a beam expanding
telescope with two optical elements (216 and 218) in order to achieve the intended beam size and
collimation. The final factors used to determine the aim beam parameters such as degree of
collimation are dictated by what is necessary to match the UF beam (6) and aim beam (202) at
the location of the eye (68). Chromatic differences can be taken into account by appropriate
adjustments of beam conditioning device (214). In addition, the optical system (214) is used to
image aperture (212) to a desired location such as a conjugate location of aperture (14). The aim
beam (202) next reflects off of fold mirrors (222 & 220), which are preferably adjustable for
                                                 -11-

  alignment registration to UF beam (6) subsequent to beam combiner (34). The aim beam (202) is
 then incident upon beam combiner (126) where the aim beam (202) is combined with OCT beam
  (114). Beameombiner (126) reflects the aim beam (202) and transmits the OCT beam (114),
 which allows for efficient operation of the beamcombining functions at both wavelength ranges.
 Alternatively, the transmit and reflect functions of beamcombiner (126) can be reversed and the
 configuration inverted. Subsequent to beamcombiner (126), aim beam (202) along with OCT
 beam (114) is combined with UF beam (6) by beamcombiner (34).
  [00351 A device for imaging the target tissue on or within the eye (68) is shown schematically in
 Figure 1 as imaging system (71). Imaging system includes an image capture device such as a
 camera (74) and an illumination light source (86) for creating an image of the target tissue. The
 imaging system (71) gathers images which may be used by the system controller (300) for
 providing pattern centering about or within a predefined structure. The illumination light source
 (86) for the viewing is generally broadband and incoherent. For example, light source (86) can
 include multiple LEDs as shown. The wavelength of the viewing light source (86) is preferably
 in the range of 700 nm to 750 nm, but can be anything which is accommodated by the
 beamcombiner (56), which combines the viewing light with the beam path for UF beam (6) and
 aim beam (202) (beamcombiner 56 reflects the viewing wavelengths while transmitting the OCT
 and UF wavelengths). Further details regarding positioning and wavelengths of illumination
 sources are described below in reference to Figure 12. The beamcombiner (56) may partially
transmit the aim wavelength so that the aim beam (202) can be visible to the viewing camera
 (74). Optional polarization element (84) in front of light source (86) can be a linear polarizer, a
quarter wave plate, a half-wave plate or any combination, and is used to optimize signal. A false
color image as generated by the near infrared wavelength is acceptable. The illumination light
from light source (86) is directed down towards the eye using the same objective lens (58) and
focusing lens (66) as the UF and aim beam (6, 202). The light reflected and scattered off of
various structures in the eye (68) are collected by the same lenses (58 & 66) and directed back
towards beamcombiner (56). There, the return light is directed back into the viewing path via
beam combiner and mirror (82), and on to camera (74). Camera (74) can be, for example but not
limited to, any silicon based detector array of the appropriately sized format. Video lens (76)
forms an image onto the camera's detector array while optical elements (80 & 78) provide
polarization control and wavelength filtering respectively. Aperture or iris (81) provides control
of imaging NA and therefore depth of focus and depth of field. A small aperture provides the
advantage of large depth of field which aids in the patient docking procedure. Alternatively, the
illumination and camera paths can be switched. Furthermore, aim light source (200) can be made
                                                 -12-

 to emit in the infrared which would not directly visible, but could be captured and displayed
 using imaging system (71). Coarse adjust registration is usually needed so that when the
 focusing lens (66) comes into contact with the cornea and/or sclera, the targeted structures are in
 the capture range of the X, Y scan of the system. Therefore a docking procedure is preferred,
 which preferably takes in account patient motion as the system approaches the contact condition
 (i.e. contact between the patient's eye (68) and the focusing lens (66). The viewing system (71) is
 configured so that the depth of focus is large enough such that the patient's eye (68) and other
 salient features may be seen before the focusing lens (66) makes contact with eye (68).
 Preferably, a motion control system (70) is integrated into the overall control system (2), and
 may move the patient, the system (2) or elements thereof, or both, to achieve accurate and
 reliable contact between the focusing, or "contact", lens (66), the housing thereof, and/or the eye
 (68). In one embodiment, the motion control system (70) may comprise one or more motors
 responsive to control inputs from a master input device such as a joystick, button set, or
computer user interface, to allow an operator to command movements of the motion control
 system (70) to electromechanically reposition the system relative to the eye of the patient, who
will typically be resting substantially horizontally on an adjustable operating table or chair. In
 another embodiment, the chair or table may have one or more controllably movable aspects, such
as an electromechanically movable headrest responsive to inputs at an input device such as a
joystick, button set, or computer user interface, which may be configured to assist with
maneuvering a patient's head and eye relative to the system (the patient's head may be
temporarily coupled to the headrest using a device such as a strap or brace placed around at least
a portion of the patient's head). In another embodiment, movement of the motion control system
(70) or associated patient chair or table may be manually enabled, preferably with controllable
braking configurations at the movable joints to prevent movement in a "locked" configuration.
Furthermore, as described below, vacuum suction subsystem and flange may be incorporated
into the system and used to stabilize the interfacing between the focusing lens (66), pertinent
housing thereof, and the eye (68). In one embodiment the physical alignment of the eye (68)
relative to other portions of the system (2) via the focusing lens (66) may be accomplished while
monitoring the output of the imaging system (71), and performed manually or automatically by
analyzing the images produced by imaging system (71) electronically by means of control
electronics (300) via 10 (302). Force and/or pressure sensor feedback may also be used to
discern contact, as well as to initiate the vacuum subsystem.
[0036] Figure 2A depicts one embodiment of a focusing lens (66) configuration wherein the
distal aspect (178) of the lens (66) is placed into direct contact with the cornea and/or sclera (94)
                                                  -13-

  of the eye. The scanned beam (90) exiting the system (88) crosses the proximal surface (176) of
  the lens (66), passes through the lens (66), exits across the distal surface (178) of the lens (66),
  crosses the cornea and/or sclera (94), and eventually reaches the crystalline lens (69) to facilitate
 interventional steps such as capsulorhexis. A close-up view is illustrated in Figure 2B, to
  demonstrate the notion of undesirable corneal folds (96), which may be associated with excess
  applanation loads placed upon the cornea with contact lens (66) configurations having a
 relatively large radii of curvature relative to that of the cornea (in such cases, relatively large
 applanation loads may be applied to ensure surface contact between the lens 66 and the relatively
 convex shape of the cornea and/or sclera 94). We have found that corneal folds (96) can degrade
 the optical path to the interior of the eye, reducing the reliability of laser interaction with the
 tissue of the eye. Further, it is also generally desirable to minimize intraocular pressure during
 diagnostic and interventional procedures, and large applanation loads tend to increase intraocular
 pressure. As a result, in the embodiments depicted in Figures 3A-3C and 4A-4E, comprise
 focusing lenses (66) with distal surface radii of curvature that are substantially close to that of
 the typical human cornea, thus substantially mitigating applanation and/or interfacing loads, as
 described in further detail below.
 [0037] Referring to Figure 2C, one embodiment of a patient interface (182), which may be
 referred to as a "one-piece" interface, is shown interfaced with a movable portion (160) of a
 diagnostic and interventional system such as that described in reference to Figure 1, the patient
 interface (182) comprising an interfacial seal configuration (130), a conical lower housing
portion (132) which houses a focusing lens (66), and a cylindrical upper housing portion (134)
 with a proximal aspect configured to mechanically interface and couple with the movable portion
 (160) of the diagnostic and interventional system. Preferably, in the depicted embodiment and
 other illustrative embodiments that follow, the patient interface (182) is coupled to the movable
portion (160) of the diagnostic and interventional system with a load sensing interface, such as a
platform comprising one or more load cells or load sensors (such as MEMS load sensors
available from Honeywell, Inc.) configured to provide the operator with output signals or
feedback regarding loads being applied at such interface due to coupling with the eye of the
patient (i.e., such loads may be monitored since they are representative of contact loads applied
to the eye of the patient by the patient interface assembly 182). This feedback may be presented
to the user on GUI (304) by control electronics (300) via IO (302). The presentation is intended
for the user to interpret in adjusting the directionality of motion control electronics (70) during
patient coupling to the system.
                                                   -14-

 [0038] Figure 3A illustrates a similar configuration, with the patient interface (182) removably
 coupled to the movable portion (160) of a diagnostic and interventional system. Figure 3B
 shows a closer up orthogonal view of a patient interface (182) such as that depicted in Figures
 2C and 3A. The proximal aspect of the cylindrical upper housing portion (134) forms a
 geometric coupling interface (136) configured for removable coupling with the movable portion
 (160) of a diagnostic and interventional system. Figure 3C illustrates a cross sectional view of
 the embodiment of Figure 3B to show the position of the focusing lens (66) within the conical
 lower housing portion (132) as well as the direct interfacing of the distal surface (140) of the lens
 (66) with the cornea and/or sclera (94), and the cross sectional features of the flexible (in one
 embodiment comprising a flexible material such as silicone) eye tissue interface (130), including
 a cross-sectionally bi-lobed contact surface (142) that creates a vacuum channel (142) between
 the two lobes which may be utilized to removably couple the interface (130) to the surface of the
 cornea and/or sclera (94) with an applied vacuum condition such as between about 300 and 600
 mm of mercury. In one embodiment, the distal surface (140) of the lens (66) has a radius of
 curvature equal to about 8.3mm, which is slightly larger than that of the average human cornea,
to provide an engagement configuration wherein the distal surface (140) may be slowly engaged
with the cornea at approximately the center of the distal surface (140), and then with increased
 engagement and very slight applanating loads, bubbles and fluids squeezed outward from the
 center of contact, ultimately resulting in a relatively clean interfacing for diagnostic and
interventional purposes. The shape of the cornea (94) in the depiction of Figure 3C is the
unloaded (un-applanated) shape, to illustrate that there is an intentional mismatch between the
distal surface (140) and the unloaded corneal shape in the depicted embodiment (in an actual
loaded scenario, the surfaces would directly meet, as described above).
 [0039] Referring to Figures 4A-4E, another embodiment (may be referred to as a "two-piece"
embodiment) is depicted, wherein a configuration such as that shown in Figures 2C-3C may be
deconstructed or decoupled to provide for convenient hand-manipulated placement (i.e., through
the use of a lightweight handle 150) of the bottom portion (148) before subsequent coupling with
the top portion (152) and movable portion (160) of a diagnostic and interventional system.
Together, the top and bottom portions (152, 148) may comprise a "hollow reservoir housing"
which defines an interior volume and is configured to be interfaced to the eye as described
herein. The top and bottom portions may be removably coupled to each other using a vacuum
coupling interface, an interference fit (i.e., press fit) interface, an electromagnetic coupling
interface (i.e., wherein a current is applied to enforce a junction, and the current may be turned
off to release the junction), a manually-actuated mechanical interface (i.e., wherein a latch or
                                                   -15-

 fitting may be manually actuated or moved to enforce a locking or unlocking of the interface), or
 an electromechanically-actuated mechanical interface (i.e., wherein a latch or fitting may be
 electromechanically actuated or moved, such as by a solenoid or other actuator, to enforce a
 locking or unlocking of the interface). Referring to Figure 4A, a patient's face (146) and eye
 (68) are shown with a bottom portion (148) coupled to the cornea and/or sclera of eye (68) using
 vacuum loads applied using a vacuum port (154) to bring a flexible interface such as those
 shown in Figures 2C-3C into releasable engagement with the cornea and/or sclera. The lower
 portion shown is Figure 4A has relatively low mass and low moment of inertia, and may be
 manipulated easily by hand into a desired position, after which vacuum may be applied through
 the port (154) to create the temporary engagement. Subsequently, the top portion (152) may be
 coupled to the bottom portion (148) with a mechanical interfacing (156) that may comprise a
 slight interference fit (i.e., such as a snap fit), to form an assembled two-part patient interface
 (184) which may be coupled to a movable portion (160) of a diagnostic and interventional
 system, as described above. Figures 4C and 4D depict another interfacing embodiment wherein
 a spring clamp (158) may be utilized to removably couple the bottom portion (148) and top
portion (152). Figure 4D is a cross sectional view of the embodiment of Figure 4C. Figure 4E
 depicts another interfacing embodiment wherein a rotatable collet type coupling member (162)
may be utilized to removably couple the bottom portion (148) and top portion (152), by hand
manipulated rotation of the coupling member (162) relative to the bottom portion (148).
 [0040] Figures 5A-5C depict another two-part patient interface (186) embodiment (this
embodiment may be referred to as a liquid interface two-part embodiment), comprising an
optical element such as a focusing lens element (92) similar to those described above (element
66) with the exception that the distal surface (178) of the focusing lens element (92) does not
come into direct contact with the surface of the comea (94) and/or sclera - rather, there is a
liquid layer (172) interposed between the distal surface (178) of the focusing lens element (92)
and the cornea (94) and/or sclera. The optical element (92) may have proximal and distal
surfaces, and the distal surface may be a convex surface. In one embodiment, the distal surface
of the optical element (92) is directly interfaced (i.e., submerged or directly exposed to) with the
liquid layer, leaving the liquid layer as the unifying connection between the eye and the optical
element (92). In one embodiment the liquid layer may comprise about 2 cubic centimeters of
liquid. The liquid may comprise a material such as water, saline, oil (such as silicon oil),
ophthalmic viscoelastic gel, or perfluorocarbon liquid. In the depicted two-part embodiment, the
optical element (92) is fixedly coupled to the top, or proximal, portion (152) of the patient
interface; in another embodiment, the optical element (92) may be fixedly coupled to the
                                                      -16-

 bottom, or distal, portion (148) of the patient interface. As shown in Figure 5A, a conical bottom
 portion (160) is coupled to a flexible interface (130) similar to those described above in reference
 to the one-part and two-part patient interface configurations. As with the aforementioned
 embodiments, the flexible interface (130) may comprise a compliant circumferential seal
 member which may comprise two or more circumferential layers with a vacuum space
 interposed therebetween to facilitate vacuum-enforced coupling of the seal member against the
 tissue of the eye (using, for example, a vacuum load between about 200mm mercury and about
 600mm mercury, which may be applied or generated using a vacuum device such as a regulated
 mechanical vacuum pump). At least one of the circumferential layers may have a cross sectional
 shape that is tapered (i.e., with the smaller portion of the taper more immediately adjacent the
 eye tissue), and at least one of the circumferential layers may comprise a shape that is at least
partially spherical (i.e., akin to a slice of a spherical shape). A manual manipulation handle is
 coupled to the bottom portion (160) to allow for easy coupling of the relatively low mass and
 inertia bottom portion (160) to the cornea and/or sclera (for example, with coupling retention
provided by vacuum through the vacuum port 154) before interfacial (168) engagement of the
bottom portion to the top portion (166), which is configured to be removably coupled to a
movable portion (160) of a diagnostic and interventional system such as that described in
reference to Figure 1 (for example, using a mechanical coupling interface, vacuum, or other
removable coupling means). As shown in Figures 5A-5C, the interfacial engagement (168)
preferably is configured such that the liquid layer (172) is open to the external environment (i.e.,
to the atmospheric pressure configuration of the patient examination or operating room) such that
additional fluid may be added by direct pour or syringe (i.e., through one of the depicted access
features 165); similarly, liquid may be poured out of the un-encapsulated environment by
changing the orientation of the patient and/or patient interface relative to gravity and pouring the
liquid out (i.e., through one of the depicted access features 165). The access features (165) may
comprise one or more vents, ports, windows, or the like which provide direct access between the
volume defined for the liquid layer (172) and the nearby atmosphere. Such a configuration,
which may be deemed an "open configuration" (as opposed to a closed or encapsulated
configuration wherein a volume of liquid may be at least temporarily encapsulated within a tank
or other structure) wherein the liquid layer (172) has immediate access to the outside
environment, is advantageous for several reasons: a) open allows immediate access to the fluid
pooled in the patient interface as a liquid layer - which allows for easier filling, refilling, and
draining; b) open allows for fluid to escape when coupling a two-part design; without such
easy escape, unwanted interfacial pressures may be built up and/or accumulated; c) open allows
                                                   -17-

  for gas to more easily escape, and gas typically manifests itself in the liquid layer environment as
  bubbles, which suboptimally change the optical scenario (i.e., they distort the treatment beam
  fidelity, and may cause opacities or other unwanted optical distortions). Figures 5B and 5C
  show two slightly different cross sectional views of the embodiment of Figure 5A. Referring to
  Figure 5B, a liquid layer (172) is shown interposed between the distal surface (178) of the
  focusing lens (92) and the cornea (94) and/or sclera, which are not in physical contact with each
  other. The liquid layer (172) acts as a light-transmissive medium. In the depicted embodiment,
 the liquid layer freely floats in the bottom portion 164 before interfacial (168) coupling of the
 bottom portion (164) and top portion (166) (i.e., the liquid layer 172 rests due to gravity in the
 bottom of the bottom portion 164 after the bottom portion 164 has been coupled to the cornea 94
  and/or sclera using the bi-lobed lip portion 144, which may be fed vacuum through the vacuum
 channels 170 which are connected to the vacuum port 154 shown in Figure 5C). In one
 embodiment, the outer diameter of the bi-lobed flexible seals (144) is about 21mm, and the inner
 diameter is about 14.5mm, leaving about 14mm of clear aperture available for a broad range of
 interventional laser cutting, including but not limited to corneal incisions such as limbal
 relaxation cuts, etc. One additional benefit of the liquid interface is that the optical
 characteristics of the lens element (92) may be optimized without as much regard to the
 anatomical fit of the proximal and distal face radii of curvature as with the direct-contact style
 lens elements (for example, element 66 above). Further, there is greater freedom of materials
 selection for the focusing lens (92). In one embodiment, the focusing lens (92) comprises an
 approximately 13mm thick piece of material commercially available under the tradename "BK
 7" (RTM) from Schott North America, Inc. of Elmsford, NY, the lens (92) having an
 approximately 245mm convex proximal surface radius of curvature, and an approximately
 68mm convex proximal surface radius of curvature. Additionally, the displacement of the lens
 (92) away from the cornea (94) and/or sclera better facilitates anterior corneal and/or scleral
 surface cutting via laser without lens particle contamination. OCT imaging, as available, for
 example, in the system described in reference to Figure 1, may be utilized to confirm the
 dimensions of the fluid gap between the cornea (94) and/or sclera and the focusing element (92).
In one embodiment the liquid or fluid layer (172) comprises saline. In other embodiments,
liquids may be specified with customized dispersive, refractive, bubble resisting, and other
qualities.
 [0041] In another embodiment, the two main temporarily or removably coupleable portions of
the patient interface structure (148, 152) may be more permanently coupled (i.e., either before
the procedure, or during manufacturing of the parts wherein they by be fixedly coupled to each
                                                   -18-

  other or formed together as one construct), in the form of a "one-piece" liquid-facilitated patient
  interface, with features identical to those described above in reference to Figures 4A-5C, but
  without the decouplable interface between such portions (148, 152).
  [0042] Referring to Figures 6A-6D, various implementation embodiments utilizing
  configurations such as those described above are illustrated. Referring to Figure 6A, subsequent
  to preoperative diagnostics and patient preparation steps (320), a patient may be positioned in a
  substantially horizontal position for patient interface docking (322) (i.e., due to the desire to not
  fight gravity when using a one or two part embodiment; further, in a liquid interface two part
  embodiment, it is desirable to not have the liquid spill out of the bottom portion). With the
 patient interface coupled to a movable portion of the system (324) (i.e., by a mechanical
 interface coupling, vacuum coupling, etc), the movable portion may be utilized to move the
 patient interface into a desirable interfacing position relative to the patient's cornea and/or sclera
 (326), where the patient interface may be removably coupled to the cornea and/or sclera (for
 example, using vacuum, or mechanical load or pressure to create a liquid-tight seal which may
 also serve to stabilize the eye) (328). With the docking completed, the procedure may be
 conducted along with intraoperative imaging (330). After completing the procedure, the patient
 interface may be decoupled (i.e., by releasing the vacuum) from the cornea and/or selera (332).
 [0043] Referring to Figure 6B, another embodiment is depicted wherein the first two and last
 two steps are the same as in the embodiment of Figure 5A, and the intermediate steps comprise
 providing a two-piece patient interface configuration that is removably couplable to the eye, to
 itself (i.e., the two pieces), and proximally to the system (334), removably coupling the bottom
 portion to the cornea and/or sclera (336), moving the system into a position whereby the top
portion, when coupled to the bottom portion, may be easily coupled to the system (338), and
 coupling the top portion to the system (340).
 [00441 Referring to Figure 6C, an embodiment is depicted that is similar to that of Figure 6B,
with the addition of an intermediary step 342 (i.e., to accommodate a liquid interface two-part
patient interface configuration) of adding liquid (i.e., by pouring it in, injecting it in with a
syringe, etc) to the bottom portion after the bottom portion is coupled to the cornea and/or sclera.
Figure 6D illustrates an embodiment similar to that of Figure 6C, with the exception that the
liquid layer may be added (342) before the bottom portion is fully coupled to the cornea and/or
sclera (336). Such a configuration may lead to some leakage of fluid between the bottom portion
and the cornea and/or sclera and subsequently into the vacuum system.
[0045] Referring to Figures 7A-7V, various aspects of another embodiment of a two-part patient
interface configuration are illustrated. Referring to Figure 7A, a two-part assembly comprising a
                                                   -19-

  top portion (166) of a patient interface housing having features (137) configured to be removably
  coupled to a ophthalmic laser intervention and imaging system, such as that described above in
  reference to Figure 1, is depicted removably coupled to a bottom portion (164) of a patient
  interface housing that is configured to be removably coupleable to both the top portion (166) and
  the eye (68) of the patient using a interface member (130) configured to be directly engaged to a
 portion of the cornea and/or sclera of the patient's eye. Also shown is a handle (150) for
  manipulating the bottom portion (164) directly, as well as two vacuum ports (154, 155) that are
 passed through the handle (150) housing. Referring to Figure 7B, with one portion of the handle
  (150) housing removed, vacuum lines (198, 224) can be seen leading from the vacuum ports
  (154, 155) to two portions of the patient interface assembly. As described in further detail
 below, a first line (198) passes a vacuum load from the first port (154) to a vacuum chamber
  configured to sealably engage the eye (68) to the patient interface, while another line (224)
 passes a vacuum load from the second port (155) to a coupling engagement interface utilized to
 maintain coupling of the top portion (166) of the patient interface housing to the bottom portion
 (164). Referring to Figure 7C, a distal portion (174) of the top portion (166) of the patient
 interface housing is depicted to illustrate that a reduced diameter is utilized for the vacuum seal
 coupling with the proximal aspect of the bottom portion (164) of the patient interface housing.
 Figure 7D illustrates a top view through the top portion (166) of the patient interface housing
 with an aperture (180) defined therethrough, through which interventional (i.e., such as a laser as
 described above) and imaging (i.e., such as an OCT imaging system, a Scheimpflug system,
 direct video, direct photo, infrared, ultrasound, confocal microscopy, nonlinear optical imaging,
 interferometric ranging and imaging, and the like) systems may direct various forms of radiation
 en route to the eye of the patient. In one embodiment, a so-called "field of view" of an imaging
 system or imaging device, such as an OCT, Scheimpflug, video, photo, infrared, or ultrasound
may be directed at least in part through the aperture (180), and generally also through an aperture
 formed through the intercoupled bottom portion (164) of the patient interface housing and an
 associated lens, to access the eye of the patient.
 [00461 Referring to Figure 7E, with the top portion (166) of the patient interface housing
removed, an upper seating seal (188) is viewable, as is an engagement seal (190) that is
configured to engage the distal portion (element 174 of Figure 7C) of the top portion (166) of the
patient interface housing. The bottom portion (164) of the patient interface housing in this
embodiment comprises a lower frustoconical portion (194) coupled to an upper cylindrical
portion (192). Referring to Figure 7F, with the upper seating seal (element 188 in Figure 7E)
removed, a seal accommodating feature (196) or trough is shown in the top of the upper
                                                  -20-

  cylindrical portion (192). Referring to Figure 7G, with the upper cylindrical portion (element
  192 of Figure 7F) removed, the engagement seal (190) can be better visualized, as well as the
  coupling interface for the upper cylindrical portion (element 192 of Figure 7F) and a vacuum
  distribution ring (228) configured to transfer a vacuum load from the second vacuum line (224)
  to the mechanical interface with the bottom portion (164) of the patient interface to cause
  vacuum-stabilized coupling of the bottom and top portions (164, 166) of the patient interface
  housing members during use. Referring to Figure 7H, with the vacuum distribution ring
  (element 228 of Figure 7G) and the engagement seal (element 190 of Figure 7G) removed, the
 weight-saving relief geometry (232) of the inside of the lower frustoconical portion (194) is
 shown, essentially comprising a series of relief features cut into the walls of this structure to save
 weight. An outline is shown to illustrate an access aperture (230) defined through the lower
 frustoconical portion (194), which continues the access to the eye described above in reference to
 the aperture (180) through the upper portion (166) of the patient interface housing through which
 imaging and intervention radiation of various types may be passed. Figure 71 further illustrates
 this access to the tissue of the eye (68), and also illustrates three fluid access ports (234) through
 which water or other fluids, as described above in reference to Figures 5A-5C, may be added or
 removed (i.e., removed by pouring off with re-orientation of the head of the patient relative to
 gravity down).
 [0047] Figure 7J illustrates a further disassembled view depicting the engagement assembly
 (130) configured to seal the patient interface to the cornea and/or sclera of the eye (68) of the
 patient using a bi-lobed sealing configuration with a vacuum load. As shown in Figure 7J, the
 vacuum load from the first vacuum port (154) may be passed through the first vacuum lead
 (198), across a lumen defined through a portion of the lower frustoconical portion (element 194
 of Figure 71) shown here in dashed lines (236), and into a vacuum port (238) on the engagement
 assembly (130). Referring to Figure 7K, a cross sectional view is depicted to show that the
vacuum load may be passed through the vacuum port (238) and into a vacuum chamber defined
 as a captured volume between the inner and outer seals, the corneal and/or seleral tissue of the
 eye (68) of the patient, and the proximal circumferential seal member portion (131) of the
 engagement assembly (130) that joins the inner seal (240) to the outer seal (242) by virtue of a
substantially cylindrical inner seal wall (282) and a substantially cylindrical outer seal wall
(284). Also shown in Figure 7K is a tissue migration bolster structure (246) substantially
encapsulated within the vacuum chamber and configured to be positioned circumferentially
between the inner and outer seals (240, 242) and to prevent localized migration, or distension, of
the tissue of the eye (68) toward the patient interface assembly when a vacuum load is applied
                                                   -21-

  and transferred into the vacuum chamber. In other words, the tissue migration bolster structure
 (246) is configured to form a barrier to block distension of the involved ring of eye tissue when a
 vacuum load is applied. We have found that with such a structure (246), we are able to apply
 vacuum loads to enforce coupling of the patient interface assembly to the eye of the patient
 between about 100 mm and about 500 mm of mercury without unacceptable distension. As
 described above relative to configurations without this structural element, significantly lower
 coupling loads are desired to prevent localized distension. Also shown in Figure 7K is a pressure
 equalization volume (244) comprising a volume of free space positioned between a tissue
 migration bolster structure (246) and the proximal circumferential seal member portion (131) of
 the engagement assembly (130), which is configured to allow for the flow of gases (i.e., such as
 air or nitrogen) to distribute and equalize the pressure within each of a series of ports (elements
 254 in Figure 70, for example) as they are fluidly coupled to the vacuum port (238) by such
 equalization volume (244). Figure 7L illustrates a similar view as Figure 7J, with a different
 orientation to better show the pressure equalization volume (244), and Figures 7M and 7N shown
 further magnified views. In the depicted embodiment, at least a portion of the tissue migration
 bolster structure (246) substantially fills the width of the vacuum chamber between the inner seal
 wall (282) and the outer seal wall (284) to form a sealing interface between the equalization
volume (244) and the surface of the eye (68). In one embodiment the tissue migration bolster
 structure (246) is fixedly coupled between the inner seal wall (282) and the outer seal wall (284);
in another embodiment it is press fit in between the inner seal wall (282) and the outer seal wall
 (284); in another embodiment, it is loosely fit in between the inner seal wall (282) and the outer
seal wall (284), in which case there is not a sealing interface between the equalization volume
(244) and the surface of the eye (68). Preferably the portion of the tissue migration bolster
structure (246) that becomes directly engaged with the tissue of the eye (68) forms a spherical
surface (248), an in the aggregate, the surfaces of the patient interface assembly directly
engaging the tissue of the eye (68) preferably form a spherical aggregate surface that has
substantially the same profile as the surface of the eye anatomy, which is generally substantially
spherical.
[00481 Referring to Figures 70-7V, various aspects of an embodiment of a tissue migration
bolster structure are shown in detail without other device hardware engaged. Referring to Figure
70, a tissue migration bolster structure (246) is shown engaged with the tissue of an eye (68). A
port relief feature (250) is formed to accommodate flow of gases (i.e., air, nitrogen, or the like)
in through the port (element 238 of Figure 7N, for example) to the equalization volume (element
244 of Figure 7N). Further, orientation confirmation feature (252) is shown which is configured
                                                  -22-

  to assist a device assembler to place the tissue migration bolster structure (246) in the correct
  orientation relative to the port (element 238 of Figure 7N, for example). A plurality of vents or
  ports (254) is shown connecting the region of the equalization volume (element 244 of Figure
  7N) to the surface of the eye (68). These small ports, having diameters between about % mm
  and about 2mm, expose the eye (68) to the vacuum load on a distributed basis, with the
  substantially spherical engagement surface there to prevent distension that could result without
 the bolster structure. Figure 7P illustrates a view similar to that of Figure 70, but at a different
 orientation. Figure 7Q shows a close-up view similar to that of Figure 7P. Figure 7R shows a
  close-up view depicting with a dashed arrow (256) the path of vacuum access from the region of
 the equalization volume (element 244 of Figure 7N), through the depicted port (254) to the
 surface of the eye (68). Figures 7S and 7T show orthogonal views of the depicted embodiment
 of the tissue migration bolster structure (246), and Figures 7U and 7V show cross sectional
 views of the depicted embodiment of the tissue migration bolster structure (246). Suitable tissue
 migration bolster structures (246) may comprise metallic materials, such as aluminum, stainless
 steel, titanium, and alloys thereof or polymers selected from the group consisting of:
 polycarbonate, polyethylene, nylon, polypropylene, isoprene, and copolymers thereof.
 [0049] Referring to Figure 8, a technique for utilizing a system such as that described herein in
 reference to Figures 7A-7V is illustrated. As shown in Figure 8, subsequent to preoperative
 diagnostics and patient preparation steps (320), a patient may be positioned in a substantially
 horizontal position for patient interface docking (322) (i.e., due to the desire to not fight gravity
when using a one or two part embodiment; further, in a liquid interface two part embodiment, it
is desirable to not have the liquid spill out of the bottom portion). The top portion of the patient
interface may be coupled to a movable portion of the system (334) (i.e., by a mechanical
interface coupling, vacuum coupling, etc). The lower portion of the patient interface may be
removably coupled to the cornea and/or sclera, and this coupling may be enforced with a vacuum
load, while a mechanical feature of the lower portion of the patient interface physically limits the
amount of distension of the immediately associated portion of the eye toward the patient
interface (344). With the docking completed, in a two part liquid configuration, fluid may be
added to the bottom portion of the patient interface housing to place the surface of the eye within
fluid connection to the lens element coupled to the inside of the bottom portion of the patient
interface housing (342). The movable portion of the system may be utilized to move (338) the
top portion of the patient interface into a position wherein the top and bottom portions of the
patient interface may be intercoupled (the junction being enforced, for example, with another
vacuum load) (340). The procedure may be conducted along with intraoperative imaging using
                                                  -23-

  systems such as confocal microscopy, nonlinear optical imaging, interferometric ranging and
  imaging, OCT, infrared, light photography, light video, infrared photography or video,
  ultrasound, Scheimpflug, and the like (330). After completing the procedure, the patient
  interface may be decoupled (i.e., by releasing the vacuum) from the cornea and/or sclera (332).
  [0050] Figure 9 illustrates an embodiment similar to that of Figure 8, with the exception that the
  liquid layer may be added (342) before the bottom portion is fully coupled to the cornea and/or
  sclera (344). Such a configuration may lead to some leakage of fluid between the bottom portion
 and the cornea and/or sclera and subsequently into the vacuum system.
  [00511 Referring to Figures 1OA-1 OL, various embodiments are shown that may be utilized to
 assist with the intraoperative determination of eye orientation relative to the instrumentation
 based upon temporarily marks initially created by a healthcare provider during preparation for an
 intervention. Conventionally, the provider will conduct a preoperative examination with the
 patient in an upright position, and will make a series of marks with a pen upon the cornea and/or
 sclera to provide a temporary reference with regard to the astigmatic axis of the subject eye; this
 axis may be subsequently utilized during surgery to place relaxing cuts, radial cuts, or other
 types of incisions, to tailor the geometry of capsular cuts, etc. One of the challenges is that when
 the patient goes from the upright preoperative environment to being flat on the surface of an
 operating table during the invention, some re-orientation of the eye is common relative to the
 position/orientation of the cranium, for example, and the surgeon must find a way to re-establish
 his understanding of the orientation of the eye anatomy relative to the interventional tools. In
one embodiment, a series of fidicual features and/or markers placed within the field of view of
the imaging system utilized to view the eye anatomy may be used to establish the eye
orientation.
 [0052] Referring to Figure 1OA, with a patient interface assembly intercoupled between an eye
of a patient (68) and an interventional system such as that (2) shown in Figure 1, the imaging
subsystem may be configured to have a field of view directed through the aperture (180, 230) of
the patient interface housing (166, 164), across the lens element (not shown in Figure I0A; see
element 92 of Figures 5B and 5C, for example), through any associated fluid (not shown in
Figure 1OA; see element 172 of Figures 5B and 5C, for example), to the surface of the eye (68)
and into the eye. Figure lOB shows a similar view with the top portion of the patient interface
housing (166) removed. Figure 1OC shows a closer view with arrows pointing out the location
of the inner seal (240) relative to the eye (68), and also the locations of three fiducial markers
(258, 260, 262) that are coupled to, defined by, or formed within the lower frustoconical portion
(194) of the patient interface housing. Figure 1OD shows another view at a different orientation,
                                                  -24-

  and Figure 1OE shows a close-up view of one of the fiducial features (260), which in this
  embodiment represents a prominent step that has X (266), Y (268), and Z (270) dimensions that
 are configured to be easily picked up by the associated imaging system. For example, in a
  configuration featuring an OCT imaging system, dimensions of X and Y that are about 1 mm,
  and Z that is about M2 mm provide for a fidicial that are easily detectable by the imaging system.
 As described below in reference to Figure 11, eye orientation relative to the interventional
 system based upon an astigmatic or other predetermined axis may be determined intraoperatively
 if two or more fiducials on the patient interface are placed into some predetermined orientation
 relative to the preoperatively created marks that are associated with the astigmatic or other
 predetermined axis. Thus a requisite element of such intraoperative feature set is one or more
 fiducials coupled to or resident on the patient interface that are within the field of view or
 detection by the imaging subsystem. Figures 1OF-I OL illustrate several variations.
 [0053] Referring to Figure 1OF, a diagrammatic representation of an inner annulus formed by the
 distal end of a lower patient interface portion (194) is depicted with a plurality of prominent step
 fiducials (264) associated therewith, as in the embodiment of Figure 1OC, for example. Two of
 these fiducials (264) may be manually lined up with the marks (286, 288) that have been
 manually created preoperatively on the surface of the eye (for example, using a marking pen).
 One of the challenges is that marks created with marking pens tend to be washed away by the
 activity of the eye, eyelid, and tears/saline, and thus it is valuable to utilize them to "register" the
position and/or orientation of the patient interface relative to the anatomy of the eye, and
temporarily fix this relationship with the vacuum or other means, before too much time has
 elapsed after the time that the marks are created (i.e., before the marks have become too washed
 away or diffuse to see precisely). Typically the patient care provider will not only want to
understand the orientation of the eye relative to the distal system portions (element 160 of Figure
2C, for example), but will also want to have the visual axis of the eye substantially aligned with
an optical axis of the optical lens housed within the patient interface assembly (typically the
optical axis of the optical lens will be aligned to pass through the viewing/treatment aperture of
the patient interface housing); indeed, it is desirable to have the visual axis of the eye directed in
a direction approximately parallel to a gravitational force vector when the patient is lying down
approximately flat (in other words, have the patient flat and the eye directed "straight up").
[0054] In another embodiment, small removable pins or trocar members, such as those
commonly used by retinal surgeons and available from suppliers such as the Grieshaber division
of Alcon Corporation, may be utilized as markers - or as fiducials themselves - to assist with
registering the patient interface to the anatomy from an orientation and/or position perspective.
                                                   -25-

 The additional fiducial of the embodiment of Figure 1OF may provide further information
 regarding which side is "up" from an orientation perspective, but is not absolutely necessary for
 orientation registration (i.e., two fiducials is functionally adequate for this, as in the embodiment
 of Figure 1OG, which features two diametrically opposed prominent step fiducials integrated into
 the lower patient interface portion 194).
 [0055] Referring to Figure 1OH, an embodiment is shown to demonstrate that the markers and
 fiducials need not be lined up in a diametrically opposed configuration, or in any kind of
 homogeneous pattern relative to each other about the portion of the patient interface exposed to
 the field of view of the imaging system. The important issue is to understand what the
predetermined marks (286, 288) mean, and to line these marks up with the fiducials (264).
 Although in the depicted embodiment, the fiducials (264) are configured to be directly aligned
with the marks (286, 288), in other embodiments these may be misaligned intentionally by a
known offset, etc. Again, the key is to make sure that the predetermined information regarding
astigmatic axis, etc, that is memorialized in the marks gets transferred to the in-situ surgical
 scenario in terms of the registration of the patient interface to the anatomy. In other words, if
you know what you want to do based upon a preoperative surgical plan and some marks related
thereto, you want to make sure that this information can be transferred to the in-situ scenario and
utilized understanding where the diagnostic and interventional system is relative to the actual
anatomy.
 [0056] Referring to Figure 101, the fiducials need not be prominent steps, as shown in the
aforementioned embodiments; they may be depressed steps (i.e., depressed into the surrounding
surface of the patient interface), be formed to include prominent or depressed edges (272), or
they may comprise contrasting patterns viewable by photography, video, or infrared imaging, for
example, as in the "X" pattern visual fiducials (274) of Figure 101. Figure 1OJ depicts an
embodiment with a plurality of high-contrast visual fiducials (276), which may, for example, be
black painted portions against a white background as shown, white painted portions against a
black background, or the like. Further, the fiducials may comprise a material, such as a
fluorescing paint or other fluorescing material, which becomes highly visible in contrast to the
surrounding material when illuminated with the appropriate radiation and viewed with the
appropriate imaging device (for example, certain carbon tetrachloride solutions fluoresce under
infrared radiation and may be imaged with an infrared camera or videocamera). Figure 10K
illustrates an embodiment with fluorescing fiducials (278). Further, the geometry of the fiducials
need not be rectangular, square, or edged - it may be any geometry that may be easily detected
with the particular imaging system at hand, and different types may be mixed and matched for a
                                                   -26-

 particular implementation. The embodiment of Figure 1OL has four different types of fiducials
 an edge fiducial (272 - may be prominent or depressed relative to the surrounding surface), a
 hemispherical fiducial (may be prominent or depressed {i.e., concave or convex} relative to the
 surrounding surface), a contrast fiducial (276), and a step fiducial (may be prominent or
 depressed relative to the surrounding surface). Thus the one or more fiducials may comprise
 surface irregularities relative to other surrounding surfaces, and/or highly visible or detectable
 features or materials.
  [0057] Referring to Figure 11, an implementation utilizing aspects of configurations such as
 those described in reference to Figures 1OA- 1OL is illustrated. As shown in Figure 11,
 subsequent to preoperative diagnostics and patient preparation steps, including creating one or
 more geometric marks on the eye (346), a patient may be positioned in a substantially horizontal
 position for patient interface docking (322) (i.e., due to the desire to not fight gravity when using
 a one or two part embodiment; further, in a liquid interface two part embodiment, it is desirable
 to not have the liquid spill out of the bottom portion). The top portion of the patient interface
 may be coupled to a movable portion of the system while the bottom portion, containing or
 comprising two or more fiducials, may remain uncoupled for ease of manual manipulation (348).
 The lower portion of the patient interface may be removably coupled to the cornea and/or sclera,
 and this coupling may be enforced with a vacuum load, while a mechanical feature of the lower
portion of the patient interface physically limits the amount of distension of the immediately
 associated portion of the eye toward the patient interface (344). With the docking completed, in
a two part liquid configuration, fluid may be added to the bottom portion of the patient interface
housing to place the surface of the eye within fluid connection to the lens element coupled to the
inside of the bottom portion of the patient interface housing (342). The movable portion of the
system may be utilized to move (338) the top portion of the patient interface into a position
wherein the top and bottom portions of the patient interface may be intercoupled (the junction
being enforced, for example, with another vacuum load) (340). The procedure may be
conducted along with intraoperative imaging using systems such as OCT, infrared, light
photography, light video, infrared photography or video, ultrasound, Scheimpflug, and the like to
not only image the subject tissue structures of the eye, but also to track the positions of the
fiducials such that the anatomical positioning relative to the imaging device may be understood
(350). After completing the procedure based at least in part upon the geometric relationship
between the fiducials and geometric markers (352), the patient interface may be decoupled (i.e.,
by releasing the vacuum) from the cornea and/or sclera (332). While the embodiment of Figure
11 combines aspects of the distension-preventing technology described in reference to Figures
                                                  -27-

 7A-9, the two-part liquid patient interface configuration of Figures 5A-5C, and the marker
 fiducial configurations of Figures 1OA-10L, it is important to emphasize that these aspects need
 not all be combined in every embodiment of the invention. For example, in one embodiment, a
 one-piece or two-piece non-liquid patient interface configuration may be augmented with a
 distention preventing sealing interface without the configurations for using markers and fiducials
 to register the anatomy to the imaging system; in another embodiment, for example, a two part
 liquid patient interface configuration may comprise the marker-fiducial features for anatomic
 registration without the distention preventing sealing interface. The technology features may be
 used together in various combinations and permutations within the scope of the invention.
 [00581 Referring to Figure 12, an embodiment similar to that shown in Figure 5A is depicted,
 with the exception that several illumination source (296, 294) options are illustrated. As
 described above in reference to Figure 1, various types of light sources are suitable for assisting
with image and video capture of the subject tissue structures using, for example, conventional
 camera and video sensors and/or infrared camera and video sensors. Referring again to Figure
 12, in one embodiment, an illumination source (294) will be configured to broadcast illumination
radiation in a field (298) configuration whereby the illumination radiation is passed through the
 central aperture or passageway of the patient interface assembly (168, 164), including through
 any lens element that may be coupled thereto and positioned across the central aperture, to reach
substantially the entire surface of the eye (68) of the patient that is accessible through the patient
interface (i.e., the portion of the cornea and/or sclera that is bounded by the inner seal of the
engagement assembly 130). In another configuration, also illustrated in Figure 12, one or more
illumination sources (296) may be configured to broadcast illumination radiation in a field (308)
configuration whereby the illumination radiation is passed through at least a portion of the
patient interface housing assembly (164, 168) to reach substantially the entire surface of the eye
(68) of the patient that is accessible through the patient interface (i.e., the portion of the cornea
and/or sclera that is bounded by the inner seal of the engagement assembly 130); with such a
configuration, depending upon the wavelength of transmitted illumination irradiation, it may be
desirable to have one or more portions of the patient interface assembly (164, 168) comprise
substantially translucent materials that are selected to pass the illumination irradiation across
walls and features of such structures and in toward the subject surface of the eye (68). Figure 12
also shows an OCT irradiation and/or scatter/reflection beam (290) being passed through the
central aperture of the patient interface housing (164, 168), and a diagrammatic representation of
a scanning/broadcast and scatter/reflection field (292) for this imaging technology, the field
(292) being akin to a field of view for such technology. The desired field of view of the OCT
                                                  -28-

 imaging system preferably includes as much of the subject eye (68) tissue as possible given the
 position of the OCT source and the surface of the eye (68) of the patient that is accessible
 through the patient interface (i.e., the portion of the cornea and/or sclera that is bounded by the
 inner seal of the engagement assembly 130; the OCT may also be able to provide additional data
 by imaging "through" one or more elements of the patient interface assembly, such as through
 the inner seal 240 as engaged with the eye 68), and, as described above, the OCT may function
 as a 3-dimensional sensor for monitoring positions of fiducials which may be coupled to, or
 formed in, portions of the patient interface assembly. For example, as described above, the OCT
 or other imaging sensor may be configured to capture one or more images that feature both the
 registration fiducials coupled to or formed within the patient interface and the geometric markers
 which may be placed or created preoperatively (i.e., with a marker, small removable trocar, etc),
 and when the patient interface is engaged with the eye intraoperatively, the geometric
 relationship between the anatomy of the eye (based upon the geometric markers) and the
 imaging device may be accurately characterized when the geometric relationship between the
 patient interface and the geometric markers is known (i.e., by virtue of lining the markers up
 with the fiducials in some quantifiable way). In other words, with such a configuration, the
preoperatively created geometric markers, based upon healthcare provider analysis of the
patient's anatomy, establish an axis or other geometric landmark which may be mapped to the
patient interface in-situ by lining the geometric markers up with the fiducials of the patient
interface; then with an imaging device configured to capture images of both the anatomy and the
fiducials together, the geometric relationship between the anatomy and the imaging device may
be determined or characterized with geometric transformation. In a configuration wherein a two
dimensional imaging device is utilized, such as a conventional camera or video system using
visible or infrared light, an assumption may be made that the fiducials of the patient interface are
substantially co-planar (and, indeed, the fiducials may be specifically configured to be
substantially co-planar), and the quantitative analysis may lead to characterizations of positions
and/or movements of the fiducials and associated eye anatomy relative to a plane that is
substantially perpendicular to the axis of the aperture of the patient interface through which the
imaging device is operated. In an embodiment wherein the imaging device comprises an OCT
device, additional information may be derived, since OCT is capable of measuring fully three
dimensional positions of the various structures of interest, such as each of the fiducials and
various anatomical features of the eye (68). In other words, the three-dimensional capability of
the OCT technology works as a depth sensor as well as a position sensor. Although we
specifically describe OCT in this scenario, it is to be understood that all of the 3-dimensional
                                                  -29-

 imaging modalities described herein may be utilized to provide 3-dimensional position sensing.
 Thus, in an embodiment wherein OCT is utilized to characterize the geometric relationship of the
 fiducials, the imaging device, and the anatomy, the three dimensional motion of the patient
 interface may be characterized in pitch, yaw, and roll as well as X, Y, and Z given updated three
 dimensional position data regarding each of the fiducials. Such calculated information may be
 utilized to characterize the eye anatomy to which the patient interface may be intercoupled - or
 may be utilized to successfully dock/engage the patient interface with the surface of the eye
 before temporarily vacuum locking the two together as described above (in other words, the
 pitch, yaw, roll, x, y, z data for the patient interface may be utilized to ensure that the patient
 interface is being engaged against the eye in a preferred orientation that is not "cockeyed"
 relative to the surface of the eye upon engagement, etc). Positional information derived from
 image or signal analysis of the image(s) or detection(s) of the patient interface as it is being
 brought into contact with the system via 10 (302) and control electronics (300) may be employed
 to provide guidance to the user. This guidance may in the form of a visible cue or marker
 displayed upon GUI (304) that is intended for the user to recognize and manually compensate for
using 10 (306) to position the patient via UI (306) to control motion control system (70), or
 similar means. The abovementioned positional information may also be used to generate signals
that can be utilized by control electronics (300) directly to control motion control system (70) in
order to automatically and accurately couple the patient to the system. Information about the
axial position of the patient interface, or the system member to which it is attached may further
be used to judge the depth location of the patient when using en-face 2-dimensional imaging
means such as infrared, light photography, light video, and/or infrared photography or video.
 [0059] Various exemplary embodiments of the invention are described herein. Reference is
made to these examples in a non-limiting sense. They are provided to illustrate more broadly
applicable aspects of the invention. Various changes may be made to the invention described and
equivalents may be substituted without departing from the true spirit and scope of the invention.
In addition, many modifications may be made to adapt a particular situation, material,
composition of matter, process, process act(s) or step(s) to the objective(s), spirit or scope of the
present invention. Further, as will be appreciated by those with skill in the art that each of the
individual variations described and illustrated herein has discrete components and features which
may be readily separated from or combined with the features of any of the other several
embodiments without departing from the scope or spirit of the present inventions. All such
modifications are intended to be within the scope of claims associated with this disclosure.
                                                    -30-

 [00601 Any of the devices described for carrying out the subject diagnostic or interventional
 procedures may be provided in packaged combination for use in executing such interventions.
 These supply "kits" may further include instructions for use and be packaged in sterile trays or
 containers as commonly employed for such purposes.
 [0061] The invention includes methods that may be performed using the subject devices. The
 methods may comprise the act of providing such a suitable device. Such provision may be
 performed by the end user. In other words, the "providing" act merely requires the end user
 obtain, access, approach, position, set-up, activate, power-up or otherwise act to provide the
 requisite device in the subject method. Methods recited herein may be carried out in any order of
the recited events which is logically possible, as well as in the recited order of events.
 [0062] For example, methods that may be performed using the subject devices include a method
 for interfacing an ophthalmic intervention system with an eye of a patient, comprising: a) placing
 a patient interface assembly comprising a housing, an optical lens coupled to the housing, and an
 eye engagement assembly coupled to the housing, the eye engagement assembly comprising an
inner seal and an outer seal, into contact with the eye of the patient by sealably engaging the eye
with the inner and outer seals in a vacuum zone defined between the inner and outer seals; b)
applying a vacuum load between the inner and outer seals to engage the eye using the vacuum
load; and c) physically limiting an amount of distension of the eye in the vacuum zone.
 [0063] Variations of the method for interfacing an ophthalmic intervention system with an eye of
a patient are within the scope of the present invention. For example, placing a patient interface
into contact with the eye of the patient can include electromechanically repositioning the patient
interface relative to the eye of the patient. Placing a patient interface into contact with the eye of
the patient can include electromechanically repositioning a head of the patient relative to the
patient interface. Electromechanically repositioning a head of the patient can include
electromechanically repositioning a headrest that is removably coupled to the head of the patient.
Placing a patient interface into contact with the eye of the patient can include manually
repositioning the patient interface relative to the eye of the patient. The method can further
include monitoring one or more interfacial loads representative of contact loads applied to the
eye of the patient by the patient interface assembly. Monitoring one of more interfacial loads
can include monitoring one or more output signals from one or more load cells operatively
coupled to the patient interface. The vacuum load can be between about 100 mm Hg and about
500 mm Hg. The method can include orienting the eye of the patient into a configuration
wherein the visual axis of the eye is substantially aligned with an optical axis of the optical lens
of the patient interface assembly. The method can include placing the patient in a position
                                                  -31-

 wherein he is lying down with the visual axis of the eye of the patient directed approximately
 parallel to a gravitational acceleration vector. Physically limiting an amount of distension can
 include providing a tissue migration bolster structure configured to be positioned between the
 inner and outer seals and to apply a resisting load against portions of the eye in the vacuum zone
 which may distend upon application of the vacuum load. Providing a tissue migration bolster
 structure can include occupying a majority of a surface area defined between the inner and outer
 seal with one or more surfaces of the tissue migration bolster structure. The inner and outer seals
 can be configured to be substantially spherical when engaged to the eye of the patient. The
 tissue migration bolster structure can include a spherical surface configured to be interfaced with
 the eye of the patient. The method can include providing one or more ports configured to allow
 gas to pass between the eye of the patient and a position opposite the tissue migration bolster
 structure from the eye. The method can include minimizing pressure differences in the one or
 more ports by providing an equalizing volume fluidly connecting the one or more ports on the
 side of the tissue migration bolster structure opposite from the eye of the patient. The ports
 provided can have diameters between about 2mm and about 2 mm. The ports provided can be
 distributed evenly about the circumference of the tissue migration bolster structure. The method
 can include maintaining the vacuum load at a substantially even vacuum pressure. The spherical
 surface of the tissue migration bolster structure can have a radius of curvature substantially
 equivalent to that of the eye. In the aggregate, the portions of the inner and outer seals can be
 engaged against the eye, along with the spherical surface of the tissue migration bolster structure,
 form a surface in the aggregate that has a substantially similar curvature profile as the portions of
the eye to which the seals and tissue migration bolster structure are engaged.
 [00641 As another example, methods that may be performed using the subject devices include a
method for ophthalmic intervention on an eye of a patient, comprising: a) creating one or more
geometric markers on the eye of the patient in a preoperative setting; b) engaging the patient
with an intervention assembly comprising, i) a first imaging device coupled to a patient
workstation and having a field of view oriented toward the eye of the patient; ii) a patient
interface housing having proximal and distal ends and defining a passage therethrough, wherein
the distal end is coupled to one or more seals configured to be directly engaged with one or more
surfaces of the eye of the patient, and wherein the proximal end is configured to be coupled to
the patient workstation such that at least a portion of the field of view of the imaging device
passes through the passage; and iii) two or more registration fiducials coupled to the patient
interface housing in a predetermined geometric configuration relative to the patient interface
housing within the field of view of the imaging device such that they may be imaged by the
                                                  -32-

 imaging device in reference to the geometric markers on the eye; c) capturing one or more
 images that feature both the registration fiducials and the geometric markers; and d)
 characterizing the geometric relationship between the eye and the patient interface housing.
  [00651 Variations of the method for ophthalmic intervention on an eye of a patient are within the
 scope of the present invention. For example, creating one or more geometric markers can
 include examining the eye of the patient to establish an axis of astigmatism. Creating one or
 more geometric markers can include locating positions for anticipated radial cut creation.
 Creating one or more geometric markers can include using a marking pen to create marks on the
 eye of the patient. Creating one or more geometric markers can include placing two or more
 marker fiducials into the surface anatomy of the eye. The marker fiducials can include
 removable trocar members. Engaging the patient with an intervention assembly can include
 interfacing the one or more seals directly with the eye of the patient and applying a vacuum load
 to retain this interfacing. The vacuum load can be between about 100 mm Hg and about 500 mm
 Hg. The first imaging device can be an infrared imaging device, and wherein characterizing the
 geometric relationship between the eye and the patient interface housing comprises analyzing the
positions of the registration fiducials and geometric markers in a plane substantially
perpendicular to the field of view of the first imaging device. The first imaging device can be a
visible light imaging device, and wherein characterizing the geometric relationship between the
 eye and the patient interface housing comprises analyzing the positions of the registration
fiducials and geometric markers in a plane substantially perpendicular to the field of view of the
first imaging device. The method can include determining a rotational orientation of the patient
interface housing relative to the eye of the patient. The method can include determining pitch
and yaw of the patient interface relative to the eye of the patient by detecting the depth of the
registration fiducials relative to a depth sensor operatively coupled to the first imaging device.
The depth sensor can be an optical coherence tomography device. The fiducials can include one
or more materials that fluoresce in infrared radiation. The fiducials can include one or more
materials that highly contrast in infrared radiation relative to other surrounding materials. The
fiducials can include one or more surface irregularities relative to other surrounding surfaces.
The one or more surface irregularities can be selected from the group consisting of: a concave
feature, a convex feature, a depressed edge, a depressed step, a projecting edge, a projecting step,
and an intersection of lines. The fiducials can include one or more materials that highly contrast
in visible light radiation relative to other surrounding materials.
[0066] Exemplary aspects of the invention, together with details regarding material selection and
manufacture have been set forth above. As for other details of the present invention, these may
                                                  -33-

 be appreciated in connection with the above-referenced patents and publications as well as
 generally known or appreciated by those with skill in the art. For example, one with skill in the
 art will appreciate that one or more lubricious coatings (e.g., hydrophilic polymers such as
 polyvinylpyrrolidone-based compositions, fluoropolymers such as tetrafluoroethylene,
 hydrophilic gel or silicones) may be used in connection with various portions of the devices,
 such as relatively large interfacial surfaces of movably coupled parts, if desired, for example, to
 facilitate low friction manipulation or advancement of such objects relative to other portions of
 the instrumentation or nearby tissue structures. The same may hold true with respect to method
 based aspects of the invention in terms of additional acts as commonly or logically employed.
 [0067] In addition, though the invention has been described in reference to several examples
 optionally incorporating various features, the invention is not to be limited to that which is
 described or indicated as contemplated with respect to each variation of the invention. Various
 changes may be made to the invention described and equivalents (whether recited herein or not
 included for the sake of some brevity) may be substituted without departing from the true spirit
 and scope of the invention. In addition, where a range of values is provided, it is understood that
 every intervening value, between the upper and lower limit of that range and any other stated or
 intervening value in that stated range, is encompassed within the invention.
 [00681 Also, it is contemplated that any optional feature of the inventive variations described
may be set forth and claimed independently, or in combination with any one or more of the
features described herein. Reference to a singular item, includes the possibility that there are
plural of the same items present. More specifically, as used herein and in claims associated
hereto, the singular forms "a," "an," "said," and "the" include plural referents unless the
specifically stated otherwise. In other words, use of the articles allow for "at least one" of the
subject item in the description above as well as claims associated with this disclosure. It is
further noted that such claims may be drafted to exclude any optional element. As such, this
statement is intended to serve as antecedent basis for use of such exclusive terminology as
"solely," "only" and the like in connection with the recitation of claim elements, or use of a
negativev" limitation.
[0069] Without the use of such exclusive terminology, the term "comprising" in claims
associated with this disclosure shall allow for the inclusion of any additional element-
irrespective of whether a given number of elements are enumerated in such claims, or the
addition of a feature could be regarded as transforming the nature of an element set forth in such
claims. Except as specifically defined herein, all technical and scientific terms used herein are to
be given as broad a commonly understood meaning as possible while maintaining claim validity.
                                                  -34-

 Decumet1-19/12/2016
 [0070] The breadth of the present invention is not to be limited to the examples provided
 and/or the subject specification, but rather only by the scope of claim language associated
with this disclosure.
 [0071] The reference in this specification to any prior publication (or information derived
from it), or to any matter which is known, is not, and should not be taken as, an
acknowledgement or admission or any form of suggestion that prior publication (or
information derived from it) or known matter forms part of the common general
knowledge in the field of endeavour to which this specification relates.
 [0072] Throughout this specification and the claims which follow, unless the context
requires otherwise, the word "comprise", and variations such as "comprises" or
"comprising", will be understood to imply the inclusion of a stated integer or step or group
of integers or steps but not the exclusion of any other integer or step or group of integers or
steps.
                                               35

 The claims defining the present invention are as follows:
         1. A patient interface assembly for interfacing an ophthalmic intervention system with an eye of
 a patient, comprising:
         a housing;
         an optical lens coupled to the housing;
         an eye engagement assembly coupled to the housing, the eye engagement assembly comprising
an inner seal and an outer seal, the eye engagement assembly adapted to be placed into contact with
the eye of the patient by sealably engaging the eye with the inner and outer seals, thereby defining a
vacuum zone between the inner and outer seals when placed into contact with the eye; and
         a tissue migration bolster structure positioned between the inner seal and outer seal and
configured to apply a resisting load against portions of the eye in the vacuum zone which are capable
of distending upon application of a vacuum load,
        wherein one or more surfaces of the tissue migration bolster structure occupies a majority of a
surface area defined between the inner and outer seal.
        2. The patient interface assembly of claim 1, further comprising means for monitoring one or
more interfacial loads representative of contact loads applied to the eye of the patient by the patient
interface assembly.
        3. The patient interface assembly of claim 2, further comprising one or more load cells
operatively coupled to the patient interface configured to output a signal based upon an interfacial
load applied to the eye of the patient by the patient interface assembly.
        4. The patient interface assembly of any one of the preceding claims, wherein the vacuum load
in the vacuum zone is between about 100 mm Hg and about 500 mm Hg.
        5. The patient interface assembly of any one of the preceding claims, wherein the eye surface
engagement assembly is configured to be removably coupled to the eye such that the geometric axis
of the eye is substantially aligned with a focal axis of the optical lens of the patient interface
assembly.
                                                      36

       6. The patient interface assembly of any one of the preceding claims, wherein the inner seal and
the outer seal are substantially spherical when engaged to the eye of the patient.
       7. The patient interface assembly of any one of the preceding claims, wherein the tissue
migration bolster structure further comprises a spherical surface configured to be interfaced with the
eye of the patient.
       8. The patient interface assembly of claim 7, wherein the spherical surface of the tissue
migration bolster structure has a radius of curvature equivalent to that of the eye.
       9. The patient interface assembly of any one of the preceding claims, wherein the tissue
migration bolster structure further comprises one or more ports configured to allow gas to pass
between the eye of the patient and a position opposite the tissue migration bolster structure from the
eye.
       10. The patient interface assembly of claim 9, further comprising an equalizing volume fluidly
connecting the one or more ports on the side of the tissue migration bolster structure opposite from the
eye of the patient.
       11. The patient interface assembly of claim 9 or 10, wherein the ports have diameters between
about 1/2 mm and about 2 mm.
       12. The patient interface assembly of any one of claims 9-11, wherein the ports are distributed
evenly about a circumference of the tissue migration bolster structure.
       13. The patient interface assembly of any one of the preceding claims, wherein tissue migration
bolster structure is fixedly coupled between an inner seal wall and the outer seal wall.
       14. The patient interface assembly of any one of the preceding claims, wherein the tissue
migration bolster structure is press fit in between an inner seal wall and an outer seal wall.
       15. The patient interface assembly of any one of claims 1-12, wherein the tissue migration
bolster structure is loosely fit in between an inner seal wall and an outer seal wall.
                                                     37

       16. The patient interface assembly of any one of the preceding claims, further comprising an
aperture through which at least one of an interventional and an imaging system may direct various
forms of radiation en route to the eye of the patient.
                                                    38

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
