                                    NOVEL COMPOUNDS
                                          ABSTRACT
The invention relates to spiro derivatives, to the use of said derivatives in treating diseases
and conditions mediated by modulation of voltage-gated sodium channels, to compositions
containing said derivatives and processes for their preparation.

                                              1
                                      AUSTRALIA
                                   Patents Act 1990
                 Convergence Pharmaceuticals Limited
     ORIGINAL COMPLETE SPECIFICATION
                        STANDARD PATENT
Invention Title:             Novel compounds
Divisional of AU <removed-apn>
The following statement is a full description of this invention, including the best method of
performing it known to us:

                                                   2
                                        NOVEL COMPOUNDS
CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS
[001] The present application is a divisional of Australian Patent Application
No <removed-apn>, which is a divisional of Australian Patent Application No 2013265001, which
is the national phase application of International Patent Application No PCT/GB2013/051335,
which claims priority from US Provisional Application No 61/650,325 filed 22 May 2012, GB
Provisional Application No 1209015.5 filed 22 May 2012, and US Provisional Application
No 61/773,710 filed 6 March 2013, the disclosures of which are herein incorporated by
reference in their entirety for all purposes.
FIELD OF THE INVENTION
[002] The invention relates to spiro derivatives, to the use of said derivatives in treating
diseases and conditions mediated by modulation of voltage-gated sodium channels, to
compositions containing said derivatives and processes for their preparation.
BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
[003] Voltage-gated sodium channels are responsible for the initial phase of the action
potential, which is a wave of electrical depolarisation usually initiated at the soma of the
neuron and propagated along the axon to the terminals. At the terminals, the action potential
triggers the influx of calcium and the release of neurotransmitter. Drugs, such as lidocaine,
that block voltage-gated sodium channels are used as local anaesthetics. Other sodium
channel blockers, such as lamotrigine and carbamazepine are used to treat epilepsy. In the
latter case, partial inhibition of voltage-gated sodium channels reduces neuronal excitability
and reduces seizure propagation. In the case of local anaesthetics, regional block of sodium
channels on sensory neurons prevents the conduction of painful stimuli. A key feature of
these drugs is their state-dependent mechanism of action. The drugs are thought to stabilise
an inactivated conformation of the channel that is adopted rapidly after the channel opens.
This inactivated state provides a refractory period before the channel returns to its resting
(closed) state ready to be reactivated. As a result, state-dependent sodium channel blockers
inhibit the firing of neurons at high frequency, for example in response to painful stimuli, and
will help to prevent repetitive firing during periods of prolonged neuronal depolarisation that
might occur, for example, during a seizure. Action potentials triggered at lower frequencies,
for example in the heart, will not be significantly affected by these drugs, although the safety
margin differs in each case, since at high enough concentrations each of these drugs is
capable of blocking the resting or open states of the channels.

                                                 3
[004] The voltage-gated sodium channel family is made up of 9 subtypes, four of which are
found in the brain, NaV1.1, 1.2, 1.3 and 1.6. Of the other subtypes, NaV1.4 is found only in
skeletal muscle, NaV1.5 is specific to cardiac muscle, and NaV1.7, 1.8, and 1.9 are found
predominantly in sensory neurons. The hypothesised binding site for state-dependent
sodium channel blockers is the local anaesthetic (LA) binding site in the inner vestibule of the
pore on transmembrane S6 of domain IV. Critical residues are located in a highly conserved
region among the different subtypes, thus presenting a challenge for the design of new
subtype selective drugs. Drugs such as lidocaine, lamotrigine and carbamazepine do not
distinguish between the subtypes. However, selectivity can be achieved, and can be further
enhanced functionally, as a result of the different frequencies at which the channels operate.
[005]   Drugs that block voltage-gated sodium channels in a state-dependent manner are
also used in the treatment of bipolar disorder, either to reduce symptoms of mania or
depression, or as mood stabilisers to prevent the emergence of mood episodes. Clinical and
preclinical evidence also suggests that state-dependent sodium channel blockers may help
to reduce the symptoms of schizophrenia. For example, lamotrigine has been shown to
reduce symptoms of psychosis induced by ketamine in healthy human volunteers, and
furthermore, studies in patients suggest that the drug can augment the antipsychotic efficacy
of some atypical antipsychotic drugs, such as clozapine or olanzapine. It is hypothesised that
efficacy in these psychiatric disorders may result in part from a reduction of excessive
glutamate release. The reduction in glutamate release is thought to be a consequence of
sodium channel inhibition in key brain areas, such as the frontal cortex. However, interaction
with voltage-gated calcium channels may also contribute to the efficacy of these drugs.
[006] WO 2007/042240 (Glaxo Group Limited) describes a series of quaternary alpha
aminocarboxamide derivatives as modulators of voltage-gated sodium channels.
[007] The object of the invention is to identify alternative compounds which modulate
voltage-gated sodium channels.
[008] Throughout this specification, unless the context requires otherwise, the word
"comprise", or variations such as "comprises" or "comprising", will be understood to imply the
inclusion of a stated element, integer or step, or group of elements, integers or steps, but not
the exclusion of any other element, integer or step, or group of elements, integers or steps.

                                                  4
[009] Any discussion of documents, acts, materials, devices, articles or the like which has
been included in the present specification is solely for the purpose of providing a context for
the present invention. It is not to be taken as an admission that any or all of these matters
form part of the prior art base or were common general knowledge in the field relevant to the
present invention as it existed before the priority date of each claim of this specification.
SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
[010] According to a first aspect, the invention provides a compound of formula (1)which is
7-methyl-2-[4-methyl-6-[4-(trifluoromethyl)-phenyl]pyrimidin-2-yl]-1,7-diazaspiro[4.4]nonan-6
one:
                                                           0
                                                                  N
                                          N
                                             /        N
                                             NI
                                                      H
                             F
                                        F
                                  F
                                                 (1)
 or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt or solvate thereof.
DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION
[011] A reference to a compound of the formula (I) and sub-groups thereof also includes
ionic forms, salts, solvates, isomers (including geometric and stereochemical isomers),
tautomers, N-oxides, esters, prodrugs, isotopes and protected forms thereof, for example, as
discussed below; preferably, the salts or tautomers or isomers or N-oxides or solvates
thereof; and more preferably, the salts or tautomers or N-oxides or solvates thereof, even
more preferably the salts or tautomers or solvates thereof. Hereinafter, compounds and their
ionic forms, salts, solvates, isomers (including geometric and stereochemical isomers),
tautomers, N-oxides, esters, prodrugs, isotopes and protected forms thereof as defined in
any aspect of the invention (except intermediate compounds in chemical processes) are
referred to as "compounds of the invention".

                                                      5
[012]    Compounds of formula (1)can exist in the form of salts, for example acid addition
salts or, in certain cases salts of organic and inorganic bases such as carboxylate, sulfonate
and phosphate salts. All such salts are within the scope of this invention, and references to
compounds of formula (1)include the salt forms of the compounds.
[013] The salts of the present invention can be synthesized from the parent compound that
contains a basic or acidic moiety by conventional chemical methods such as methods
described in Pharmaceutical Salts: Properties, Selection, and Use, P. Heinrich Stahl (Editor),
Camille G. Wermuth (Editor), ISBN: 3-90639-026-8, Hardcover, 388 pages, August 2002.
Generally, such salts can be prepared by reacting the free acid or base forms of these
compounds with the appropriate base or acid in water or in an organic solvent, or in a
mixture of the two; generally, nonaqueous media such as dichloromethane, 1,4-dioxane,
ether, ethyl acetate, ethanol, isopropanol, or acetonitrile are used.
[014] Acid addition salts (mono- or di-salts) may be formed with a wide variety of acids,
both inorganic and organic. Examples of acid addition salts include mono- or di-salts formed
with an acid selected from the group consisting of acetic, 2,2-dichloroacetic, adipic, alginic,
ascorbic (e.g. L-ascorbic), L-aspartic, benzenesulfonic, benzoic, 4-acetamidobenzoic,
butanoic, (+) camphoric, camphor-sulfonic, (+)-(1 S)-camphor-1 0-sulfonic, capric, caproic,
caprylic, cinnamic, citric, cyclamic, dodecylsulfuric, ethane-1, 2-disulfonic, ethanesulfonic, 2
hydroxyethanesulfonic, formic, fumaric, galactaric, gentisic, glucoheptonic, D-gluconic,
glucuronic (e.g. D-glucuronic), glutamic (e.g. L-glutamic), a-oxoglutaric, glycolic, hippuric,
hydrohalic acids (e.g. hydrobromic, hydrochloric, hydriodic), isethionic, lactic (e.g. (+)-L-lactic,
(±)-DL-lactic), lactobionic, maleic, malic, (-)-L-malic, malonic, (±)-DL-mandelic,
methanesulfonic, naphthalene-2-sulfonic, naphthalene-1, 5-disulfonic, 1-hydroxy-2-naphthoic,
nicotinic, nitric, oleic, orotic, oxalic, palmitic, pamoic, phosphoric, propionic, pyruvic, L
pyroglutamic, salicylic, 4-amino-salicylic, sebacic, stearic, succinic, sulfuric, tannic, (+)-L
tartaric, thiocyanic, p-toluenesulfonic, undecylenic and valeric acids, as well as acylated
amino acids and cation exchange resins.
[015]    One particular group of salts consists of salts formed from acetic, hydrochloric,
hydriodic, phosphoric, nitric, sulfuric, citric, lactic, succinic, maleic, malic, isethionic, fumaric,
benzenesulfonic, toluenesulfonic, sulfuric, methanesulfonic (mesylate), ethanesulfonic,
naphthalenesulfonic, valeric, acetic, propanoic, butanoic, malonic, glucuronic and lactobionic
acids. One particular salt is the hydrochloride salt. Another particular salt is the
hydrogensulfate.

                                                 6
[016] Where the compounds of the formula (1)contain an amine function, these may form
quaternary ammonium salts, for example by reaction with an alkylating agent according to
methods well known to the skilled person. Such quaternary ammonium compounds are
within the scope of formula (1).
[017] The compounds of the invention may exist as mono- or di-salts depending upon the
pKa of the acid from which the salt is formed.
[018] The salt forms of the compounds of the invention are typically pharmaceutically
acceptable salts, and examples of pharmaceutically acceptable salts are discussed in Berge
et al., 1977, "Pharmaceutically Acceptable Salts," J. Pharm. Sci., Vol. 66, pp. 1-19. However,
salts that are not pharmaceutically acceptable may also be prepared as intermediate forms
which may then be converted into pharmaceutically acceptable salts. Such non
pharmaceutically acceptable salts forms, which may be useful, for example, in the
purification or separation of the compounds of the invention, also form part of the invention.
[019]     In one embodiment, the compound of formula (1)is (2R,5S)-7-Methyl-2-[4-methyl-6
[4-(trifluoromethyl)-phenyl]pyrimidin-2-yl]-1,7-diazaspiro[4.4]nonan-6-one hydrochloride (El)
[020]     In an alternative embodiment, the compound of formula (1) is (2R,5S)-7-Methyl-2-[4
methyl-6-[4-(trifluoromethyl)-phenyl]pyrimidin-2-yl]-1,7-diazaspiro[4.4]nonan-6-one sulfuric
acid salt (E2).
[021] Those skilled in the art of organic chemistry will appreciate that many organic
compounds can form complexes with solvents in which they are reacted or from which they
are precipitated or crystallized. These complexes are known as "solvates". For example, a
complex with water is known as a "hydrate". Pharmaceutically acceptable solvates of the
compound of the invention are within the scope of the invention. In one embodiment, the
pharmaceutically acceptable solvates of the compounds of the invention include the hydrate
thereof. In a further embodiment, the compound of formula (1)is (2R,5S)-7-Methyl-2-[4
methyl-6-[4-(trifluoromethyl)-phenyl]pyrimidin-2-yl]-1,7-diazaspiro[4.4]nonan-6-one sulfuric
acid salt hydrate (E3).
[022]     Compounds of the formula (1) containing an amine function may also form N-oxides.
A reference herein to a compound of the formula (1)that contains an amine function also
includes the N-oxide.

                                                     7
[023] Where a compound contains several amine functions, one or more than one nitrogen
atom may be oxidised to form an N-oxide. Particular examples of N-oxides are the N-oxides
of a tertiary amine or a nitrogen atom of a nitrogen-containing heterocycle.
[024]     N-Oxides can be formed by treatment of the corresponding amine with an oxidizing
agent such as hydrogen peroxide or a per-acid (e.g. a peroxycarboxylic acid), see for
example Advanced Organic Chemistry, by Jerry March, 4 t' Edition, Wiley Interscience,
pages. More particularly, N-oxides can be made by the procedure of L. W. Deady (Syn.
Comm. 1977, 7, 509-514) in which the amine compound is reacted with m
chloroperoxybenzoic acid (MCPBA), for example, in an inert solvent such as
dichloromethane.
[025]     It will be appreciated by those skilled in the art that certain protected derivatives of
compounds of formula (I), which may be made prior to a final deprotection stage, may not
possess pharmacological activity as such, but may, in certain instances, be administered orally
or parenterally and thereafter metabolised in the body to form compounds of the invention which
are pharmacologically active. Such derivatives may therefore be described as "prodrugs". All
such prodrugs of compounds of the invention are included within the scope of the invention.
Examples of pro-drug functionality suitable for the compounds of the present invention are
described in Drugs of Today, Volume 19, Number 9, 1983, pp 499 - 538 and in Topics in
Chemistry, Chapter 31, pp 306 - 316 and in "Design of Prodrugs" by H. Bundgaard, Elsevier,
1985, Chapter 1 (the disclosures in which documents are incorporated herein by reference). It
will further be appreciated by those skilled in the art, that certain moieties, known to those skilled
in the art as "pro-moieties", for example as described by H. Bundgaard in "Design of Prodrugs"
(the disclosure in which document is incorporated herein by reference) may be placed on
appropriate functionalities when such functionalities are present within compounds of the
invention.
[026] Also included within the scope of the compound and various salts of the invention are
polymorphs thereof.
[027]     Compounds of the formula (1) may exist in a number of different geometric isomeric,
and tautomeric forms and references to compounds of the formula (1) include all such forms.
For the avoidance of doubt, where a compound can exist in one of several geometric
isomeric or tautomeric forms and only one is specifically described or shown, all others are
nevertheless embraced by formula (1).

                                            8
[028] In one embodiment, the invention provides compounds of any one of formulae (la)
(Id):
                                                   N
                                                 H
                       F
                            F
                                          (la);
                                     N
                                                 N
                                       N
                                                 H
                       F
                                  F
                                          (Ib);

                                                9
                                                        O
                                                     N
                                                     H
                           F
                                     F
                               F
                                            (Ic); or
                                                        0
                                                             N
                                          N          N
                                                     H
                           F
                                      F
                               F
                                              (Id).
[029]   In a further embodiment, the invention provides compounds of formula (Ia).
Representative examples of compounds of formula (Ia) include Examples 1-3 described
herein.
[030] The present invention includes all pharmaceutically acceptable isotopically-labeled
compounds of the invention, i.e. compounds of formula (1), wherein one or more atoms are
replaced by atoms having the same atomic number, but an atomic mass or mass number
different from the atomic mass or mass number usually found in nature.

                                                    10
[031]     Examples of isotopes suitable for inclusion in the compounds of the invention
comprise isotopes of hydrogen, such as 2 H (D) and 3H (T), carbon, such as "C,              13C and  14C,
chlorine, such as 36CI, fluorine, such as    18F, iodine, such as 1231, 1251 and 1311, nitrogen, such
               15                                                                 32
as  13N  and      N, oxygen, such as  150, 170 and 180, phosphorus, such as         P, and sulfur, such
as 3s.
[032]     Certain isotopically-labelled compounds of formula (1), for example, those
incorporating a radioactive isotope, are useful in drug and/or substrate tissue distribution
studies. The compounds of formula (1)can also have valuable diagnostic properties in that
they can be used for detecting or identifying the formation of a complex between a labelled
compound and other molecules, peptides, proteins, enzymes or receptors. The detecting or
identifying methods can use compounds that are labelled with labelling agents such as
radioisotopes, enzymes, fluorescent substances, luminous substances (for example, luminol,
luminol derivatives, luciferin, aequorin and luciferase), etc. The radioactive isotopes tritium,
i.e. 3 H (T), and carbon-14, i.e.  14C, are particularly useful for this purpose in view of their ease
of incorporation and ready means of detection.
[033]     Substitution with heavier isotopes such as deuterium, i.e. 2 H (D), may afford certain
therapeutic advantages resulting from greater metabolic stability, for example, increased in
vivo half-life or reduced dosage requirements, and hence may be preferred in some
circumstances.
[034]     Substitution with positron emitting isotopes, such as "C,      18F, 150  and  13
                                                                                           N, can be
useful in Positron Emission Topography (PET) studies for examining target occupancy.
[035]     Isotopically-labeled compounds of formula (I) can generally be prepared by
conventional techniques known to those skilled in the art or by processes analogous to those
described in the accompanying Examples and Preparations using an appropriate
isotopically-labeled reagents in place of the non-labeled reagent previously employed.
[036] According to a further aspect of the invention there is provided a process for
preparing a compound of formula (1)as herein defined which comprises:
(a)       forming a compound of formula (1) by performing a ring closure reaction of a
compound of formula (II) followed by reduction of the resulting imine (IIA):

                                                11
                   N                                          N
                                 H2NN
                                N             N                 N       ND
                                                                               0
         F                                          F
                 FF                                         F
                       F                               F
                        (II)                                         (IIA);
(b)     deprotection of a protected derivative of a compound of formula (1);
(c)     optional formation of a pharmaceutically acceptable salt of a compound of formula (1).
[037]   Process (a) typically comprises treating the compound of formula (II) with a suitable
reagent, such as silver trifluoromethanesulfonate (AgOTf), with stirring at a suitable
temperature, such as 40 *C, for a suitable time period, such as 3 to 7 days, followed by
reduction of the resulting imine (IIA) by a hydride reducing agent such as sodium
triacetoxyborohydride in a solvent system such as aqueous hydrochloride acid and
dichloromethane, or by using borane or a modified borane such as tertiarybutylamine:borane
complex, or hydrogenation over a suitable catalyst such as platinum.
[038]   Compounds of formula (II) may be prepared in accordance with Scheme 1:

                                                     12
                                              Scheme 1
                                                                  Ph
                  N-             Step (i)                                           N
  H2 N                             NH                         Ph       N
          (111) OO                                                                      (V)
                            Ph           Ph                      Step (ii)
                                  (IV)                                       L
                                                                               (VI)
       Step (vi)
                                          Step (iii)              Ph
                  N                                                                 N
                 HNPh                                                   N
  H2 N                 Step (iv)
      (Vill)                                                             (VII)
 Step (v)                                                N-                                 N
                                     H2N       C
                                           (VIll)a     0                                         N
                                                                                              NHP 1
                                        Step (vi)
                   N -N
  P1 HN                                               L2              .- -
      (IX)                                   N
                                                                                        Step (vii)
                                                                                   (II)
                                                            F
                          F                                    F  F
                                 F F
wherein L' represents a suitable leaving group, such as a halogen atom (i.e. bromine) and L2
represents a suitable leaving group, such as a halogen atom (i.e. iodine) and P1 represents a
suitable protecting group, such as Boc.

                                                   13
[039]     Step (i) typically comprises reacting a compound of formula (Ill) with a compound of
formula (IV) in the presence of a suitable solvent, such as dichloroethane (DCE).
[040]     Step (ii) typically comprises reacting a compound of formula (V) with a compound of
formula (VI) in the presence of a suitable base such as potassium tert-butoxide and a
suitable solvent, such as tetrahydrofuran (THF).
[041]     Step (iii) typically comprises deprotecting a compound of formula (VII) with a suitable
acidic reagent, such as citric acid.
[042]     Step (iv) comprises a chiral resolution in which one chiral diastereomeric salt form of
(Vill) is crystallised and separated from a more soluble epimer, for example by fractional
crystallisation of (Vill) with a chiral acid such as mandelic acid or 2-(6-methoxy-2
naphthyl)propanoic acid in a suitable solvent such as THF, acetonitrile or isopropyl alcohol.
The chiral form (Vill)' may be liberated by treating the salt with a base, such as a resin
bound base, in a suitable solvent such as methanol.
[043]     Step (v) typically comprises treating a compound of formula (Vill) with a suitable
amine protecting reagent, such as Boc 2O, in the presence of a suitable solvent, such as
dichloromethane (DCM).
[044]     Step (vi) typically comprises reacting a terminal alkyne of formula (IX) or (Vill) with a
compound of formula (X) in the presence of a suitable reagent, such as copper iodide, a
suitable catalyst, such as PdCl 2 (Ph3 P)2 , a suitable base, such as diethylamine (Et2 NH) or
diisopropylamine and a suitable solvent, such as tetrahydrofuran, or tertiarybutyl methyl
ether.
[045]     Step (vii) typically comprises deprotecting a compound of formula (XI) with a suitable
acidic reagent, such as trifluoroacetic acid (TFA) in the presence of a suitable solvent, such
as dichloromethane (DCM) or alternatively by using sulphuric acid in a solvent such as 1,4
dioxane.
[046]     Compounds of formula (X) may be prepared in accordance with Scheme 2:

                                                 14
                                             Scheme 2
                                                                                          L2
                                              N       L3
                                                      L3N
                                                                                  Nr
         N              Step (i)                N           Step (ii)               N
           I      L3
           N               B(OH) 2
      (XX)                                     (XXII)                  F             (X)
                                  F                                             F
                                           F                               F
                                     F
             F
                  F     F
                       (XXI)
wherein L2 represents a suitable leaving group, such as a halogen atom (i.e. iodine), L3
represents a suitable leaving group, such as a halogen atom (i.e. chlorine) and L4 represents
a suitable leaving group, such as a halogen atom (i.e. chlorine).
[047]   Step (i) typically comprises reacting a compound of formula (XX) with a compound of
formula (XXI) in the presence of a suitable reagent, such as sodium carbonate, a suitable
catalyst, such as PdCl 2 (Ph3P)2 , and a suitable solvent, such as dimethoxyethane/water.
[048] When L3 represents chlorine and L2 represents iodine, step (ii) typically comprises
reacting a compound of formula (XXII) with hydrogen iodide.
[049]   Compounds of formula (IIA) may be prepared in accordance with Scheme 3:

                                                   15
                                              Scheme 3
                                                                           N
                                         NN
                  H 2N         N_                _       _         N                      (XXIII)
                            O      (111)      Step (i)
                                                                                Step (ii)
                                                           F            0
                                                               F
                                                                  O
                                                                       //
                                                             F
                        N                 N-,                       Ph
                                  N                                N         N
                          -N                                         N       H
                              (IIA)             Step (iii)                           (XXIV)
       F
         F      F                                          F
                                                               F
                                                             F
[050]   Step (i) typically comprises condensation of a compound of formula (Ill) with a
carboxyaldehyde compound, including for example a compound of formula (XXVII) (the
preparation of which is described below in Scheme 4), in the presence of a dehydrating
agent such as magnesium sulfate or molecular sieves in a solvent such as dichloromethane.
[051]   Step (ii) typically comprises a [3+2] cycloaddition reaction with phenyl vinyl sulfone
catalysed by a transition metal salt such as a silver or copper salt, in the presence of a base
and optionally a chiral phosphine ligand.
[052]   Step (iii) typically comprises elimination of the phenyl vinyl sulfone typically with a
strong base such as potassium tert-butoxide.
[053] The carboxaldehyde compound of formula (XXVII) suitable for reacting with a
compound of formula (Ill) in Scheme 3, may be commercially available but may also be
prepared according to Scheme 4:

                                                    16
                                               Scheme 4
                          N0                                                   0
                             N N          N         OkN                             H
                                         - N                           .-- N
                        Step (i)                       Step (ii)
                                                                           (XXV Il)
               /  X   V
                   (XXV)
                                   . -      (XXV I)
 F
     F     F                   F                               F
                                 F   F                           F F
[054]     Step (i) typically comprises an acid catalysed (for example hydrochloride acid)
alkoholysis of a 2-cyanopyrimdine with, for example, methanol.
[055]     Step (ii) comprises a reduction to an aldehyde using a hindered hydride reducing
agent, for example diisobutyl aluminium hydride, in a suitable solvent such as toluene or
dichloromethane.
[056]     Compounds of formulae (Ill), (IV), (VI), (XX), (XXI) and (XXV) are either known or
may be prepared in accordance with known methodology.
[057]     It will be appreciated by those skilled in organic synthesis that two or more chemical
steps in the schemes above may be run sequentially without isolation of intermediate
materials.
[058]     It may also be recognised that isomer separation may occur at any suitable stage in
the synthetic sequence. It should be stressed that such chiral separation forms a key aspect
of the invention and that such separation may be conducted in accordance with the
methodology described herein or may be conducted in accordance with known methodology.
[059]     It is also recognised that it may be beneficial to temporarily form a protected
derivative of an intermediate in the synthesis, for example, a Boc-protected amine, in order to
facilitate chromatographic separation, chiral resolution or to give improved solubility or yields
in particular steps.

                                                 17
[060] As discussed hereinabove, it is believed that compounds of the invention may be
useful for the treatment of diseases and conditions mediated by modulation of voltage-gated
sodium channels.
[061]    In one embodiment, the compounds will be state-dependent sodium channel
inhibitors.
[062]    In another embodiment, the compounds will be subtype NaV1.7 sodium channel
state-dependent inhibitors.
[063]    In another embodiment, the compounds will be state-dependent sodium channel
inhibitors which have a suitable developability profile on oral administration, for example in
terms of exposure (Cmax) and/or bioavailability.
[064]    In one embodiment, the compounds will be sodium channel inhibitors.
[065]    In another embodiment, the compounds will be subtype NaV1.7 sodium channel
inhibitors.
[066]    In another embodiment, the compounds will be sodium channel inhibitors which have
a suitable developability profile on oral administration, for example in terms of exposure
(Cmax) and/or bioavailability.
[067] According to a further aspect of the invention, there is provided compounds of the
invention for use as a medicament, preferably a human medicament.
[068] According to a further aspect the invention provides the use of compounds of the
invention in the manufacture of a medicament for treating or preventing a disease or
condition mediated by modulation of voltage-gated sodium channels.
[069]    In one particular embodiment, compounds of the invention may be useful as
analgesics. For example they may be useful in the treatment of chronic inflammatory pain
(e.g. pain associated with rheumatoid arthritis, osteoarthritis, rheumatoid spondylitis, gouty
arthritis and juvenile arthritis); musculoskeletal pain; lower back and neck pain; sprains and
strains; neuropathic pain; sympathetically maintained pain; myositis; pain associated with
cancer and fibromyalgia; pain associated with migraine; pain associated with influenza or
other viral infections, such as the common cold; rheumatic fever; pain associated with

                                                 18
functional bowel disorders such as non-ulcer dyspepsia, non-cardiac chest pain and irritable
bowel syndrome; pain associated with myocardial ischemia; post operative pain; headache;
toothache; and dysmenorrhea.
[070]   Compounds of the invention may be useful in the treatment of neuropathic pain.
Neuropathic pain syndromes can develop following neuronal injury and the resulting pain
may persist for months or years, even after the original injury has healed. Neuronal injury
may occur in the peripheral nerves, dorsal roots, spinal cord or certain regions in the brain.
Neuropathic pain syndromes are traditionally classified according to the disease or event that
precipitated them. Neuropathic pain syndromes include: diabetic neuropathy; sciatica; non
specific lower back pain; multiple sclerosis pain; fibromyalgia; HIV-related neuropathy; post
herpetic neuralgia; trigeminal neuralgia; and pain resulting from physical trauma, amputation,
cancer, toxins or chronic inflammatory conditions. These conditions are difficult to treat and
although several drugs are known to have limited efficacy, complete pain control is rarely
achieved. The symptoms of neuropathic pain are incredibly heterogeneous and are often
described as spontaneous shooting and lancinating pain, or ongoing, burning pain. In
addition, there is pain associated with normally non-painful sensations such as "pins and
needles" (paraesthesias and dysesthesias), increased sensitivity to touch (hyperesthesia),
painful sensation following innocuous stimulation (dynamic, static or thermal allodynia),
increased sensitivity to noxious stimuli (thermal, cold, mechanical hyperalgesia), continuing
pain sensation after removal of the stimulation (hyperpathia) or an absence of or deficit in
selective sensory pathways (hypoalgesia).
[071]   Compounds of the invention may also be useful in the amelioration of inflammatory
disorders, for example in the treatment of skin conditions (e.g. sunburn, burns, eczema,
dermatitis, psoriasis); ophthalmic diseases; lung disorders (e.g. asthma, bronchitis,
emphysema, allergic rhinitis, non-allergic rhinitis, cough, respiratory distress syndrome,
pigeon fancier's disease, farmer's lung, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, (COPD);
gastrointestinal tract disorders (e.g. Crohn's disease, ulcerative colitis, coeliac disease,
regional ileitis, irritable bowel syndrome, inflammatory bowel disease, gastroesophageal
reflux disease); other conditions with an inflammatory component such as migraine, multiple
sclerosis, myocardial ischemia.
[072]   In one embodiment, the compounds of the invention are useful in the treatment of
neuropathic pain or inflammatory pain as described herein.

                                                19
[073] Without wishing to be bound by theory, other diseases or conditions that may be
mediated by modulation of voltage-gated sodium channels are selected from the list
consisting of [the numbers in brackets after the listed diseases below refer to the
classification code in Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders, 4th Edition,
published by the American Psychiatric Association (DSM-IV) and/or the International
Classification of Diseases, 10th Edition (ICD-10)]:
i)       Depression and mood disorders including Major Depressive Episode, Manic Episode,
Mixed Episode and Hypomanic Episode; Depressive Disorders including Major Depressive
Disorder, Dysthymic Disorder (300.4), Depressive Disorder Not Otherwise Specified (311);
Bipolar Disorders including Bipolar I Disorder, Bipolar II Disorder (Recurrent Major
Depressive Episodes with Hypomanic Episodes) (296.89), Cyclothymic Disorder (301.13)
and Bipolar Disorder Not Otherwise Specified (296.80); Other Mood Disorders including
Mood Disorder Due to a General Medical Condition (293.83) which includes the subtypes
With Depressive Features, With Major Depressive-like Episode, With Manic Features and
With Mixed Features), Substance-Induced Mood Disorder (including the subtypes With
Depressive Features, With Manic Features and With Mixed Features) and Mood Disorder
Not Otherwise Specified (296.90):
ii)      Schizophrenia including the subtypes Paranoid Type (295.30), Disorganised Type
(295.10), Catatonic Type (295.20), Undifferentiated Type (295.90) and Residual Type
(295.60); Schizophreniform Disorder (295.40); Schizoaffective Disorder (295.70) including
the subtypes Bipolar Type and Depressive Type; Delusional Disorder (297.1) including the
subtypes Erotomanic Type, Grandiose Type, Jealous Type, Persecutory Type, Somatic
Type, Mixed Type and Unspecified Type; Brief Psychotic Disorder (298.8); Shared Psychotic
Disorder (297.3); Psychotic Disorder Due to a General Medical Condition including the
subtypes With Delusions and With Hallucinations; Substance-Induced Psychotic Disorder
including the subtypes With Delusions (293.81) and With Hallucinations (293.82); and
Psychotic Disorder Not Otherwise Specified (298.9).
iii)     Anxiety disorders including Panic Attack; Panic Disorder including Panic Disorder
without Agoraphobia (300.01) and Panic Disorder with Agoraphobia (300.21); Agoraphobia;
Agoraphobia Without History of Panic Disorder (300.22), Specific Phobia (300.29, formerly
Simple Phobia) including the subtypes Animal Type, Natural Environment Type, Blood
Injection-Injury Type, Situational Type and Other Type), Social Phobia (Social Anxiety
Disorder, 300.23), Obsessive-Compulsive Disorder (300.3), Posttraumatic Stress Disorder
(309.81), Acute Stress Disorder (308.3), Generalized Anxiety Disorder (300.02), Anxiety

                                              20
Disorder Due to a General Medical Condition (293.84), Substance-Induced Anxiety Disorder,
Separation Anxiety Disorder (309.21), Adjustment Disorders with Anxiety (309.24) and
Anxiety Disorder Not Otherwise Specified (300.00):
iv)     Substance-related disorders including Substance Use Disorders such as Substance
Dependence, Substance Craving and Substance Abuse; Substance-Induced Disorders such
as Substance Intoxication, Substance Withdrawal, Substance-Induced Delirium, Substance
Induced Persisting Dementia, Substance-Induced Persisting Amnestic Disorder, Substance
Induced Psychotic Disorder, Substance-Induced Mood Disorder, Substance-Induced Anxiety
Disorder, Substance-Induced Sexual Dysfunction, Substance-Induced Sleep Disorder and
Hallucinogen Persisting Perception Disorder (Flashbacks); Alcohol-Related Disorders such
as Alcohol Dependence (303.90), Alcohol Abuse (305.00), Alcohol Intoxication (303.00),
Alcohol Withdrawal (291.81), Alcohol Intoxication Delirium, Alcohol Withdrawal Delirium,
Alcohol-Induced Persisting Dementia, Alcohol-Induced Persisting Amnestic Disorder,
Alcohol-Induced Psychotic Disorder, Alcohol-Induced Mood Disorder, Alcohol-Induced
Anxiety Disorder, Alcohol-Induced Sexual Dysfunction, Alcohol-Induced Sleep Disorder and
Alcohol-Related Disorder Not Otherwise Specified (291.9); Amphetamine (or Amphetamine
Like)-Related Disorders such as Amphetamine Dependence (304.40), Amphetamine Abuse
(305.70), Amphetamine Intoxication (292.89), Amphetamine Withdrawal (292.0),
Amphetamine Intoxication Delirium, Amphetamine Induced Psychotic Disorder,
Amphetamine-Induced Mood Disorder, Amphetamine-Induced Anxiety Disorder,
Amphetamine-Induced Sexual Dysfunction, Amphetamine-Induced Sleep Disorder and
Amphetamine-Related Disorder Not Otherwise Specified (292.9); Caffeine Related Disorders
such as Caffeine Intoxication (305.90), Caffeine-Induced Anxiety Disorder, Caffeine-Induced
Sleep Disorder and Caffeine-Related Disorder Not Otherwise Specified (292.9); Cannabis
Related Disorders such as Cannabis Dependence (304.30), Cannabis Abuse (305.20),
Cannabis Intoxication (292.89), Cannabis Intoxication Delirium, Cannabis-Induced Psychotic
Disorder, Cannabis-Induced Anxiety Disorder and Cannabis-Related Disorder Not Otherwise
Specified (292.9); Cocaine-Related Disorders such as Cocaine Dependence (304.20),
Cocaine Abuse (305.60), Cocaine Intoxication (292.89), Cocaine Withdrawal (292.0),
Cocaine Intoxication Delirium, Cocaine-Induced Psychotic Disorder, Cocaine-Induced Mood
Disorder, Cocaine-Induced Anxiety Disorder, Cocaine-Induced Sexual Dysfunction, Cocaine
Induced Sleep Disorder and Cocaine-Related Disorder Not Otherwise Specified (292.9);
Hallucinogen-Related Disorders such as Hallucinogen Dependence (304.50), Hallucinogen
Abuse (305.30), Hallucinogen Intoxication (292.89), Hallucinogen Persisting Perception
Disorder (Flashbacks) (292.89), Hallucinogen Intoxication Delirium, Hallucinogen-Induced
Psychotic Disorder, Hallucinogen-Induced Mood Disorder, Hallucinogen-Induced Anxiety

                                               21
Disorder and Hallucinogen-Related Disorder Not Otherwise Specified (292.9); Inhalant
Related Disorders such as Inhalant Dependence (304.60), Inhalant Abuse (305.90), Inhalant
Intoxication (292.89), Inhalant Intoxication Delirium, Inhalant-Induced Persisting Dementia,
Inhalant-Induced Psychotic Disorder, Inhalant-Induced Mood Disorder, Inhalant-Induced
Anxiety Disorder and Inhalant-Related Disorder Not Otherwise Specified (292.9); Nicotine
Related Disorders such as Nicotine Dependence (305.1), Nicotine Withdrawal (292.0) and
Nicotine-Related Disorder Not Otherwise Specified (292.9); Opioid-Related Disorders such
as Opioid Dependence (304.00), Opioid Abuse (305.50), Opioid Intoxication (292.89), Opioid
Withdrawal (292.0), Opioid Intoxication Delirium, Opioid-Induced Psychotic Disorder, Opioid
Induced Mood Disorder, Opioid-Induced Sexual Dysfunction, Opioid-Induced Sleep Disorder
and Opioid-Related Disorder Not Otherwise Specified (292.9); Phencyclidine (or
Phencyclidine-Like)-Related Disorders such as Phencyclidine Dependence (304.60),
Phencyclidine Abuse (305.90), Phencyclidine Intoxication (292.89), Phencyclidine
Intoxication Delirium, Phencyclidine-Induced Psychotic Disorder, Phencyclidine-Induced
Mood Disorder, Phencyclidine-Induced Anxiety Disorder and Phencyclidine-Related Disorder
Not Otherwise Specified (292.9); Sedative-, Hypnotic-, or Anxiolytic-Related Disorders such
as Sedative, Hypnotic, or Anxiolytic Dependence (304.10), Sedative, Hypnotic, or Anxiolytic
Abuse (305.40), Sedative, Hypnotic, or Anxiolytic Intoxication (292.89), Sedative, Hypnotic,
or Anxiolytic Withdrawal (292.0), Sedative, Hypnotic, or Anxiolytic Intoxication Delirium,
Sedative, Hypnotic, or Anxiolytic Withdrawal Delirium, Sedative-, Hypnotic-, or Anxiolytic
Persisting Dementia, Sedative-, Hypnotic-, or Anxiolytic- Persisting Amnestic Disorder,
Sedative-, Hypnotic-, or Anxiolytic-Induced Psychotic Disorder, Sedative-, Hypnotic-, or
Anxiolytic-Induced Mood Disorder, Sedative-, Hypnotic-, or Anxiolytic-Induced Anxiety
Disorder Sedative-, Hypnotic-, or Anxiolytic-Induced Sexual Dysfunction, Sedative-,
Hypnotic-, or Anxiolytic-Induced Sleep Disorder and Sedative-, Hypnotic-, or Anxiolytic
Related Disorder Not Otherwise Specified (292.9); Polysubstance-Related Disorder such as
Polysubstance Dependence (304.80); and Other (or Unknown) Substance-Related Disorders
such as Anabolic Steroids, Nitrate Inhalants and Nitrous Oxide:
v)      Enhancement of cognition including the treatment of cognition impairment in other
diseases such as schizophrenia, bipolar disorder, depression, other psychiatric disorders and
psychotic conditions associated with cognitive impairment, e.g. Alzheimer's disease:
vi)     Sleep disorders including primary sleep disorders such as Dyssomnias such as
Primary Insomnia (307.42), Primary Hypersomnia (307.44), Narcolepsy (347), Breathing
Related Sleep Disorders (780.59), Circadian Rhythm Sleep Disorder (307.45) and
Dyssomnia Not Otherwise Specified (307.47); primary sleep disorders such as Parasomnias

                                               22
such as Nightmare Disorder (307.47), Sleep Terror Disorder (307.46), Sleepwalking Disorder
(307.46) and Parasomnia Not Otherwise Specified (307.47); Sleep Disorders Related to
Another Mental Disorder such as Insomnia Related to Another Mental Disorder (307.42) and
Hypersomnia Related to Another Mental Disorder (307.44); Sleep Disorder Due to a General
Medical Condition, in particular sleep disturbances associated with such diseases as
neurological disorders, neuropathic pain, restless leg syndrome, heart and lung diseases;
and Substance-Induced Sleep Disorder including the subtypes Insomnia Type, Hypersomnia
Type, Parasomnia Type and Mixed Type; sleep apnea and jet-lag syndrome:
vii)    Eating disorders such as Anorexia Nervosa (307.1) including the subtypes Restricting
Type and Binge-Eating/Purging Type; Bulimia Nervosa (307.51) including the subtypes
Purging Type and Nonpurging Type; Obesity; Compulsive Eating Disorder; Binge Eating
Disorder; and Eating Disorder Not Otherwise Specified (307.50):
viii)   Autism Spectrum Disorders including Autistic Disorder (299.00), Asperger's Disorder
(299.80), Rett's Disorder (299.80), Childhood Disintegrative Disorder (299.10) and Pervasive
Disorder Not Otherwise Specified (299.80, including Atypical Autism).
ix)     Attention-Deficit/Hyperactivity Disorder including the subtypes Attention-Deficit
/Hyperactivity Disorder Combined Type (314.01), Attention-Deficit /Hyperactivity Disorder
Predominantly Inattentive Type (314.00), Attention-Deficit /Hyperactivity Disorder
Hyperactive-Impulse Type (314.01) and Attention-Deficit /Hyperactivity Disorder Not
Otherwise Specified (314.9); Hyperkinetic Disorder; Disruptive Behaviour Disorders such as
Conduct Disorder including the subtypes childhood-onset type (321.81), Adolescent-Onset
Type (312.82) and Unspecified Onset (312.89), Oppositional Defiant Disorder (313.81) and
Disruptive Behaviour Disorder Not Otherwise Specified; and Tic Disorders such as Tourette's
Disorder (307.23):
x)      Personality Disorders including the subtypes Paranoid Personality Disorder (301.0),
Schizoid Personality Disorder (301.20), Schizotypal Personality Disorder (301,22), Antisocial
Personality Disorder (301.7), Borderline Personality Disorder (301,83), Histrionic Personality
Disorder (301.50), Narcissistic Personality Disorder (301,81), Avoidant Personality Disorder
(301.82), Dependent Personality Disorder (301.6), Obsessive-Compulsive Personality
Disorder (301.4) and Personality Disorder Not Otherwise Specified (301.9): and
xi)     Sexual dysfunctions including Sexual Desire Disorders such as Hypoactive Sexual
Desire Disorder (302.71), and Sexual Aversion Disorder (302.79); sexual arousal disorders

                                               23
such as Female Sexual Arousal Disorder (302.72) and Male Erectile Disorder (302.72);
orgasmic disorders such as Female Orgasmic Disorder (302.73), Male Orgasmic Disorder
(302.74) and Premature Ejaculation (302.75); sexual pain disorder such as Dyspareunia
(302.76) and Vaginismus (306.51); Sexual Dysfunction Not Otherwise Specified (302.70);
paraphilias such as Exhibitionism (302.4), Fetishism (302.81), Frotteurism (302.89),
Pedophilia (302.2), Sexual Masochism (302.83), Sexual Sadism (302.84), Transvestic
Fetishism (302.3), Voyeurism (302.82) and Paraphilia Not Otherwise Specified (302.9);
gender identity disorders such as Gender Identity Disorder in Children (302.6) and Gender
Identity Disorder in Adolescents or Adults (302.85); and Sexual Disorder Not Otherwise
Specified (302.9).
xii)    Impulse control disorder" including: Intermittent Explosive Disorder (312.34),
Kleptomania (312.32), Pathological Gambling (312.31), Pyromania (312.33), Trichotillomania
(312.39), Impulse-Control Disorders Not Otherwise Specified (312.3), Binge Eating,
Compulsive Buying, Compulsive Sexual Behaviour and Compulsive Hoarding.
[074]   In another embodiment, diseases or conditions that may be mediated by modulation
of voltage gated sodium channels are depression or mood disorders
[075]   In another embodiment, diseases or conditions that may be mediated by modulation
of voltage gated sodium channels are substance related disorders.
[076]   In a further embodiment, diseases or conditions that may be mediated by modulation
of voltage gated sodium channels are Bipolar Disorders (including Bipolar I Disorder, Bipolar
11Disorder (i.e. Recurrent Major Depressive Episodes with Hypomanic Episodes) (296.89),
Cyclothymic Disorder (301.13) or Bipolar Disorder Not Otherwise Specified (296.80)).
[077]   In a still further embodiment, diseases or conditions that may be mediated by
modulation of voltage gated sodium channels are Nicotine-Related Disorders such as
Nicotine Dependence (305.1), Nicotine Withdrawal (292.0) or Nicotine-Related Disorder Not
Otherwise Specified (292.9).
[078]   Compounds of the invention may also be useful in the treatment and/or prevention of
disorders treatable and/or preventable with anti-convulsive agents, such as epilepsy
including post-traumatic epilepsy, obsessive compulsive disorders (OCD), sleep disorders
(including circadian rhythm disorders, insomnia & narcolepsy), tics (e.g. Giles de la

                                                 24
Tourette's syndrome), ataxias, muscular rigidity (spasticity), and temporomandibular joint
dysfunction.
[079]    Compounds of the invention may also be useful in the treatment of bladder
hyperrelexia following bladder inflammation.
[080]    Compounds of the invention may also be useful in the treatment of
neurodegenerative diseases and neurodegeneration such as dementia, particularly
degenerative dementia (including senile dementia, Alzheimer's disease, Pick's disease,
Huntington's chorea, Parkinson's disease and Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease, motor neuron
disease); The compounds may also be useful for the treatment of amyotrophic lateral
sclerosis (ALS) and neuroinflamation.
[081]    Compounds of the invention may also be useful in neuroprotection and in the
treatment of neurodegeneration following stroke, cardiac arrest, pulmonary bypass, traumatic
brain injury, spinal cord injury or the like.
[082]    Compounds of the invention may also be useful in the treatment of tinnitus, and as
local anaesthetics.
[083] The compounds of the invention may also be used in combination with other
therapeutic agents. The invention thus provides, in a further aspect, a combination
comprising a compound of the invention or a pharmaceutically acceptable derivative thereof
together with a further therapeutic agent.
[084] When a compound of the invention or a pharmaceutically acceptable derivative
thereof is used in combination with a second therapeutic agent active against the same
disease state the dose of each compound may differ from that when the compound is used
alone. Appropriate doses will be readily appreciated by those skilled in the art. It will be
appreciated that the amount of a compound of the invention required for use in treatment
will vary with the nature of the condition being treated and the age and the condition of the
patient and will be ultimately at the discretion of the attendant physician or veterinarian.
[085] The combinations referred to above may conveniently be presented for use in the
form of a pharmaceutical formulation and thus pharmaceutical formulations comprising a
combination as defined above together with a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier or
excipient comprise a further aspect of the invention. The individual components of such

                                                   25
combinations may be administered either sequentially or simultaneously in separate or
combined pharmaceutical formulations by any convenient route.
[086] When administration is sequential, either the compound of the invention or the
second therapeutic agent may be administered first. When administration is simultaneous,
the combination may be administered either in the same or different pharmaceutical
composition.
[087] When combined in the same formulation it will be appreciated that the two
compounds must be stable and compatible with each other and the other components of
the formulation. When formulated separately they may be provided in any convenient
formulation, conveniently in such manner as are known for such compounds in the art.
[088] When used in the treatment or prophylaxis of pain, the compound of formula (1) or a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof may be used in combination with other
medicaments indicated to be useful in the treatment or prophylaxis of pain of neuropathic
origin including neuralgias, neuritis and back pain, and inflammatory pain including
osteoarthritis, rheumatoid arthritis, acute inflammatory pain, back pain and migraine. Such
therapeutic agents include for example COX-2 (cyclooxygenase-2) inhibitors, such as
celecoxib, deracoxib, rofecoxib, valdecoxib, parecoxib, COX- 89 or 2-(4-ethoxy-phenyl)-3-(4
methanesulfonyl-phenyl)-pyrazolo[1,5-b]pyridazine (WO 99/012930); 5-lipoxygenase
inhibitors; NSAIDs (non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs) such as diclofenac, indomethacin,
nabumetone or ibuprofen; bisphosphonates, leukotriene receptor antagonists; DMARDs
(disease modifying anti-rheumatic drugs) such as methotrexate; adenosine Al receptor
agonists; sodium channel blockers, such as lamotrigine; NMDA (N-methyl-D-aspartate)
receptor modulators, such as glycine receptor antagonists or memantine; ligands for the a26
subunit of voltage gated calcium channels, such as gabapentin, pregabalin and solzira;
tricyclic antidepressants such as amitriptyline; neurone stabilising antiepileptic drugs;
cholinesterase inhibitors such as galantamine; mono-aminergic uptake inhibitors such as
venlafaxine; opioid analgesics; local anaesthetics; 5HT 1 agonists, such as triptans, for
example sumatriptan, naratriptan, zolmitriptan, eletriptan, frovatriptan, almotriptan or
rizatriptan; nicotinic acetyl choline (nACh) receptor modulators; glutamate receptor
modulators, for example modulators of the NR2B subtype; EP4 receptor ligands; EP2
receptor ligands; EP3 receptor ligands; EP4 agonists and EP2 agonists; EP4 antagonists; EP2
antagonists and EP3 antagonists; cannabinoid receptor ligands; bradykinin receptor ligands;
vanilloid receptor or Transient Receptor Potential (TRP) ligands; and purinergic receptor
ligands, including antagonists at P2X 3 , P2X 2 /3 , P2X 4 , P2X 7 or P2X 417 ; KCNQ/Kv7 channel

                                                26
openers, such as retigabine; additional COX-2 inhibitors are disclosed in US Patent Nos.
5,474,995, US 5,633,272, US 5,466,823, US 6,310,099 and US 6,291,523; and in WO
96/25405, WO 97/38986, WO 98/03484, WO 97/14691, WO 99/12930, WO 00/26216, WO
00/52008, WO 00/38311, WO 01/58881 and WO 02/18374.
[089] The compounds of the invention may be used in combination with the following
agents to treat or prevent psychotic disorders: i) antipsychotics; ii) drugs for extrapyramidal
side effects, for example anticholinergics (such as benztropine, biperiden, procyclidine and
trihexyphenidyl), antihistamines (such as diphenhydramine) and dopaminergics (such as
amantadine); iii) antidepressants; iv) anxiolytics; and v) cognitive enhancers for example
cholinesterase inhibitors (such as tacrine, donepezil, rivastigmine and galantamine).
[090] The compounds of the invention may be used in combination with the following
agents to treat or prevent psychotic disorders: i) antipsychotics; ii) drugs for extrapyramidal
side effects, for example anticholinergics (such as benztropine, biperiden, procyclidine and
trihexyphenidyl), antihistamines (such as diphenhydramine) and dopaminergics (such as
amantadine); iii) antidepressants; iv) anxiolytics; and v) cognitive enhancers for example
cholinesterase inhibitors (such as tacrine, donepezil, rivastigmine and galantamine).
[091] The compounds of the invention may be used in combination with antidepressants to
treat or prevent depression and mood disorders.
[092] The compounds of the invention may be used in combination with the following
agents to treat or prevent bipolar disease: i) mood stabilisers; ii) antipsychotics; and iii)
antidepressants.
[093] The compounds of the invention may be used in combination with the following
agents to treat or prevent anxiety disorders: i) anxiolytics; and ii) antidepressants.
[094] The compounds of the invention may be used in combination with the following
agents to improve nicotine withdrawal and reduce nicotine craving: i) nicotine replacement
therapy for example a sublingual formulation of nicotine beta-cyclodextrin and nicotine
patches; and ii) bupropion.
[095] The compounds of the invention may be used in combination with the following
agents to improve alcohol withdrawal and reduce alcohol craving: i) NMDA receptor

                                                 27
antagonists for example acamprosate; ii) GABA receptor agonists for example tetrabamate;
and iii) Opioid receptor antagonists for example naltrexone.
[096] The compounds of the invention may be used in combination with the following
agents to improve opiate withdrawal and reduce opiate craving: i) opioid mu receptor
agonist/opioid kappa receptor antagonist for example buprenorphine; ii) opioid receptor
antagonists for example naltrexone; and iii) vasodilatory antihypertensives for example
lofexidine.
[097] The compounds of the invention may be used in combination with the following
agents to treat or prevent sleeping disorders: i) benzodiazepines for example temazepam,
lormetazepam, estazolam and triazolam; ii) non-benzodiazepine hypnotics for example
zolpidem, zopiclone, zaleplon and indiplon; iii) barbiturates for example aprobarbital,
butabarbital, pentobarbital, secobarbita and phenobarbital; iv) antidepressants; v) other
sedative-hypnotics for example chloral hydrate and chlormethiazole.
[098] The compounds of the invention may be used in combination with the following
agents to treat anorexia: i) appetite stimulants for example cyproheptidine; ii)
antidepressants; iii) antipsychotics; iv) zinc; and v) premenstral agents for example
pyridoxine and progesterones.
[099] The compounds of the invention may be used in combination with the following
agents to treat or prevent bulimia: i) antidepressants; ii) opioid receptor antagonists; iii)
antiemetics for example ondansetron; iv) testosterone receptor antagonists for example
flutamide; v) mood stabilisers; vi) zinc; and vii) premenstral agents.
[0100] The compounds of the invention may be used in combination with the following
agents to treat or prevent autism: i) antipsychotics; ii) antidepressants; iii) anxiolytics; and iv)
stimulants for example methylphenidate, amphetamine formulations and pemoline.
[0101] The compounds of the invention may be used in combination with the following
agents to treat or prevent ADHD: i) stimulants for example methylphenidate, amphetamine
formulations and pemoline; and ii) non-stimulants for example norepinephrine reuptake
inhibitors (such as atomoxetine), alpha 2 adrenoceptor agonists (such as clonidine),
antidepressants, modafinil, and cholinesterase inhibitors (such as galantamine and
donezepil).

                                                 28
[0102] The compounds of the invention may be used in combination with the following
agents to treat personality disorders: i) antipsychotics; ii) antidepressants; iii) mood
stabilisers; and iv) anxiolytics.
[0103] The compounds of the invention may be used in combination with the following
agents to treat or prevent male sexual dysfunction: i) phosphodiesterase V inhibitors, for
example vardenafil and sildenafil; ii) dopamine agonists/dopamine transport inhibitors for
example apomorphine and buproprion; iii) alpha adrenoceptor antagonists for example
phentolamine; iv) prostaglandin agonists for example alprostadil; v) testosterone agonists
such as testosterone; vi) serotonin transport inhibitors for example serotonin reuptake
inhibitors; v) noradrenaline transport inhibitors for example reboxetine and vii) 5-HT1A
agonists, for example flibanserine.
[0104] The compounds of the invention may be used in combination with the same agents
specified for male sexual dysfunction to treat or prevent female sexual dysfunction, and in
addition an estrogen agonist such as estradiol.
[0105] Antipsychotic drugs include Typical Antipsychotics (for example chlorpromazine,
thioridazine, mesoridazine, fluphenazine, perphenazine, prochlorperazine, trifluoperazine,
thiothixine, haloperidol, molindone and loxapine); and Atypical Antipsychotics (for example
clozapine, olanzapine, risperidone, quetiapine, aripirazole, ziprasidone and amisulpride).
[0106] Antidepressant drugs include serotonin reuptake inhibitors (such as citalopram,
escitalopram, fluoxetine, paroxetine and sertraline); dual serotonin/noradrenaline reuptake
inhibitors (such as venlafaxine, duloxetine and milnacipran); Noradrenaline reuptake
inhibitors (such as reboxetine); tricyclic antidepressants (such as amitriptyline, clomipramine,
imipramine, maprotiline, nortriptyline and trimipramine); monoamine oxidase inhibitors (such
as isocarboxazide, moclobemide, phenelzine and tranylcypromine); and others (such as
bupropion, mianserin, mirtazapine, nefazodone and trazodone).
[0107] Mood stabiliser drugs include lithium, sodium valproate/valproic acid/divalproex,
carbamazepine, lamotrigine, gabapentin, topiramate and tiagabine.
[0108] Anxiolytics include benzodiazepines such as alprazolam and lorazepam.

                                               29
[0109] It will be appreciated that references herein to "treatment" extend to prophylaxis,
prevention of recurrence and suppression or amelioration of symptoms (whether mild,
moderate or severe) as well as the treatment of established conditions.
[0110] The compound of the invention may be administered as the raw chemical but the
active ingredient is preferably presented as a pharmaceutical formulation.
[0111] According to a further aspect, the invention provides a pharmaceutical composition
comprising a compound of the invention, in association with one or more pharmaceutically
acceptable carrier(s), diluents(s) and/or excipient(s). The carrier, diluent and/or excipient
must be "acceptable" in the sense of being compatible with the other ingredients of the
composition and not deleterious to the recipient thereof.
[0112] The compounds of the invention may be administered in conventional dosage forms
prepared by combining a compound of the invention with standard pharmaceutical carriers or
diluents according to conventional procedures well known in the art. These procedures may
involve mixing, granulating and compressing or dissolving the ingredients as appropriate to
the desired preparation.
[0113] The pharmaceutical compositions of the invention may be formulated for
administration by any route, and include those in a form adapted for oral, topical or
parenteral administration to mammals including humans.
[0114] The compositions may be in the form of tablets, capsules, powders, granules,
lozenges, creams or liquid preparations, such as oral or sterile parenteral solutions or
suspensions.
[0115] The topical formulations of the present invention may be presented as, for instance,
ointments, creams or lotions, eye ointments and eye or ear drops, impregnated dressings
and aerosols, and may contain appropriate conventional additives such as preservatives,
solvents to assist drug penetration and emollients in ointments and creams.
[0116] The formulations may also contain compatible conventional carriers, such as cream
or ointment bases and ethanol or oleyl alcohol for lotions. Such carriers may be present as
from about 1% up to about 98% of the formulation. More usually they will form up to about
80% of the formulation.

                                                  30
[0117] Tablets and capsules for oral administration may be in unit dose presentation form,
and may contain conventional excipients such as binding agents, for example syrup, acacia,
gelatine, sorbitol, tragacanth, or polyvinylpyrrolidone; fillers, for example lactose, sugar,
maize-starch, calcium phosphate, sorbitol or glycine; tabletting lubricants, for example
magnesium stearate, talc, polyethylene glycol or silica; disintegrants, for example potato
starch; or acceptable wetting agents such as sodium lauryl sulphate. The tablets may be
coated according to methods well known in normal pharmaceutical practice. Oral liquid
preparations may be in the form of, for example, aqueous or oily suspensions, solutions,
emulsions, syrups or elixirs, or may be presented as a dry product for reconstitution with
water or other suitable vehicle before use. Such liquid preparations may contain
conventional additives, such as suspending agents, for example sorbitol, methyl cellulose,
glucose syrup, gelatine, hydroxyethyl cellulose, carboxymethyl cellulose, aluminium stearate
gel or hydrogenated edible fats, emulsifying agents, for example lecithin, sorbitan
monooleate, or acacia; non-aqueous vehicles (which may include edible oils), for example
almond oil, oily esters such as glycerine, propylene glycol, or ethyl alcohol; preservatives, for
example methyl or propyl p-hydroxybenzoate or sorbic acid, and, if desired, conventional
flavouring or colouring agents.
[0118] Suppositories will contain conventional suppository bases, e.g. cocoa-butter or other
glyceride.
[0119] For parenteral administration, fluid unit dosage forms are prepared utilising the
compound and a sterile vehicle, water being preferred. The compound, depending on the
vehicle and concentration used, can be either suspended or dissolved in the vehicle. In
preparing solutions the compound can be dissolved in water for injection and filter-sterilised
before filling into a suitable vial or ampoule and sealing.
[0120] Advantageously, agents such as a local anaesthetic, preservative and buffering
agents can be dissolved in the vehicle. To enhance the stability, the composition can be
frozen after filling into the vial and the water removed under vacuum. The dry lyophilised
powder is then sealed in the vial and an accompanying vial of water for injection may be
supplied to reconstitute the liquid prior to use. Parenteral suspensions are prepared in
substantially the same manner except that the compound is suspended in the vehicle instead
of being dissolved and sterilisation cannot be accomplished by filtration. The compound can
be sterilised by exposure to ethylene oxide before suspending in the sterile vehicle.
Advantageously, a surfactant or wetting agent is included in the composition to facilitate
uniform distribution of the compound.

                                                 31
[0121] The compositions may contain from 0.1% by weight, for example from 10-60% by
weight, of the active material, depending on the method of administration. Where the
compositions comprise dosage units, each unit will for example contain from 5-1000 mg of
the active ingredient. The dosage as employed for adult human treatment may range from
10 to 3000 mg per day depending on the route and frequency of administration. For oral
administration a typical dose may be in the range of 50 to 1500 mg per day, for example 120
to 1000 mg per day.
[0122] It will be recognised by one of skill in the art that the optimal quantity and spacing of
individual dosages of a compound of the invention will be determined by the nature and
extent of the condition being treated, the form, route and site of administration, and the
particular mammal being treated, and that such optimums can be determined by
conventional techniques. It will also be appreciated by one of skill in the art that the optimal
course of treatment, i.e., the number of doses of a compound of the invention given per day
for a defined number of days, can be ascertained by those skilled in the art using
conventional course of treatment determination tests.
[0123] All publications, including, but not limited to, patents and patent applications cited in
this specification, are herein incorporated by reference as if each individual publication were
specifically and individually indicated to be incorporated by reference herein as though fully
set forth.
[0124] It will be appreciated that the invention includes the following further aspects. The
embodiments described for the first aspect similarly apply to these further aspects. The
diseases and conditions described above extend, where appropriate, to these further
aspects:
     i)     A compound of the invention for use in treating or preventing a disease or
            condition mediated by modulation of voltage-gated sodium channels.
     ii)    A method of treatment or prevention of a disease or condition mediated by
             modulation   of voltage-gated     sodium     channels    in a  mammal     comprising
            administering an effective amount of a compound of the invention.

                                                32
     iii)    Use of a compound of the invention in the manufacture of a medicament to treat
             or prevent a disease or condition mediated by modulation of voltage-gated
             sodium channels.
     iv)     Use of a compound of the invention to treat or prevent a disease or condition
             mediated by modulation of voltage-gated sodium channels.
Examples
[0125] The invention is illustrated by the Examples described below.
[0126] In the procedures that follow, after each starting material, reference to a Description
or Example by number is typically provided. This is provided merely for assistance to the
skilled chemist. The starting material may not necessarily have been prepared from the batch
referred to.
[0127] Where reference is made to the use of a "similar" procedure, as will be appreciated by
those skilled in the art, such a procedure may involve minor variation, for example reaction
temperature, reagent/solvent amount, reaction time, work-up conditions or chromatographic
purification conditions.
[0128] The absolute configuration of the stereocentres within the spiro fused compounds
prepared from achiral starting materials and resolved by use of chiral chromatography have
been assigned using a combination of optical rotation and NMR spectroscopy (for
determining the relative stereochemistry of adjacent stereocentres) and relating these to
chiral intermediates and final compounds which have had their absolute configurations
determined by single crystal X-ray crystallography. It will be appreciated that some
uncertainty exists relating to the absolute configurations referred to herein which have been
based primarily on inferred configurations. It will be apparent to the skilled person that
absolute configurations can only be definitively characterised by specific analytical
determinations, such as X-ray crystallography.
[0129] Compounds are named using ACD/Name PRO 6.02 chemical naming software
(Advanced Chemistry Development Inc., Toronto, Ontario, M5H2L3, Canada), or using
Lexichem's automatic chemical naming software Version 2.0.1 (OpenEye Scientific Software
Inc. Santa Fe, New Mexico, USA).

                                                 33
[0130] Proton Magnetic Resonance (NMR) spectra are typically recorded on a Bruker
instruments at 300, 400 or 500 MHz. Chemical shifts are reported in ppm (6) using the
residual solvent line as internal standard. Splitting patterns are designated as s, singlet; d,
doublet; t, triplet; q, quartet; m, multiplet; br, broad. The NMR spectra were recorded at a
temperature ranging from 25 to 900C. When more than one conformer was detected the
chemical shifts for the most abundant one is reported.
[0131] LC-MS Data (LC-MS) is typically generated on an Waters ZQ Mass Spectrometer,
operating in switched ES+ and ES- ionization modes coupled to an Agilent 1100 Series
HPLC system with in line Aglient 1100 UV-DAD and Sedere SEDEX 75 ELSD Detection.
Instrument control and data acquisition is mediated through the Waters MassLynx
OpenLynx software suite. Separation was performed on a Waters SunFire C18 (30 x 4.6
mm, 3.5ptm) column
Flow Rate: 3.0 mL/min. column temperature 30'C. Injection Volume: 5.OpL. Mobile phase
[A]: 3:97:0.05 (v/v/v) Acetonitrile: Water: Formic Acid. Mobile Phase [B]: 97:3:0.05 (v/v/v)
Acetonitrile: Water: Formic Acid. Gradient: 97% [A] 3% [B] for 0.1 min. Ramp to 3% [A] 97%
[B] at 4.0 min. Hold at 97% [B] to 5 min. Return to 97% [A] at 6 min. Detector parameters:
UV -DAD:     Range 190 to 450 nm, Interval 2 nm, Threshold 0.1mAU. ELSD: Temperature
40'C, Range 8. Mass Spectrometer:         ES+: Mass Range 125 to 625 in 0.50 sec. Interscan
delay 0.25 sec. Capillary 4.0 kV. ES-: Mass Range 125 to 625 in 0.50 sec. Interscan delay
0.25 sec. Capillary 3.0 kV.
[0132] In the mass spectra only one peak in the molecular ion cluster is usually reported.
[0133] Chiral chromatography was typically performed using a ChiralPakTM AD-H or IA
column from Daicel@ using heptane/ethanol or heptane/ethanol/methanol mixtures as eluent.
Analytical chiral HPLC was carried out either on an Agilent 1100 series HPLC system or on a
Gilson HPLC system using a 250 x 4.6 mm column and a flow rate of 1 ml/min. Preparative
chiral HPLC was carried out using a Gilson preparative HPLC system on a 250 x 19 mm
semi-preparative column with a flow rate of 18 ml/min.
[0134] Flash silica gel chromatography was carried out on silica gel 230-400 mesh (supplied
by Merck AG Darmstadt, Germany) or over pre-packed Biotage silica or NH silica cartridges.
[0135] Optical rotations were measured using an Optical Activity Ltd AA-10 automatic
polarimeter (Cambridge, UK) using a cell of 10 cm path length and in chloroform solution
unless otherwise indicated.

                                              34
[0136] SCX cartridges are ion exchange solid phase extraction columns supplied by Varian.
The eluent used with SCX cartridges is methanol followed by 0.2 - 2.0 M ammonia solution in
methanol.
[0137] In most preparations, purification was performed using Biotage automatic flash
chromatography (SP4 or Isolera) systems.
[0138] The following abbreviations are used herein:
AD-H                   ChiralPak AD-H semipreparative column
Boc                    tertButyloxycarbonyl
CHC13                  Chloroform
DCM                    Dichloromethane
DCE                    1,2-Dichloroethane
DME                    Dimethoxyethane
EtOAc                  Ethyl Acetate
Et2 O                  Ether
HCI                    Hydrochloric Acid
HPLC                   High-performance liquid chromatography
IPA                    Isopropyl alcohol
K2 CO 3                Potassium carbonate
LC-MS                  Liquid chromatography - Mass spectrometry
MeCN                   Acetonitrile
MeOH                   Methanol
MgSO 4                 Magnesium sulfate
Na2 CO 3               Sodium carbonate
NMR                    Nuclear Magnetic Resonance
Na2 SO 4               Sodium sulfate
PdCl 2 (Ph3P)2         Bis(triphenylphosphine)palladium(II) chloride
THF                    Tetrahydrofuran
PREPARATION OF INTERMEDIATES
Description 1
3-(Benzhydrylidene-amino)-1-methyl-pyrrolidin-2-one (D1)
[0139] Method 1: Benzophenone imine [CAS : 1013-88-3] (16.67 g, 91.98 mmol) was added
dropwise to a solution of 3-amino-1-methylpyrrolidine-2-one [CAS 119329-48-5] (10 g, 87.60

                                                 35
mmol) in DCE (100 mL) under N2 and the reaction was heated at reflux for 18 hours. The
solvent was evaporated to afford an amber oil. This was purified using flash silica in a large
sinter funnel, eluting with 4:1 to 3:7 i-hexane : EtOAc. An incomplete separation was
achieved. 3-(Benzhydrylidene-amino)-1-methyl-pyrrolidin-2-one (D1) was isolated (25 g) with
approximately 11% of an impurity present, but was used in the next step without further
purification;
300 MHz NMR 6H (CDC13) 2.15-2.49 (2H, m), 2.90 (3H, s), 3.26-3.34 (1H, abq), 3.52 (1H, dt),
4.23 (1H, t), 7.30-7.49 (8H, m), 7.63-7.67 (2H, m).
Method 2: Benzophenone imine (200.04 g,1103.8 mmol) was added dropwise over 20
minutes to a stirred solution of 3-amino-1-methylpyrrolidine-2-one (120 g, 1051.2 mmol) in
DCE (1000 mL) at ambient temp under nitrogen in a 2L flask fitted with a magnetic stirrer
bar. The reagent was washed with further DCE (100 mL). The stirred solution was heated at
reflux on a heat-on block at a block temp of 950C for 7h, using a N2 bubbler with exhaled gas
passing through a safety trap then into 2L of water via an upturned funnel (for scrubbing NH3
gas, estimated to be approx 23 L). The reaction was left to stand at ambient temp overnight
under N2 . The mixture was evaporated to a thick, off-white oil. To this was added Et2 O (700
ml) and to this stirred solution, as it began to crystallize, was added iso-hexane (700 ml)
over 2 minutes. The mixture was stirred for 1h then filtered under suction and washed with
Et2 O/iso-hexane (1:1) (500 ml). The white solid was dried at 350C under vacuum for 3 h to
afford 3-(benzhydrylidene-amino)-1-methyl-pyrrolidin-2-one (D1) (259.4 g, 88.6%). The NMR
was consistent with pure material.
Description 2
3-(Benzhydrylidene-amino)-1-methyl-3-prop-2-ynyl-pyrrolidin-2-one              (D2)
[0140] Method 1: Potassium tert-butoxide 1.7M in THF (32.8 mL, 55.76 mmol) was added
dropwise over a period of 80 minutes (by syringe pump) to a solution of the 3
(benzhydrylidene-amino)-1-methyl-pyrrolidin-2-one (14.11 g, 50.692 mmol) (which may be
prepared as described in Description 1) and propargyl bromide (6.78 mL, 60.83 mmol) in
THF (250 mL) at 0 C under nitrogen. The reaction was stirred for 2 hours. Additional KOtBu
(5 ml) was added dropwise and stirring was continued for 15 mins. The reaction was
quenched by the addition of satd. aq. NaHCO 3 and diluted with EtOAc. The phases were
separated, the organic layer was dried (Na2SO 4 ) and the solvent evaporated to afford a
crude brown oil which solidified on standing. This waxy-solid was suspended in IPA (approx.
30 ml) and stirred for 1hr. The solid was filtered off, washed with a little IPA to afford 3
(benzhydrylidene-amino)-1-methyl-3-prop-2-yny-pyrrolidin-2-one (D2) as a light brown solid
(6.26 g);

                                                 36
300 MHz NMR 6H (ODd 3) 1.95 (1H, t), 2.14-2.24 (1H, m), 2.44 (3H, s), 2.45-2.64 (2H, m),
2.94 (2H, t), 3.11 (1H, dt), 7.23-7.48 (8H, m), 7.55-7.59 (2H, m).
Method 2: Potassium tert-butoxide 1.7M in THF (602.08 mL, 1023.5 mmol) was added
dropwise over a period of 2.5 h to a stirred solution of 3-(benzhydrylidene-amino)-1-methyl
pyrrolidin-2-one (259 g, 930.48 mmol) ) (which may be prepared as described in Description
1) and 80% solution propargyl bromide in toluene (124.37 mL, 1116.6 mmol) in 3A
molecular-sieve-dried reagent grade THF (1900 mL) at -650C under nitrogen, in a 5 L flask
equipped with an overhead stirrer. After the addition was complete, the mixture was stirred at
-65'C for a further 1h. The cooling bath was removed and a saturated solution of NaHCO 3
(140 ml) was added over 1 minute (at -60'C). After a further 5 mins more sat NaHCO 3
solution (1.4 L) was added followed by Et2 O (1.4 L). The mixture was stirred for 1 h then
transferred to a separating funnel and water (1.4 L) was added to dissolve all solids. The
layers were separated and the aqueous further extracted with Et2 O (2 x 1L). The combined
organic extracts were re-washed with sat. brine (700 ml), diluted with water (700 ml). The
organic layer was dried (MgSO 4 ) and evaporated to a volume of approx. 500-600 ml
whereupon crystallization started to occur. To this stirred mixture was then added iso-hexane
(1.6 L). After standing for 15 mins the cream solid was filtered under suction and washed
with iso-hexane (500 ml) and dried at 500C under vacuum for 5h. This afforded 3
(benzhydrylidene-amino)-1-methyl-3-prop-2-ynyl-pyrrolidin-2-one (D2) (274 g, 93%). This
was pure by NMR but contains some additional water.
Description 3
(3S)-3-Amino-1-methyl-3-prop-2-ynyl-pyrrolidin-2-one (D3S) and (3R)-3-Amino-l
methyl-3-prop-2-ynyl-pyrrolidin-2-one (D3R)
[0141] Method 1: Citric acid monohydrate (10.39 g, 49.46 mmol) was added to a solution of
3-(benzhydrylidene-amino)-1-methyl-3-prop-2-ynyl-pyrrolidin-2-one (6.26 g, 19.79 mmol)
(which may be prepared as described in Description 2) in THF (150 mL) and the reaction
was stirred at room temperature for 18 hours. A colourless solid precipitated out. The solvent
was evaporated to give a gummy white solid. This was trituated with Et2 O and the solid was
washed with further Et2 0. The solid was suspended in water I MeOH and purified by SCX
(70 g Silca), eluting with water / MeOH, MeOH and finally 0.5M NH3 in MeOH. Fractions
containing product were evaporated to afford 3-amino-1 -methyl-3-prop-2-ynyl-pyrrolidin-2
one (3.23 g, 21.223 mmol) as a pale yellow oil;
                 6
300 MHz NMR        H (CDC13) 1.65 (2H, br.s), 1.94-2.05 (2H, m), 2.31-2.39 (1H, m), 2.41-2.55
(2H, m), 2.89 (3H, Me), 3.33-3.39 (2H, m).
Method 2: To a stirred solution of 3-(benzhydrylideneamino)-1-methyl-3-prop-2-ynyl
pyrrolidin-2-one (274 g, 865.99 mmol) (which may be prepared as described in Description 2)

                                                   37
in a 5L flask equipped with an overhead stirrer, in THF (2.7 L) was added citric acid
monohydrate (363.96 g, 1732 mmol) in one portion. The solution was stirred at room
temperature for 18 h, giving a thick white precipitate with some sticky solid adhering to the
sides of the flask. This sticky solid was loosened with a spatula, then diethyl ether (1.3 L)
was added and rapid stirring was continued for a further 1h. The solid was then filtered under
suction and washed efficiently with Et2 O (2 x 1 L) and dried at 50'C under vacuum for 3
hours. This produced 268g of material. This was recrystallized from hot MeOH (1.9 L); hot
solution was filtered under suction to give a clear pale yellow solution. The solution was left
to stand for 1h and Et2O (3 L) was added with stirring. After standing for a further 1h, the
mixture was filtered and washed with MeOH:Et 2O (1:2) (1 L) and the solid pressed dry and
further dried at 500C under vacuum for 6 hours to afford 312 g of the citrate salt,
contaminated with methanol. In a separate container, Ambersep 900 (OH) ion exchange
resin (2.31 kg) was stirred for 5 minutes with MeOH (2 L) to pre-wash the resin. The
suspended resin was filtered under suction and the moist pre-washed resin was added to a
stirred suspension of the previously prepared citrate salt in methanol (3 L) in a 10 L vessel
equipped with an overhead stirrer. The mixture was stirred for a total of 1.5h at ambient
temp then filtered under suction. The filtered resin was washed with MeOH (2 x 1.5 L). The
filtrate and washings were evaporated in vacuo to an oil which was redissolved in DCM (1.5
L) and dried (Na2 SO4), filtered, evaporated to a pale yellow oil, which was dried at RT
overnight to give 3-amino-1-methyl-3-prop-2-ynyl-pyrrolidin-2-one (106.9 g, 79.9%). NMR
showed this to be pure material identical to that prepared in Description 3, Method 1.
A portion of this material (1.75 g, 11.5 mmol) was separated on chiral HPLC using a semi
prep AD-H column, eluting with 20% EtOH / heptane at 18 ml/min. Peaks were identifed at
215 nm:
(3S)-3-amino-1-methyl-3-prop-2-ynyl-pyrrolidin-2-one D3S 549 mg retention time = 13.7
mins; Optical rotation  a[D 22 ] = - 81.0 (c = 0.975, CHC13 ).
(3R)-3-amino-1-methyl-3-prop-2-ynyl-pyrrolidin-2-one D3R 407 mg retention time = 17.9
mins; Optical rotation a[D/ 2 2] = +78.8 (c = 0.965, CHCl 3 ).
Method 3: A controlled lab reactor with heater/cooler jacket and an overhead paddle-stirrer
was charged with IPA (2250 mL) and (2S)-2-(6-methoxy-2-naphthyl)propanoic acid (84.72 g,
367.92 mmol) was added. The suspension was stirred and warmed to 75'C giving a solution.
A solution of 3-amino-1-methyl-3-prop-2-ynyl-pyrrolidin-2-one (which may be prepared as
described in Description 3, Method 2) (55.99 g, 367.92 mmol) in IPA (1100 mL) was then
added dropwise over 1.5 hours. In a cooling process, the reaction mixture was stirred at 750C
for 1 hr then cooled to 550C over 1 hr. The reaction was seeded with pure (S) isomer salt at
every 1 degree drop in temperature until the seed remained out of solution (ca. 710C). The
reaction mixture crystallised and was stirred at 550C for 1hr. The mixture was then cooled to

                                                 38
400C over approximately 20 minutes and filtered under suction into a pre-warmed filter funnel
over a fast filter paper. The vessel was rinsed out with IPA (600 mL) pre-warmed to 40'C and
this was used to wash the collected solids. The solids were dried under suction until no more
solvent came out and then were dried in a vacuum oven at 500C to give a white solid, 59.37
g (3S)-1-methyl-2-oxo-3-prop-2-ynyl-pyrrolidin-3-yl]ammonium (2S)-2-(6-methoxy-2
naphthyl)propanoate. A portion of this material was removed and dissolved in methanol,
passed down an SCX column, washed with methanol and then eluted with 0.5M ammonia in
methanol. The ammonia eluent was evaporated to a pale yellow gum, which was analysed
by chiral HPLC (20:80 EtOH:heptane, IA column) showing S-isomer 99.5% and R-isomer
0.5%. Ambersep 900-OH (500 g) was stirred in methanol (1000 mL) for 5 minutes, then
filtered and dried under suction until no more liquid came out. The washed resin was added
to a stirred suspension of S-isomer salt (59.37 g, 155.24 mmol) in methanol (1000 mL). The
mixture was stirred for 1hr, then filtered. The resin was resuspended in methanol (1000 mL)
and stirred for an hour and then filtered. The combined filtrates were evaporated to give a
slightly cloudy yellow oil. The oil was dissolved in dichloromethane (ca. 200 mL) and dried
over magnesium sulphate, filtered and evaporated to give a clear yellow oil (3S)-3-amino-1
methyl-3-prop-2-ynyl-pyrrolidin-2-one (D3S) (22.729 g). This material was characterised as
identical to that prepared by chiral chromatography in Method 2.
Method 4: Enriched recrystallisation mother liquors containing, for example, a 91:9 ratio of
(3R)-3-amino-1-methyl-3-prop-2-ynyl-pyrrolidin-2-one and its (3S) enantiomer, (27 g) (which
may be obtained from the fractional crystalisation procedure described in Description 3
Method 3) were evaporated and dissolved in acetonitrile at 30±50C. The reaction mass was
heated to 70±5 'C and stirred for 10 minutes then slowly cooled to 40±2 C. A seed of the R
amine-(2S)-2-(6-methoxy-2-naphthyl)propanoic acid was introduced and the reaction mixture
maintained at 40±2    0C  for 1 hr. The reaction mass was cooled to 30±5 0C and filtered. The
isolated salt was washed with acetonitrile and dried under vacuum at 47.5±2.5*C for 6±1
hours to give 18.2 g of the salt with a 99.8% enantiomeric excess of the R isomer. The
material was then converted to the free base form as described for the S-enantiomer in
Method 3 to give the title compound (D3R). This material was characterised as identical to
that prepared by chiral chromatography in Method 2.
Description 4
tert-Butyl N-[(3S)-1 -methyl-2-oxo-3-prop-2-ynyl-pyrrol id in-3-yl]carbamate (D4)
[0142] Method 1: Boc 2 0 (944.75 mg, 4.33 mmol) was added to a solution of (3S)-3-amino-1
methyl-3-prop-2-ynyl-pyrrolidin-2-one (which may be prepared as described in Description 3)
(549 mg, 3.61 mmol) in DCM (20 mL) at 20 'C and the reaction was stirred for 18hrs. The
solvent was evaporated and the residue purified on a Biotage Isolera with a 25g SNAP

                                                  39
cartridge, eluting with 0 to 100% EtOAc / i-hexane to afford tert-butyl N-[(3S)-1-methyl-2-oxo
3-prop-2-ynyl-pyrrolidin-3-yl]carbamate (D4) (849 mg, 3.365 mmol, 93.3 % yield) as a pale
yellow solid.
Method 2: Boc 2 0 (2.77 g, 12.69 mmol) was added to a solution of (3S)-3-amino-1-methyl-3
prop-2-ynyl-pyrrolidin-2-one (which may be prepared as described in Description 3) (1.61 g,
10.58 mmol) in DCM (40 mL) at 20 C and the reaction was stirred for 18 h. The reaction was
warmed to 400C and stirred for a further 3 days. The solvent was evaporated and the residue
purified using a Biotage Isolera with a 25g SNAP cartridge eluting with 0 to 80% EtOAc / i
hexane to afford tert-butyl N-[(3S)-1-methyl-2-oxo-3-prop-2-ynyl-pyrrolidin-3-yl]carbamate
(D4) (2.52 g, 9.9877 mmol, 94.4% yield) as a pale yellow solid;
300 MHz NMR 6H (0013) 1.45 (9H, s), 2.02 (1H, t), 2.48-2.59 (3H, m), 2.27-2.35 (1 H, br.m),
2.92 (3H, s), 2.38-2.44 (2H, m), 5.23 (1H, br.s);
Optical rotation a[D/22] = - 2 (c = 1.01, CHCl 3).
Method 3: To a solution of (3S)-3-amino-1 -methyl-3-prop-2-ynyl-pyrrolidin-2-one (which may
be prepared as described in Description 3) (72.66 g, 477.4 mmol) in DCM (1000 mL) was
added a solution of Boc 2O (125.03 g, 572.88 mmol) in DCM (700 mL) in one portion. The
reaction was then stirred at 40'C (bath temp. not internal temp.) over 5 hrs, then at room
temperature over the weekend. The reaction was concentrated in vacuo, and the residue
was suspended in a mixture of Et2O and isohexane (1:1, 250 mL) and stirred for 30 minutes.
The suspension was filtered, and the solid was washed with a mixture of Et2 O and isohexane
(1:1, 250 mL), followed by isohexane (3 x 250 mL). The solid was then dried in a vacuum
oven for 2 hours (400C) to give a white solid, tert-butyl N-[(3S)-1-methyl-2-oxo-3-prop-2-ynyl
pyrrolidin-3-yl]carbamate (D4) (99.25 g);
300 MHz NMR 6H (00013) 1.43 (9H, s), 2.01 (1H, app.t), 2.45-2.59 (3H, m), 2.78, 2.82 (1H, 2
x br.s), 2.81 (3H, s), 3.35-3.45 (2H, m), 5.23 (1H, br.s).
A second crop was isolated from the filtrate to give a further batch, 5.535 g of similar purity.
Description 5
2-Chloro-4-methyl-6-[4-(trifluoromethyl)phenyl]pyrimidine (D5)
[0143] Method 1: To a solution of 2,4-dichloro-6-methyl-pyrimidine (5 g, 30.67 mmol) in 1,2
dimethoxyethane (35 mL) and water (25 mL) was added sodium carbonate (9.75 g, 92.03
mmol), and 4-(trifluoromethyl)-phenylboronic acid (5.53 g, 29.14 mmol). This was degassed
with nitrogen for 5 minutes. The bis(triphenylphosphine)palladium (II) dichloride (1.08 g, 1.53
mmol) was then added and the reaction was heated to 900C overnight. The solvent was
evaporated and the residue was partitioned between water (300 mL) and EtOAc (300 mL).
The organics were washed with brine (100 mL), dried over MgSO 4 and concentrated in
vacuo to afford a yellow oil. The material was purified using a Biotage SP4, 0 to 50% i-

                                                 40
hexane / EtOAc and the fractions containing the lower (major) spot were collected and the
solvent evaporated to afford the 2-chloro-4-methyl-6-[4-(trifluoromethyl)-phenyl]pyrimidine
(D5) (4.65 g, 17.06 mmol, 55.6% yield) as a colourless solid.
300 MHz NMR 6H (CDC13) 2.65 (3H, s), 7.57 (1H, s), 7.79 (2H, d), 8.21 (2H, d).
Method 2: To a solution of 4-(trifluoromethyl)phenylboronic acid (116.52 g, 613.5 mmol) in
1,2-dimethoxyethane (1200 mL) was added 2,4-dichloro-6-methylpyrimidine (100 g, 613.5
mmol). To this stirring solution was added a solution of sodium carbonate (195.07 g, 1840.5
mmol) dissolved in water (600 mL) giving some precipitation of the base and then
bis(triphenylphosphine)palladium (II) dichloride (2.15 g, 3.07 mmol). The mixture was brought
to 500C over about 1 hr then stirred at this temperature overnight. The reaction mixture
cooled to approx. 30'C, filtered and washed with DCM (approx. 500 mL). The filtrate was
evaporated to remove the bulk of the organic solvents. To the residues was added DCM (250
mL) and the phases were separated. The aqueous phase was extracted with DCM (2 x 250
mL) and the combined extracts were washed with brine (250 mL), dried over magnesium
sulphate, filtered and evaporated to a brown gummy solid. The solid was stirred in iso
hexane (150 mL) at 600C until the solid had dissolved. The heat was turned off and the flask
allowed to cool in the heat-on block naturally. When the solution was at 30'C seed crystals
were added causing immediate crystallisation. The mixture was stood overnight then the
crystalline material was crushed and filtered. The solids were washed with cold iso-hexane (2
x 50 mL) and dried to give the title compound (D5) as a slightly sticky tan solid, (96.17 g)
consistent by NMR with that prepared by Method 1.
Description 6
2-lodo-4-methyl-6-[4-(trifluoromethyl)phenyl]pyrimidine (D6)
[0144] Method 1: Hydroiodic acid (57% in water, 9.68 mL, 73.41 mmol) was added
portionwise to 2-chloro-4-methyl-6-[4-(trifluoromethyl)phenyl]pyrimidine (which may be
prepared as described in Description 5) (1.38 g, 5.06 mmol) in DCM (30 mL) at 20      0C and the
dark mixture was stirred for 18 hrs. The mixture was quenched by the addition of sat. aq.
K2 CO 3 (care: gas evolved). After basification, satd. aq. sodium metabisulphite was added
and stirring was continued for 5 mins. The mixture was diluted with further DCM and the
phases were separated. The organic layer was dried (Na2SO 4 ) and the solvent evaporated to
afford 2-iodo-4-methyl-6-[4-(trifluoromethyl)phenyl]pyrimidine (D6) (1.58 g, 4.34 mmol, 85.7%
yield) a yellow solid, containing about 20% of the reduced H-compound.
300 MHz NMR 6H (CDC13) 2.59 (3H, s), 7.58 (1H, s), 7.77 (2H, d), 8.17 (2H, d)
Method 2: To a solution of 2-chloro-4-methyl-6-[4-(trifluoromethyl)phenyl]pyrimidine (which
may be prepared as described in Description 5) (167.5 g, 614.34 mmol) in DCM (1325 mL)
was added HI (57% in water) (405.23 mL, 3071.7 mmol) dropwise. The reaction was then

                                                 41
stirred at room temperature overnight. Additional DCM (500 mL) was added, and the reaction
was filtered. The solid was dried then transferred into a beaker containing water (1 L) and
EtOAc (1.25 L). The aqueous was basified to pH 10 with K2C03, and the layers were stirred
until all the solid dissolved. Sodium metabisulfite (8.75 g) was added and the layers were
stirred until all solid dissolved. The layers were separated, and the aqueous was re-extracted
with EtOAc (200 mL). The combined organics were then dried over MgSO 4 , filtered and
concentrated in vacuo to give the title material (D6) (205.68 g, 564.9 mmol, 92% yield) as a
pale orange solid. NMR indicated this was >95% pure.
Description 7
tert-Butyl N-[(3S)-l -methyl-3-[3-[4-methyl-6-[4-(trifl uoromethyl)phenyl] pyrimid in-2
yl]prop-2-ynyl]-2-oxo-pyrrolidin-3-yl]carbamate (D7)
[0145] Method 1: Copper Iodide (149.46 mg, 0.7800 mmol), followed by PdCl 2 (Ph3P)2
(275.41 mg, 0.3900 mmol) was added portionwise to a solution of 2-iodo-4-methyl-6-[4
(trifluoromethyl)phenyl]pyrimidine (4 g, 10.99 mmol) (which may be prepared as described in
Description 6), tert-butyl N-[(3S)-1-methyl-2-oxo-3-prop-2-ynyl-pyrrolidin-3-yl]carbamate
(1.98 g, 7.85 mmol) (which may be prepared as described in Description 4) and Et2NH (4.06
mL, 39.24 mmol) in THF (50 mL) under N2 and the reaction was stirred at 20 0 C for 18 hrs.
The solvent was evaporated and the residue was suspended in EtOAc and washed with
water / sat. aq. NaHCO 3 . The organics were collected, dried (Na2SO 4 ) and the solvent
evaporated to afford a brown oil. This was purified using a Biotage SP4, with a 1O0g SNAP
cartridge, eluting with 50 to 100% EtOAc / i-hexane to afford tert-butyl N-[(3S)-1 -methyl-3-[3
[4-methyl-6-[4-(trifluoromethyl)phenyl]pyrimidin-2-yl]prop-2-ynyl]-2-oxo-pyrrolidin-3
yl]carbamate (D7) (4.09 g, 8.3726 mmol) as a pale yellow foam;
300 MHz NMR 6H (CDCI 3) 1.46 (9H, s), 2.5-2.75 (2H, m), 2.62 (3H, s), 2.79-2.85 (1H, br.d),
2.98 (3H, s), 3.13-3.19 (1H, br.d), 3.40-3.47 (1H, br.t), 3.63-3.72 (1H, m), 5.35 (1H, br.s),
7.53, 1H, s), 7.78 (2H, d), 8.19 (2H, d).
Method 2: In a 5 L three-necked flask with overhead paddle stirrer and a nitrogen inlet.
tert-butyl N-[(3S)-1-methyl-2-oxo-3-prop-2-ynyl-pyrrolidin-3-yl]carbamate (which may be
prepared as described in Description 4) (104.79 g, 415.32 mmol) was suspended in tert-Butyl
methyl ether (2100 mL). 2-lodo-4-methyl-6-[4-(trifluoromethyl)phenyl]pyrimidine (which may
be prepared as described in Description 6) (166.34g, 456.85mmol) was added followed by
diisopropylamine (174.63 mL, 1246 mmol) and the mixture was stirred over 20mins. To the
suspension was added copper iodide (1.58 g, 8.31 mmol) followed by bis(triphenyl
phosphine)palladium (II) dichloride (2.92 g, 4.15 mmol) and the mixture was stirred at room
temperature for 3 hours. Water (1000 mL) was added and the mixture stirred for 30 mins.
The phases were separated and the organic phase, washed with water (2 x 500mL), dried

                                                42
over magnesium sulphate, filtered and evaporated to a tan foam, 230 g. The material was
purified in three batches of approximately 75 g by column chromatography using an 800g
(Biotage 75L) column and eluting with a gradient of acetone in iso-hexane. This gave the title
compound (D7) (179.3 g) in good purity by NMR and consistent spectroscopically with that
produced by Method 1.
Description 8
(3S)-3-Am ino-1 -methyl-3-[3-[4-methyl-6-[4-(trifluoromethyl)phenyl] pyrimidin-2-yl]prop
2-ynyl]pyrrolidin-2-one (D8)
[0146] Method 1: Trifluoroacetic acid (5 mL, 67.31 mmol) was added to a solution of tert
butyl N-[(3S)-1-methyl-3-[3-[4-methyl-6-[4-(trifluoromethyl)phenyl]pyrimidin-2-yl]prop-2-ynyl]
2-oxo-pyrrolidin-3-yl]carbamate (3.83 g, 7.84 mmol) (which may be prepared as described in
Description 7) in DCM (50 mL) at 20 OC and the reaction was stirred overnight. The reaction
was concentrated and a further portion of trifluoroacetic acid (2 ml) added. Stirring was
continued for 3 hrs then solid K2 CO 3 was added (care: gas evolved) and the mixture was
diluted with water. The phases were separated and the organic layer was dried (Na2 SO4).
The solvent was evaporated to give (3S)-3-amino-1-methyl-3-[3-[4-methyl-6-[4
(trifluoromethyl)phenyl]pyrimidin-2-yl]prop-2-ynyl]pyrrolidin-2-one (D8) (2.71 g, 6.9775 mmol,
89% yield) as a yellow oil;
300 MHz NMR      6H (0013) 1.95 (2H, br.s), 2.07-2.17 (1H, m), 2.44-2.53 (1H, m), 2.63 (3H, s),
2.72-2.88 (2H, abq), 2.94 (3H, s), 3.38-3.53 (2H, m), 7.53 (1H, s), 7.78 (2H, d), 8.20 (2H, d).
Method 2: To a solution of tert-butyl N-[(3S)- 1-methyl-3-[3-[4-methyl-6-[4-(trifluoromethyl)
phenyl]pyrimidin-2-yl]prop-2-ynyl]-2-oxo-pyrrolidin-3-yl]carbamate (which may be prepared
as described in Description 7) (99.5 g, 203.68 mmol) in 1,4-dioxane (750 mL) cooled with an
ice/water bath to an internal temperature of 150C. was added conc. sulphuric acid (75 mL,
1407 mmol) dropwise maintaining internal temperature below 20'C over approximately 35
minutes. After complete addition, the reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature over
30 minutes. The reaction was poured into a beaker and washed in with ethyl acetate (400
mL) and a little water. The mixture was cooled to 150C and a solution of sodium carbonate
(160 g in 1200 mL water) was added over 5 minutes. The mixture was filtered over a pad of
celite and the remaining solids washed with ethyl acetate (400 mL). The filtrate phases were
separated and the aqueous phase was extracted with ethyl acetate (2 x 400 mL). The
combined organics were washed with brine (500 mL), dried over magnesium sulphate,
filtered and evaporated to yield a foaming amber oil. This was twice dissolved in acetonitrile
(100 mL) and evaporated and the resulting yellow foam dried under vacuum to give the title
material (D8) in good purity by NMR, consistent spectroscopically with that produced by
Method 1.

                                                43
Description 8a
3-Am ino-1 -methyl-3-[3-[4-methyl-6-[4-(trifluoromethyl)phenyl] pyrimidin-2-yl]prop-2
ynyl]pyrrolidin-2-one (D8a)
[0147] To a stirred solution of 3-amino-1-methyl-3-prop-2-ynyl-pyrrolidin-2-one (which may
be prepared as described in Description 3) (2.3 g, 15.11 mmol) in tert-butyl methyl ether (50
mL) was added 2-iodo-4-methyl-6-[4-(trifluoromethyl)-phenyl]pyrimidine (which may be
prepared as described in Description 6) (6.05 g, 16.62 mmol). diisopropylamine (6.35 mL,
45.34 mmol) was then added, followed by copper iodide (57.56 mg, 0.300 mmol) and
bis(triphenylphosphine)palladium (II) dichloride (106.07 mg, 0.1500 mmol). The reaction was
then stirred at room temperature for 5 days. The reaction mixture was transferred to a
separating funnel and the flask washed with an additional quantity of tert-butyl methyl ether
(15 ml). The organic solution was washed with water (2 x 50 mL) and brine (50 mL). The
organic phase was dried over magnesium sulphate, filtered, and then the magnesium
sulphate washed with dichloromethane (30 ml). The filtrate was concentrated at reduced
pressure to give a yellow foam. The product was purified by silica gel chromatography
eluting with ethyl acetate followed by an increasing percentage of a solution of 10% 0.880
ammonia in methanol, to give the title compound (D8a) as a yellow foam (4.71 g). This
racemate was consistent by NMR and mass spectroscopy with the S isomer prepared in
Description 8.
Description 9
(5S)-7-Methyl-2-[4-methyl-6-[4-(trifluoromethyl)phenyl] pyrimidin-2-yl]-1,7
diazaspiro[4.4]non-1-en-6-one (D9)
[0148] Method 1: Silver trifluoromethanesulphonate (358.56 mg, 1.4 mmol) was added to a
solution of (3S)-3-amino-1-methyl-3-[3-[4-methyl-6-[4-(trifluoromethyl)phenyl]pyrimidin-2
yl]prop-2-ynyl]pyrrolidin-2-one (2.71 g, 6.98 mmol) (which may be prepared as described in
Description 8) in MeCN (60 mL) at 50 0C and the reaction was stirred for 3 days. Additional
AgOTf (1Omol%) was added and stirring was continued for 24 hrs. The solvent was
evaporated and the residue was suspended in EtOAc. The organics were washed with water,
dried (Na2SO 4 ) and the solvent evaporated to afford a light brown oil. This was purified using
a Biotage Isolera with a 100g SNAP cartridge, eluting with 0 to 100% (mixture of 1% of 2M
NH3 in MeOH; 9% MeOH; 90% EtOAc) in EtOAc, affording the (5S)-7-methyl-2-[4-methyl-6
[4-(trifluoromethyl)phenyl]pyrimidin-2-yl]-1,7-diazaspiro[4.4]non-1 -en-6-one (D9) (2.51 g,
6.4626 mmol, 92.6% yield) as a light brown solid;
300 MHz NMR      6H (CDC13) 1.89-2.00 (1H, m), 2.16-2.25 (1H, m), 2.59-2.72 (2H, m), 2.72 (3H,
s), 2.92 (3H, s), 3.30-3.45 (2H, m), 3.55-3.78 (2H, m), 7.64 (1H, s), 7.79 (2H,d), 8.26 (2H, d).

                                                 44
Method 2: Silver trifluoromethanesulphonate (9.39 g, 36.56 mmol) was added in a single
batch to a solution of (3S)-3-amino-1-methyl-3-[3-[4-methyl-6-[4-(trifluoromethyl)phenyl]
pyrimidin-2-yl]prop-2-ynyl]pyrrolidin-2-one (which may be prepared as described in
Description 8) (71 g, 182.81 mmol) in MeCN (1000 mL) and the reaction was heated at 80'C
for 22 hours. The solvent was evaporated and the residue dissolved in DCM (1000 mL).
Saturated NaHCO 3 (500 ml) and water (500 ml) were added and the mixture shaken. The
phases were separated and the organic layer treated with a solution of cysteine (100 g,
825.35 mmol) in water (1500 ml). This mixture was stirred vigorously for 30 minutes. The
mixture was filtered through a pad of celite, and the celite washed with DCM (2 x 100 ml).
The phases were separated and the organic layer placed in a large beaker. To this was
added a solution of cysteine (50 g, 412.68 mmol) in water (500 ml) and the mixture was
stirred for a further 30 minutes. The phases were separated and the organic layer was
washed with a mixture of sat. brine (500 ml) and water (500 ml). The organic layer was dried
(MgSO 4 ) and the solvent evaporated to afford a dark brown foam. To the foam was added
acetone (50 ml) and almost immediately a thick precipitate formed. This was swirled for
about 5 minutes prior to slow addition of Et2 O (150 ml) over approx. 10 minutes. After
addition, the suspension was left to stand for 30 minutes. The solid was filtered off and
washed with ether (3 x 30 ml) to afford the title material as a light brown solid (D9) (49.24 g),
pure by NMR and consistent with that produced by Method 1;
Optical Rotation a[D/ 20] = -141.5 (c = 1.12 in CHCl 3).
The mother liquors were evaporated to afford a dark foam. This was dissolved in acetone (20
ml) and allowed to stand, with a seeding crystal, for about 15 minutes. Slow crystallization
occurred. The mixture was diluted carefully with Et2 O (40ml) and left in a fridge for 18 hours.
The supernatant was decanted and the crystalline solid washed with Et2 O (3 x 6 ml) to afford
an additional crop of (D9) as a light orange solid (5.31 g) consistent spectroscopically with
the earlier batch.

                                                 45
PREPARATION OF EXAMPLES
Example 1
(2R,5S)-7-Methyl-2-[4-methyl-6-[4-(trifluoromethyl)-phenyl] pyrim id in-2-yl]-1,7
diazaspiro[4.4]nonan-6-one hydrochloride (El)
                                         N
                                                  N   N
                                            N       0
                                       F    F
                                         F                 HCI
[0149] Concentrated aq. HCI (554.67 pL, 6.46 mmol) was added to a solution of the (5S)-8
methyl-3-[4-methyl-6-[4-(trifluoromethyl)phenyl]pyrimidin-2-yl]-4,8-diazaspiro[4.4]non-3-en-9
one (2.51 g, 6.46 mmol) (which may be prepared as described in Description 9) in DCM (60
mL) at 0 C. Finally, Sodium triacetoxyborohydride (4.11 g, 19.39 mmol) was added in a
single portion and the resulting mixture was stirred for 90 mins.. The reaction was quenched
by the addition of sat. aq. Na2 CO 3 and stirring was continued for 5 mins. The phases were
separated, the organic layer was dried (Na2SO 4 ) and the solvent was evaporated to afford an
amber oil (2.15 g). This was dissolved in DCE (60 ml) and Boc 2 0 (2.4 g, 11.01 mmol) was
added and the reaction was stirred at 50'C for 18hrs. The solvent was evaporated to afford a
crude brown oil. This was purified using a Biotage SP4 with al 00g SNAP cartridge, eluting
with EtOAc (8 CV) to elute the faster Syn isomer A, followed by 0 to 10% MeOH / EtOAc to
elute the slower anti isomer B . The syn isomer A: tert-butyl (2S,5S)-7-methyl-2-[4-methyl-6
[4-(trifluoromethyl)phenyl]pyrimidin-2-yl]-6-oxo-1,7-diazaspiro[4.4]-nonane-1 -carboxylate
(0.6580 g, 1.3414 mmol, 24.4% yield) was obtained as a foam;
m/z 491 (M+H*).
The anti isomer B: tert-butyl (2R,5S)-7-methyl-2-[4-methyl-6-[4-(trifluoromethyl)-phenyl]
pyrimidin-2-yl]-6-oxo-1,7-diazaspiro[4.4]nonane-1-carboxylate (1.9 g, 3.8734 mmol, 70.3%
yield), was obtained as a foam;
m/z 491 (M+H*),
4M HCI in dioxane (9.68 mL, 38.73 mmol) was added to a solution of the anti isomer B, tert
butyl (2R,5S)-7-methyl-2-[4-methyl-6-[4-(trifluoromethyl)phenyl]pyrimidin-2-yl]-6-oxo-1,7
diazaspiro[4.4]nonane-1-carboxylate (1.9 g, 3.87 mmol) in DCM (20 mL) at 2000 and the
reaction stirred for 18 hrs. The solvent was evaporated and the residue was suspended in
EtOAc. This was treated with sat. NaHCO 3 and the phases separated. The organic layer was
dried (Na2SO 4 ) and the solvent evaporated to afford a light brown oil (1.47 g). This material

                                                46
was dissolved in MeOH and applied to a SCX (10 g) cartridge. The column was eluted with
MeOH, followed by 2M NH3 in MeOH to afford the (2R,5S)-7-methyl-2-[4-methyl-6-[4
(trifluoromethyl)phenyl]pyrimidin-2-yl]-1,7-diazaspiro[4.4]nonan-6-one (1.2 g, 3.0738 mmol,
79.4% yield) as a light brown oil;
300 MHz NMR 6H (ODd 3) 1.86-1.97 (1H, m), 2.10-2.31 (4H, m), 2.59-2.68 (1H, m), 2.62 (3H,
s), 2.92 (3H, s), 3.10 (1H br.s), 3.27-3.43 (2H, m), 4.85 (1H, t), 7.46 (1H, s), 7.77 (2H, d),
8.21 (2H, d).
1M HCI in Et2 O (3.07 mL, 3.07 mmol) was added to a solution of the (2R,5S)-7-methy-2-[4
methyl-6-[4-(trifluoromethyl)phenyl]pyrimidin-2-yl]-1,7-diazaspiro[4.4]nonan-6-one (1.2 g,
3.07 mmol) in DCM (20 mL) at 20      0C and the reaction stirred for 5 mins. The solvent was
evaporated and the residue was trituated from Et2 O and dried under vacuum at 400C to
afford the (2R,5S)-7-methyl-2-[4-methyl-6-[4-(trifluoromethyl)phenyl]pyrimidin-2-yl]-1,7
diazaspiro[4.4]nonan-6-one hydrochloride (El) (1.07 g, 2.7408 mmol, 89.2% yield) as an off
white solid with 5 mol% ether present;
300 MHz NMR 6H (MeOD) 2.26-2.57 (4H, m), 2.61-1.71 (1H, m), 2.69 (3H, s), 2.87-2.98 (1H,
s), 2.98 (3H, s), 3.53-3.59 (2H, m), 5.84 (1H, t), 7.88 (2H, d), 8.02 (1H, s), 8.95 (2H, d);
m/z 391 (M+H*);Optical Rotation a[D/ 20] = + 12.1 (c = 0.995, MeOH).
Example 2
(2R,5S)-7-Methyl-2-[4-methyl-6-[4-(trifl uoromethyl)-phenyl] pyrimid in-2-yl]-1,7
diazaspiro[4.4]nonan-6-one sulfuric acid salt (E2)
[0150] (5S)-7-Methyl-2-[4-methyl-6-[4-(trifluoromethyl)phenyl]pyrimidin-2-yl]-1,7
diazaspiro[4.4]non-1-en-6-one (which may be prepared as described in Description 9) (78.34
g, 201.7 mmol) was added to a 5 L three necked round bottomed flask containing an
overhead stirrer, 500ml pressure-equalising dropping funnel with a nitrogen inlet and
thermometer. To this was added DCM (1000 mL) and the stirred mixture cooled to approx.
70'C. The dropping funnel was charged with a pre-sonicated solution of borane tert
butylamine (19.3 g, 221.87 mmol) in DCM (200 mL). The borane complex was added slowly
maintaining the temperature below -70'C over approx. 30 minutes. After addtion the reaction
was stirred at below -70'C for 90 minutes. The dropping funnel was charged with 6M HCI
(400 ml) and this was added dropwise over approx. 15 minutes. The reaction temperature
warmed to -50C during the addition. After addition was complete the acetone / dry-ice bath
was removed and the reaction mixture warmed to room temperature then stirred for a further
30 minutes. In a separate 10 L flask was added sodium carbonate (200 g) and water (1 L).
To this flask was added an overhead stirrer. The reaction mixture was carefully added (note:
gas evolution) to the sodium carbonate solution and stirring was maintained until gas
evolution ceased. The mixture was transfered to a 6 L separating funnel and the phases

                                                 47
were separated. The aqueous layer was washed with DCM (2 x 200 ml) and the combined
organics were dried (MgSO4). The solvent was evaporated to afford 7-methyl-2-[4-methyl-6
[4-(trifluoromethyl)-phenyl]pyrimidin-2-y]-1,7-diazaspiro[4.4]nonan-6-one as an amber oil
(77.8 g), a 96:4 ratio of (2R,5S) and (2S,5S) isomers.
A similarly prepared sample was recrystallised from diethyl ether and isohexane to give the
free base form of the title material as a colurless solid with a melting point of 66-67'C.
Similarly prepared 7-methyl-2-[4-methyl-6-[4-(trifluoromethyl)-phenyl]pyrimidin-2-yl]-1,7
diazaspiro[4.4]nonan-6-one with a diastereomeric excess of approximately 92% (49 g,
125.51 mmol) in MeCN (700 mL) was suction filtered through a shallow pad of Hyflo to give a
clear yellow solution. To this rapidly stirred solution at 5000 was added 7.5M sulphuric acid
(17.6 mL, 132 mmol) over 5 seconds to give a solution which quickly crystallized. The
mixture was left to stand at ambient temperature for 2 h then filtered and washed with
acetonitrile/Et 2O (1:1) (200 ml) then Et2O (150 ml) and dried 500C to give the title material
(E2) in an 82:1 ratio of (2R,5S) and (2S,5S) isomers (50.6 g) assessed by NMR.
300 MHz NMR 6H (MeOD) 2.26-2.56 (4H, m), 2.64-2.74 (1H, m), 2.69 (3H, s), 2.88-2.98 (1H,
m), 2.98 (3H, s), 3.53-3.59 (2H, m), 5.35 (1H, t), 7.78 (2H, d), 8.02 (1H, s), 8.46 (2H, d);
m/z 391 (M+H*).
A similarly prepared sample was recrystallised from acetonitrile to give the title compound as
a cream solid with a melting point of 227-228C.
Example 3
(2R,5S)-7-Methyl-2-[4-methyl-6-[4-(trifl uoromethyl)-phenyl] pyrimid in-2-yl]-1,7
diazaspiro[4.4]nonan-6-one sulfuric acid salt hydrate (E3)
[0151] (2R,5S)-7-Methyl-2-[4-methyl-6-[4-(trifluoromethyl)-phenyl]pyrimidin-2-yl]-1,7
diazaspiro[4.4]nonan-6-one sufuric acid salt (which may be formed as described in Example
2) (10 mg) was recrystalised by slow cooling in a dewer flask from hot acetone (2 ml), with
sufficient added water to cause solubilisation, to form the title compound (E3), the crystalline
monohydrate. This was shown to have the (2R,5S)-configuration by single crystal X-ray
crystallography.
BIOLOGICAL ASSAYS
[0152] The compounds of the invention were tested in a QPatch NaV1.7 assay.
QPatch NaV1.7 Assay
[0153] HEK293-hNaV1.7 cells were grown in DMEM-F12 + 10% FBS culture media at 37C.
At a confluency of 50-70% cells were dissociated from culture flasks & triturated to ensure
unicellular cell suspension; cell density was measured & adjusted to 2-3 x 106 cells/ml.

                                                 48
Recordings were obtained using QPatchl6x. The external solution was (in mM): NaCl, 128;
KCI, 5; MgCl 2 , 2; CaC12, 2; Glucose, 30; HEPES, 15; pH 7.3, 305-315 mOsm. Following seal
formation and whole-cell access using internal solution (containing in mM: CsF, 135;
EGTA/CsOH, 1/5; HEPES 10; NaCl, 10; pH 7.3, 310-320mOsM), voltage pulse protocols
were applied. Initially a steady state inactivation voltage protocol was used to determine the
half-maximal voltage for steady state inactivation (V1/2 SSI). Two holding voltages were
used to determine test drug inhibition: -90 mV, where most of the channels are in a closed
state; and V1/2 SSI, where half of the channels are inactivated. Currents were elicited every
10 seconds by stepping to a membrane potential of 0 mV for 20 ms. Four-point cumulative
concentration responses were derived by determining the peak current amplitude at each
concentration of test drug over 120 second application. Curves were fitted with the Hill
equation yielding pIC50 values at -90 mV and V1/2 SSI holding potentials.
                                                            QP Navl.7
                            Example       QP Nav1.7 -        SSI vhalf
                            Number       90mV pIC50            pIC5O
                                1              3.9               5.7

                                               49
The claims defining the invention are as follows:
1.      A compound of formula (1)which is 7-methyl-2-[4-methyl-6-[4-(trifluoromethyl)
phenyl]pyrimidin-2-yl]-1,7-diazaspiro[4.4]nonan-6-one:
                                                        0
                                              N              N
                                              NN
                                           /        N
                                           NI
                                                    H
                           F
                                      F
                                F
                                               (1)
 or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt or solvate thereof.
2.      A compound as defined in claim 1, wherein the compound of formula (1) is a
compound of formula (la):
                                                        O
                                                             N
                                           N
                                                    H
                           F
                                      F
                                F
                                              (la).

                                               50
3.      A compound of formula (1)as defined in claim 1 or claim 2, which is (2R,5S)-7-Methyl
2-[4-methyl-6-[4-(trifluoromethyl)-phenyl]pyrimidin-2-yl]-1,7-diazaspiro[4.4]nonan-6-one
hydrochloride (El).
4.      A compound of formula (1)as defined in claim 1 or claim 2, which is (2R,5S)-7-Methyl
2-[4-methyl-6-[4-(trifluoromethyl)-phenyl]pyrimidin-2-yl]-1,7-diazaspiro[4.4]nonan-6-one
sulfuric acid salt (E2).
5.      A compound of formula (1)as defined in claim 1 or claim 2, which is (2R,5S)-7-Methyl
2-[4-methyl-6-[4-(trifluoromethyl)-phenyl]pyrimidin-2-yl]-1,7-diazaspiro[4.4]nonan-6-one
sulfuric acid salt hydrate (E3).
6.      A pharmaceutical composition comprising a compound of formula (1) as defined in
any one of claims 1 to 5 or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof with one or more
pharmaceutically acceptable carrier(s), diluents(s) and/or excipient(s).
7.      A compound of formula (1)as defined in any one of claims 1 to 5 or a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof for use in therapy.
8.      A compound of formula (1)as defined in any one of claims 1 to 5 or a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof for use in the treatment of a disease or condition
mediated by modulation of voltage-gated sodium channels.
9.       Use of a compound of formula (1)as defined in any one of claims 1 to 5 or a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof in the manufacture of a medicament for the
treatment of a disease or condition mediated by modulation of voltage-gated sodium
channels.
10.     A process for preparing a compound of formula (1)as defined in claim 1, which
comprises:
(a)     forming a compound of formula (1) by performing a ring closure reaction of a
compound of formula (II) followed by reduction of the resulting imine (IIA):

                                           51
               N                                        N
                            H2NN
                           N             N                N        ND
                                                                         0
     F                                          F
             FF                                       F
                  F                               F
                    (II)                                        (IIA);
(b) deprotection of a protected derivative of a compound of formula (1);
(c) optional formation of a pharmaceutically acceptable salt of a compound of formula (1).

