                                              - 26
  ABSTRACT
         A trampoline comprises a mat, a frame, and a plurality of support rods connecting
  between the frame and the mat to hold the mat in tension above the frame, the support rods
  extending or bowing outwards from the frame and curving upwards from the frame towards
5 the mat. Each of the support rods may have an associated shorter secondary support rod. The
  support rods may have a rectangular cross-section.

2/19
     00

                                                   - 1
                                            TRAMPOLINE
   FIELD OF THE INVENTION
            The invention relates to a trampoline.
 5
   BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
            A trampoline generally comprises a rebounding mat fixed to a support frame
   supported above the ground. A user jumps or bounces on the mat. Usually, trampolines are
   equipped with a safety enclosure, which extends upwards from the mat to surround or enclose
10 the mat to prevent a user from falling from the trampoline Typically the safety enclosure is
   formed from mesh or netting and is supported in position by poles which extend upwards from
   around the edge of the trampoline. Usually these poles are connected to the frame.
            A conventional trampoline incorporates a peripheral metal frame with the mat
   tensioned within frame by extension springs spaced about the edge of the mat and extending
15 outwards from the mat to the frame. An example of this type of trampoline design is shown in
   Figure 1b. The trampoline may have a safety enclosure held in position by a number of
   enclosure support members.
            US patent 6,319,174 discloses a form of soft-edged trampoline in which the mat of the
   trampoline is supported by a plurality of resiliently flexible rods received in a frame of the
20 trampoline at the lower ends of the rods, the upper end of the rods coupled to the periphery of
   the bouncing or rebounding mat of the trampoline, this arrangement avoiding the need for a
   solid frame about the exterior of the bouncing mat, and exposed springs between the frame
   and periphery of the mat. The rods are angled or spiralled around the frame, extending
   outwards and upwards from the frame. An example of this type of arrangement is shown in
25 Figure la. Again the trampoline may have a safety enclosure held in position by a number of
   enclosure support members.
            US patents 6,053,845 and 7,854,687 disclose enclosures similar to those shown in
   Figures la and 1b.
            US patent 6,663,538 discloses a trampoline in which the mat is supported by a series
30 of plane springs formed from a material such as steel, the plane springs having the shape of
   pre-curved flat bars, the lower part of the bars forming a base for the trampoline. The bars
   are formed to have a 'Z'-shape or a recurved shape, bending outwards, then inwards, and then
   outwards again before connecting to the edge of the mat.
35

                                                       - 2
   SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
             It is an object of the invention to provide an improved or at least an alternative form
   of trampoline.
             In a first aspect the invention may broadly be said to consist in a trampoline system
 5 comprising:
             a flexible rebounding mat,
             a frame below a periphery of the flexible rebounding mat when the trampoline is
   positioned with the mat uppermost,
             a plurality of support rods connecting between the frame and the mat, upper ends of
10 the support rods connected to the mat around the periphery of the mat, and lower ends of the
   plurality of resiliently flexible support rods connected to the frame below the mat,
             to hold the flexible rebounding mat in tension and aligned in a substantially horizontal
   plane above the frame, wherein the flexible support rods have a rectangular cross section and
   a major part of the free length of the flexible support rods between the upper ends and the
15 lower ends bows outwards and curves upwards from the frame towards the flexible rebounding
   mat substantially perpendicular to the frame.
             Preferably the plurality of resiliently flexible support rods are straight when not
   connected between the frame and the flexible rebounding mat.
             Preferably the rods are formed from fibreglass.
20           Preferably each of the plurality of resiliently flexible support rods are main support
   rods and each of the plurality of resiliently flexible support rods has a resiliently flexible
   secondary support rod located at the rear of the support rod, each secondary support rod
   extending along part of the length of the support rod.
             Preferably the length of the support rod is approximately half to two-thirds that of the
25 main support rod, the lower ends of both the support rod and the secondary support rod are
   co-located.
             Preferably the secondary support rod has a cross-sectional profile the same shape and
   size as that of the main support rod.
             Most preferably an upper end of the secondary support rod is connected to an
30 adjacent portion of the main support rod.
             Preferably the upper end of the main support rod is fitted with an edge connector to
   connect the upper end of the support rod to the edge of the flexible rebounding mat.
             Most preferably the flexible rebounding mat is fitted with mat edge fittings by which
   the upper end of each support rod is connected to the trampoline mat.
35           Preferably the mat edge fittings are ganged as a unitary item connected to the
   corresponding mat edge to form a row of multiple female connectors on that edge of the
   flexible rebounding mat.

                                                    - 3
             Preferably the edge connector is substantially cylindrical, the cylinder aligned
   substantially horizontally and perpendicular to the longitudinal axis of the support rod.
             Preferably the mat edge fitting has connector portions and attachment portions, the
   connector portions interspersed with the attachment portions in a 1:1 ratio, the attachment
 5 portions generally having the form of triangular wedges with two long faces and a convexly
   curved smaller face located between the two longer faces, each connector portion formed as a
   hollow elongate structure with a rectangular opening aligned facing inwards towards the centre
   of the mat and an outwards-facing opening or outer opening, one long face of the wedge
   positioned against the lower surface of the mat, the second long face sloping towards the mat
10 and the convexly curved portion overhanging the edge of the mat, the trampoline system also
   having webbing straps passing in a loop around the attachment portion and attached to the
   mat.
             Preferably the mat edge fitting has connector portions and attachment portions, the
   connector portions interspersed with the attachment portions in a 2:1 ratio, the mat edge
15 fitting generally having the form of a triangular wedge with two long faces and a convexly
   curved smaller face located between the two longer faces in cross-sectional profile, one long
   face of the wedge positioned against the lower surface of the mat, the second long face sloping
   towards the mat and the convexly curved portion overhanging the edge of the mat, the
   trampoline system also having webbing straps passing in a loop around the attachment portion
20 and attached to the mat, at least the underside of each attachment portion recessed into the
   mat edge fitting, each connector portion having a recess adapted to receive the edge
   connector.
             Preferably the trampoline system also has an edge accessory attachment system fitted
   to the top of the mat around substantially the whole perimeter edge.
25           Alternatively the mat edge fitting has connector portions and attachment portions, the
   connector portions interspersed with the attachment portions in a 1:1 ratio, the attachment
   portions generally having the form of triangular wedges with two long faces and a smaller
   straight face located between the two longer faces.
             Preferably the mat edge fitting or attachment component is open internally along the
30 full length of the attachment component.
             Preferably each connector portion is formed as recess with and open front and base,
   with a rear hook portion that extends downwards and inwards from the rear wall of the main
   body of the recess, and a lip extending downwards at the top front edge.
             Preferably the edge connector has a generally T-shaped side profile, the upright
35 connected to and extending along the upper end of the support rod, that arm of the 'T' closest
   to the mat forming a hook adapted to connect with the rear hook portion, the edge connector
   having a substantially semi-circular notch across the front face of the edge connector.

                                                    - 4
             Preferably the trampoline system further comprises a catch rod, located at the lower
   front of the attachment component, and extending the length of the attachment component,
   the rear of the catch rod locating into the notch to hold the upper end of the support rod in
   position in the recess.
 5           Preferably the trampoline system further has a plurality of sleeves, each sleeve
   associated with and at least partly covering and surrounding the free length one of the support
   rods.
             Preferably the lower end of the sleeve is split so as to form two free ends above the
   point at which the free length extends from the aperture, the two free ends of the sleeve
10 passed one each around the top and the bottom of the frame member and reconnected to
   each other on the inner side of the frame member to hold the lower end of the rod in position
   on the frame member.
             Preferably the top portion of the sleeve extends beyond the upper end of the support
   rod and is closed, the upper end of the support rod positioned just outside the edge of the
15 mat, the top portion of the sleeve folded over onto, and connected to, the top surface of the
   mat.
             Alternatively the upper end of the support rod is fitted with a buckle having a main
   body with a recess on the underside, an outer aperture on the outer side of the body, and a
   pair of inner apertures located on the inner side of the body, the apertures passing through the
20 buckle, the recess receiving the upper end of the support rod, the buckle located relative to
   the mat so that the recess is located outside the edge of the mat, the body of the buckle
   extending over the top of the mat.
             Preferably the outer aperture, the recess, and the pair of inner apertures are aligned
   in a row substantially perpendicular to the edge of the mat, the upper end of the sleeve split to
25 form an outer end and an inner end, the inner end passing up through the outermost one of
   the inner apertures and down through the innermost one of the inner apertures and extending
   inwards across and attached to the upper surface of the mat, the outer end passing upwards
   through the outer aperture, downwards through the innermost one of the inner apertures and
   extending over the top of the inner end, the outer end attached to the mat, or the inner end,
30 or both.
             Preferably the trampoline system also has a foam pad fitted to and over the edge or
   each edge of the trampoline so as to cover the edge of the mat and provide a cushion, a lower
   surface of the foam pad fitted with a male connector which corresponds with the attachment
   rail to connect the foam pad to the trampoline, the male connector fitting between and gripped
35 by the side portions.
             Alternatively the trampoline system also has a safety enclosure with a wall or walls
   corresponding to each side of the mat and extending upwards from the edges of the mat

                                                    - 5
   substantially vertically, the wall or walls each having a connector attached to or forming part of
   the lower edge of the wall, the connector slotting in between the two side portions of the rail
   so that the base or lower edge of the side wall is connected to the mat, the walls supported by
   wall members or similar connected between an upper part or portion of the wall and the
 5 remainder of the trampoline system.
             Alternatively the trampoline system also has a safety enclosure, comprising;
             at least one net,
             a plurality of net support assemblies, each net support assembly having an outer
   upright aligned substantially vertically, and an inner upright associated with the inner upright,
10 the upper and lower ends of the inner upright connected to the outer upright in such a manner
   that the body of the inner upright is bowed inwards towards the mat and away from the outer
   upright, the net support assemblies spaced at intervals along the edge of the mat, the net
   connected to the inner uprights so that the net forms an inwardly-bowed vertically aligned
   barrier along the edge of the mat.
15           Preferably each of the at least one nets has a plurality of sleeves, located and aligned
   to coincide with the inner uprights, the inner uprights located in the sleeves to connect the net
   to the inner uprights so that the net forms an inwardly-bowed vertically aligned barrier along
   the edge of the mat.
             Preferably the outer uprights are formed from pultruded fibreglass and have the form
20 of a flat elongate bar with a generally rectangular cross-section, the larger flat faces or sides of
   the flat elongate bar aligned facing inwards and outwards substantially parallel to the edge of
   the mat.
             Preferably the inner uprights are formed from pultruded fibreglass and have the form
   of a flat elongate bar with a generally rectangular cross-section, the larger flat faces or sides of
25 the flat elongate bar aligned facing inwards and outwards substantially parallel to the edge of
   the mat.
             Preferably the lower edge of the at least one net is fitted with a net connector, and the
   mat is fitted with a corresponding rail, the connector and rail interacting to hold the lower
   edge of the net against the edge of the mat.
30           Preferably each of the inner uprights is fitted with an upright connector, the rail and
   upright connector interacting to hold the inner upright in position relative to the mat.
             Preferably each of the side assemblies also has a base unit, the lower end of the outer
   upright connected to the base unit, the base unit resting against the floor or surface on which
   the trampoline system is located.
35           Preferably one, some or all of the side assemblies also have a brace, the inner end of
   the brace connected to the outer surface of the inner upright, the body of the brace extending
   outwards to connect with the inner face of the outer upright.

                                                    - 6
             Preferably the inner end of the brace connects to the outer surface of the inner upright
   at or just above the point where the inner upright meets the mat, the body of the brace angled
   upwards to connect with the inner face of the outer upright.
             Preferably the brace is a fibreglass bar having the same cross-sectional profile as the
 5 inner and outer uprights.
   In a second aspect, the invention may broadly be said to consist in a safety enclosure for a
   trampoline system, comprising:
             at least one net,
             a plurality of net support assemblies,
10           each net support assembly having an outer upright aligned substantially vertically,
   and an inner upright associated with the inner upright, the upper and lower ends of the inner
   upright connected to the outer upright in such a manner that the body of the inner upright is
   bowed inwards towards the mat and away from the outer upright, the lower edge of the at
   least one net fitted with a net connector adapted to hold the lower edge of the net against the
15 trampoline of the trampoline system, the net support assemblies spaced at intervals along the
   edge of the trampoline system, the net connected to the inner uprights so that the net forms
   an inwardly-bowed vertically aligned barrier along the edge of the trampoline system.
             Preferably each of the at least one nets has a plurality of sleeves, located and aligned
   to coincide with the inner uprights, the inner uprights located in the sleeves to connect the net
20 to the inner uprights so that the net forms an inwardly-bowed vertically aligned barrier along
   the edge of the mat.
             Preferably the outer uprights are formed from pultruded fibreglass and have the form
   of a flat elongate bar with a generally rectangular cross-section, the larger flat faces or sides of
   the flat elongate bar aligned facing inwards and outwards substantially parallel to the edge of
25 the mat.
             Preferably the inner uprights are formed from pultruded fibreglass and have the form
   of a flat elongate bar with a generally rectangular cross-section, the larger flat faces or sides of
   the flat elongate bar aligned facing inwards and outwards substantially parallel to the edge of
   the mat.
30           Preferably each of the inner uprights is fitted with an upright connector, the rail and
   upright connector interacting to hold the inner upright in position relative to the mat.
             Preferably each of the side assemblies also has a base unit, the lower end of the outer
   upright connected to the base unit, the base unit resting against the floor or surface on which
   the trampoline system is located.
35           Preferably one, some or all of the side assemblies also have a brace, the inner end of
   the brace connected to the outer surface of the inner upright, the body of the brace extending
   outwards to connect with the inner face of the outer upright.

                                                   - 7
            Preferably the inner end of the brace connects to the outer surface of the inner upright
   at or just above the point where the inner upright meets the mat, the body of the brace angled
   upwards to connect with the inner face of the outer upright.
            Preferably the brace is a fibreglass bar having the same cross-sectional profile as the
 5 inner and outer uprights.
            The term "comprising" as used in this specification and indicative independent claims
   means "consisting at least in part of". When interpreting each statement in this specification
   and indicative independent claims that includes the term "comprising", features other than that
   or those prefaced by the term may also be present. Related terms such as "comprise" and
10 "comprises" are to be interpreted in the same manner.
            As used herein the term "and/or" means "and" or "or", or both.
            As used herein "(s)" following a noun means the plural and/or singular forms of the
   noun.
15 BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
            Further aspects of the invention will become apparent from the following description
   which is given by way of example only and with reference to the accompany drawings which
   show an embodiment of the device by way of example, and in which:
            Figure la shows a first form of prior art trampoline system, the trampoline system
20 having a frame, a jumping mat and an enclosure net held above, and surrounding, the
   jumping mat to form an enclosed jumping area, the frame and jumping mat connected via a
   number of fiberglass rods extending upwards from the frame to the edge of the mat.
            Figure lb shows a second form of prior art trampoline system, the trampoline system
   also having a frame, a jumping mat and an enclosure net held above, and surrounding, the
25 jumping mat to form an enclosed jumping area, the frame and jumping mat connected via a
   number of springs aligned generally horizontally and extending outwards from the mat to the
   frame.
            Figure 2 shows a first preferred form of trampoline, the mat of the trampoline is
   supported above a frame of the trampoline by a plurality of resiliently flexible rods which
30 extend outwards from the frame to the mat, substantially perpendicular to the frame, the rods
   curving outwards and upwards from the frame, the upper ends of the rods connected to the
   periphery of the mat.
            Figures 3a-d show an exploded perspective view of the preferred form of frame for
   the trampoline, the sides of the frame formed from separate frame members connected at
35 their corners by separate corner connectors to form a hollow rectangle.

                                                  - 8
             Figure 4a shows the preferred form of resiliently flexible support rod, the support rod
   having a main support rod and a secondary support rod, and Figure 4b is an exploded view of
   same.
             Figures 5a-c show a first preferred component used for connecting the upper end of
 5 the support rods to the mat, a single attachment component forming a gang of female
   connectors aligned in a row, the female connector portions alternating with attachment
   portions, each connector portion having a hollow elongate form with a rectangular opening
   aligned facing inwards towards the centre of the mat and an outwards-facing opening or outer
   opening.
10           Figures 6a-e show second form of attachment component shown in Figure 5, a single
   attachment component forming a gang of female connectors aligned in a row, with the female
   connector portions interspersed with attachment portions in a ganged female row in a 2:1 ratio
   of female connector portions to attachment portions, the female connector portions having a
   recesses which in use receive an edge connector on the upper end of the support rod.
15           Figures 7a and b show the trampoline of Figure 2 fitted with an enclosure, the edge
   of the trampoline fitted with an edge accessory attachment rail that forms a female connector,
   the lower edge of the enclosure fitted with a corresponding male connector.
             Figure 8 shows a foam pad fitted to and over the edge of the trampoline to cover the
   edge of the mat and any hard or rigid items on or close to the edge of the mat, the edge of the
20 trampoline fitted with an edge accessory attachment rail the same or similar as that shown in
   Figure 7.
             Figures 9a-d shows a sleeve that is fitted over the support rod, the lower end or
   ends of the sleeve used to assist in attaching the support rod to the trampoline frame, the
   upper end or ends of the sleeve connected to the mat to hold the rod in position relative to the
25 mat.
             Figures 10a-d shows a variant of the sleeve arrangement shown in Figure 9, with the
   lower end or ends of the sleeve used to assist in attaching the support rod to the trampoline
   frame, and the upper end of the support rod fitted with a buckle, the upper end or ends of the
   sleeve interacting with the buckle and connected to the mat to hold the rod in position relative
30 to the mat.
             Figures 11a-d shows another form of component used for connecting the upper end
   of the support rods to the mat, a single attachment component forming a gang of female
   connectors aligned in a row, the female connector portions alternating with attachment
   portions, the attachment component open internally along the full length of the attachment
35 component, the attachment component having a rear hook portion that forms part of the rear
   wall of the main body of the recess, the front and base of the attachment component open
   except for a lip at the top front edge of the main body of the attachment component, the

                                                   - 9
   support rod fitted with an edge connector with a generally T-shaped outline, a catch rod
   running along the lower front internal corner of the attachment component.
            Figure 12 shows a preferred from of enclosure for use with the trampoline of the first
   preferred form.
 5          Figures 13a and b shows a similar enclosure to that of Figure 12.
            Figures 14a and b shows a similar enclosure to that of Figure 12.
   DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF PREFERRED EMBODIMENTS
            A trampoline system 1 according to the invention is shown in Figure 2. The
10 trampoline system 1 has a flexible rebounding mat 2 and a frame 3, the mat 2 and frame 3
   held in position relative to one another by a plurality of support rods 4.
   Frame
            The frame 3 of the preferred embodiment is generally rectangular in plan view, with a
15 hollow centre. While the preferred form is rectangular, the frame 3 could have any suitable
   shape, such as square, oval or circular. In the preferred rectangular form of frame, and with
   reference to Figure 3, each side of the frame is formed from a separate frame member 5, the
   frame members 5 connected at their corners by separate corner connectors 6 to form a hollow
   rectangle. The preferred material used to form the frame members that form the sides of the
20 frame 3 is steel tubing, with the corner connectors formed from injection moulded plastic.
   Mat
            The mat 2 has the same shape as the frame 3, but larger, so that when the mat 2 is
   placed above the frame 3, each edge of the mat 2 overlaps the frame 3. The mat 2 is formed
25 from a resiliently flexibly material such as woven polypropylene.
   Support rods
            The mat 3 is held above the frame 2 in tension by a plurality of support rods 4. Each
   of the support rods 4 has a lower end 7 which is connected to the frame 3, and an upper end 8
30 which is connected to the mat 3. In the preferred embodiment, the lower end 7 is connected
   to one of the frame members 5 or frame members 5 in such a manner that the lower end 7 is
   angled outwards and upwards from the frame member 5, with the longitudinal axis of the
   support rod 4 aligned substantially perpendicular to the longitudinal axis of the frame member
   5. Each support rod 4 has a free length 9, which is that length of the rod between the upper
35 end 8 (connected to the mat) and the lower end 7 (connected to the frame). The free length 9
   bows, bends or extends outwards from the frame 3 (more specifically, the hollow centre of the
   frame 3) along the entirety of the free length to form an outwardly bowed arc.

                                                   - 10
             The support rods 4 are, in the preferred embodiment, formed from fibreglass or a
   similar material. The support rods 4 are formed as flat bars - that is, elongate members with a
   square or more preferably rectangular cross-section. However, the rods 4 can be formed to
   have any other suitable cross-sectional shape. The support rods 4 are flat or straight when no
 5 external force is applied - that is, they are not pre-formed with a curve. The sides of the rods
   (that is, the narrower ones of the longer faces aligned along or with the longitudinal axis of the
   rod) are, in the preferred embodiment, fully radiused.
             In the most preferred form, the rods 4 form a row along each side of the frame 2 and
   mat 3. The corners of the trampoline do not have support rods associated with them. In the
10 most preferred form, the corners of the rectangular mat 3 are 'cut off' diagonally between the
   end one of each row of support rods, to avoid an unsupported or loose portion of material at
   the corner.
             In the most preferred form, each of the support rods 4 includes a secondary support
   rod or bar 10 or half-bar 10 connected to the rear of the main support rod 4. The length of the
15 support rod is approximately half to two-thirds that of the main rod. The lower end of the
   secondary support rod 10 is also connected to the frame 3, so that the secondary support rod
   10 extends along the rear of the main secondary support rod 10 for approximately half to two
   thirds the length (the lower half) of the support rod 10. The secondary support rod 10 is also
   straight or un-curved when no external force acts on it.
20           The preferred form of the secondary support rod 10 has a cross-sectional profile the
   same shape and size as the main rod. However, the support rod can have any suitable cross
   sectional shape and size, and could for example have a rectangular cross-section that is
   smaller than the cross-section of the main support rod.
             It should be noted that the use of the secondary support rod 10 is preferred, but not
25 absolutely necessary. In this specification, references to support rods should not be taken to
   mean always inclusive or always exclusive of the secondary support rod: the reference could
   be to a support rod by itself (support rod 4), or to a support rod formed from support rod 4 in
   combination with a secondary support rod 10.
             The preferred form of main support rod 4 and secondary support rod 10 is shown in
30 Figure 4a, and exploded in Figure 4b.
             The lower end of each of the support rods 4 and rods 10 are connected to the frame
   as follows: a series of holes or apertures 11 are formed in a row along the frame tubes 5,
   along the outer side of the frame tube 5 and slightly towards the upper part of the frame tube
   5. The lower ends 7 of the support rods 4 and secondary support rods 10 are inserted into
35 these apertures 11. The sides of the apertures can be reinforced with a support insert 12 or
   similar if required. As described above, the free length 9 curves upwards and outwards from

                                                    - 11
   the frame 2 to the mat 3. The curve of the main support rod 4 also causes the secondary
   support rod to bend or curve outwards to follow the curve of the main support rod 4.
               In the most preferred form, the secondary support rods have a cap 13, the body of
   which encloses the upper end of the secondary support rod 10 and also encloses the adjacent
 5 portion of the main support rod 4 to hold the upper end of the secondary support rod against
   the main support rod 4. In practice, as the curve bends the main support rod 4 backwards
   against the secondary support rod, the two rods are forced against one another along the
   length of their contacting faces.
               In one embodiment, the upper end 8 of the main support rod 4 is fitted with an edge
10 connector 14 to connect the upper end 8 to the edge of the mat 2 in co-operation with an edge
   fitting fitted to the edge of the mat. The edge connector and the co-operative relationship will
   be described in more detail below. In the preferred form the edge connector 14 has the
   general form of a cylinder with its axis aligned horizontally, and perpendicular to, the
   longitudinal axis of the support rod 4. The cylindrical edge connector 14 has a slot 17 which
15 passes through the centre of the cylinder perpendicular to the longitudinal axis, to allow the
   edge connector 14 to be slipped over the end of the support rod 4. The edge connector 14
   also has a pair of holes 16 which are aligned at right angles to the slot, and a pair of
   corresponding pins 15. The pins 15 and holes 16 correspond to a pair of notches 18 on the
   support rod 4, just behind the tip of the upper end 8.     The edge connector 14 is held in place
20 on the end of the rod 4 by the pins, which pass through the edge connector 14 and through
   the notches 18. If required, one end of the holes 16 can be countersunk to correspond to a
   wider end on the pin 15, this countersinking stopping the pin passing all the way through the
   hole 16 and potentially dropping out of the hole 16.
              There are two preferred ways in which the pins may be formed.
25            The first method is as follows: the pins 15 are moulded as one piece with the edge
   connector 14. A thin diaphragm is used to connect the pins 15 to the edge connector 14 to
   allow the cavity to fill. To fit the edge connector 14 to the rod, the pines 15 are pressed in and
   the diaphragm shears through.
              The second method is to form two separate pins separately from the edge connector,
30 and to press them into place.
   Mat Edge Rod Connection
              There are several ways in which the support rods can be connected to the edge of the
   mat. Several preferred ways shall now be described.
35

                                                   - 12
   Webbing Sleeve
             A first preferred embodiment is shown in Figure 9. Each of the support rods (and
   secondary support rods if used) is fitted with a sleeve 33. The preferred form of sleeve is two
   generally flat pieces of material connected by sewing or similar along each long edge. The
 5 sleeve is slipped over the rod so that the seams along each long edge align with the smaller
   sides or faces of the support rod. The lower end of the sleeve 33 is split. That is, the two
   edges are not connected at the lower end. The two faces of the sleeve are left intact, and the
   result is that two free ends 35 are formed at the lower end. The non-connected or split portion
   starts just above the point at which the free length 9 of the support rod 4 extends from the
10 aperture 11. The two free ends 35 of the sleeve are passed one each around the top and the
   bottom of the frame member 5. The two free end 35 are reconnected to each other on the
   other side or inner side of the frame member 5, preferably by stitching or similar, to hold the
   lower end 7 of the rod 4 in position on the frame member 5.
             The first preferred way to attach the upper end 8 to the mat is as follows: the top
15 portion 34 of the sleeve is closed, and extends beyond the upper end 8 of the support rod 4.
   The upper end 8 of the rod 4 is positioned just outside the edge of the mat 2 and the top
   portion of the sleeve is folded over onto the top surface of the mat, and stitched into place to
   hold the support rod 4 in position.
             The second preferred way to attach the upper end to the mat is as follows: the rod is
20 fitted with sleeve 33 as described above. The lower end is connected to the frame member 5
   in the same manner as described above. However, in this embodiment, and with reference to
   Figure 10, the upper end 8 of the support rod 4 is fitted with a buckle 36. The buckle 36 has a
   main body, with a recess 37 on the underside, and an outer aperture 39 on the outer side of
   the buckle, on the outer side of the recess 37. A pair of inner apertures 38a and 38b are
25 located on the inner side of the body of the buckle 36, with the aperture 38a closer to the edge
   of the mat and the recess 37 than the aperture 38b. The outer aperture 39, the recess 37,
   and the inner apertures 38a and 38b are all aligned in a row, substantially perpendicular to the
   edge of the mat 2. All of the apertures 38a, 38b, and 39 pass through the buckle 36 from top
   to bottom. The upper end 8 of the support rod 4 slots into the corresponding recess 37 in the
30 body of the buckle 36. The buckle 36 is located relative to the mat so that the recess 37 is
   just outside the edge of the mat 2, with the majority of the body of the buckle 36 extending
   over the top of the mat 2, so that the apertures 38a and 38 b are positioned over the top of
   the mat 2. In this embodiment, the upper end of the sleeve 33 is also split into two free ends
   - an outer end 40 and an inner end 41. The inner end 41 passes up through the aperture 38a
35 and is folded inwards across part of the body of the buckle 36 and down through the aperture
   38b and then extends inwards onto the upper surface of the mat 2, where it is connected or
   attached in any suitable fashion to the mat 2, but most preferably by sewing or stitching. The

                                                   - 13
   outer end 40 passes upwards through the aperture 39 and is then folded across the top of the
   buckle 36, passing downwards through the aperture 38b over the top of the inner end 41 and
   is connected in any suitable fashion but preferably by sewing or stitching to the mat over the
   top of the inner end 41. Use of the buckle 36, and in particular the manner in which the upper
 5 end 8 is inserted into the recess 37 of the buckle 36, helps to prevent wear on the components
   of the trampoline.
             The sleeve can also be used in conjunction with a plastic insert (not shown) that is
   located over the main body, or free length, of the support rod, between the support rod and
   the sleeve, the plastic insert supporting the support rod and helping to prevent wear and tear
10 on the support rod during use.
   Edge Connectors
             The edge connector 14 is used as a part of a mechanism to connect the upper end of
   the support rod 4 to the edge of the mat 2. In the preferred form, the mat 2 is fitted with a
15 mat edge fitting or fittings which fit with or correspond to the edge connector 14. In the
   preferred form, the mat edge fittings are female connectors which correspond to the male
   edge connector 14. The female connectors are ganged in a single unitary item which is then
   connected to the edge of the mat to form a row of multiple female connectors on the edge of
   the mat 2. In the preferred form, the ganged female connectors are formed as a separate
20 component to the mat 2, and then connected to the edge of the mat 2. A first preferred way
   to connect the ganged female connectors is shown in Figure 5. The ganged female connectors
   are formed as a single attachment component 20a with the female connectors aligned in a
   row.    In attachment component 20a, connector portions 21 alternate with attachment portions
   23. Each connector portion 21 has a hollow elongate form with a rectangular opening 22
25 aligned facing inwards towards the centre of the mat and an outwards-facing opening or outer
   opening 24. The connector portions 21 are interspersed with attachment portions 23 in a 1:1
   ratio. The attachment portions 23 have the form of generally triangular wedges with two long
   faces and a convexly curved smaller face between the two longer faces. One long face of the
   wedge is positioned against the lower surface of the mat. The second long face (opposite the
30 first) slopes towards the mat 2 with the thin end of the wedge aligned pointing or facing
   towards the centre of the mat 2. The attachment component 20a is positioned along one edge
   of the mat so that the convexly curved portion at the thick end of the wedge slightly
   overhangs the end of the mat 2. Lengths of webbing or webbing straps 25 are sewn to the
   mat so that they pass in a loop around the attachment portion 24, fitting snugly to the
35 attachment portion 23. These straps hold the attachment component 20 in position on the
   mat. The attachment component 20a is prevented from slipping sideways through the
   webbing loops by the connector portions 21, which have a side profile that overhangs or

                                                   - 14
   extends above the sides of the wedge shape of attachment portion 23, preventing sideways
   movement through the webbing loop.
            As part of the assembly of the trampoline system 1, the lower end 7 of the support
   rod 4 is passed through the connector portions 21 from the inside, extending out through the
 5 outer opening 24. The upper end 8 is fitted with the edge connector 14. The connector
   portions 21 and edge connector 14 mutually fit together in such a way that the edge connector
   14 is held in position inside the connector portion 21, but can rotate around an axis parallel to
   the edge of the mat 2. The range of rotation is not required to be more than a few degrees
   each way in use. The support rod 4 is then flexed or bent with the lower end located in the
10 aperture 11.
            A variation of the attachment component described above - attachment component
   20b - is shown in Figure 6. The attachment component 20b is similar to the component 20a
   described above. However, in this variant, the connector portions 21b are interspersed with
   attachment portions 23 in a 2:1 ratio. The 'female' component or connector portions 21b of
15 the attachment component 20b are recesses 26. The edge connector 14 is fitted into the
   recess 26 from below, and can rotate around an axis parallel to the edge of the mat in a
   similar manner to that described above. Also as above, the range of rotation is not required to
   be more than a few degrees each way in use. As above, a webbing strap 25b passes around
   the connector portion 21b from the top of the mat 2 to the underside to hold the elongate
20 attachment component 20b in position. Sideways movement of the attachment component 20b
   is prevented by the connector portion 21b being slightly inset into the elongate attachment
   component 20b.
            Yet another variation of the edge connection mechanism is shown in Figure 11. A
   third variant of mat edge fitting or attachment component - attachment component 20c - is
25 shown connected to the edge of the mat 2. The attachment component 20c is similar to both
   the components 20a and 20b described above. Connector portions 21c alternate with
   attachment portions 23c in a 1:1 ratio. In a similar manner to that described above, the
   attachment component 20c is connected to and along the edge of the mat by a series of
   webbing straps 25c that are looped over the attachment component 20c with the ends stitched
30 or sewn to the upper and lower surfaces of the mat 2, the webbing straps aligned substantially
   perpendicular to the edge of the mat 2 and passing across and over the attachment portions
   23c.
            In this embodiment, the recess 126 is formed so that the attachment component 20c
   is open internally along the full length of the attachment component 20c. The recess 126 is
35 shaped so that it contains a rear hook portion 43 that extends downwards and inwards from,
   and forms part of, the rear wall of the main body of the recess 126. The front of the
   attachment component 20c, opposite the hook portion 43, is open, as is the base, except for a

                                                    - 15
   lip 42 at the top front edge of the main body of the attachment component 20c, extending
   downwards.
             In this embodiment, the upper end 8 of the rod 4 is fitted with an edge connector 114
   that has a generally T-shaped outline from the side. The upright is connected to and extends
 5 along the upper end of the rod. The rear (or right) arm of the 'T' forms a hook with a rear top
   surface that is angled upwards (from right to left) in relation to the lower surface of the arm (if
   the 'T' shape were viewed with the upright vertical). The front arm of the 'T' is shaped by
   forming a semi-circular notch 45 across the front face of the edge connector 114. The portion
   of the edge connector 114 above the notch forms a front face that slopes inwards from the top
10 of the arm, the upper face sloping upwards to an apex where it meets the rear top surface.
            A catch rod 44 is passed in through one of the open ends of the attachment
   component 20c. The rod 44 is the same length as the attachment component 20c. The body
   of the catch rod 44 rests at the lower front internal corner of the attachment component 20c.
   The preferred form of rod is circular in cross-section.
15          The lower end of the support rod 4 is attached to the frame in a similar manner to that
   outlined above. When the lower end is first connected to the frame, the support rod 4 extends
   upwards and outwards from the frame. To connect the support rod 4 to the attachment
   component 20c, the upper end 8 of the support rod 4 is bent backwards/inwards towards the
   mat 2 and the connected attachment component 20c. The angled rear top surface or face
20 pushes the catch rod 44 upwards within the recess. When the upper end is pushed fully
   backwards towards the mat, the catch rod 44 passes over the top of the edge connector 114
   and down the front face. The notch 45 has substantially the same radius as the rod 44. The
   spring energy contained in the rod from being bent backwards towards the mat 2 causes the
   upper end of the rod 4 to move outwards. However, once the rod 44 drops over the front
25 face, and the notch 45 moves forward as the upper end of the support rod 4 moves outwards,
   the notch 45 moves forward over and around that portion of the body of the rod 44 which is
   next to the notch 45, the rod 44 preventing the upper end of the support rod 4 from moving
   out of position within the attachment component 20c. The rear arm of the 'T' slots into and
   over the hook portion 43.
30           Inside the recess 126, the top surface of the recess bears down on the portion of the
   edge connector 114 above the notch which forms a front face that slopes inwards from the top
   of the arm.
             In use, the rear arm of the 'T' slots into and over the hook portion 43 to allow some
   movement of the rod and the attachment component 20c relative to one another as a user
35 bounces on the mat 2. Similarly, there is a space between the inner wall of the recess 126
   and the front face of the front arm of the 'T' to allow some movement of the rod and the
   attachment component 20c relative to one another.

                                                   - 16
   Edge accessory attachment system
            The trampoline system 1 also has an edge accessory attachment system. In one
   embodiment the rail 27 is fitted to the top of the mat 2 around substantially the entire
 5 perimeter edge of the mat 2 (except for the corners in the preferred embodiment). The edge
   accessory attachment rail 27 is an extruded rail, having a continuous base 28 and two side
   portions 29 that extend upwards from each side of the base 28 to form an arch shape. The
   base 28 lies flat against, and is attached to, the mat 2. The top of the arch formed by the two
   side portions 29 is an open slot. The side portions 29 are not continuous: there are gaps at
10 intervals on each side. In the embodiment shown, this is to allow the rail 27 to be connected
   to the mat 2 by straps (not shown) which loop around the rail 27 and the edge of the mat 2
   with the ends pointing inwards. The ends of the straps are connected by stitching or similar to
   the mat 2 to hold the rail in position, a portion of the body of each of the straps located in one
   of the gaps.
15          An alternative way to connect the rail 27 to the mat 2 is to use a single fastener on
   the bottom or base 28 of the rail, for example by passing the fastener through the base 28 and
   the mat 2 to connect the mat 2 and the rail 27 in a manner which does not require the gaps in
   the side portions 29.
            Accessories for the trampoline system 1 are fitted with a connector 30 that
20 corresponds to the attachment rail 27.     The connector 30 fits between the sides 29 of the
   arch, the sides 29 forming a female portion and the connector 30 forming a male portion which
   interlock. The connector 30 extends upwards through the slot and is connected to the main
   body of the accessory. The accessory can for example be an item such as the wall of a safety
   enclosure or similar such as for example the enclosure wall 32 shown in Figure 7. The
25 connector 30 is attached to or forms part of the lower edge of the wall of the enclosure, and as
   shown in Figure 7 slots into the rail 27 so that the base or lower edge of the side wall is
   connected to the edge of the trampoline mat. Alternatively the accessory could be a foam pad
   31 such as the one shown in Figure 8, which is fitted to and over the edge of the trampoline 1
   to cover the edge of the mat 2 and also any hard or rigid items on or close to the edge of the
30 mat 2. The foam pad 31 provides a cushion which can help to prevent injury if a user falls at
   or close to the edge of the mat 2. As shown in Figure 8, a lower surface of the foam pad 31 is
   fitted with the connector 30, which fits into the slot on rail 27 to connect the foam pad 31 to
   the trampoline.
             Four preferred forms or variants of accessory attachment system suitable for use with
35 the trampoline will now be described. For each of the first two preferred forms, as shown in
   Figures 7b and 8, the accessory attachment system has two main parts: an accessory

                                                   - 17
   attachment rail 27 fitted in use to the trampoline 1, and a connector 30 that corresponds to
   the attachment rail 27, and which is fitted to the accessory.
             For both of these first two preferred embodiments, the accessory attachment rail 27 is
   an extruded rail, having a continuous base 28 and two side wall portions 29 that extend
 5 upwards and angle inwards over the base, one from each side of the base 28. An open slot is
   formed in the top of the structure formed by the two side portions 29. Although it is preferred
   that the slot is open, the two edges could be touching each other, and forced apart when the
   accessory is pulled into the slot. It can be seen that the accessory attachment rail is a hollow
   structure with a slot at the top.
10            In the first two preferred forms as shown in Figures 7b and 8, the side wall portions
   are co-extruded with the base 28, but could, if required, be manufactured separately and then
   connected to the base.
             The accessory attachment rail is, in the preferred use, fitted to the top of the mat
   around substantially the entire perimeter edge of the mat (except for the corners in the
15 preferred embodiment - the rail in this embodiment is actually four separate (sub-)rails, which
   are fitted one to each edge). However, it should be noted that the rail could be fitted to the
   trampoline wherever it is required - e.g. close to the centre of the mat, on the frame, on the
   enclosure, etc. The base 28 lies flat against, and is attached to, the mat. In the first preferred
   embodiment shown in Figure 7b, the side portions 29 are not continuous: there are gaps at
20 intervals on each side. This is to allow the rail to be connected to the mat by straps (not
   shown) which loop around the rail and the edge of the mat with the ends pointing inwards.
   The ends of the straps are connected by stitching or similar to the mat to hold the rail in
   position. A portion of the body of each of the straps is located in one of the gaps, passing
   across and preferably contacting the inner surface of the base 15.
25           In the second preferred embodiment shown in Figure 8, the side portions 29 are
   continuous. The rail is connected to the mat by fasteners on the bottom or base of the rail.
   The fasteners 9 can be rivets or similar.
             Accessories for use with the trampoline are fitted with a connector 30 that
   corresponds to the attachment rail. Alternatively, the connector 30 could be integrally formed
30 with the accessory. In the preferred embodiment, the connector 30 has a main body portion
   that fits between the sides 29 of the rail, and an extension portion that extends from the main
   body upwards through the slot to the accessory. The connector 30 fits between the sides 29,
   the sides 29 forming a female portion that corresponds to the male portion 30, the male and
   female portions interlocking in use. That is, the sides 29 curve or angle around the main body
35 portion of the connector 30 to hold the accessory in position. The extension portion extends
   upwards through the slot 11 to connect with the main body of the accessory.

                                                      - 18
             The preferred manner in which an accessory is fitted to the trampoline is by sliding
   one end of the connector 30 between the sides 29 from one open end of the rail. However, in
   the most preferred embodiment, the main body portion of the connector is formed from a non
   rigid foam, and it is possible to push the main body portion directly down through the slot into
 5 the rail, the connector body contracting and then expanding again once it is between the sides
   29, the sides 29 also bending outwards and then back into position once the main body has
   been fully pushed down through the slot.
             In the first preferred embodiment described above, with gaps in the side walls, then
   the connector 30 passes over the top of the strap(s).
10           The arrangement described above can be used to attach a number of different
   accessories to the trampoline. The accessory could be an edge protector pad such as the foam
   pad 31 shown in Figure 8, which is fitted to and over the edge of the trampoline to cover the
   edge of the mat and also any hard or rigid items on or close to the edge of the mat. The foam
   pad provides a cushion which can help to prevent injury if a user falls at or close to the edge of
15 the mat. Another benefit is that by completely attaching the pad, a uniform surface is
   presented, with no "gaps" for legs or arms to slide under and catch on things like the hook end
   of a spring. As shown in Figure 8, a lower surface of the foam pad 31 is fitted with the
   connector 30, which fits into the slot on rail 27 to connect the foam pad to the trampoline.
             Alternatively, the accessory could for example be an item such as the wall of a safety
20 enclosure or similar. The enclosure wall shown in Figure 7b could be fitted with a connector 30
   on or close to its lower edge, so that it can be fitted to the trampoline. The connector 30 is
   attached to or forms part of the lower edge of the wall of the enclosure, and as shown in
   Figure 7b slots into the rail 27 so that the base or lower edge of the side wall is connected to
   the edge of the trampoline mat.
25           Other auxiliary accessories can be fitted with the connector 30 for use as required.
   For example, a protective or weather cover could be fitted with the connector 30 so that the
   trampoline can be easily covered when not in use. A ladder, slide or similar can be fitted with
   the connector 30 to allow it to be easily fitted to the trampoline.
             As described above, the first two preferred embodiments of the rail have both ends
30 open. One or both of these could be closed rather than open. Also, the hollow area does not
   have to run the full length of the rail. If required for structural reinforcement or similar, the
   rail could be wholly or partly 'filled' or solid along at least part of the length of the rail.
             Further forms or variants of accessory attachment system suitable for use with the
   trampoline 1 will now be described with reference to Figure 8 and also Figures 13b and 14b.
35           The accessory attachment rail 121 shown in Figure 6b is similar to the rails shown in
   Figure 8. However, the side wall portions 122 extend downwards, and the base portion 123
   upwards. In use, the base portion 123 is connected to the enclosure or other accessory, and a

                                                  - 19
   corresponding mat connector 124 is attached to the trampoline mat (although as outlined for
   the connector 117 of the first two embodiments above, it may also be connected to the frame,
   or close to the centre of the mat, or in any other suitable and desirable location. The main
   body of the connector 124 is the same as in the preferred form, and the same as for the
 5 connector 117 of the first two preferred embodiments described above: circular in cross
   section. The main body of the connector 124 is in use located between the side wall portions
   122, which curve or angle towards one another over the body of the connector 124 to hold it in
   position. A portion of the connector 124 extends away from the main body, through the slot,
   to e.g. the mat to attach to the mat. The connector 124 is formed by folding a piece of
10 webbing in half and sewing along its length to create a pocket which is filled with a plastic
   tube, a length of rope/cord, or a fibreglass rod. This piece of webbing is then sewn to the mat
   surface.
            The bottom edge of the enclosure can be formed in a similar way: a section of the
   enclosure fabric can be folded over and sewn to form a cavity that in use holds a tube.
15 Alternatively, the edge of the fabric can be rolled into a tube. The edge is then sewn through
   to form a more solid edge. Another alternative would be to knit the tubular form as part of the
   edge.
            The walls of the accessory attachment rail 121 are, in the embodiment shown,
   continuous. However, they could be discontinuous, in a similar fashion to the rail embodiment
20 shown in Figure 8.
            The upwards-facing base portion 123 includes a slot or groove 125 running
   substantially the full length of the attachment rail 121, aligned running parallel to the groove
   formed by the two side wall portions 122, with an upward-facing opening. In use, a lower
   edge of the enclosure or other accessory is located into the upper groove 125. In the most
25 preferred embodiment, each of the side walls of the base portion each side of the slot include
   at least one cut-out trench each side, aligned running substantially horizontally, substantially
   the length of the side wall, so that the trench 126 on the outer side faces outwards and the
   trench on the inner side (not shown) faces inwards. The trenches are located substantially at
   the same position or height on the inner and outer side walls. The trenches are formed so that
30 the thickness of the wall between the trenches and the groove 125 is thin enough to be sewn
   through by a sewing machine needle or similar. In this fashion, the lower edge of the
   enclosure or accessory can be attached by sewing to the attachment rail 121.
             It should be noted that although sewing is the most preferred way of attaching the
   enclosure or accessory to the rail 121, other ways are also envisaged, such as gluing, plastic
35 welding, riveting, etc. It should also be noted that the rail could be arranged to face the other
   way up, with the base downwards and sewn to e.g. the mat, frame, etc.

                                                   - 20
             The fourth form of accessory attachment rail 130 shown in Figure 14b has a double
   pair of side walls, one pair 131 facing upwards in use, and the second pair 132 facing
   downwards, from a central base portion. In cross-sectional profile, the accessory attachment
   rail 130 has the overall appearance of a capital 'H', with the ends of each one of the four
 5 uprights curved or angled inwards towards the other one of the pair, and the central base
   portion forming the 'horizontal' or cross-piece of the 'H'. The walls are continuous in the
   preferred form, by may be discontinuous if required, on one or both sides.
             In use, a mat connector 133 is attached to e.g. the mat of the trampoline, facing
   upwards, and a second accessory or enclosure connector 134 is connected to the lower edge of
10 the enclosure or accessory, facing downwards. Each of the connectors 133 and 134 in the
   preferred embodiments are circular in cross-section. The connectors are pushed between the
   pairs of side walls on the upper and lower side respectively, and the side walls arc or curve
   around the circular bodies to hold the connectors in position. In this fashion, the accessory
   attachment rail 30 is attached to the mat, and the enclosure or accessory is attached to the
15 attachment rail 30, thus holding the enclosure or accessory in position relative to the mat.
             As outlined above, the attachment rail 130 could be connected to an item other than
   the mat if required, such as the frame or similar. The connectors 133 and 134 can be formed
   in the same or similar manner to that outlined above.
20 Safety Enclosure
             A preferred form of safety enclosure for use with the preferred form of trampoline
   system 1 will now be described with reference to Figure 12.
             The safety enclosure is generally designated as safety enclosure 50 in Figure 12. The
   preferred form of trampoline system 1 is rectangular (i.e. with four sides) as described above,
25 and the safety enclosure described below is for use with that preferred rectangular form.
   However, the safety enclosure could be adapted for use with a circular, oval, triangular,
   hexagonal or any other outline shape of trampoline system.
             The preferred form of safety enclosure 50 has four separate main components or side
   assemblies 51, each side assembly 51 corresponding to a side of the trampoline enclosure.
30 Each of the side assemblies 51 is substantially identical to the others (with minor differences
   with regard to length, etc, if the sides of the trampoline have sides of different lengths, for
   example if the trampoline is rectangular rather than square). Each side assembly has an
   enclosure net 53, and at least two and preferably three or more upright net support
   arrangements or assemblies, each net support assembly formed from an outer upright 54, an
35 inner upright 55, and a base unit 52. The body of each of the outer uprights 54 is preferably
   aligned substantially vertically. Each of the outer uprights 54 is connected to a base unit 52 at
   its lower end 56. The outer uprights 54 are, in the preferred embodiment, formed from

                                                   - 21
   pultruded fibreglass and have the form of a flat elongate bar, with a generally rectangular
   cross-section. The larger flat faces or sides of the flat elongate bars are aligned facing inwards
   and outwards, parallel to the edge of the mat 2.
             The preferred embodiment of the base units 52 is that of a flat elongate bar, with the
 5 same cross-sectional profile as the outer uprights 54. The base units 52 are connected one
   each to each of the lower ends 56 of the outer uprights 54, and aligned perpendicular to the
   outer uprights 54 to extend inwards towards the mat 2 from the lower ends 56. The base
   units 52 have the same cross sectional profile as the outer uprights 54. The outer surfaces of
   the base units 52 lies flat against the floor or surface on which the trampoline system 1 rests.
10 The base units 52 are not mandatory: the lower end of the outer uprights 54 could be adapted
   to rest on the floor, for example, or the safety enclosure 50 could be connected to the
   trampoline system 1 in such a manner that the safety enclosure 50 does not contact the floor.
             The inner uprights 55 also preferably have the same cross-sectional profile and size as
   the outer uprights 54 and the base units 52. The inner uprights 55 are connected to the outer
15 uprights 54 at the upper ends 57 and at the lower ends 56, on the inner faces of the outer
   uprights 54. The inner uprights are longer than the outer uprights 54, and so each of the inner
   uprights is bowed or curved inwards towards the mat 2. The connection location as just
   described is at the ends of the outer uprights, but could be at any suitable location along their
   length. It is not strictly necessary for a physical connection to be made at the upper ends: the
20 upper end of the inner upright 52 could rest against the inner face of the outer upright without
   being connected. The same effect could also be achieved by 'recurving' the inner upright at
   one or both ends (i.e. curving one or both of the ends back on themselves), so that the points
   of contact with the outer upright are not directly at the ends of the inner upright, but are close
   to the ends. If it would be appropriate to do so, 'end' should be taken to mean either the
25 connection point, or the actual end.
             As described above, the outer upright and base unit are connected in such a way that
   each one of the base units 52 has an outer upright 54 extending substantially vertically
   upwards from the outer end of the base unit 52. Preferably the inner upright 55 is connected
   so that it extends upwards from substantially the same point, bending or bowing towards and
30 then away from the mat 2 to connect with the outer upright 54 at the upper end 57.
             In the preferred embodiment, three of these net support arrangements (base unit 52,
   outer upright 54 and inner upright 55) are located on each side or edge of the mat 2, with two
   at or close to each end, and the third located equidistant from the end two. However, two,
   four, five or more of these arrangements could be used as required, depending on the size of
35 the mat 2. If using a circular or oval mat, then a number could be located around the
   circumference at suitable intervals. If using a trampoline with a different number of sides, the

                                                   - 22
   appropriate number can be connected at the appropriate points to provide the necessary
   coverage.
            The enclosure net 53 is formed from a suitable material, such as nylon webbing. The
   net 53 has a generally rectangular form, and is fitted or formed with vertically-oriented sleeves
 5 58, open at their lower ends. The location of the sleeves 58 coincides with the location of the
   inner uprights 55. Two of the sleeves are located at each vertical edge of the net 52. In the
   preferred embodiment, the net has one remaining sleeve (three in total), the remaining sleeve
   located vertically bisecting the net 53. The open ends of the sleeves 58 are in use slipped over
   the inner uprights 55 so that the net 53 forms an inwardly-bowed vertically aligned barrier
10 along the edge of the mat 2, the open ends preferably coinciding with the edge of the mat 2.
   The lower edge of the net 53 is also aligned with, and co-located with, the edge of the mat 2,
   and is connected to the edge of the mat 2 in a manner that will be described below. The
   uppermost portion of the net 53 extends slightly beyond the upper end 57, and is folded over
   and down so that it aligns with the outer faces of the outer uprights 54. If the inner and outer
15 uprights are connected at their upper ends, then it is preferred that the net is placed in
   position before this connection takes place, with the net formed suitably (e.g. with an aperture
   or similar) to allow the connection to take place. Alternatively, the connection of the inner and
   outer uprights could be made via the (intervening) net.
            The net 52 is fitted with a connector on or close to the lower edge, such as the
20 connector 30 described above. The edge of the mat 2 is fitted with the corresponding rail 27.
   The connector 30 fits to the rail 27 to hold the lower edge of the net 52 against the edge of the
   mat 2. It is most preferred that each of the inner uprights 55 is also fitted with a connector
   (not shown) suitable for slotting into the rail 27 to hold the inner uprights in position relative to
   the mat 2.
25          In use, a user may fall against the net 52 either where it covers one of the inner
   uprights 55, or where it is freely supported. In each case, the inner uprights 55 and the outer
   uprights 54 will bend outwards, or bow towards the outer upright, or both, to absorb the
   impact force. In particular, when an inner upright is impacted directly, the inner upright will
   bow outwardly (towards the outer upright) at the point of impact, as well as flex at its lower
30 end, to absorb the impact.
            As further shown in Figure 12, the safety enclosure 50 can be fitted with a brace 59,
   which in the preferred embodiment is a fibreglass bar having the same cross-sectional profile
   as the base 52 and the inner and outer uprights 55, 54. The inner end of the brace 59 is
   connected to the outer surface of the inner upright 55 at or just above the point where the
35 inner upright 54 meets the mat 2. The body of the brace 59 is straight, and angled upwards to
   connect with the inner face of the outer upright 54. It is preferred that the brace is used on all

                                                 - 23
   of the net support arrangements. However, it could be used on one, some or all of the net
   support arrangements and left off the others, as required.
            As shown in Figure 12, the corners of the safety enclosure 50, between the ends of
   each of the side assemblies 51, are open. These openings can be used to access the jumping
 5 surface of the mat 2, and can be closed by flaps of netting or similar (not shown) in use, to
   prevent a user inadvertently exiting the enclosed area.
            Figures 13a and 14a show similar forms of safety enclosure on a trampoline of the
   invention.
            The foregoing description of the invention includes preferred forms thereof.
10 Modifications may be made thereto without departing from the scope of the invention as
   defined in the accompanying claims.

                                                    - 24
   CLAIMS:
   1.      A trampoline comprising:
             a flexible rebounding mat,
 5           a frame below a periphery of the flexible rebounding mat when the trampoline is
   positioned with the mat uppermost,
             a plurality of support rods connecting between the frame and the mat , upper ends of
   the support rods connected to the mat around the periphery of the mat, and lower ends of the
   plurality of resiliently flexible support rods connected to the frame below the mat, to hold the
10 flexible rebounding mat in tension and aligned in a substantially horizontal plane above the
   frame, wherein the flexible support rods have a rectangular cross section and a major part of
   the free length of the flexible support rods between the upper ends and the lower ends bows
   outwards and curves upwards from the frame towards the flexible rebounding mat
   substantially perpendicular to the frame.
15
   2.      A trampoline as claimed in claim 1 wherein the plurality of resiliently flexible support
   rods are straight when not connected between the frame and the flexible rebounding mat.
   3.      A trampoline as claimed in either claim 1 or claim 2 wherein the support rods are
20 formed from fibreglass.
   4.      A trampoline as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 3 wherein the plurality of resiliently
   flexible support rods are main support rods and each of the plurality of resiliently flexible
   support rods has a resiliently flexible secondary support rod located at the rear of the support
25 rod, each secondary support rod extending along part of the length of the support rod.
   5.      A trampoline as claimed in claim 4 wherein the length of the secondary support rod is
   approximately half to two-thirds that of the main support rod, the lower ends of both the main
   support rod and the secondary support rod are co-located.
30
   6.      A trampoline as claimed in claim 4 or claim 5 wherein the secondary support rod has a
   cross-sectional profile the same shape and size as that of the main support rod.
   7.      A trampoline as claimed in any one of claims 4 to 6 wherein an upper end of the
35 secondary support rod is connected to an adjacent portion of the main support rod.

                                                   - 25
   8.       A trampoline as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 7 wherein the upper end of the main
   support rod is fitted with an edge connector to connect the upper end of the support rod to the
   edge of the flexible rebounding mat.
 5 9.       A trampoline as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 8 wherein the flexible rebounding mat
   is fitted with mat edge fittings by which the upper end of each support rod is connected to the
   trampoline mat.
   10.      A trampoline as claimed in claim 9 wherein mat edge fittings are ganged as a unitary
10 item connected to the corresponding mat edge to form a row of multiple connectors on that
   edge of the flexible rebounding mat.
   11.      A trampoline as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 10 also having an accessory
   attachment rail connected to the trampoline about a periphery of the mat, and comprising a
15 base and side walls extending from and angled to the base to define and surround a hollow
   central area between the side walls and the base, and a slot entry into the rail, enabling
   attachment of an edge protector cushion, or a lower edge of an enclosure, or a weather cover
   the trampoline by engagement into the accessory attachment rail.
20 12.      A trampoline as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 11 also having a safety enclosure,
   comprising:
             at least one net having a lower edge connected to the edge of the trampoline mat,
             a plurality of upright enclosure support members having lower ends connected to the
   frame below the mat and not otherwise being supported by the trampoline, and upper ends
25 connected to the top of the enclosure to support the enclosure above the mat.
   13.      A trampoline as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 12 wherein the mat is larger than the
   frame so that the periphery of the mat overlaps the frame.
30 14.      A trampoline as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 3 wherein the trampoline has an at
   least approximately oval or circular shape.

              1/19
<removed-date>
<removed-apn>
              FIGURE 1A
              FIGURE 1B

                            <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                        1
    2
                                                  2/19
5                                    9
    7                          8
                   10   4
           6   3
        FIGURE 2

                                     3/19
<removed-date>
<removed-apn>    6
                          5
                  5
                                              5
                                  FIGURE 3A
                                                      6
                              5
                                                          5
                  6
                      5                                       6
                                                  5
                              6
                                  FIGURE 3B

                   4/19
<removed-date>
<removed-apn>
              5
                          6
                  FIGURE 3C
                                   12
                              11
                  FIGURE 3D

                                                           <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                                     10
                           13
                16
      14
                                4
           17
                      15                                                7
                                                                                   5/19
                      FIGURE 4A
                                                   10
                                                                               7
                                8
                 13             18
            16
                                               4
14                                        18
                                                        FIGURE 4B
 17
 15

                                  6/19
<removed-date>
                             25
<removed-apn>
                                                                         2
                        13
                                                      23
                    4
                                                                5
                                      21
                                  9
              FIGURE 5A
                                                           10
                                           21
                                                                             20
              FIGURE 5B                          24
                                                           21
                                                                             14
                          FIGURE 5C         20
                                                                    22

                                   7/19
<removed-date>                      25b
                     20b
<removed-apn>                                                2
                                                  9
              FIGURE 6A                               5
                                              7
                                          4
                           26
                           25b
              FIGURE 6B

                               8/19
<removed-date>       14
                               26          21
                                                26
<removed-apn>
                       FIGURE 6C
                           21
              FIGURE 6D
                                            4
                          26
                                      14
              FIGURE 6E

                           9/19
<removed-date>
<removed-apn>
              32
                        FIGURE 7A
                                         30
                               29
                   FIGURE 7B
                                    27        28

                             10/19
<removed-date>
<removed-apn>
                        31
                   30
               29
              28
              28
                        FIGURE 8

                               11/19
<removed-date>
                                             2
                      34
<removed-apn>
              4
                                 B
                  9
                                        5
                            FIGURE 9A
                                        34
                       33
                            FIGURE 9B

                          12/19
<removed-date>
<removed-apn>                A
                                  34
                                  5
               11
              FIGURE 9C
                                       35
              FIGURE 9D                     35

                                           13/19
<removed-date>
                                                          2
<removed-apn>    9
                  4
                                       B
                                                      5
                                  FIGURE 10A
                                 38a         38b
                            40
                           37
                      39                         41
                                             8
                                 FIGURE 10B

                                  14/19
<removed-date>
                        2
<removed-apn>                    A
               5        8
                                      36
                   11
                        FIGURE 10C              36
              FIGURE 10D
                                           35

                                      15/19
<removed-date>
                     25c                              2
<removed-apn>
               44
                    23c         21c
                                               20c
              FIGURE 11A
                          114
                                               45
                                                114
               5
                            25c
                                  FIGURE 11B

                                      16/19
<removed-date>
<removed-apn>
                    42
                     126
                                         43
                         44
                                   FIGURE 11C
              114
                              44
              45
                                   FIGURE 11D

                                                                     <removed-apn>                <removed-date>
                                                                57
                                57                   55
                          55                               55
                57                                   53                   55
           57                                                                       57
                                                                                     55
       54
 50                                                                                           51
                                                                                          54
                                                                                                        17/19
      59
                                                                                         59
           56        52                                                                   56
                          56   52                                              52   56
                                                                52   56
                                    56   52 58
                                                      58
FIGURE 12                                        2

                                18/19
<removed-date>
<removed-apn>
                               FIGURE 13A
                               25
                          26
                     21
                                            22
              FIGURE 13B

                         19/19
<removed-date>
<removed-apn>
                        FIGURE 14A
                   31
                                     34
              30
                                          33
                   32
                                 FIGURE 14B

