                                                                                           15202-4088
            SYSTEMS AND METHODS FOR DISTRIBUTING ROUGH DIAMONDS
                                             ABSTRACT
        Embodiments of the present invention relate to diamond trading system and method for
trading diamonds. The system and method may allow rough diamond sellers to list their diamonds
for sale individually and enter an ask price for each listed diamond. The system and method may
also allow rough diamond buyers to submit their polished diamond parameters and orders. The
order may contain a bid price. The system and method may then determine if any of the listed
diamonds match to the polished diamond parameters and ordering requirements and if any of the
matched diamonds have a bid price at or higher than a ask price. If there is a match and the bid
price is at or higher than the ask price, the system and method allow the transaction to proceed.
                                                  -26-

Receiving Rough Diamond                220                 240            200
  Inventory Information
      Supply         222              Receiving Polished Diamond Parameters
    Diamonds                                  and Ordering Information
          ZZ224                                Enter         Connect to
       Scan                                 Parameters        Intern
    Diamonds
           Z Z       226           244                                    250
     Generate                                Transmit        Enter Order
    Image File                              Parameters      Requirements
                 F   228
     Establish                     246                             1      252
     Identifier                                Store         Store Order
                     230                    Parameters      Requirements
   Store Image
      File and
     Identifier
                          Analyzing Received Information
                      Access Image Files and                  262          260
                               Parameters
                     Analyze Each Image File                  264
                            with Parameters
                     Analyze Each Image File                  266
                    with Order Requirements
                Determining if Bid Price is at or Above Ask Price
                     If it is, Settle Transaction              282         280
                                                              284
                             Notify Parties
                                      Fig. 2

                                                                                            15202-4088
           SYSTEMS AND METHODS FOR DISTRIBUTING ROUGH DIAMONDS
                                  FIELD OF THE INVENTION
        The present invention generally relates to systems and methods for trading rough diamonds.
More particularly, a system and method that permits sellers of rough diamonds ("Sellers"), via an
electronic platform, to sell rough diamonds to purchasers of rough diamonds ("Purchasers").
Sellers refers to miners and rough diamond traders.         Purchasers refers to companies which
purchase rough diamonds with the intent to manufacture them into polished diamonds.
                             BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
        Commodities such as gold, silver, and platinum are considered as homogeneous in nature
so they can always have a market price determined at any time depending on the global market.
However, such price for an individual rough diamond is difficult to determine because its value is
based on its intrinsic factors such as size, model, color, and diamond inclusion type and location.
There are infinite combinations based on these factors which cause every rough diamond to be
unique. Additionally, Purchasers have unique manufacturing specifications and polished sales
distributions.   This results in variance among prices for individual rough diamonds.            Two
Purchasers can give the same rough diamond a totally different price. Thus, in order to determine
a universally accepted price and reduce price variance for a resource that is heterogeneous in nature,
an assortment process is created in the diamond industry to facilitate diamond transactions.
        In the assortment process, Sellers and Purchasers have contractual agreements that require
each party to supply and purchase a certain number of rough diamonds, respectively.               The
transaction occurs at a sales event that is hosted once every five weeks, ten times a year. The
agreement requires the Purchaser to buy an allotment of rough diamonds (an "Allocation") at every
sales event.    An Allocation consists of one or more assortments of rough diamonds (an
"Assortment") that a Purchaser can buy at every sales event. An Assortment is a grouping of rough
diamonds that are similar in weight, shape or model, color, and clarity. Each Allocation is specific
to the Purchaser and every Purchaser's Allocation can be made up of various Assortments. For
example, in an Assortment of Crystals 4-8 Grainers that is made up of rough diamonds that range
from 0.90-2.49 carats in weight, those diamonds may have a model, color, clarity, and weight with
the following specificities:
                                                  -1-

                                                                                           15202-4088
                    *   Octohedron Models (two pyramids back to back)
                    *   Color range of D - K
                    *   Clarity Range of VVS - SI
                    e    Sizes/Weights as follows:
                             o Four Grainers (4GR) (0.90-1.19 carats);
                             o Five to Six Grainers (5-6GR)(1.2-1.79 carats); and
                             o Eight Grainers (8GR) (1.80-2.49 carats).
        Overall, each Seller takes its inventory of rough diamonds and sorts the rough diamonds
into Assortments. The diamonds in the Assortment are grouped to meet certain parameters such
as the one provided above. The parameters for each grouping correspond to the rough diamond
requirements by category or subcategory that is common to Purchasers. While each Assortment
is generally consistent at each sales event, there is slight variation in composition. Each rough
diamond within an Assortment can be assigned a different price per Seller based on its own
qualities of weight, shape or model, color, and clarity. An average price is calculated based on the
individual rough diamonds within that Assortment. Each Seller has a variation on Assortments
that are similar but different.
        This approach, however, does not optimize value for either the Seller or the Purchaser. The
Sellers utilize the assortment process to sell a broad spectrum of rough diamonds within each
Assortment so each Purchaser receives both optimal and suboptimal products for its unique
manufacturing purposes.       Thus, while each Purchaser buys particular Assortments for their
polished diamond needs, there will always be products that the Purchaser cannot use and that must
be resold on the secondary market, sold unprofitably as polished diamonds, or held in inventory.
The Purchasers have to absorb the loss because the Purchasers need to rely on the diamonds
supplied by the Sellers to fulfill their polished diamond demand. The Sellers use this method to
sell both less desirable products with desirable products to ensure their whole production is sold.
This adverse effect exacerbates as the Purchasers buy more assortments. This approach has not
been updated or modified over the last several generations commensurate with the advancement
in technology. The Sellers and Purchasers have to meet frequently and be physically present at
each sales event to conduct the transaction. In addition, Purchasers are not required to physically
inspect each Assortment before agreeing to purchase the rough diamonds. There is an option to
physically inspect each Assortment but this requires traveling to a high security facility in
Botswana or Belgium to inspect individual diamonds under security cameras or other restrictions.
Based on the physical inspection (involving a visual examination by a human), Purchasers may
                                                  -2-

                                                                                            15202-4088
reject an Assortment based on the inspection but the rejection can have significant impact such as
with respect to the ability to potentially meet current or future demands. The secondary market of
rough diamonds also suffers from the same defects. Accordingly, there remains a need for a system
and method that is improved over the current diamond transaction process.
                          BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
        The nature and various advantages of the present invention will become more apparent upon
consideration of the following detailed description, taken in conjunction with the accompanying
drawings, in which like reference characters refer to like parts throughout, and in which:
        Fig. 1 is a block diagram illustrating an overview of an environment in which some
embodiments of the present invention may operate; and
         Fig. 2 is a flow diagram illustrating a method for trading rough diamonds in accordance
with some embodiments of the present invention.
                        DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION
         A computer implemented interactive platform (computer implemented electronic system(s)
that can include specialized software applications, related data, and physical control over rough
diamond distribution) can be provided. The platform permits the offer, sale, and distribution of
rough diamonds by Sellers to Purchasers and as a result, into the overall diamond marketplace.
Each rough diamond is scanned in order to create a 3D virtual model. A sorting system is
implemented, using one or more computers and databases, that creates identifiers for each rough
diamond and associates the virtual model with the identifier. The sorting system is configured to
store each rough diamond with a physical identifier which can involve transferring each rough
diamond to a physical container that has such an identifier. Each rough diamond is physically
sorted and handled to have an identifier by way of a container for each individual rough diamond.
The rough diamonds are stored in secure repositories in various geographic locations and the
location information is also stored in the database for each rough diamond.
         Each Purchaser owns highly confidential and proprietary information that specifies the
critical details of its manufacturing process for each type of cut of polished diamond. For example,
two Purchasers can be manufacturers of similar shapes of polished diamonds but each Purchaser
will produce a different polished diamond because of its proprietary manufacturing specifications.
                                                   -3-

                                                                                            15202-4088
This information is also closely tied to each Purchaser's polished diamond distribution.          The
platform will include a secure data system (computer with security enhancements) that stores the
proprietary manufacturing information of each Purchaser and maintains the confidentiality of that
information throughout the operation of the platform. For example, a third party trusted vendor
such as one offered by Sarine, can be used to store this information. The third party trusted vendor
is an example of one approach, but others are contemplated.             A software application is
implemented on the platform that applies the data in each file containing the proprietary
manufacturing process for each polished diamond cut to the 3D virtual model of each individual
rough diamond. The software application processes spatial and physical properties (e.g., interior
imperfections) and as a result produces an output that communicates that the rough diamond
corresponds to a potential polished diamond that matches that manufacturing process.         The
platform can provide an interface through which a Purchaser can specify a rough diamond order
(individual diamonds, potentially as a batch). The order can specify a particular manufacturing
process that is owned by Purchaser and is stored in the confidential system. The order can be an
electronic message which can be inputted through a browser or application interface. The order
can specify ranges of parameters and an offer price for each individual rough diamond. Each
Seller can specify an ask price for rough diamonds that meets certain rough diamond characteristics,
groupings of parameters. The platform can process each individual rough diamond and when a
match exists and the bid price is at or above the ask price, the platform executes a process for
completing the sale of that rough diamond to the bidding Purchaser. In response to the transaction,
information is updated in the database to represent that the rough diamond has been sold and
related information can be updated. The platform can include a distribution process in which each
of the rough diamonds are physically retrieved and moved through a distribution chain, which can
include aggregating rough diamonds sold to the same Purchaser and checking identifiers at points
through the chain to confirm the secure transfer of each rough diamond to the facility of the
Purchaser.
        In operation, the platform operates in an automated manner by having the process applied
to individual rough diamonds without providing the Sellers or Purchasers to inspect or confirm
individual rough diamonds for purchase. Preferably, the platform maintains pending orders, the
volume of pending orders, prices, and volume of transactions ("sales") confidential such that the
information is not available or displayed to Sellers and Purchasers and is maintained confidential
                                                 -4-

                                                                                            15202-4088
through its operation except for communicating the volume sold or purchased for a corresponding
user and the price paid or received.
        The secure data system (e.g., an escrow system) can be implemented external to the
computer systems of the Purchasers and Sellers, by the computers of the platform that are
responsible for executing the transactions. The Purchaser's computer devices can connect to the
secure data systems over a network using a secured protocol. The computers that are adapted to
handle transactions can also implement secure connections with the secure data systems. The
arrangement provides for the ability to carry out such processes while maintaining a higher level
of confidence. Other techniques for providing confidence or trust are also contemplated.
        Various embodiments are contemplated. For example, Fig. 1 is a block diagram illustrating
an overview of an environment 100 in which some embodiments of the present invention may
operate. The environment 100 may include a rough diamond sorting system 105, one or more
rough diamond repositories 110, a confidential escrow system 115, a transaction settlement system
120, a central system 125, and one or more client computing devices 130, which can each be
implemented by a computer or a specialized computer or device, one or more software application
and data values. The rough diamond storing system 105, repositories 110, or other components
can include mechanical or electromechanical equipment for storing, moving, handling, sorting, or
inspecting individual rough diamonds. The central system 125 and the client computing devices
130 may be connected through a network 135. A diamond trading system is contemplated based
on some or all of these systems and devices.
        The rough diamond sorting system 105 may comprise of an imaging system 105a and a
marking system 105b. The imaging system 105a may perform a 3-dimensional (3D) scan of the
interior and a 3D scan of the exterior of each rough diamond and generate an imaging file
containing a 3D virtual model and associated information for the rough diamond. The 3D virtual
model may be a 3D physical representation of the rough diamond created by combining the two
scans.   The 3D virtual model may also display the locations of inclusions.          The associated
information may include shape, cutting style, physical dimensions, weight, diameter, crown
information, girdle information, pavilion information, table information, clarity grade, color grade,
the type and location of inclusions, other physical information, or any combination thereof of the
rough diamond. The imaging files may be saved in a database of the imaging system 105a that is
accessible by the central system 125. For example, the imaging system 105 may be a Galaxy
                                                -5-

                                                                                          15202-4088
machine, on the market by Sarine, and the imaging file may be a Galaxy file. The marking system
105a may establish an identifier for each rough diamond. The identifier may be established by
placing each rough diamond in a container having an identification number, tag, label, or other
identifier.  The sorting system 105 may associate each imaging file with the corresponding
identifier or rough diamond. The imaging files are accessible by the central system 125 and the
sorted diamonds (diamonds that are imaged and marked) may be stored in one of the repositories
110. The identifier may also indicate which repository the rough diamond is stored.
        The repositories 110 may be distributed around the world in different geographic locations.
Each of the repositories 110 may be located in the same area where the rough diamond trading
centers are located, specifically, Antwerp, Tel Aviv, Surat, Mumbai, Dubai, Singapore, South
Africa, Namibia and Botswana. The location of the sorting system 105 may also be the same or
different with respect to the location of the repository and the location of the mining operation.
Each repository may be equipped with a computer system to keep track of its inventory (or the
Seller's inventory). The computer system may be accessible to the central system 125 so the
central system 125 knows which rough diamonds are stored at the repository. The sorting system
105 and the repositories 110 may be utilized by Sellers to process and store their rough diamonds
and to provide the imaging files to the central system 125. Each imaging file may be accompanied
by a sale price (or a ask price) for the rough diamond. The price may be determined by the Seller
after reviewing the imaging file or by the sorting system 105 pursuant to factors set forth by the
Seller.
        The confidential escrow system 115 is a system that stores Purchasers' polished diamond
parameters. Each Purchaser has its own unique manufacturing processes that are suitable to polish
certain types of rough diamonds and that can produce polished diamonds unique to their
manufacturing specifications and polished diamond distribution. Polished sales distribution refers
to the Purchaser's unique network of customers who have their own set if unique parameters and
specifications when purchasing and costing polished diamonds. A polished diamond parameter is
a facet arrangement and corresponding range of angles and ratios which define a particular
diamond shape or cut unique to a Purchaser. The information may include variable angles, depths,
shapes, length to width ratios, and other information. Each Purchaser can have multiple sets of
polished diamond parameters for each diamond shape. If desired, the polished diamond parameter
may also include a Purchaser's customer's unique parameters and specifications when purchasing
                                                  -6-

                                                                                            15202-4088
and costing polished diamonds. Because the information may reveal the Purchaser's special
manufacturing processes and unique network of customers, the polished diamond parameters are
confidential and proprietary information. Thus, the information is provided by the Purchaser to
the confidential escrow system 115 and is only accessible by its owner and the central system 125.
While other Purchasers may access the central system 125 through their client computing devices
130, the polished diamond parameters stored on the confidential escrow system 115 for each
Purchaser are not available to one another and are maintained confidential throughout the operation
of the system.
         The central system 125 is connected to the sorting system 105 and the confidential escrow
system 115 and can access imaging files and polished diamond parameters in the respective system.
The central system 125 may access all the imaging files available on the sorting system 105 and
perform an analysis on each imaging file with a Purchaser's polished diamond parameters. The
analysis may apply the associated information in the imaging file to the polished diamond
parameters using a software application that can identify potential rough diamonds that match
those parameters in that rough diamond and as a result, identify the potential polished diamonds
that can be produced from the rough diamond based on those parameters.
         If desired, the automated computer process can determine suitability of the rough diamond
to the Purchaser based on the evaluation. The evaluation may include evaluating the number, size,
locations, and quality of the potential polished diamonds and generating the potential polished
diamonds within the virtual model. Suitability may be based on how much information in the
imaging file match to the parameters, how the potential polished diamonds fit into the Purchaser's
sales distributions, and the price that the Purchaser is willing to pay for those rough diamonds.
(Each of which may be specified in a Purchaser's order described below). The central system 125
or other system element is preferably configured to perform an analysis that identifies the most
valuable polished diamond that can be produced from a particular rough diamond in accordance
with a particular Purchaser's manufacturing process such as by using the polished diamond
parameters.
         The central system 125 may output messages or information (information as used herein
refers to electronic data values) only identifying rough diamonds that are suitable to the Purchaser.
The central system 125 may output the messages or information identifying suitable diamonds by
creating an evaluation file for each. If desired, the evaluation file when executed by the central
                                                  -7-

                                                                                            15202-4088
system 125 may display information such as the virtual model and the potential polished diamonds
within the virtual model, the size, number, and locations of the potential polished diamonds, some
or all of the associated information, some or all of the parameters, a comparison between the
associated information and the parameters, additional information generated by the comparison or
the evaluation step, or any combination thereof. There may be different levels of suitability such
as Excellent, Good, and Satisfactory and this information may be included in the evaluation file as
well.
         The central system 125 may perform the aforementioned functionalities in response to an
order placed by the Purchaser through its client computing device. Although the order will be
purchasing rough diamonds located in the repository, the order relies upon polished diamond
parameters, which specify characteristics that are specific to polished diamonds and in particular
values or information (e.g., the digital file or association with the digital file specifying that
manufacturers desired polished diamond cut) that are a baseline for the polished diamond that the
Purchaser has the objective to manufacture, rather than rough diamond criteria ("polished diamond
order" is used as a term to refer to this). The polished diamond order can include the polished
diamond parameters, which can include polished diamond criteria such as size, weight, color, and
clarity, the number of diamonds in the polished diamond order, a bid price list including a bid price
for each criteria, and a discount or adjustment for fluorescence..   Other criteria or order can be
included or are contemplated and would be evident as applicable from the disclosure but the
polished diamond order as explained includes a baseline or grouping of parameters that are specific
only to ordering polished diamonds that allow for the bidder to define in virtual terms a polished
diamond that the Purchaser seeks to purchase.        For example, a polished diamond order by a
Purchaser may indicate that the Purchaser needs 100 of 1.00 carat oval polished diamonds (with
associated proprietary manufacturing information) that have a color greater than or equal to J and
a quality greater than or equal to SI. Rough diamonds in the sorting system will be searched and
analyzed to evaluate if they could be manufactured to satisfy the polished diamond order.
         The polished diamond order may or may not include requirements or specifics or permit
the user to enter a requirement or specific that is particular to rough diamonds and would be
understood to correlate to specifying characteristics of a rough diamond. The central system 125
may provide an interface allowing the Purchaser to enter its orders through its client computing
device. The central system 125 is preferably configured to provide connections or interfaces that
                                                -8-

                                                                                           15202-4088
provide Purchasers to enter and transmit polished diamond orders into the rough diamond
distribution system (such as the one shown in Fig. 1 or one based on some of the systems shown
in Fig. 1). This has many advantages such as permitting a wide range of participants to use the
central system 125. The central system 125 performs an underlying conversation of the polished
diamond order to be compatible with rough diamond bids.
        When an order is received by the central system 125, the central system 125 accesses all
the imaging files and polished diamond parameters from the respective system and performs an
analysis on each imaging file with that Purchaser's polished diamond parameters.          From the
analysis, the central system 125 determines all the rough diamonds that are suitable for the
Purchaser's polished diamond order and may provide the Purchaser with the rough diamonds
which satisfy the Purchaser's polished diamond order based on the Purchaser's own profit
determination, or based on intelligence within the system to evaluate the profitability using the
Purchasers financial information. The profit for the Purchaser would be the value differential
between the resulting polished diamond and the cost of the rough diamond. The order can further
govern the determination step by determining only rough diamonds that meet the order
requirements from all the potential rough diamonds and the outputting step by creating an
evaluation file for each of the rough diamonds that meet the order requirements.           In some
embodiments, the central system 125 may perform the aforementioned functionalities periodically.
In this situation, all the suitable rough diamonds are determined before the order and the order
instructs the central system 125 to determine and output rough diamonds that meet the order
requirements from those diamonds. In some embodiments, the central system 125 may perform
the aforementioned functionalities as, if desired, the Purchaser is permitted to browse through the
inventory of imaging files. In this situation, the imaging files may already be available on the
central system 125 or be accessed and be available in real-time to the central system 125. When
the Purchaser browses a rough diamond, the central system 125 may immediately perform the
analysis and the output step for the diamond.
        As partly discussed above, the central system 125 may be configured to include intelligence
using software programming that controls the operation of the central system 125. As such, the
central system 125 may be configured to implement certain advances in the execution of individual
transactions for the sale and distribution of rough diamonds. In one approach, the central system
125 is configured to implement operations in which a period of searching or data collection is
                                                 -9-

                                                                                            15202-4088
conducted over period of time that is used to find and identify whether the virtual model of a
particular rough diamond satisfies two or more polished diamond orders, compares the bid prices
in the polished diamond orders, and selects the polished diamond order that provides the highest
bid price (among the matching polished diamond orders). This would be an automated process
(without requiring human or manual intervention).           It would provide improved financial
performance from the perspective of the platform.
        Another intelligent component that can be implemented relates to improving operation of
the rough diamond market for the Purchasers. The central system 125 is configured to implement
operations or computer implemented processes in which a period of searching or data collection is
conducted over a period of time that is used to find and identify whether two or more virtual models
of corresponding rough diamonds satisfy an individual polished diamond order, compares the ask
prices for the corresponding rough diamonds, and selects the rough diamond that provides the
lowest ask price (among the matching rough diamonds or polished diamond orders from different
Purchasers).     This would be an automated process (without requiring human or manual
intervention).   It would provide improved financial performance from the perspective of the
Purchasers.
        There can also be automated intelligence related to the orders. In some embodiments, the
central system 125 can be configured to analyze orders and make a determination with respect to
the process that should be implemented to fill the order within the system. Central system 125 can
be configured to handle small orders differently than large or recurring orders. A small ask order
(e.g., small polished diamond order) can be one that is relatively small compared to the volume of
rough diamonds that are available in a period of time or for example, it can be 10% or less of the
volume of available rough diamonds through the central system 125 in a month. In a related aspect
that can also be implemented to incorporate intelligence into the overall system, the central system
125 can control which events or at what locations the processing that selects or intelligently
matches bids and ask is performed. The central system 125 can trigger an evaluation when each
individual rough diamond enters the overall system. The loading of individual virtual models at
repository can trigger this evaluation and consequently the matches.         The operation can be
performed in different locations and in parallel which can expedite the completion of large
recurring orders. The operation can be performed when a new bid order (or new bid orders) is
received by the central system 125. If for example, it is an order for a small number of diamonds,
                                                  -10-

                                                                                                 15202-4088
the central system 125 can trigger a search (at or from the central system 125) to find the necessary
rough diamonds from all currently available rough diamonds in the system (e.g., all repositories).
These features would be an automated processes (without requiring human or manual intervention).
         In some embodiments, the central system 125 can be configured to receive a polished
diamond order, evaluate the rough diamond collection and the polished diamond parameters in
the order to identify (and as a result identify) rough diamonds that match the polished diamond
parameters, rank the identified rough diamonds based on the difference between the bid price and
the sell price, allocate the identified rough diamonds to the matched order based on the rank, and
provide imaging files of the allocated diamonds to the purchaser submitted the order.                  The
identified rough diamonds also have a bid price at or above the ask price. In operation, the
identified rough diamonds may be ranked from highest difference to lowest difference. The system
may implement an operation to address "over-matching," when the system identifies a number of
matching rough diamonds that are greater than is required in that order. It can do so by allocating
based on the rank that is determined using the order price difference. More specifically, when the
polished order specifies a total number of rough diamonds (or a number of rough diamonds for
one of multiple criteria in the order) that is less than the total number of identified rough diamonds,
the total number specified in the order (or the number of rough diamonds for that one criteria) may
be the number of identified rough diamonds to be allocated to the order (or the criteria), and the
allocation may start from the identified rough diamond with highest difference toward the
identified rough diamond with lowest difference until the order (or the criteria) is fulfilled.
Therefore, rough diamonds with highest difference may always be allocated to the order (or the
criteria). When the polished diamond order specifies a total number of rough diamonds (or a
number of rough diamonds for one of multiple criteria in the order) that is more than the total
number of identified rough diamonds, all the identified rough diamonds may be allocated to the
order (or the criteria).
         The central system 125 may also keep track of the number of outstanding diamonds in the
order (or the criteria) and may repeat the above steps (namely, the evaluation step, the rank step,
the allocation step, and the imaging file providing step) until the order (or the criteria) is completely
fulfilled.
         The aforementioned processes describe intelligent processes that are implemented such as
when one Purchaser places a polished diamond order, the central system 125 searches and locates
                                                    -11-

                                                                                           15202-4088
the most suitable and competitively priced rough diamonds to satisfy the Purchaser's polished
diamond order. The central system 125 is also configured to permit multiple Purchasers to place
competing polished diamond orders. When these orders are submitted, the central system 125 will
search and locate the most suitable and competitively priced rough diamonds. When there are
rough diamonds suitable for and can be allocated toward more than one of these orders, the central
system 125 will allocate those rough diamonds to the order with the highest bid price.
         Another embodiment of the process may occur when the central system 125 aggregates all
of the competing polished diamond orders. The aggregated orders may be referred to as the order
collection and be stored in a database. The central system 125 searches and analyses each rough
diamond in the sorting system and allocates each suitable rough diamond to the Purchaser with the
highest ask price in their respective polished diamond order.
         There can also be automatic intelligence related to new rough diamond entering the central
system 125. In some embodiments, the central system 125 can be configured to detect if a new
rough diamond has been processed by the sorting system, access the order collection and determine
if the new rough diamond matches to one or more orders in the order collection based on the
polished diamond parameters in the order when the system detects that the new rough diamond
has been processed by the sorting system, rank the matched one or more orders based on the
difference between the bid price and the ask price, allocate the new rough diamond to the order
with largest difference, and provide the imaging file of the new rough diamond to the purchaser of
the order with largest difference. The one or more orders may be ranked from highest difference
to lowest difference. When there are two or more orders with the same amount of difference, the
new rough diamond may be allocated to the order with a smaller number of outstanding rough
diamonds so that order can be fulfilled first and the number of outstanding orders on the system
can be reduced quicker. The central system 125 may also keep track of the number of outstanding
diamonds in each order and fulfills each order by performing the above steps until the order is
fulfilled. The central system 125 can ensure that the new rough diamond is sold to the Purchaser
who is willing to pay the highest price for the diamond based on that Purchaser's polished diamond
parameters.
         The central system 125 is accessible by Sellers and Purchasers. The central system 125
may allow Sellers to have their rough diamond inventory (in the form of imaging files) be
presented to Purchasers. Sellers may have their sorting systems connected to the central system
                                                  -12-

                                                                                          15202-4088
125 and have the imaging files become available to the central system 125 after the rough
diamonds are scanned. The central system 125 may also provide an interface for Sellers to enter
information from the image file and sale price or upload the imaging file. Since an imaging file is
associated with only one rough diamond, a Seller can list the rough diamonds in its inventory
individually, rather in assortments or groups, through the central system 125. The sale price for
each rough diamond may be stored in a sale price database. The sale price or the database may
not be available to Purchasers. The central system 125 may also allow Purchasers to submit orders
and to browse each Seller's inventory and submit a purchasing price for the rough diamond it
would like to buy. The orders or the purchasing prices, whether it is the purchasing price in an
order or the purchasing price submitted while browsing, may be stored in a purchasing price
database. The purchasing price or the database may not be available to Sellers.
        The rough diamond inventory of each Seller may be stored in a database. This collection
of inventories may be all the available rough diamonds on the central system 125 or be referred to
as the rough diamond collection. As described above, each rough diamond in the rough diamond
collection is scanned by the imaging system and is provided with an imaging file that contains a
3D virtual model and associated information for the rough diamond. Each Seller may also provide
additional information that includes color, fluorescence, and minimum Seller price of the rough
diamond for each rough diamond in its inventory. The additional information may be stored in
the same database in which the rough diamond collection is stored. The database is accessible by
the central system 125.    The collection may be updated automatically whenever a new rough
diamond is processed by the sorting system.
        The evaluation and matching of orders can be performed at the central system 125 in a
distributed fashion or similarly in cooperation with a rough diamond sorting system 105 or one or
more rough diamond repositories 110. The entry of individual new diamonds into the sorting
system or repository can trigger the process to identify the matching orders and allocation. The
process can be performed in parallel (e.g., simultaneously) at different locations and the central
system 125 will then resolve conflicts (e.g., overmatching) when it receives related information.
The matching and allocation to orders can also be triggered when a new order is received which
may involve transmitting order information to such distributed locations.
        From the sale price (or the ask price) and purchasing price (or the bid price), the central
system 125 can determine whether the bid price is at or above the ask price. The rough diamond
                                                -13-

                                                                                             15202-4088
for which the prices are being compared is a rough diamond that meets all the Purchaser's order
requirements except the price. If the bid price is at or above the ask price, the sale can proceed by
having the central system 125 communicate with the financial settlement system 120 which
received financial information for each party and tracks and settles transaction as they proceed.
The central system 125 may output those diamonds with the bid price at or above the ask price
with an evaluation file for each, and the Purchaser can review the evaluation files and select one
or more of the evaluation files to let the sale go through. The central system 125 then transmits
and stores a message indicating the sale of the rough diamond associated with the evaluation file.
The message may be transmitted to the computer system at the repository where the sold diamond
is stored and the Purchaser's client computing device. In response, the sold diamond is removed
from the repository and shipped to the Purchaser. The sold diamond is also removed from the
database storing information about that diamond. The aforementioned process may be provided
by a trusted third party.
        The transaction settlement system 120 may be a payment system that links financial
accounts of Sellers and financial accounts of Purchasers and provides for monetary exchange using
bank withdrawals and bank deposits.         The payment system may also be based on credit
mechanisms such as withdrawing funds from and depositing funds into credit card account and
debit card account. The financial information (e.g., bank and credit card information) may be pre
entered into the transaction settlement system 120 or provided to the transaction settlement system
when central system 125 determines that the sale should go through. With the available financial
information from each party and the Purchaser indicating its desire to proceed with the purchase,
the transaction settlement system 120 examines the financial information received from the
Purchaser and check if the Purchaser can make the payment of the sold diamond. The transaction
settlement system 120 also examines the financial information received from the Seller and check
if the Seller can receive the payment of the sold diamond.         If both checks pass, the fund is
withdrawn from and deposited into the corresponding account. If one of the checks fails, the
transaction is denied. In this situation, the Purchaser may be asked to provide an alternative
payment method or the Seller may be asked to provide an alternative receipt method. The
examination and check steps may then be repeated until the transaction goes through. Each party
is then notified and the Seller removes the sold diamond from the repository and ships it to the
Purchaser. In some embodiments, with respect to each transaction for a rough diamond, if the bid
                                                 -14-

                                                                                            15202-4088
price is higher than the ask price, the process directs the amount above the ask price to a financial
account that is associated with the operation of the platform.
         The client computing devices 130 may be desktop computers, laptop computers, iPads,
tablets, personal digital assistant devices (PDAs), mobile phones, or other similar devices allowing
the Purchaser to communicate with the central system 125, the confidential escrow system 115,
and the transaction settlement system 120. Via this device, the Purchaser can submit orders to the
central system 125, provide polished diamond parameters to the confidential escrow system 115,
and supply financial information to the transaction settlement system 120.
         The network 135 can be a local area network (LAN) or a wide area network (WAN), but
can also be other wired or wireless networks. The network 135 may be the Internet or some other
public or private network. The client computing devices 130 can be connected to the network 135
through a network interface, such as by wired or wireless communication. The repositories 105
and other systems 110, 115, 120 can be similarly connected to the central system 125, to the client
computer devices 130, and to each other.        The bidirectional arrow indicates that data can be
transmitted and received between the systems and devices or that rough diamonds can be moved
between locations. For example, the client computer device 130 can communicate with the central
system 125 to submit polish diamond orders and the central system 125 can communicate
information identifying the most suitable and competitively priced rough diamond based on the
orders to the client computer device 130.       For another example, the central system 125 can
communicate to a repository 110 that a rough diamond has been sold and the repository 110 can
communicate to the central system 125 that the sold diamond has been removed from the
repository 110 and is in transit to the Purchaser.         It should be generally understood that
communications between computers or computer system can be performed by way of electronic
messages that carry information or data values using communications protocols. Communications
within a computer or computer system are also carried out depending on the situation using binary
signals or electronic messaging to carry out the features illustratively described herein.
         The arrangement can configured the central system 125, transaction settlement system 120,
sorting system 105 and repository 110 (in each case there can be multiple facilities for each that
are distributed throughout the world) configured to operate on a private network. A demilitarized
zone ("DMZ") can be implemented that can include firewalls and web servers as a "front end" for
private network. This can permit external devices (such as computers of Purchasers or Sellers) to
                                                 -15-

                                                                                           15202-4088
communicate with the central system 125, for example, only through the DMZ.              If desired,
confidential escrow system 115 can be in the private network and would require access through
the DMZ server or that system can be implemented as a standalone system such as by an existing
service provided by Sarine.
        In some embodiments, when a match is executed and settled, one or more messages are
transmitted to the Seller and the related repository. In response, the Purchaser can collect the
individual diamond and other items that have been sold and delivered to a local office of the
platform or to a third party. At the point of delivery, the diamonds that have been delivered or
reviewed for their identifier and potentially scanned in order to verify the correct diamonds have
been delivered.    The receiving location can sort and aggregate received rough diamonds for
transportation to the next distribution point.
        Although Fig. 1 illustrates that the systems and devices are separated, some of these
systems and devices may be built into one system or device. For example, the central system 125
may be configured to include the confidential escrow system 115 and the transaction settlement
system 120 and the computing client device 130 can communicate with the central system 125
directly without resorting to other systems. For another example, the central system 125 may be
implemented on the client computing device 130 and the connections (or bidirectional arrows) that
were associated with the central system 125 may now be associated with the client computing
device 130. In this situation, the central system 125 may be implemented as a software module
including the intelligent processes executable by the client computing device 130.            When
embodiments of the present invention are implemented by separate systems and devices as shown
in Fig. 1, the connection or directional arrow between each system and device is controlled by a
different network operation or under a different network domain to communicate that they are
separate system or device.
        The computing devices for the Sellers can be implemented in a way similar to Purchasers'
or can be implemented at repositories or at the sorting system.        Sellers may have their own
computing devices separate from the other systems for the purpose of allowing them to specify
prices for rough diamonds and to manage its interaction with the overall system.
        Fig. 2 depicts a flow diagram illustrating a method 200 for trading rough diamonds in
accordance with some embodiments of the present invention. The method 200 may comprise
receiving rough diamond inventory information 220, receiving polished diamond parameters and
                                                -16-

                                                                                            15202-4088
ordering information 240, analyzing the received inventory information and the received
parameters and ordering information 260, and determining whether diamond transaction should
proceed based on the analysis 280.
         In step 220, the rough diamonds may be provided by Sellers and Sellers may obtain rough
diamonds from mining operations or other Sellers. These diamonds may be the inventory of a
Seller, and the inventory information may be received by the central system by supplying the
obtained rough diamonds to a sorting system 222 and operating the sorting system to scan each
rough diamond 224, generate an imaging file for each rough diamond 226, establish an identifier
for each rough diamond 228, and store the imaging file and the identifier for each rough diamond
in a database 230. The sorting system may also associate each imaging file with the corresponding
identifier or rough diamond. All the imaging files with their corresponding identifiers are the
inventory information. The inventory information may be stored in a database of the sorting
system and be available for access by the central system. The sorted diamonds are then transported
to a repository. The inventory information may also be stored in a database of the computer system
at the repository and be available for access by the central system. The inventory information may
also be transmitted to the central system and stored in a database of the central system.
         In step 240, the polished diamond parameters may be received by the central system by a
Purchaser operating a client computing device to enter the polished diamond parameters 242,
transmitting the entered polished diamond parameters to the confidential escrow system by the
client computing device 244, and storing the entered polished diamond parameters on the
confidential escrow system and be available for access by the central system 246. In some
embodiments, the confidential escrow system may be part of the central system and the Purchaser
may operate the client computing device to enter the polished diamond parameters and the entered
polished diamond parameters may be by the client computing device to the central system directly
transmitted. The stored parameters are accessible only by that Purchaser and the central system.
         The ordering information may be received by the central system by the Purchaser operating
its client computing device to connect to an ordering interface of the central system 248 configured
to receive ordering requirements, enter ordering requirements on the ordering interface 250, and
store the ordering information in a data base of the central system 252. The ordering information
may also be received by operating the client computing device to connect to a browsing interface
of the central system 248 configured to view inventories of Sellers, enter a bid price for a rough
                                                 -17-

                                                                                           15202-4088
diamond displayed in an inventory, and store a bid price in a database of the central system. The
ordering interface and the browsing interface may be the same or different interface.
        In step 260, it may comprise configuring the central system to access stored imaging files
and stored polished diamond parameters 262 and analyzing each imaging file with the polished
diamond parameters 264. The analysis may compare the associated information in the imaging
file with the polished diamond parameters, evaluate the potential polished diamonds that can be
produced from the rough diamond based on those parameters, and determine suitability of the
rough diamond to the Purchaser based on the evaluation.          This step may further comprise
outputting only rough diamonds that are suitable to the Purchaser by creating an evaluation file for
each. Step 260 can include implemented processes related to incorporating automated intelligent
features into the system.
        The analysis may further include analyzing each imaging file with the received ordering
requirements, in addition to the polished diamond parameters, or analyzing the output from the
previous step with the received ordering requirements 266. Rough diamonds in the output that
meet the ordering requirements may be output by the central system for the Purchaser's selection.
        The ordering requirements may include a bid price. Thus, the analysis based on the
ordering requirements may determine if the bid price is at or above the ask price. If it is, in step
280, the method 200 may determine that a diamond transaction should proceed. The central system
may communicate with the transaction settlement system in response to that determination to settle
the transaction 282. The central system may then notify the Purchaser via its client computing
device that it has purchased a rough diamond or rough diamonds in the order and notify the Seller
that one or more of its rough diamonds have been sold 284 via its sorting system or the computer
system at the repository. The Seller will then remove those rough diamonds from the repository
and may ship them to the Purchaser to complete the transaction. Alternatively, the Seller may ship
the rough diamonds to a trusted third party who will oversee the completion of the transaction and
will deliver the rough diamonds to the Purchaser. This will be the preferred method if the system
does not permit the Purchaser and Seller to know each other's identity and location.
        The central system, sorting system, settlement system, and confidential escrow system can
be implemented using servers or high capacity computers that can handle complex computations.
Specialized applications are implemented on each that execute computer operations on the server
or computer to carry out the described features.
                                                -18-

                                                                                            15202-4088
        Embodiments of the present invention may allow Purchasers to purchase rough diamonds
individually that have the highest polished sales prices their unique manufacturing processes and
polished sales distribution. Systems and methods discussed herein may also reduce liquidating
efforts and the number of unnecessary products in the inventory because the Purchaser can
purchase only the diamonds it wants individually. Sellers may also achieve high profits by selling
each diamond individually rather than having to group them into pre-established assortments.
Such systems and methods may be utilized at any time, any frequency, and any location, without
being limited to certain sales events hosted at certain locations. Embodiments of the present
invention also facilitate immediate, optimal, and accurate rough diamond transactions and connect
the seller and buyer for a transaction that is beneficial to both parties.
        A benefit of the system achieved by way of a technological solution is that the
technological implementation creates advantages to both Sellers and Purchasers to thereby
incentivize their participation and migration to the new system. A resulting incentive is that the
Sellers and Purchasers can realize better financial results or higher margins. Testing has shown
that Sellers and Purchasers will accomplish better financial outcomes. The average price at which
diamonds are sold increases due to the structure of the operation of the platform and the Purchasers
will not need to engage a secondary market to sell rough diamonds that are not suitable for the
manufacturing process and/or distribution. For example, the above illustrative embodiments
describe an online rough diamond trading platform or program that stores proprietary
manufacturing processes in secure locations and automatically applies the process information to
virtual 3D models of rough diamonds to determine "matches" or whether the rough diamond is
capable of a polished diamond according to the manufacturer process and as a result identifying a
potential polished diamond (in virtual 3D state) that is associated that individual particular rough
diamond (which has its own identifier for tracking). By interacting with a user interface of the
platform, Sellers can sell rough diamonds to Purchasers as a result of electronic orders. The orders
by Purchasers can specify a range such as 1.0-2.5 Carat and other polished diamond specification
when purchasing rough diamonds. The platform automatically fills the volume of diamonds
ordered individually based on the available data and complex analysis, which can include volume
and edge analysis. The interaction, results, in the rough diamonds that meet the specific order
parameters to be sorted and aggregated based on corresponding identifiers and transported through
a shipping process to the purchaser. Furthermore, an automated intelligent process occurs where
                                                 -19-

                                                                                              15202-4088
the system sources the most suitable and competitively priced rough diamond to satisfy polished
diamond orders. In the event of competing polished diamond orders (i.e., a rough diamond is
suitable for more than one polished diamond order), the system will allocate the rough diamond
toward the polished diamond order with the highest bid price.
        An identifier that is associated with a rough diamond can be used to identify the rough
diamond (e.g., provide a unique address) for operational management in the system. The identifier
is not associated with a polished diamond.
         It should be understood that if desired other types of sellers (other than Sellers) or other
types of purchasers (other than Purchasers) are contemplated even though the embodiments of the
systems and methods are particularly suited for the initial introduction of new rough diamonds into
the distribution chain.
        Software application and data (such inventory information, polished diamond orders,
transaction history, etc.) can be stored in non-transient or non-volatile memory for use in operation
of the various features, as party of the overall system or as part of individual elements or as party
shared resources (e.g., cloud resources).
        The words "may" and "can" are used in the present description to indicate that this is one
embodiment but the description should not be understood to be the only embodiment. This is not
to say that the term "is" is being to connote that it refers to a required features that must exist.
        Exemplary systems, devices, and methods are described for illustrative purposes. Further,
since numerous modifications and changes will readily be apparent to those having ordinary skill
in the art, it is not desired to limit the invention to the exact constructions as demonstrated in this
disclosure.     Accordingly, all suitable modifications and equivalents may be resorted to falling
within the scope of the invention.
        Thus, for example, any sequence(s) and/or temporal order of steps of various processes or
methods (or sequence of device connections or operation) that are described herein are illustrative
and should not be interpreted as being restrictive. Accordingly, it should be understood that
although steps of various processes or methods or connections or sequence of operations may be
shown and described as being in a sequence or temporal order, but they are not necessarily limited
to being carried out in any particular sequence or order. For example, the steps in such processes
or methods generally may be carried out in various different sequences and orders, while still
falling within the scope of the present invention. Moreover, in some discussions, it would be
                                                   -20-

                                                                                            15202-4088
evident to those of ordinary skill in the art that a subsequent action, process, or feature is in
response to an earlier action, process, or feature.
         It is also implicit and understood that the systems and devices illustratively described
herein provide computer-implemented functionality that automatically performs a process or
process steps unless the description explicitly describes user intervention or manual operation.
The process or process steps are performed by a process engine that is implemented by computer
using software and data and that does not require human intervention.
         It should be understood that claims that include fewer limitations, broader claims, such as
claims without requiring a certain feature or process step in the appended claim or in the
specification, clarifications to the claim elements, different combinations, and alternative
implementations based on the specification, or different uses, are also contemplated by the
embodiments of the present invention.
         It should be understood that combinations of described features or steps are contemplated
even if they are not described directly together or not in the same context.
         It should be understood that the disclosure communicates descriptions of systems, methods,
and computer readable mediums based on the specifics that are provided.
         It is to be understood that additional embodiments of the present invention described herein
may be contemplated by one of ordinary skill in the art and that the scope of the present invention
is not limited to the embodiments disclosed. While specific embodiments of the present invention
have been illustrated and described, numerous modifications come to mind without significantly
departing from the spirit of the invention, and the scope of protection is only limited by the scope
of the accompanying claims.
                                                  -21-

                                                                                            15202-4088
                                              CLAIMS
1.      A computer implemented system for distribution of rough diamonds comprising
        a central system comprising one or more computers that are configured with software
applications and related data to:
                receive and store rough diamond inventory information, wherein the inventory
        information lists and identifies each rough diamond from a diamond Seller individually
        and includes a 3D model and associated information for each rough diamond;
                receive and store confidential and proprietary polished diamond manufacturing
        process parameters from different Purchasers, wherein the parameters are maintained
        confidential and only accessible by a corresponding Purchaser;
                receive and store polished diamond orders from Purchasers that specify an
        individual polished diamond using parameters that are specific to polished diamonds which
        includes a particular one of that Purchaser's confidential and proprietary polished diamond
        manufacturing process parameters;
                process the received inventory information with the parameters and polished
        diamond orders, the process comprises applying an analysis involves applying the 3D
        model of each rough diamond to the parameters from different Purchasers, and in response,
        identifying whether a potential polished diamond can be manufactured from the 3D model
        and the parameters for that Purchaser, and in response to the identifying, outputting rough
        diamond identifiers corresponding to the rough diamonds, and
                process bid and ask prices, wherein a bid price is specified by a Purchaser for a
        particular confidential proprietary and polished diamond manufacturing process parameter
        in a polished diamond order by that Purchaser that specifies, via data values, a polished cut
        for that Purchaser, matching bid and ask prices, implementing a settlement operation, and
        in response, locating the location of individual rough diamonds using their identifiers and
        sending messages that control the movement of the rough diamonds through a physical
        distribution process which is tracked with the identifier in order to physically deliver the
        rough diamonds.
                                                 -22-

                                                                                           15202-4088
2.      The system according to claim 1, wherein the central system is further configured to receive
and store subsequent rough diamond inventory information.
3.      The system according to claim 2, wherein the central system is further configured to
perform the processing step in response to the received and stored subsequent rough diamond
inventory information.
4.      A computer implemented method for trading diamonds comprising
                receiving and storing rough diamond inventory information, wherein the inventory
        information lists each rough diamond from a diamond seller individually and includes a
        3D model and associated information for each rough diamond;
                receiving and storing polished diamond parameters, wherein the parameters include
        information related to a diamond purchaser's polished diamond manufacturing processes;
        and
                processing the received inventory information with the received polished diamond
        parameters, the processing comprising comparing the 3D model with the parameters, and
        evaluating potential polished diamonds that can be manufactured from the parameters.
5.      The method according to claim 4, wherein the processing step is performed in response to
a polished diamond order that specifies an individual polished diamond using parameters that are
specific to polished diamonds which includes a particular one of that Purchaser's confidential and
proprietary polished diamond manufacturing process parameters.
6.      The method according to claim 4, further comprising receiving and storing a polished
diamond order from a Purchaser that specifies an individual polished diamond using parameters
that are specific to polished diamonds which includes a particular one of that Purchaser's
confidential and proprietary polished diamond manufacturing process parameters.
7.      The method according to claim 6, wherein the receiving and storing rough diamond
inventory information step is performed on a periodic basis and the processing step is performed
in each period until the polished diamond order is fulfilled.
                                                -23-

                                                                                              15202-4088
8.       The method according to claim 4, further comprising receiving and storing polished
diamond orders from Purchasers that specify an individual polished diamond using parameters that
are specific to polished diamonds which includes a particular one of that Purchaser's confidential
and proprietary polished diamond manufacturing process parameters.
9.       The method according to claim 8, further comprising determining, from the polished
diamond orders and the processing step, whether the 3D model of a particular rough diamond
satisfies two or more polished diamond orders and selecting the polished diamond order that
provides the highest bid price.
10.      The method according to claim 8, further comprising determining, from the polished
diamond orders and the processing step, whether two or more 3D models of corresponding rough
diamonds satisfy a polished diamond order, compare ask prices for the corresponding rough
diamonds, and selects the rough diamond that provides the lowest ask price.
11.      A computer implemented rough diamond distribution system comprising
         a central system configured to:
                 receive rough diamond inventory information and an ask price,
                         wherein the inventory information is generated by a rough diamond sorting
                 system having an imaging system and a marking system and includes imaging files
                 with each corresponding to a rough diamond, each imaging file is produced by the
                 imaging system by scanning the interior and exterior of the corresponding rough
                 diamond and includes a 3-dimensional model and associated information of the
                 corresponding rough diamond, the corresponding rough diamond is associated with
                 an identifier by the marking system and the identifier is included in the imaging file
                 to identify the corresponding rough diamond,
                         wherein the ask price is provided for each rough diamond by a rough
                 diamond seller;
                 receive polished diamond parameters and ordering information,
                                                  -24-

                                                                                   15202-4088
               wherein the parameters are provided to a confidential escrow system by a
        rough diamond purchaser and received from the escrow system and the parameters
        are accessible only by the corresponding purchaser and the central system, the
        parameters include information related to the purchaser's polished diamond
        manufacturing processes;
               wherein the ordering information is provided by the purchaser and includes
        polished diamonds that can be manufactured from the parameters, number of the
        polished diamonds, and a bid price for each polished diamond or all the polished
        diamonds,
        analyze the received inventory information with the received polished diamond
parameters and ordering information, the analysis comprising comparing the 3D model and
associated information in each imaging file with the parameters, evaluating potential
polished diamonds that can be manufactured from the parameters, outputting identifiers for
suitable rough diamonds; and
        determine whether a diamond transaction should proceed by determining whether
the bid price of the selected diamond is at or above the ask price of the selected diamond
and communicate with a financial settlement system to settle the transaction if it is.
                                       -25-

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
