                                     ABSTRACT
               A channel inductor of a channel induction furnace,
  the channel inductor comprising           (a) a channel liner and
5  (b) a back-up liner that supports the channel liner such
  that the integrity of the channel liner is not compromised
  during heat-up, dry-out, or operation of the channel
  induction furnace.
  10273897_1 (GHMatters) P92040.AU.2

                                                       1
                                               CHANNEL  INDUCTOR
   FIELD OF THE INVENTION
 5              The present invention relates to channel inductors of
   channel induction furnaces.
                In particular, the present invention relates to
   channel liners of channel inductors.
10
                The present invention also relates to channel
   inductor furnaces.
   BACKGROUND TO THE INVENTION
15
                Channel induction furnaces are used in industries for
   melting a metal                        (which term includes metal alloys) and
   maintaining the metal in a molten state.                          For example,
   channel induction furnaces are used in galvanising and
20 foundry industries for melting Zn-containing alloys and
   Al-containing alloys, including Al/Zn-containing alloys,
   and maintaining the alloys in a molten state.
                A known channel induction furnace comprises                 (a) a
25 steel shell,                       (b) a lining of a refractory material, such
   as an aluminosilicate, internally of the shell,                         (c) a pot
   for containing a bath of molten metal that is defined by
   the refractory-lined shell, and (d) one or more than one
   channel inductor for heating metal that is connected to
30 the shell and in fluid communication with the pot via a
   throat that extends through the refractory-lined shell to
   an inlet in the channel inductor.
                The channel inductor comprises                 (i) a steel shell,
35  (ii) a lining of a refractory material, such as an
   aluminosilicate,                        (iii) a channel defined by the
   refractory-lined shell that forms a path for molten metal
   10273897_1 (GHMatters) P92040.AU.2

                                                  2
   to flow from the pot through the channel and back into the
   pot, and (iv) an electromagnetic coil which generates an
   electromagnetic field.                  At any given time during the
   operation of a channel induction furnace, molten metal in
 5 the channel of the channel inductor becomes a secondary
   circuit of a transformer and is heated and kept molten by
   currents induced by the electromagnetic field.                          The
   channel inductor is a bolt-on assembly on the shell of a
   channel induction furnace.                   The refractory material that
10 forms the lining is selected to accommodate a range of
   specific mechanical requirements, thermal insulation
   requirements, and resistance to chemical attack by molten
   metal.                 These requirements are competing requirements to a
   certain extent in the sense of needing different material
15 properties and hence the selection of the refractory
   material tends to be a compromise.
                Channel inductors have a limited life when exposed to
   molten metals such as Zn-containing and Al-containing
20 alloys and typically fail in the following modes:
   *     Cracking of the refractory material, particularly along
         central planes of channel inductors, during heat-up,
         dry-out, or operation, and subsequent penetration of Zn
25       and/or Al metal or Zn vapours into the cracks which
         extend the cracks, ultimately resulting in a metal leak
         from the channel inductors.
   *     Additionally, in the case of Al-containing alloys, by
30       reduction of SiO2 in             the refractory     material     by Al,
         thereby forming A1 20          3  and Si,     with an associated
         reduction in the volume of the refractory material and
         penetration and/or spalling of the refractory material.
35 .     Additionally, blocking due to adherence of corundum
         growth within the channel, which is compounded by pieces
   10273897_1 (GHMatters) P92040.AU.2

                                        3
         of altered refractory or dross from a pre-melt pot main
         area entering the channel.
                Typically, the life of channel inductors in Al
 5 containing alloys is 6-24 months and is one of the main
   reasons for metal coating line shut-downs.
                The applicant is developing a new inductor having
   greater reliability and, more particularly, less tendency
10 to fail due to cracking.
                The new inductor is described in International
   publication W02011/120079 in the name of the applicant.
15              The channel inductor that is described and claimed in
   the International publication comprises          (a) a channel
   liner that is formed from a refractory material that is
   resistant to chemical attack by the molten metal in the
   channel and is the only material of the channel inductor
20 that is in direct contact with the molten metal and (b) a
   back-up liner that supports the channel liner and is
   formed from a refractory material that is optimal for
   thermal insulation material properties and mechanical
   strength properties, such that the integrity of the
25 channel liner and is not compromised during heat-up, dry
   out, or operation of the channel induction furnace.
                A channel inductor made with a channel liner and a
   back-up liner in accordance with the invention of the
30 International publication was found to have issues with
   cracking when used on a manufacturing plant of the
   applicant for coating steel strip with Zincalume@ molten
   metal.
35              The applicant has investigated the causes of the
   cracks and the present invention was made in the
   investigation.
   10273897_1 (GHMatters) P92040.AU.2

                                         4
                The above discussion is not intended to be a
   statement of the common general knowledge in Australia and
   elsewhere.
 5
   SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
                The applicant carried out a post mortem on the
   channel inductor made in accordance with the invention of
10 the International publication that was used on the
   manufacturing plant of the applicant and made the
   following findings, which are the basis of the present
   invention.
15       1. It is beneficial to select the refractory material of
                the channel liner so that there is a chemical
                reaction between the material and the molten metal in
                the furnace that results in the channel liner
                becoming more resistant to further penetration by
20              molten metal and resistant to blockages developing
                within the channel.   Typically, the chemical reaction
                results in the formation of a denser phase in the
                channel liner. Typically, the original material
                includes silicon carbide blended with a corundum
25              mineral when the molten material is an Al/Zn
                containing alloy that contains sodium.   Sodium may
                act as a catalyst for the chemical reaction.
         2. It is beneficial to select the material for the back
30              up liner to be capable of absorbing stresses due to
                expansion and movement of the channel liner.
                Typically, the materials selection also includes
                selecting a material that is capable of resisting
                cracking due to thermal stress throughout the
35              operating temperature range and also resistant to
                some reaction with the alloy which may reach the back
                up liner. Therefore, selection of material with the
   10273897_1 (GHMatters) P92040.AU.2

                                               5
                appropriate sintering characteristics and resistance
                to attack by the molten alloy is an important
                consideration. Typically, the material may be a dry
                vibratory material such as a Dri-Vibe@ composite
 5              materials produced and marketed by Allied Minerals
                Products, Inc, for example as described in European
                patent 1603850 in the name of that company.
                Typically, the Dri-Vibe@ materials may be metal
                fibre, which typically includes metal fibre
10              reinforced aluminosilicate refractory composite
                materials, with the refractory material component of
                the composite containing 60-95 wt.% alumina,
                preferably 60-70 wt.% alumina and 20-35 wt.%
15              In broad terms, the present invention provides a
   channel inductor of a channel induction furnace, the
   channel inductor comprising                (a) a channel liner and (b) a
   back-up liner that supports the channel liner such that
   the integrity of the channel liner is not compromised
20 during heat-up, dry-out, or operation of the channel
   induction furnace.
                In the context of item 1 above, the material of the
   channel liner may be selected so that there is a chemical
25 reaction between the material and the molten metal in the
   furnace that results in the channel liner becoming more
   resistant to further penetration by molten metal and
   resistant to the development of blockages due to corundum
   growth within the channel.                 The material may be otherwise
30 as described in item 1.
                In the context of item 2 above, the material of the
   back-up liner may be selected to be capable of absorbing
   stresses due to expansion and movement of the channel
35 liner.                 The material may be otherwise as described in
   item 2.
   10273897_1 (GHMatters) P92040.AU.2

                                                     6
                The channel liner may be any suitable shape.
                The channel liner may be an elongate unit with the
   channel being in the shape of a single U                       ("single loop
 5 inductor").                      More particularly, the channel may comprise
   two arms extending from a base of the channel, with a
   molten metal inlet in an end of one arm of the channel and
   a molten metal outlet in an end of the other arm of the
   channel, whereby molten metal can flow through one arm to
10 the base and through the base to the other arm and along
   the other arm.
                The channel liner may be an elongate unit with the
   channel being in the shape of a double U.                        More
15 particularly, the channel may comprise three arms
   extending from a base of the channel that interconnects
   the arms, with a molten metal inlet in an end of a central
   arm of the channel and molten metal outlets in the ends of
   the outer arms of the channel, whereby molten metal can
20 flow through the inner arm to the base and outwardly
   through the base to the outer arms and along the outer
   arms.
                The channel liner may have a top wall, with the inlet
25 and the outlet(s) formed in the top wall, and with the
   mounting flange extending outwardly from the top wall.
                The channel liner may comprise a side wall that
   extends from a perimeter of the top wall, with the
30 mounting flange extending outwardly from an upper edge of
   the side wall.                       This arrangement defines a vestibule or a
   forebay.
                The present invention also provides a channel
35 inductor furnace that comprises:
                 (a)          a steel shell,
   10273897_1 (GHMatters) P92040.AU.2

                                                  7
                 (b)          a lining of a refractory material internally of
                              the shell,
 5               (c)          a pot for containing a pool of molten metal that
                               is defined by the refractory-lined shell, and
                 (d)          one or more than one of the above-described
                              channel inductor for heating a metal that is
10                            connected to the shell and in fluid
                              communication with the pot via a throat that
                              extends through the shell and the refractory
                               lining to the inlet in the channel inductor.
15              The molten metal may be selected from the group
   comprising Zn-containing alloys and Al-containing alloys,
   including Al/Zn-containing alloys.                    These alloys are not
   confined to Al and Zn and may include other elements such
   as Ca.
20
   DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
                The present invention is described further by way of
   example with reference to the accompanying drawings, of
25 which:
                Figure 1 is a vertical cross-section through one
   embodiment of a channel inductor furnace in accordance
   with the present invention that includes one embodiment of
30 a channel inductor in accordance with the present
   invention;
                Figure 2 is a vertical cross-section through one
   embodiment of a channel inductor in accordance with the
35 present invention;
   10273897_1 (GHMatters) P92040.AU.2

                                                 8
                Figure 3 is a graph of the temperatures of the
   channel liner and the back-up liner over the first 50 days
   of service of the channel inductor made in accordance with
   the invention of the International publication that was
 5 used on the manufacturing plant of the applicant.                    This
   Figure also shows the flat inductance ratio trend which is
   a measure of a lack of channel blockage in the inductor.
   DESCRIPTION OF EMBODIMENTS OF THE INVENTION
10
                Figures 1 and 2 are the Figures of the above
   mentioned International publication of the applicant.
                Figure 1 is a cross-section of the main components of
15 a channel inductor furnace 3 for pre-melting an Al/Zn
   alloy for use in a metal coating line for steel strip.                    It
   is noted that the present invention is not limited to this
   end-use and may be used as part of any suitable channel
   induction furnace and for any suitable end-use
20 application.
                The channel inductor furnace 3 shown in Figure 1
   comprises a pot defined by an outer steel shell 27 and an
   inner lining 29 of a refractory material, such as an
25 aluminosilicate.                   In use, the pot contains a bath  (not
   shown) of a molten Al/Zn alloy.                   The furnace 3 also
   includes two channel inductors 31 that are connected to
   opposite side walls of the steel shell 27 and are in fluid
   communication with the bath via respective throats 33.                    In
30 use, molten Al/Zn alloy flows from the bath and into and
   through the channel inductors 31 and is heated by the
   channel inductors 31.
                The drawing of the channel inductor 33 in Figure 2 is
35 a vertical cross-section in order to show the components
   of the inductor that are particularly relevant to the
   present invention.                   In addition, in order to make these
   10273897_1 (GHMatters) P92040.AU.2

                                                      9
   components as clear as possible, the electromagnetic coil
   of the inductor 33 is not included in the openings 1 in
   the drawing.
 5              The channel inductor 33 comprises:
                 (a)           a channel liner, generally identified by the
                               numeral 5;     and
10               (b)           a channel liner support assembly that supports
                               the channel liner.
                The channel liner 5 is a single piece elongate unit
   that defines the above-mentioned openings 1 and a double
15 "U"        shaped channel for molten Al/Zn alloy to flow through
   the channel inductor.                        The channel comprises a base and
   three parallel arms 9 extending from the base.                         The upper
   end of the central arm of the channel is an inlet 15 for
   molten Al/Zn alloy and the upper ends of the outer arms of
20 the channel are outlets 17 for molten Al/Zn alloy.                          The
   base of the channel is defined by a base section 7 of the
   channel liner 5 and the arms of the channel are defined by
   upstanding sections 9 of the channel liner 5.                         These
   sections 7,                       9 are thin-walled, hollow sections.   The
25 channel liner 5 has a top wall 11, and the inlet 15 and
   the outlets 17 for molten Al/Zn alloy flow are formed in
   the top wall 11.                        The channel liner 5 also comprises a
   side wall 21 that extends around the perimeter of the top
   wall 11 and a flange 19 that extends outwardly from the
30 side wall 21.                        The top wall 11 and the side wall 21 define
   a vestibule or forebay.                        The flange 19 is provided to
   mount the channel liner 5 to a refractory material lining
    (not shown) that defines a pot throat                      (not shown) of a pot
    (not shown) of the channel inductor furnace, whereby
35 direct contact between molten Al/Zn alloy and the channel
   inductor is limited to contact with the channel liner 5
   only.
   10273897_1 (GHMatters) P92040.AU.2

                                          10
                The channel liner support assembly comprises   (a) an
   outer steel shell 23 and           (b) a back-up lining 25.   The
   back-up lining 25 is not shown specifically in Figure 2 in
 5 order to simplify the drawing.            As indicated by the
   numeral 25 and the drawing line in Figure 2,           the back-up
   lining material fills the space between the shell 23 and
   the channel liner 5.
10              The present invention relates to the materials
   selection for the materials from which the channel liner 5
   and the back-up lining 25 are made.
                As indicated above, a channel inductor made in
15 accordance with the above-mentioned International
   publication of the applicant was found to have issues with
   cracking when used on a manufacturing plant of the
   applicant.
20              The applicant carried out a post-mortem on the
   inductor and key points that emerged from the post mortem
   include the following points:
         *      There was significant reaction between the material
                of the channel liner 5 and the molten metal.
25       0      This reaction progressed rapidly due to the presence
                of trace amounts of sodium in the molten metal that
                acted as a catalyst.
         e      The level of sodium was measured to increase in the
                material of the channel liner 5.
30       .      The reaction was predominately with the SiC aggregate
                in the refractory material of the channel liner 5.
         *      One advantage of the SiC is that it produces less
                thermal stress in the composite structure on initial
                heating due to its lower coefficient of expansion in
35              comparison to the normal high alumina material.
         *      As the SiC was consumed the coefficient of expansion
                of the material of the channel liner 5 increased
   10273897_1 (GHMatters) P92040.AU.2

                                        11
                which may help in making a tighter structure at the
                hot face of the channel liner.
         *      The resultant hot face layer that developed in
                service resisted corundum build up/growth in the bore
 5              of the channel inductor.
         *      It is important for a suitable back-up lining 25 to
                be selected to support the channel liner 5.
                The applicant made the following findings.
10
         1. It is beneficial to select the refractory material of
                the channel liner so that there is a chemical
                reaction between the material and the molten metal in
                the furnace that results in the channel liner
15              becoming more resistant to further penetration by
                molten metal and more resistant to channel blockage.
                Typically, the chemical reaction results in the
                formation of a denser phase in the channel liner.
                Typically, the material includes a source of silicon
20              such as Silicon carbide when the molten material is
                an Al/Zn-containing alloy that contains trace sodium.
                Sodium may act as a catalyst for the chemical
                reaction.             .
25       2. It is beneficial to select the material for the back
                up liner to be capable of absorbing stresses due to
                expansion and movement of the channel liner.
                Typically, the materials selection also includes
                selecting a material that is capable of resisting
30              cracking due to thermal stress throughout the
                operating temperature range and also resistant to
                some reaction with the alloy which may reach the back
                up liner. Therefore, selection of material with the
                appropriate sintering characteristics and resistance
35              to attack by the molten alloy is important.
                Typically, the material is a dry vibratory material
                metal fibre, such as steel fibre, reinforced
   10273897_1 (GHMatters) P92040.AU.2

                                                       12
                aluminosilicate refractory composite materials, with
                the refractory material component of the composite
                containing 60-95 wt.% alumina, preferably 60-70 wt.%
                alumina and 20-35 wt.%                silica
 5
   Channel liner material selection
                One observation in the post-mortem that was not
   expected from an initial laboratory assessment of the
10 channel liner material prior to using the channel inductor
   in the manufacturing plant was the level of apparent
   reaction and densification of the channel liner material.
                In laboratory testing of the channel liner material,
15 minimal reaction was observed.                         In the case of the channel
   inductor used on the manufacturing plant,                        the majority of
   the channel liner 5 was penetrated by Zincalume@ molten
   metal used on the plant to give a darker denser looking
   appearance.                        In the few locations where there was no
20 penetration, the appearance of a cut face showed a porous
   texture suffering from grain pluck-out during sectioning
   as if the bond strength had been reduced.
                The post-mortem indicated that there had been a
25 reduction in                       the SiO2 content of the channel   liner   material
   and an increase in sodium and zinc phases in the channel
   liner material.                        This indicates that there was a migration
   of Na and Zn vapour through the channel liner 5,                           ahead of
   the penetration of the Zincalume@ molten metal, and these
30 sodium and zinc phases lead to a reduction of silicate
   binding phase in the channel liner 5 which then aided
   further penetration.
                The chemical analysis results for the penetrated,
35 i.e. dense, zone of the channel liner 5 indicate a marked
   increase in                      A1203, ZnO,  SiO2 and Na20. The component that
   was significantly reduced was the SiC level. These changes
   10273897_1 (GHMatters) P92040.AU.2

                                                      13
   in the dense phase are also reinforced by the XRD
   comparison.                        The XRD is semi-quantitative and must not be
   considered as an accurate number but it is a good
   indication of the species that are present in the
 5 penetrated liner and their comparative levels.
                Some of the penetration phase was still in a metallic
   form with a combination                       of aluminium and aluminium silicon
   alloy. This was also evident in a microscopic examination.
10 The presence of an Al/Sin alloy suggests there had been a
   chemical reaction between the refractory silicate phases
   of the channel liner 5 or reduction of the fine SiC in the
   matrix of the channel liner 5 to provide a source of
   silicon.
15
                Both the XRD and chemical analysis indicate a
   reduction in the percentage of SiC in the dense phase.
   This may be due to an attack on the SiC or a dilution
   effect from the penetration into the refractory or a
20 combination of both.                        There was some evidence that the
   dilution effect is a factor. This evidence includes a
   microscopic examination where the majority of larger SiC
   grains appeared to be unaltered and the presence of
   aluminium metal in the porosity of the refractory was an
25 additional mass that would dilute the percentage of the
   original components.                         However, there was also some
   indication of a reaction occurring with some glassy phase
   surrounding some SiC grains on the outer surfaces.                         Also,
   minor components of the channel liner material such as Ba,
30 Ti and Ca did not show a dilution effect in the altered
   channel liner and this supports a view that there was some
   reduction in the level of SiC through reaction.
                In general, even though the channel liner 5 was
35 penetrated by Zincalume@ molten metal it become a denser
   SiC/A1 20            3    containing composite with the reaction       products
   and penetration metal making this composite even more
   10273897_1 (GHMatters) P92040.AU.2

                                                     14
   compatible with the contact metal.                       One further
   encouraging observation was the lack of corundum growth or
   any other blockages in the channels and this suggests
   there is potential for this channel liner 5 to provide
 5 less problems with inductor blockages.
                Figure 3 is a graph of the temperatures of the
   channel liner 5 and the back-up lining 25 over the first
   50 days of service of the channel inductor that as used on
10 the manufacturing plant.                       The increase in temperature in
   the early stages after start-up indicates that the channel
   liner material was being penetrated and there were
   reactions with the liner material which ultimately
   produced a more stable phase, which was relatively stable
15 thereafter.
                Figure 3 also shows the conductance ratio was very
   stable for this inductor.                       The conductance ratio is a
   measure that indicates negligible channel blockage has
20 occurred.
   Dri-Vibe@ composite material test work
                The applicant carried out test work on Dri-Vibe@
25 composite materials to evaluate the suitability of the
   materials.                       The test work is described below.
         1. Introduction
30              The applicant tested three Dri-Vibe composite
   materials by exposing sample cups made from the materials
   to molten Zincalume@ Al/Zn-containing alloy.
                The three sample composite materials were supplied by
35 Allied Minerals; Product A,                      Product B and Product C.
   10273897_1 (GHMatters) P92040.AU.2

                                                    15
                Product A             and Product B materials are both mullite
   based, metal fibre containing composite materials. Product
   C material is a fused alumina-based, metal fibre
   containing composite material.
 5
         2. Sample Details:
         e      Product A:             Two cups prepared by Allied, made by
                Allied with a Matripump 80AC castable back-up.
10
         "      Product B:             Two cups prepared by Allied, made by
                Allied with a Matripump 80AC castable back-up.
         "      Product C: One cup prepared by Allied, made by Allied
15              with a Matripump 80AC castable back-up.
         3. Testwork:
         *      The samples were dried overnight.
20
         *      The Zincalume metal alloy were cut to length and at
                least 5 cut sections were placed into each cup.
         *      All of the cups were placed into the furnace.
25
         *      The furnace was fired @ 50C/minute to 600 0 C, then @
                2*C/min to 830 0 C,           and then hold for 168 hours.
         *      The furnace was allowed to cool and the samples were
30              removed.
         *      The 5 cup samples were cut in half.
         *      Photographs of the cut faces were taken and evaluated
35              -     one half with the metal in place and the other half
                with the metal removed
   10273897_1 (GHMatters) P92040.AU.2

                                                16
   Table 1:                 Summary of reactions in the cups.
     Material                          Zincalume@ metal
     Product A                         One localized
                                       reaction area
                                      possibly reacting
                                       with some stainless
                                       fibre.
     Product B                         Severe penetration
                                      by the Zincalume@
                                       alloy.
     Product C                        No obvious reaction
                                       with Zincalume@
                                       alloy.
         4. Discussion
 5
                On the basis of the tests, the Product B is not
   suitable for use as a back-up liner material in a channel
   inductor as it was heavily penetrated by Zincalume@ metal.
10              Product C showed no reaction and would be suitable as
   a back-up liner 25 from a penetration resistance
   perspective. The higher alumina level in this material
   would give the material a higher thermal conductivity and
   so higher heat transfer to the coil area. This material
15 also has a tighter texture and greater strength as it was
   supplied.
                Product A performed well in the contact tests with
   both the Zincalume@ metal It was also more friable in
20 nature at the end of the test and is therefore likely to
   resist cracking from thermal stress and absorb stresses
   due to the expansion and movement of the channel liner 5.
   Because the material is mullite-based rather than alumina
   based, it has a lower thermal conductivity than the
   10273897_1 (GHMatters) P92040.AU.2

                                        17
   Product C material and so will help to reduce the transfer
   of heat to the coil zones of channel inductors.
                Many modifications may be made to the embodiment of
 5 the present invention described above without departing
   from the spirit and scope of the invention.
                By way of example, the present invention is not
   confined to the particular shape of the channel inductor 3
10 shown in the drawing.
                By way of further example, the present invention is
   not confined to a double "U"          channel liner 5 and, by way
   of example, also extends to single "U"          channel liners 5.
15
                By way of further example, the present invention is
   not confined to a channel liner 5 that is formed as a
   single piece unit.
20              By way of a further example, present invention may be
   used as is or modified slightly for alloys that may
   contain other key elements such as magnesium
   10273897_1 (GHMatters) P92040.AU.2

                                        18
   CLAIMS
   1.           A channel inductor of a channel induction furnace,
   the channel inductor comprising          (a) a channel liner and
 5  (b) a back-up liner that supports the channel liner such
   that the integrity of the channel liner is not compromised
   during heat-up, dry-out, or operation of the channel
   induction furnace.
10 2.           The channel inductor defined in claim 1 wherein the
   material of the channel liner is selected so that there is
   a chemical reaction between the material and the molten
   metal in the furnace that results in the channel liner
   becoming more resistant to penetration by molten metal and
15 more resistant to the development of channel blockages.
   3.           The channel inductor defined in claim 2 wherein the
   chemical reaction results in the formation of a denser
   phase in the channel liner.
20
   4.           The channel inductor defined in claim 2 or claim 3
   wherein the material of the channel liner includes a
   source of silicon such as silicon carbide when the molten
   material is an Al/Zn-containing alloy that contains
25 sodium.
   5.           The channel inductor defined in any one of the
   preceding claims wherein the material of the back-up liner
   is selected to be capable of absorbing stresses due to
30 expansion and movement of the channel liner.
   6.           The channel inductor defined in claim 5 wherein the
   materials selection for the back-up liner also includes
   selecting a material that is capable of resisting cracking
35 due to thermal stress.
   10273897_1 (GHMatters) P92040.AU.2

                                                  19
   7.           The channel inductor defined in claim 5 or claim 6
   wherein the material of the back-up liner is a dry
   vibratory material.
 5 8.           The channel inductor defined in any one of claims 5
   to 7 wherein the material of the back-up lining is an
   aluminosilicate refractory composite material which may or
   may not have metal fibre, such as steel fibre,
   reinforcing.
10
   9.           The channel inductor defined in claim 8 wherein the
   refractory material component of the composite contains
   60-95 wt.% alumina.
15 10.          The channel inductor defined in claim 8 wherein the
   refractory material component of the composite contains
   60-70 wt.% alumina and 20-35 wt.%                   silica.
   11.          The channel inductor defined in any one of the
20 preceding claims wherein the channel liner is an elongate
   unit with the channel being in the shape of a single U
    ("single loop inductor").
   12.          The channel inductor defined in any one of claims 1
25 to 10 wherein the channel liner is an elongate unit with
   the channel being in the shape of a double U.
   13.          A channel inductor furnace that comprises:
30               (a)          a steel shell,
                 (b)          a lining of a refractory material internally of
                              the shell,
35               (c)          a pot for containing a pool of molten metal that
                               is defined by the refractory-lined shell, and
   10273897_1 (GHMatters) P92040.AU.2

                                                20
                (d)          one or more than one of the channel inductor for
                             heating a metal that is defined in any one of
                             the preceding claims and connected to the shell
                             and in fluid communication with the pot via a
5                            throat that extends through the shell and the
                             refractory lining to the inlet in the channel
                              inductor.
  10273897_1 (GHMatters) P92040.AU.2

<removed-date>
                                                     1/3
<removed-apn>
                                                   FIGURE 1
              10273907_1 (GHMatters) P92040.AU.2

<removed-date>
                                                     2/3
<removed-apn>
                                                   FIGURE 2
              10273907_1 (GHMatters) P92040.AU.2

           <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                               3/3
FIGURE 3

