Abstract for <removed-apn>
A processor-implemented method and system for candidate profile screening comprising: receiving a
request for screening of a candidate profile associated with a candidate, the candidate profile
comprising a plurality of candidate profile attributes; dividing the candidate profile into a plurality of
subset-profiles, each subset-profile comprising subset-profile information associated with candidate
profile attributes of the plurality of candidate profile attributes; and validating the subset-profile
 information by mapping the subset-profile information associated with the plurality of subset-profiles
with target-profile information of a plurality of targets to identify a set of targets from amongst the
plurality of targets, a target of the set of targets capable of screening the subset-profile information of
the subset-profiles, the target profile information comprising at least one of real-time information and
contextual information of the plurality of targets: provisioning queries to the set of targets to enable the
set of targets to perform screening of the subset-profile information; receiving responses to the
queries from the set of targets, wherein the responses facilitates in validating the subset-profile
information of the candidate profile; computing an aggregated weightage associated with the
responses received from the set of targets, the aggregated weightage computed based at least on an
extent of matching of the responses with the candidate profile attributes of the subset-profile
information and a confidence score associated with each target of the set of targets, wherein the
confidence score associated with the each target is indicative of a probability of accuracy of
responses provided by the target and wherein the confidence score is computed based on at least
one of past history of responses provided by the target, promptness in providing the responses,
correctness of the responses, and difficulty level of previous queries assigned to the target: and
comparing the aggregated weightage with a threshold value of the aggregated weightage to identify
the subset-profile information as one of a valid information and an invalid information; wherein a
candidate profile attribute of the plurality of candidate profile attributes comprises a plurality of
verification parameters, and wherein a verification parameter of the plurality of verification parameters
is associated with an importance rating and a sensitivity level, wherein the importance rating of the
verification parameter indicative of relevance of the verification parameter to determine if the
verification parameter is mandatory for verification of the sub-profile information, and wherein, the
sensitivity level associated with the verification parameter indicative of sensitivity of sub-profile
information associated with the verification parameter: wherein identifying the set of targets
comprises: associating the contextual information of the plurality of targets with the plurality of
verification parameters of the subset-profile information based on a plurality of mapping rules,
identifying a plurality of lists of targets from the plurality of targets based on associating, each list of
the plurality of lists comprising targets capable of screening verification parameters of the plurality of
verification parameters: computing degree of acquaintances between each target of the plurality of
lists of targets based on a frequency of occurrence of said targets in the plurality of lists: and selecting
the set of targets from the plurality of lists of targets based on a comparison of the degree of
acquaintances with a plurality of threshold values of the degree of acquaintance, the plurality of
threshold values defining a range of the degree of acquaintance, the plurality of threshold values
comprising at least an upper level of the degree of acquaintance and a lower level of the degree of
acquaintance.
Crontrel hv FYiminrr                                 70/7/701R                                            Plan 1

                             2/4
j        RECEIVE A REQUEST FOR SCREENING OF A          302
        CANDIDATE PROFILE HAVING A PLURALITY OF
             CANDIDATE PROFILE ATTRIBUTES
  PARTITION THE CANDIDATE PROFILE INTO A PLURALITY    304
                  OF SUBSET-PROFILES
  MAP THE SUBSET-PROFILE INFORMATION ASSOCIATED
      WITH THE PLURALITY OF SUBSET-PROFILES WITH      306
    TARGET-PROFILE INFORMATION OF A PLURALITY OF
          TARGETS TO IDENTIFY A SET OF TARGETS
     PROVISION ONE OR MORE QUERIES TO THE SET OF      308
       TARGETS TO ENABLE THE SET OF TARGETS TO
      PERFORM SCREENING OF THE SUBSET-PROFILE
                      INFORMATION
                                   qt                  310
   RECEIVE ONE OR MORE RESPONSES TO THE ONE OR
         MORE QUERIES FROM THE SET OF TARGETS
  COMPUTE AN AGGREGATED WEIGHTAGE ASSOCIATED
  WITH THE ONE OR MORE RESPONSES RECEIVED FROM
  THE SET OF TARGETS BASED AT LEAST ON AN EXTENT       312
     OF MATCHING OF THE ONE OR MORE RESPONSES
       WITH THE ONE OR MORE CANDIDATE PROFILE
  ATTRIBUTES OF THE SUB-PROFILE INFORMATION AND
      A CONFIDENCE SCORE ASSOCIATED WITH EACH
             TARGET OF THE SET OF TARGETS
     COMPARE THE AGGREGATED WEIGHTAGE WITH A
   THRESHOLD VALUE OF WEIGHTAGE TO IDENTIFY THE       314
    SUBSET-PROFILE INFORMATION AS ONE OF A VALID
        INFORMATION AND AN INVALID INFORMATION
                           FIG. 3                 300

           SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR CANDIDATE PROFILE SCREENING
                                           DESCRIPTION
Priority Claim
        [001]   The present invention claims priority to Indian provisional specification (Title:
System and Method for Verifying Profile Data of a User) No. 1359/MUM/2015, filed in India on
March 31, 2015
Technical Field
        [002]   This disclosure relates generally to candidate profile screening, and more
particularly to system and method for identity verification of candidate's profile using
crowdsourcing platform.
Background
        [003]   Screening of candidate profiles can be performed for a variety of purposes by
concerned authorities. For example, authorities responsible for issuing credit cards, driver's
license, telephone number, and/or cellular number, approving loans, opening bank accounts, and
so on, prefer to conduct a screening and verification of the profile of customers seeking such
services.
        [004]   The profile verification is done to mitigate certain prevalent risks such as identity
theft. Identity theft involves stealing personal information of a victim and generating a fake
identity without the knowledge of the victims. By the time the victim realizes the situation and
raises a complaint, the damage is already done. The fake identity may be used for obtaining
credit cards, loans, bank accounts, unauthorized withdrawals of cash, driver's license, new
telephone number, or cellular number, and so on. Considering a sharp increase in identity theft
incidents and sensitivity of the information being stolen, the profile verification should be
performed in a stringent manner.
                                                   1

                                           SUMMARY
         [005]  Embodiments of the present disclosure present technological improvements as
solutions to one or more of the above-mentioned technical problems recognized by the inventors
in conventional systems. For example, in one embodiment, a processor-implemented method for
candidate profile screening is provided. The method includes receiving, via one or more
hardware processors, a request for screening of a candidate profile associated with a candidate.
The candidate profile includes a plurality of candidate profile attributes. Further, the method
includes dividing, via the one or more hardware processors, the candidate profile into a plurality
of subset-profiles. Each subset-profile comprising subset-profile information is associated with
one or more candidate profile attributes of the plurality of candidate profile attributes.
Furthermore, the method includes validating, via the one or more hardware processors, the
subset-profile information of one or more subset-profiles of the plurality of subset-profiles. The
method for validating the sub-set profile information of a subset-profile includes mapping the
subset-profile information associated with the plurality of subset-profiles with target-profile
information of a plurality of targets to identify a set of targets from amongst the plurality of
targets. A target of the set of targets capable of screening the subset-profile information of the
one or more subset-profiles. The target-profile information includes at least one of real-time
information and contextual information of the plurality of targets. The method for validating the
sub-set profile information includes provisioning one or more queries to the set of targets to
enable the set of targets to perform screening of the subset-profile information. Further, the
method for validating the sub-set profile information includes receiving one or more responses to
the one or more queries from the set of targets, wherein the one or more responses facilitates in
validating the subset-profile information of the candidate profile. Furthennore, the method for
validating the sub-set profile information    includes    computing    an  aggregated     weightage
associated with the one or more responses received from the set of targets. The aggregated
weightage is computed based at least on an extent of matching of the one or more responses with
the one or more candidate profile attributes of the subset-profile information and a confidence
score associated with each target of the set of targets. Also, the method for validating the subset
profile information includes comparing the aggregated weightage with a threshold value of the
aggregated weightage to identify the subset-profile information as one of a valid information and
an invalid information.
                                                  2

         [006]  In another embodiment, a processor-implemented system for candidate profile
screening is provided. The system includes at least one memory storing instructions and one or
more hardware processors coupled to said at least one memory. The one or more hardware
processors are configured by said instructions to receive a request for screening of a candidate
profile. The candidate profile includes a plurality of candidate profile attributes. Further, the one
or more hardware processors are configured by said instructions to divide the candidate profile
into a plurality of subset-profiles. Each subset-profile comprising subset-profile information is
associated with one or more candidate profile attributes of the plurality of candidate profile
attributes. Furthermore, the one or more hardware processors are configured by said instructions
to validate the subset-profile information of one or more subset-profiles of the plurality of
subset-profiles. The subset-profile information associated with the plurality of subset-profiles is
mapped with target-profile information of a plurality of targets to identify a set of targets from
amongst the plurality of targets. A target of the set of targets capable of screening the subset
profile information of the one or more subset-profiles. The target-profile information includes at
least one of real-time information and contextual information of the plurality of targets. One or
more queries are provisioned to the set of targets to enable the set of targets to perform screening
of the subset-profile information. One or more responses are received corresponding to the one
or more queries from the set of targets. The one or more responses facilitates in validating the
subset-profile information of the candidate profile. Furthermore, the one or more hardware
processors are configured by said instructions to compute an aggregated weightage associated
with the one or more responses received from the set of targets. The aggregated weightage is
computed based at least on an extent of matching of the one or more responses with the one or
more candidate profile attributes of the subset-profile information and a confidence score
associated with each target of the set of targets. Also, the one or more hardware processors are
configured by said instructions to compare the aggregated weightage with a threshold value of
the aggregated weightage to identify the subset-profile information as one of a valid information
and an invalid information.
         [007]  In yet another embodiment, a non-transitory computer-readable medium having
embodied thereon a computer program for executing a method for screening candidate profile is
provided. The method includes receiving a request for screening of a candidate profile associated
with a candidate. The candidate profile includes a plurality of candidate profile attributes.
                                                  3

Further, the method includes dividing the candidate profile into a plurality of subset-profiles.
Each subset-profile includes subset-profile information is associated with one or more candidate
profile attributes of the plurality of candidate profile attributes. Furthermore, the method includes
validating the subset-profile information of one or more subset-profiles of the plurality of subset
profiles. The method for validating the sub-set profile information of a subset-profile includes
mapping the subset-profile information associated with the plurality of subset-profiles with
target-profile information of a plurality of targets to identify a set of targets from amongst the
plurality of targets. A target of the set of targets capable of screening the subset-profile
information of the one or more subset-profiles. The target-profile information includes at least
one of real-time information and contextual infonnation of the plurality of targets. The method
for validating the sub-set profile information includes provisioning one or more queries to the set
of targets to enable the set of targets to perform screening of the subset-profile information.
Further, the method for validating the sub-set profile information includes receiving one or more
responses to the one or more queries from the set of targets, wherein the one or more responses
facilitate in validating the subset-profile information of the candidate profile. Furthermore, the
method for validating the sub-set profile information            includes computing an aggregated
weightage associated with the one or more responses received from the set of targets. The
aggregated weightage is computed based at least on an extent of matching of the one or more
responses with the one or more candidate profile attributes of the subset-profile information and
a confidence score associated with each target of the set of targets. Also, the method for
validating the subset-profile information includes comparing the aggregated weightage with a
threshold value of the aggregated weightage to identify the subset-profile information as one of
valid information and invalid information.
         [008]  It is to be understood that both the foregoing general description and the
following detailed description are exemplary and explanatory only and are not restrictive of the
invention, as claimed.
                           BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
         [009]  The accompanying drawings, which are incorporated in and constitute a part of
this disclosure, illustrate exemplary embodiments and, together with the description, serve to
explain the disclosed principles.
                                                   4

        [010]   FIG. 1 illustrates a network implementation of a system for screening candidate
profile according to some embodiments of the present disclosure.
        [011]   FIG. 2 illustrates a system for screening candidate profile according to some
embodiments of the present disclosure.
        [012]   FIG. 3 illustrates a flowchart for screening candidate profile in accordance with
some embodiments of the present disclosure.
        [013]   FIGS. 4A and 4B illustrate a flowchart for screening candidate profile, in
accordance with another embodiment of the present disclosure.
                                   DETAILED DESCRIPTION
        [014]   Exemplary embodiments are described with reference to the accompanying
drawings.   In the figures, the left-most digit(s) of a reference number identifies the figure in
which the reference number first appears. Wherever convenient, the same reference numbers are
used throughout the drawings to refer to the same or like parts. While examples and features of
disclosed principles are described herein, modifications, adaptations, and other implementations
are possible without departing from the spirit and scope of the disclosed embodiments.         It is
intended that the following detailed description be considered as exemplary only, with the true
scope and spirit being indicated by the following claims.
        [015]   The present disclosure relates to a system and method for candidate profile
screening. The disclosed method and system facilitates in automatically verifying the
information provided by the candidates to authorities that are responsible for providing
services/products to the customers upon being verified or screened. The system facilitates an
authority to request for screening of profile information of a customer seeking their services
and/or products, and in response, the system screens the customer profile to confirm the validity
of the information provided by the customer. Examples of such authorities may include a
financial institution such as a bank, an investment firm, a credit card issuing authority, a mobile
number issuing authority, and so on. Hereinafter, the authority requesting for screening of profile
information may be referred to as a 'requestor' or an 'authority'.
        [016]   For screening of candidates, conventionally standalone identification verification
systems are utilized. Such existing verification systems provide completeness check of photo
bearing document issued by official authority or standalone address verification being done
                                                 5

physically. For example, in case a candidate applies for a loan or mortgage at a bank, a physical
evaluation/verification is done by bank's field officers, agency or staff member to verify the
 candidate's identity and address based on the information provided by the candidate while filling
up application for loan/ mortgage. In an example scenario, the candidate can submit proof of
 address even without staying at said place. Such verification or screening is prone to error, and
 can thus be associated with a high risk of verification of incorrect information. Moreover,
 aforesaid method of screening is widely known, predictable and misused by the candidates, and
therefore may not result in effective verification of the candidate profiles. Additionally, these
methods of candidate profile verification involves high cost that is borne by the authorities such
 as banks while utilizing specialized services of the field agents/officers. Some of the challenges
 faced by the issuing authorities are described with reference to specific examples hereunder.
         [017]  In an existing banking sector, to avoid identity theft, the issuing authority, i.e. the
bank mandates new customers to fill a Customer Identification Documentation (generally
referred to as Know-Your-Customer [KYC] form). Upon providing the information mentioned in
the KYC form along with the supporting documents, the customer is entitled to open the bank
 account in said bank. However, one of the challenges faced by the bank authority is that there is
just a completeness check being performed with respect to the KYC form and little or no
verification of the documentation or the information provided in the KYC form is done by the
 bank authority. The existing methods and/or systems are inefficient in ascertaining whether the
 information provided in the form or documentation is true and not a fictitious or fake one.
         [018]   Similar problems are faced in an online account opening process. Though there
 are various techniques for verifying the information but there is no verification method to ensure
whether a person, providing the information, is really the one who he claims to be (i.e. the person
 described in the KYC form). For example, in the online account opening process, imaging
 schemes like Picture/Photo ID proof submission and subsequent OCR means are enabled to
 extract data or providing video chat or face recognition capabilities for automated identity
verification. However, in such a system also, there is no way to verify the identity of the
 candidate and the address is actually the address where the candidate resides.
         [019]  The present disclosure provides method and system to overcome above
mentioned technical problems recognized in conventional systems and present technological
 improvements as solutions to one or more of the above-mentioned technical problems. For
                                                  6

example, in one embodiment a system for candidate profile verification is provided. Said system
is capable of logically and selectively segregating (or partitioning) a candidate profile into
multiple sub-profiles. Herein, it will be noted that the term 'profile' or 'candidate profile' may
include various candidate profile attributes associated with a candidate. For instance, the
candidate profile attributes may include, but are not limited to, personal information, identity
information, issued identifiers, photographs, address details, character details, contact details,
employment details, income tax details, proof of identity, proof of residence, utility bills, credit
card statement,     signatures, police records,      health records,   neighbourhood      information,
educational details, social media profile information, lifestyle information, hobbies of the
candidate, and so on and so forth. For the brevity of description, the term 'candidate profile
attributes' may be referred to as attributes in the description hereinafter.
         [020]  The system may further identify a set of targets that may be responsible for
verification of the attributes of each of the sub-profiles. When a requestor (for example, an
issuing authority) seeks for verification of a candidate profile, the system gathers corroborative
evidence through a set of targets using a crowd-sourcing platform. The system may identify
known and/or unknown targets in order to verify the identity in a covert or overt mode and to get
a high confidence score for identity screening and/or verification. In an embodiment, the
crowdsourcing or selection of targets for verification/screening of the candidate profile is based
on learning algorithms that may learn most suitable targets for verification/screening of target
profiles and/or sub-profiles. An advantageous feature of the disclosed system is that the system
allows for selection of targets based on learning algorithms and allots the targets on-the-fly (in
some scenarios, during a natural interaction between the candidate and the target), and
accordingly there is little chance for the candidate to guess or influence the outcome of the
disclosed crowd sourced screening and verification method.
         [021]  Further, the system facilitates in encouraging trusted/existing customers of the
issuing authority (or the requestor) who have been previously verified and other participants for a
crowd-sourced initiative for verifying the profile of the candidate. In one aspect, the participants
in crowd sourcing activity can be encouraged for participation by reward schemes. In one aspect,
the targets may be ranked higher proportional to their participation in the identity verification
using the disclosed system. In one embodiment, any target on the crowd-souring platform (acting
as a target for a particular sub-profile of the candidate profile), who visits or passes by address of
                                                   7

the candidate, may be encouraged by the system to contribute towards verification of the
customer profile.
        [022]   While aspects of described system and method for verifying profile information
associated with a candidate, it may be implemented in any number of different computing
systems, environments, and/or configurations, the embodiment's are described in the context of
the following exemplary system.
        [023]   Referring now to FIG. 1, a network implementation 100 of a system 102 for
verifying profile information associated with the customer is illustrated, in accordance with an
embodiment of the present disclosure. Although the present disclosure is explained by
considering that the system 102 is implemented as a software program on a server, it may be
understood that the system 102 may also be implemented in a variety of computing systems,
such as a laptop computer, a desktop computer, a notebook, a workstation, a mainframe
computer, a server, a network server, cloud, and the like. It will be understood that the system
 102 may be accessed by multiple users through one or more user devices 104-1, 104-2... 104-N,
collectively referred to as user devices 104 hereinafter, or applications residing on the user
devices 104. Examples of the user devices 104 may include, but are not limited to, a portable
computer, a personal digital assistant, a hand-held device, and a workstation.
        [024]   The user devices 104 are communicatively coupled to the system 102 through a
network 106. Herein, the user devices may refer to the devices held by the plurality of targets for
enabling the targets to access the network to enable the verification of candidate profiles.
Additionally or alternatively, the user devices may include device that may not be held by human
targets but fixed autonomous/ intelligent devices capable of performing verification of candidate
profiles and/or sub-profiles. For example, the fixed target devices may include autonomous
devices such as driverless cars, intelligent billboards, surveillance devices, cameras, drones, and
so on. Said devices can be enhanced by analytics (such as predictive analytics, transactional
analytics, and real-time analytics) and/or Al (Artificial Intelligence) engines. It will be noted that
in the foregoing discussion, the term 'target' and/or 'target device' may be referred to include
either or both of the devices held by human targets and the autonomous devices, as described
above.
        [025]   The network 106 is enabled to connect the system 102 with a requestor/authority
 108. The requestor 108 is configured to communicate with the system 102, and request for
                                                  8

performing the candidate profile screening and verification. The network 106 is further enabled
to connect the system 102 with the targets 104 for enabling the system 102 to communicate with
the plurality of target devices that are identified as a part of the crowd sourcing platform to
perform the verification. In one implementation, the network 106 may be a wireless network, a
wired network or a combination thereof. The network 106 can be implemented as one of the
different types of networks, such as intranet, local area network (LAN), wide area network
(WAN), the internet, and the like. The network 106 may either be a dedicated network or a
shared network. The shared network represents an association of the different types of networks
that use a variety of protocols, for example, Hypertext Transfer Protocol (HTTP), Transmission
Control Protocol/Internet Protocol (TCP/IP), Wireless Application Protocol (WAP), and the like,
to communicate with one another. Further the network 106 may include a variety of network
devices, including routers, bridges, servers, computing devices, storage devices, and the like.
Various components and functionalities of the system 102 are described further with reference to
FIG. 2.
        [026]   FIG. 2 illustrates a block diagram of a system 200 for verification of candidate
profile in accordance with an example embodiment. In an example embodiment, the system 200
may be embodied in, or is in direct communication with the system, for example the system 102
(FIG. 1). In an embodiment, the system facilitates the verification/screening of the candidate
profile on a crowdsourcing platform. The system 200 includes or is otherwise in communication
with one or more hardware processors such as a processor 202, at least one memory such as a
memory 204, and an I/O interface 206. The processor 202, memory 204, and the network
interface element 206 may be coupled by a system bus such as a system bus 208 or a similar
mechanism.
        [027]   The at least one processor 202 may be implemented as one or more
microprocessors, microcomputers, microcontrollers, digital signal processors, central processing
units, state machines, logic circuitries, and/or any devices that manipulate signals based on
operational instructions. Among other capabilities, the at least one processor 202 is configured to
fetch and execute computer-readable instructions stored in the memory 204.
        [028]   The I/O interface 206 may include a variety of software and hardware interfaces,
for example, a web interface, a graphical user interface, and the like. The I/O interface 204 may
allow the system 200 to interact with a target directly or through the target devices 104. Further,
                                                 9

the I/O interface 206 may enable the system 200 to communicate with other computing devices,
such as web servers and external data servers (not shown). The 1/0 interface 206 may facilitate
multiple communications within a wide variety of networks and protocol types, including wired
networks, for example, LAN, cable, etc., and wireless networks, such as WLAN, cellular, or
satellite. The I/O interface 206 may include one or more ports for connecting a number of
devices to one another or to another server.
         [029]  The memory 204 may include any computer-readable medium known in the art
including, for example, volatile memory, such as static random access memory (SRAM) and
dynamic random access memory (DRAM), and/or non-volatile memory, such as read only
memory (ROM), erasable programmable ROM, flash memories, hard disks, optical disks, and
magnetic tapes. In an embodiment, the memory 204 includes a plurality of modules 220 and a
repository 240 for storing data processed, received, and generated by one or more of the modules
220. The modules 220 may include routines, programs, objects, components, data structures, and
so on, which perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. In one
implementation, the modules 220 may include a communication module 222, a subset-profile
generation module 224, a mapping module 226, a query generation module 228, a query
response module 230, a computation module 232, a verification module 234, and other modules
236. The other modules 236 may include programs or coded instructions that supplement
applications and functions of the system 200.
         [030]  The repository 240, amongst other things, includes a system database 242 and
other data 244. The other data 244 may include data generated as a result of the execution of one
or more modules in the other modules 236. The repository 240 is further configured to maintain
a candidate-profiles database 246 and a targets-database 248. The candidate-profiles database
246 is configured to store candidate-profile information of new users and/or candidates
associated with the issuing authority (or the requestor) such as a bank. Further, the targets
database 248 is configured to store details of the plurality of the targets, for example, targets
(Gk), linked with the crowd sourcing platform.
         [031]  In an embodiment, the details of the plurality of targets may include profile
information of the plurality of targets. The profile information of a target may be referred to as
'target-profile information', and may include at least one of real-time location information and
contextual information associated with each target of the plurality of targets. In an embodiment,
                                                 10

where the target refers to a human target having a device (such as the device 104 of FIG. 1), the
contextual information may include attributes of registered user of the target device. In an
embodiment, the attributes of the targets may include static attributes (Ak), verification
parameters (Pkj), and preferences and/or constraints (Skp, Tkp) associated with respective
targets. The static attributes may refer to those attributes that may remain unchanged or
substantially unchanged over a period of time. For example, residential address of the target may
be considered as a static attribute. The static attribute may include a plurality of verification
parameters. For example, the residential address of the target may be composed of various
verification parameters, such as house number, street, city, pin code, and so on.
        [032]   Additionally, the attributes may include dynamic attributes. In an embodiment,
the system 200 is also capable of tracking dynamic attributes and the verification parameters of
the dynamic attributes. Said dynamic attributes and verification parameters may change over
time. For example, a dynamic attribute of a target may include a travel path of the target that the
target may traverse every day, for example while going to office. Said target may be traveling
through a particular street every day, and said travel path of the target may be recorded with the
system 200. Now, in case, the target starts taking a different travel path to reach same destination
every day, the system 200 may track and update the changed travel path in the memory 204. The
updated travel path may be recorded in the system 200 as an updated attribute (with updated
verification parameters), and may be utilized further to identify the set of targets for verification
of subset profiles. It will be understood that the attributes may be associated with personal
information and/or professional information of the target.
        [033]   In an embodiment, the preferences and/or constraints may be indicative of certain
preferences of the targets and/or constraints imposed on/by the targets. For example, the
preferences and/or constraints may be related to time, location and other such information. For
instance, a target may have a preference or constraint to perform verification during a specific
time period, such as only during night time or only during daytime or weekends or weekdays,
and so on. As another example, a distance measure can be a preference or a constraint, for
example, a target may have preference to perform verification or screening task only within 5
miles distance of the regular route that the target may take during a travel for office, or within
certain miles around the target's place of residence. It will be noted that in different scenarios
                                                 11

and with different targets, the constraints and/or preferences can be defined in a variety of
manner, without restricting to examples of time and distance as described here.
        [034]   In an example embodiment, the constraint may include multiple levels of
constraints, for example, a first level of constraints, a second level of constraints and so on. The
multi-level constraints may be applied while dividing the information into sub-profiles such that
the sub-profile information is filtered in accordance with the levels of constraints while applying
subsequent constraints. For example, at a first level global constraints may be applied to create
multiple sub-profiles from the profile information. The global constraints may include
constraints that may be applicable at a broad level to the profile information, for instance, to the
infonnation type to be verified. For example, in case the profile information/verification
parameters to be verified includes sensitive information (such as bank account details, other
financial details, and so on), then a constrain may be applied at the first level to select only
certain type of targets who may be able to access said information of the candidate without
risking the candidate's personal security and/or financial security.
        [035]   In an embodiment, the target may include an autonomous device. In this
embodiment, the contextual information may include, specific capabilities such as image
capturing, video capturing, audio recording, customer and customer preference identification (in
case of intelligent billboard), and so on. It will be noted that in addition to the contextual
information, the system is capable of determining the real-time location of the targets.
Accordingly, in one embodiment, the target-profile information may include the location
information and the contextual information of the plurality of targets.
        [036]   In one implementation, the multiple users may use the client devices to access the
system 200 via the I/O interface 206. In an embodiment, the communication module 222 may
accept inputs from the devices associated with the authority/requestor (for example, the requestor
 108 of FIG. 1). These inputs may include profile information related to the candidate. In one
embodiment, profile information may include a plurality of attributes. Examples of the attributes
include identity information, photographs, address details, character details, neighbourhood
information of the candidate, and so on. In one embodiment, a KYC document with candidate
profile details may be received as input from the candidate, and same profile details/information
is provided as input to the system 200. Further, the system 200 enables the communication
module 222 to gather attributes including information of a set of activities associated with the
                                                  12

candidate. The activities may include various types of events associated with the candidate. Such
events may include attending a sports event, meeting other users, filling gas from a gas station,
visiting a grocery store and the like.
         [037]  In an embodiment, the attributes may be construed as verification parameters (Pij).
Each of the verification parameters (Pij) may be associated with an importance rating (Iij) and a
Sensitivity Level (Lij). The importance rating associated with a verification parameter may be
indicative of relevance of verification parameter whether it is mandatory or optional. For
example, for one type of verification (for instance, for the purpose of education loan), the
verification of verification parameters including school address can be of high importance,
however, for other type of verification, the verification of the school may not be of high
importance. The Sensitivity Level (Lij) associated with the verification parameter may be
indicative of sensitivity of the information of the verification parameter. For example, the
sensitivity of a verification parameter such as a credit card number may be more than the
sensitivity of a PAN number. In an embodiment, the sensitivity parameter may indicate a
sensitivity level of the associated parameter. For instance, sensitivity levels may be categorized
into levels such as level 1 (indicative of a highly secret information), level 2 (indicative of a
confidential information), level 3 (indicative of an internal information), level 4 (indicative of a
Private information), level 5 (indicative of a publicly available information), and so on.
         [038]  The system 200 may divide the profile information of a candidate into a plurality
of subset-profiles. In an embodiment, the subset-profile generation module 224 is configured to
divide the profile information into a plurality of sub-profiles. Each sub-profile may include a
plurality of candidate profile attributes of the candidate profile. In an embodiment, each sub
profile may include verification parameters of multiple attributes of candidate profile. For
example, a sub-profile-i may include verification parameter-i and verification parameter-2 of
attribute-I of candidate profile, while a sub-profile-2 may include a verification parameter-3 and
verification parameter-4 of the attribute-1. Herein, it will be noted that the sub-profiles may be
generated so as to include one or more common verification parameters. For example, the sub
profile-i may include verification parameter-i and verification parameter-2 of attribute-I of
candidate profile, while a sub-profile-2 may include a verification parameter-2 and verification
parameter-4 of the attribute-1. In this example, both the sub-profiles 1 and 2 include verification
parameter 2. Herein, it will be noted that since the system 200 is capable of distributing common
                                                  13

attributes or verification parameters of attributes in multiple sub-profiles, there is a greater
chance for the same verification parameters or attributes to be verified by multiple targets,
accordingly, the chances of effective verification of the sub-profile information is increased. In
an embodiment, the candidate-profile information may be stored in the memory 204.
Additionally or alternatively, the candidate-profile information may be gathered from sources
coupled to the system 200. For instance, the system 200 may be embodied in a server that may
gather the candidate-profile information from a server of the authority.
         [039]   In an embodiment, the system 200 may divide the candidate-profile information
into the plurality of subset-profiles based on a random categorization of the attributes into said
subset-profiles. Alternatively, the system 200 may divide the profile information into the
plurality of subset-profiles based on a logical categorization of the attributes into said sub
profiles. For instance, the system 200 may categorize the education details and employment
details into one subset-profile on determination that the candidate's place of education and
employment are in vicinity, and can be screened together. In another example, the system 200
may categorize the residential address details and photograph of the candidate into one subset
profile. It will be understood that the system 200 may employ a plurality of categorization rules
for logical categorization of the attributes of the candidates into a plurality of subset-profiles.
         [040]   In an embodiment, for each of the subset-profile, the system 200 may map the
subset-profile information with the target-profile information of the plurality of targets. In an
embodiment, the mapping module 226 is configured to map the subset-profile information with
the target-profile information of the plurality of targets. In an embodiment, the mapping of the
subset profile information with the target-profile information is performed to identify a set of
targets that are capable of screening the subset-profile information of said subset profile. In an
embodiment, the set of target are identified from the target-database 248 based on the mapping.
In an embodiment, the set of targets may be selected from the crowd sourcing platform based on
best effort basis models that learn through machine learning techniques.
         [041]   In an embodiment, the system 200 is caused to configure a set of mapping rules
(Rip) for mapping the subset-profile information with the target-profile information. In an
embodiment, the set of mapping rules may be configured to associate constraints and or
preferences (Sip), thresholds (Tip) and target's verification parameters (Ak), to thereby identify
most suitable targets for the task of subset-profile verification. In another example, a mapping
                                                   14

rule for the verification of residence address of may be defined as any target (Gk) with home
address (Ak and Pij) "within 1 mile" (Sip and Tip) of the candidate's home address (Ai and Pij).
Another mapping rule for the same verification may be defined as, any target (Gk) with entire
daily driving route (dynamic Ak and Pkj) "within 100 ft" (Sip and Tip) of the candidate's home
address (Ai and Pij). In another example, a mapping rule for selecting set of targets for
verification may be defined based on social media information of the targets and the candidate.
For example, the system 200 may check for relation between the target and the candidate by
extracting social media information from the target's and candidate's social media profiles, and
analysing the extracted social media information. The social media information may include
contact lists, relationships, and other such information. If the system determines, based on the
analysis of the social media information that the candidate and the target are not closely related,
the system 200 may select said target for validating the candidate's profile information. Such
mapping rules may enable the system 200 to utilize clustering techniques to find the best fit
targets (Gk) (or the set of targets) for validation of candidate's attributes (Ai) of the sub-profiles.
It will be noted herein that the mapping rules may be updated based on machine learning
algorithms over a period of time.
         [042]  In an embodiment, the mapping rules for selecting set of targets for verification
may be defined based various conditions, for example, health of the target, number of times the
target has performed verification over a time duration, number of verification tasks already
assigned to the target, a home address of the target, and so on. In an example embodiment, the
mapping rule related to the health of the target may enable identification of the health of the
target to detennine whether the target is capable of performing the verification based on health or
stress levels thereof. In an embodiment, the target device held by the human target may include
suitable sensors for determining the health and/or stress levels of the human target. In another
embodiment, the mapping rule pertaining to the number of times the target has performed the
verification may enable the system to track the verification tasks performed by the target in real
time, and based on such tracking; the system 200 may determine whether to select the target for
perfonning the verification. Additionally or alternatively, the system 200 may be capable of
tracking the number of verification tasks already assigned to the target. Based on the number of
tasks already assigned to the target, the system 200 may determine whether the assigned number
of tasks are equal to the allowable number of tasks that can be given to a target at a given time.
                                                   15

On determination that the tasks already assigned are equal to the allowable number of tasks, the
system 200 may decide not to select said target. In another example, the mapping rule may be
pertaining to the residential address of the target. For example, in case the residential addresses
of the target and the candidate are determined to be same, the system 200 may not select such a
target for verification of candidate profile information.
         [043]   As discussed above, the system 200 may apply the preferences and/or constraints
(Skp, Tkp) associated with the target's profiles (Gk) to identify a set of targets from the plurality of
target (the earlier best fit target list). The set of targets may be given the challenge or task of
verification of the sub-profile. Upon applying the model on the attributes (verification
parameters) of the sub-profiles, the system 200 may populate the set of targets in a list, such that
the list includes best-fit targets {Gki,Gk2,..} for verification of the sub-profile information.
         [044]   In an embodiment, the mapping can be performed, for example, based on a
determination of targets that are trusted customers of the authority and/or that are previously
verified and/or that have been residing in close proximity of the address or identity (profile data)
of the candidate to be verified and/or various other such factors. For example, in case the subset
profile information includes a candidate's name and a place of job, the system 200 may map the
information associated with the place of job to identify targets who may be frequently visiting
that place or may also be working at the same place or a place in proximity of the place of job of
the candidate. Similarly, in case the subset-profile information includes a sport's club being
visited by the candidate frequently, then the targets for screening said subset-profile information
can be identified by mapping the information of sports club with the target-profile information
associated with said sports club. For example, system 200 can select the targets who are working
in the sports club, intelligent bill boards installed outside or in vicinity to the sports club, any
target having membership of said sports club, and so on based on the target-profile information
of the targets. It will be noted that a new user and immediate family could be registered as targets
on the crowdsourcing platform, however, for the verification of the candidate profile, the new
user or immediate family of the candidate may not be considered to be the targets.
         [045] In an embodiment, the system 200 may identify the sub-profile information for a
plurality of sub-profiles associated with the candidate profile to populate multiple lists of best-fit
targets corresponding to said sub-profiles. The system 200 may further identify the targets that
may appear in said multiple lists, and compute an index indicating a degree of acquaintance         (Uk)
                                                    16

between the target and the candidate. In an embodiment, the system may compute the degree of
acquaintance (Uk) based at least on the sensitivity level and importance level associated with the
attribute for lists corresponding to which the target profile is identified. In an embodiment, the
degree of acquaintance (Uk) may be determined as below:
Uk = {Sum of (Li       Ij) for each list (Gkl, Gk2 .. ) the target appears in} / number of lists in which
target is present
         [046]   In an embodiment, the system 200 may generate one or more queries
corresponding to the subset-profiles. In an embodiment, a query generation module 228 is
capable of generating the one or more queries corresponding to the subset-profiles. The set of
questions/queries is aimed for verifying the information in the subset-profile. In an embodiment,
the system may formulate the queries (Qkj) for each of the set of targets. In an embodiment, the
queries may be formulated for each target of the set of targets corresponding to attribute and
verification parameter (Ai, Pij). In an embodiment, said queries may also be associated with a
difficulty level (Dij) along with an Importance Rating (Iij) and Sensitivity Level (Lij) of the
Verification Parameter (Pij). In an embodiment, the difficulty level of "Find Data" type of queries
may be higher than "Validate Data" type of queries. For instance, a first query may be "What is
C's home address?", a second query may be "Is C's Home Address ANij?" and a third query may
be "Who stays at the Address ANij?" Herein, the difficulty level of the first query may be highest
while that of the second query may be lowest.
         [047]   In an embodiment, the system may be configured to present queries with high
difficulty levels to those targets that are determined to be associated with high degree of
acquaintance (Uk), than those target that may be determined to be associated with a lower degree
of acquaintance (Uk). In an embodiment, the system 200 may identify targets having the degree
of acquaintance (Uk) above an upper threshold level of degree of acquaintance, and in response,
the system may disregard the identified target profile for verification. For example, in case a
target is appearing in each of the multiple lists, then it may be construed as a target with
abnonnally high degree of acquaintance (above the upper threshold level of the degree of
acquaintance). In another embodiment, the system 200 may be configured to accept targets for
verification which may be associated with a degree of acquaintance occurring within a specific
threshold range (for example within a range of an upper threshold and a lower threshold).
                                                      17

         [048]  In an embodiment, the queries may include at least one of challenge-response
questions, picture, text input, Yes and No options, multiple choice questions, voting options,
partial data entry, and the like. The queries/questions may be of appropriate complexity level for
example, simple, medium, hard, and so on. The queries can be associated with the diversity of
targets. The targets may not have specialization in a particular domain/technology or proficiency
to be part of the system 200. In an embodiment, the queries may be directed towards assigning
tasks to the targets on interest areas thereof and proximity to said targets to the sub-profile
information to be verified. Such a distribution of the queries to the targets that can allow for
diversity of participation of targets, and their inclination to participate in the crowdsourced
verification. In an embodiment, the targets may be provided with an option to deny the
participation in the crowdsourced verification process.
         [049]  In an embodiment, the one or more queries may be generated in response to a
trigger notification. For example, in certain cases, the targets can be a combination of a human
target and an autonomous device or a combination of multiple autonomous devices. For instance,
in an example scenario, the sub-profile information may include picture of the candidate that
needs to be screened. The system may select/identify a combination of swipe card of the
candidate and a camera installed at the office of the candidate as the targets. As soon as the
candidate swipes his/her card at the office swipe machine, the system may generate a trigger
notification for informing the camera device installed in the office premises to capture the
photograph of the candidate. Herein, the information to the camera may be assumed to be
query/question. The camera device can capture the image of the candidate and send the same to
the system 200 for validation. The image captured by the camera can be assumed to be the
response to the query. Various other scenarios may be possible where a target can be a
combination of human target and an autonomous device or a combination of multiple
autonomous devices. It will be noted that the trigger can be generated in real-time. Alternatively
the trigger can be unplanned/ anticipated/ offline engagement with the candidate.
         [050]  The set of queries (Qkj) are then transmitted to the set of target in order to gather
inputs from each of the set of target. In an embodiment, the query-response module 230 is
configured to transmit the one or more queries to the set of target users and receive a set of
responses (ANkij) corresponding to the queries (Qkj) from the target using the communication
network 106.
                                                 18

         [051]   In an embodiment, the system 200 assigns individual weightages to each of the
one or more responses received from the each target based at least on the extent of matching of
the one or more responses with the one or more attributes of the sub-profile information and a
confidence score associated with each target. The confidence score associated with a target may
be indicative of a probability of accuracy of responses provided by the target. In an embodiment,
the system 200 may assign the confidence scores for each of the target profiles based on the
previous responses provided by said targets, promptness in providing the response, correctness of
the responses, difficulty levels of the queries assigned to said targets for which the responses
were provided previously, and other such factors that may indicate a confidence to assign the
queries to the targets. Additionally or alternatively, the confidence scores may be assigned based
on the target-profile information of the targets that may be previously screened successfully by
the system 200. In an embodiment, the system 200 may detect the confidence score of the set of
targets, and may override the responses received from the targets having lower values of
confidence score with the responses received from the targets having higher values of confidence
score.
         [052]   An example of computation of the confidence score is given below. For example,
the system may receive responses ANkij from the set of targets. The system may nonralize the
answers (ANkij), and determine (FNkij) whether the Answer (ANij) given by a target (C) of the
set of targets is true or false with respect to the responses from other targets of the set of targets
(Gk). The system may assign a positive score to each 'True' response, and a negative score to
each 'False' response. Based on such assignment of scores, the system may compute a final
score for the verification conducted by the set of targets.
         [053]   In an embodiment, the system 200 may compute an aggregated weightage
associated with the one or more responses based on the individual weightages of the one or more
responses. In an embodiment, the aggregated weightage may be computed by taking an average
mean of the individual weightages. In an embodiment, the aggregated weightage may be
computed by the computation module 232.
         [054]   In an embodiment, the system 200 may compare the aggregated value of
weightage with a threshold value to determine whether the sub-profile information is valid or
invalid. In an embodiment, a verification module 234 may compare the aggregated value of
weightage with the threshold value to determine validity of the sub-profile information. The
                                                   19

system 200 may determine whether the aggregated weightage is greater than or equal to a
threshold value of the weightage. In case, it is determined that the weightage assigned to the
subset-profile is greater than or equal to the threshold value of the weightage, the system 200
may identify the subset profile information as valid profile information. If, however, the
weightage assigned to the subset-profile is determined to be less than the threshold value of the
weightage, the system 200 may identify said profile-information as invalid profile information.
        [055] In an example embodiment, the profile-information associated with a sub-profile
may be considered as valid when:
     Sum of {Uk * (+1 if True or else -1 if false)} > (a threshold value Tip)
     Herein, the value of the threshold Tip may be determined during the configuration of the
     Rules (Rip).
        [056]     In an embodiment, the system may be caused to identify the targets that have
provided responses in favor of the output generated corresponding to the sub-profile verification
at the system. The system 200 may further be caused to increment the confidence score
associated with the identified targets. Additionally or alternatively, the system 200 may be
caused to decrement the confidence score associated with the targets that responded otherwise. In
an embodiment, the said increment and decremented of confidence score may be applied by an
equal value.
        [057]     In an example embodiment, the verification of the sub-profile may be considered
as invalid in case the Sum of {Uk * (+1 if True or else -1 if false)}< threshold value Tip
        [058]     In an embodiment, on determination of the verification of the sub-profile as
invalid, the system may be caused to intimate the candidate via a notification for re-validation of
the sub-profile information. Additionally or alternatively, the system may expand the number of
targets in the plurality of targets (Gk), and again attempt the validation of the candidate profiles
for the subset-profile Parameters for which verification is determined to be invalid.
        [059]     In an embodiment, the system 200 may generate a report for providing the
validation status of the sub-profile information. In a similar manner, all the plurality of sub
profiles of the candidate profile may be analysed using the system 200. In an embodiment, the
system may display a screening status for each attribute of the plurality of attributes and a last
verified timestamp associated with screening of said attribute. The system 200 aims to solve the
need for increased regulatory scrutiny and compliances to encourage checks such as Anti-Money
                                                  20

Laundering (AML), Foreign Account Tax Compliance Act (FATCA) reporting, Customer
Identification   Program/Procedure       (CIP) and     country-specific  regulatory   reporting    and
compliance. Further, the system may encourage identity verification checks at regular intervals
to detect changes in the profile information of the candidate such as address change and the like.
The process of screening and verifying the profile information provided by the candidate is
further explained with respect to the flowchart of FIG. 3.
         [060]  FIG. 3 illustrates a flowchart 300 for screening of candidate profile, in accordance
with an example embodiment. In an embodiment, the candidate profile is screened by a system,
for example, the system 200 (FIG. 2). In an embodiment, the system 200 utilizes a crowd
sourcing platform for screening of the candidate profile.
         [061]  At 302, a request for screening of a candidate profile is received at the system
200. In an embodiment, the candidate profile may include a plurality of candidate profile
attributes. Examples of said attributes may include identity information, photographs, address
details, character details, contact details, employment details, tax details, proof of identity, proof
of residence, utility bills, credit card statement, signature, and neighbourhood information of the
user. In an embodiment, the candidate profile attribute includes a plurality of verification
parameters, such that a verification parameter of the plurality of verification parameters is
associated with an importance rating and a sensitivity level. The importance rating of the
verification parameter may be indicative of relevance of the verification parameter to determine
if the verification parameter is mandatory or optional for verification of the sub-profile
information. The sensitivity level associated with the verification parameter may be indicative of
sensitivity of sub-profile information associated with the verification parameter.
         [062]  At 304, the candidate profile is divided into a plurality of subset profiles having
sub-profile information associated with one or more candidate profile attributes. In an
embodiment, the candidate profile is divided into the plurality of subset profiles subset-profile
generation module 224 of the system 200. In an embodiment, each subset-profile of the plurality
of subset-profiles includes subset-profile information associated with one or more attributes of
the plurality of attributes.
         [063]  At 306, the subset-profile information of one or more subset-profiles of the
plurality of subset-profiles is validated. The sub-set profile information of a subset-profile is
validated by performing steps 308-316.
                                                   21

         [064]   At 308, the subset-profile information associated with the plurality of subset
profiles is mapped with target-profile information of a plurality of targets. For example, a subset
profile may include the address of the candidate. The system may then match the address of the
target with the address information of the plurality of targets to identify those targets that stay in
the vicinity of the candidate's address. Alternatively, the system may determine the patterns
established through the commute behaviour of the targets to identify the targets that may often be
visiting the vicinity of said address. Similarly, the system can identify a person as an target who
regularly passes through a certain route could become a "potential" agent for a candidate residing
at an address in that route.
         [065] A target of the set of targets is capable of screening the subset-profile information
of the one or more subset-profiles. The target-profile information includes at least one of real
time information and contextual information of the plurality of targets. In an embodiment, the
request for screening of the candidate profile is received by the communication module 222
(FIG. 2).
         [066]   In an embodiment, a target may be a hand-held device. In the present
embodiment, the contextual information of the target includes attributes of registered user of the
hand-held device. Examples of the attributes of the registered user of the hand-held device may
include static target attributes, dynamic target attributes, target verification parameters, and target
constraints. In an embodiment, the target constraints may include multi-level constraints. The
multi-level constraints can be selectively applied to the plurality of targets for identifying the set
of targets. In another embodiment, the target may be a fixed device. In this embodiment, the
contextual information of the target may be the device information of the fixed device.
         [067]   In an embodiment, to identify the set of targets, the contextual information of the
plurality of targets is associated with the plurality of verification parameters of the subset-profile
information based on a plurality of mapping rules. Based on said association, a plurality of lists
of targets are identified from the plurality of targets. Each list of the plurality of lists includes one
or more targets capable of screening one or more verification parameters of the plurality of
verification parameters. Further, a degree of acquaintances is computed between each target of
the plurality of lists of targets based on a frequency of occurrence of said targets in the plurality
of lists. The set of targets is selected from the plurality of lists of targets based on a comparison
of said degree of acquaintances with a plurality of threshold values of the degree of
                                                   22

acquaintance. In an embodiment, the plurality of threshold values defines a range of the degree
of acquaintance within which the degree of acquaintance can assume an acceptable value. In an
embodiment, the plurality of threshold values may include at least an upper level of the degree of
acquaintance and a lower level of the degree of acquaintance. As such the degree of acquaintance
below the lower level of threshold value may not be acceptable, and hence the system may not
select the target having the degree of acquaintance below the lower level of threshold value as
the target for verification. Alternatively, the system may select the target having degree of
acquaintance below the lower level of threshold value as the target for verification, however, the
system may assign questions of relatively less difficulty to such targets.
         [068]   In an embodiment, the target having degree of acquaintance above the upper level
of threshold value may not be selected as the target for verification. Alternatively, the system
may select the target having degree of acquaintance higher than the upper level of threshold
value as the target for verification, however, the system may assign questions of relatively very
high difficulty to such targets.
         [069]   At 310, one or more queries are provisioned to the set of targets to enable the set
of targets to perform screening of the subset-profile information. At 312, one or more responses
to the one or more queries are received from the set of targets. The one or more responses
facilitates in validating the subset-profile information of the candidate profile. In an embodiment,
the one or more queries can be at least one of challenge-response questions, picture, text input,
Yes and No options, multiple choice questions, voting options, and partial data entry. For
example, in one scenario, the system may identify the targets to be a person working in the same
office complex as that of the candidate. In such a scenario, the system may send a query to the
target to click a picture of the candidate and send the same. On receiving such a query, the target
may click a picture of the candidate and send the same to the system through a mobile thereof in
response to the query.
         [070]   At 314, an aggregated weightage associated with the one or more responses
received from the set of targets is computed. The aggregated weightage may be computed based
at least on an extent of matching of the one or more responses with the one or more candidate
profile attributes of the subset-profile information and a confidence score associated with each
target of the set of targets. In an embodiment, the confidence score associated with a target is
indicative of a probability of accuracy of responses provided by the target. In an embodiment,
                                                  23

the confidence score may be computed based on at least one of past history of responses
provided by the target, promptness in providing the responses, correctness of the responses, and
difficulty level of previous queries assigned to the target. In an embodiment, the system may
identify a target of the set of targets having highest confidence score. The system may override
the one or more responses to the one or more queries received from the set of targets with a
response provided by the target having a highest confidence score.
         [071] At 316, the subset-profile information is identified as one of valid information and
an invalid information based on a comparison of the aggregate weightage with a threshold value
of weightage. In an embodiment, on determination that the weightage assigned to the subset
profile information is greater than or equal to the threshold value of aggregate weightage, the
subset-profile information may be identified as valid profile information. If however, the
weightage assigned to the subset-profile information is less than the threshold value of aggregate
weightage, the subset-profile information may be identified as invalid profile information.
         [072]  In an embodiment, a screening report may be generated based on the comparison
between subset-profile information and the corresponding inputs received from the set of target
user. In a similar manner, all the sub-profiles from the plurality of sub-profiles is analyzed using
the crowd sourcing platform for verifying the profile data associated with the candidate.
         [073]  A significant outcome of the disclosed screening and verification method is the
discovery of anomalies in a specific verification profile based on incoherent response for specific
sub-profiles, submitted by different targets, which would bring it to attention of authorities for
due diligence and manual verification. The verification of Fraudulent ID, Address proof, Shell
companies, Non-established linkages of historic verification data and current verification data by
the disclosed system 200 leads to detection of "Synthetic" Identity Theft.
         [074]  FIGS. 4A and 4B illustrate a flowchart 400 for screening of candidate profile, in
accordance with an example embodiment. In an embodiment, the candidate profile is screened
by a system, for example, the system 200 (FIG. 2). In an embodiment, the system 200 utilizes a
crowd sourcing platform for screening of the candidate profile.
         [075]  At 402, a request for screening of a candidate profile is received at the system. In
an embodiment, the candidate profile may include a plurality of attributes such as personal
information, professional information, social media information, educational information, and so
on. At 404, the candidate profile is partitioned into a plurality of subset profiles having sub
                                                 24

profile information associated with one or more attributes. At 406, the subset-profile information
associated with the plurality of subset profiles is mapped with target-profile information of a
plurality of targets. At 408, a set of targets from the plurality of targets is identified based on the
mapping.
         [076]  At 410, it is determined whether a trigger notification is required for screening the
subset profile. In an embodiment, the trigger notification may be provided by a trigger device on
occurrence of an event. In an embodiment, the trigger may be provided during a "unplanned"
engagement of the candidate with the target, or an anticipated engagement of the candidate with
the target, or could be offline engagement of the candidate with the target. In other words, an
event may act as a trigger for a trigger device to generate a trigger notification. If it is determined
at 410 that the trigger notification is available, the system may receive the trigger notification at
412, to thereby notify availability of the subset profile information associated with the subset
profile. On receipt of the trigger notification, the system may provision one or more queries to
the set of targets to enable the set of targets to perform screening of the subset profile
information, at 414. In an embodiment, in case it is determined at 410 that the trigger notification
is not required (meaning thereby that the interaction of the candidate and the target is not offline
or unplanned or anticipated), the system may directly provision the one or more queries to the set
of targets at 414. In an embodiment, the set of targets may provide responses to the one or more
queries, which may be received at 416 at the system.
         [077]  At 418, individual weightages may be assigned to the one or more responses
received from each of the set of targets. In an embodiment, the individual weightages are
assigned based on the confidence score of the respective targets and an extent of similarity
between the responses received and the sub-profile information provided by the candidate. At
420, an aggregated weightage is computed for the responses based on the individual weightages.
         [078]  At 422, it is determined whether the aggregated weightage is greater than or equal
to a threshold value of weightage. If it is determined that the aggregated weightage is greater
than or equal to the threshold value of weightage, the system may identify the subset profile
information as valid profile information, at 424. If however, the aggregated weightage is
determined to be less than the threshold value of weightage, the system may identify the subset
profile information as invalid profile information at 426.
                                                   25

         [079] At 428, it is determined whether the plurality of subset profiles are checked for
validity. If it is determined that the plurality of subset profiles are not checked for validity, the
system may consider another subset profile from the plurality of subset profiles at 430. Further
the system may screen the sub-profile information by following method 410-428 till the
screening of the plurality of subset-profiles of the candidate is completed. Once it is determined
that no more sub-profiles are available for screening, it may be determined at 432 that the
candidate profile is checked for validity.
                                       EXAMPLE SCENARIO
         [080]    In one example, the disclosed method and system may facilitate in verifying the
identity of a new user before opening bank-account by using a crowd sourcing platform. The
user (or the candidate) may provide documents for identity proof and address proof and fill in
details in a know-your-customer (KYC) form. After submitting the documents, the system 200
analyses the KYC forn as well as identity proof and address proof to generate profile data
associated with the new user. The KYC form includes the candidate profile information such as
personal information including photograph, Government ID, phone number, mobile number,
social media profile ID, present address, permanent address, and so on. Additionally, the profile
information may include activities usually performed by the candidate. Examples of such
activities may include visiting restaurants on weekends, calling friends at home, filling gas from
a nearby gas station, visiting a grocery store in nearby vicinity and the like.
         [081]    Prior to opening the bank account, the issuing authority for example, the bank
may initiate a verification process by accepting the profile information of the candidate. In an
example embodiment, the candidate profile information may include attributes such as
residential address (Al), office address (A2), name (A3), card number (A4), and club
membership card number (A5). The attributes may include one or more verification parameters.
In an embodiment, the system may be able to associate metadata associated with the verification
parameters. An example of the metadata is illustrated in the table 1 below:
                                                  26

                                Table 1
        Sensiti  Date   Radius           GPS    Targe Associated
        -vity    /Tim                             t   Attributes
      Metadata associated with verification parameter
A P1  M Level    Any     100 m           -     H      Color,
1       4                                             Neighborhood,
  P2  M Level    Any    < 0.5 km         Y     H, NH  Famous landmark(s)
        5               PV, NA for                    near to the address,
                        EV                            Google Map PIN,
  P3  0 Level    Any    < 0.5 km         Y     H, NH  Street address,
        5               PV, NA for                    Distance units from
                        EV                            Point A to specified
  P4  0 Level    Any    < 15 km          Y     H, NH  Address (by drive,
        5               PV, NA for                    by walk), Terrain,
                        EV                            Traffic conditions
  P5  0 Level    Any    < 30 km          Y     H, NH  (Regular), Traffic
        5               PV, NA for                    conditions
                        EV                            influencing by
  P6  0 Level    Any    < 0.5 km,        Y     H, NH  nearby events
        5               PV, NA for
                        EV
  P7  M Level    Any    NA               Y     H, NH
        5
  P8  M Level    Any    NA               Y     H, NH
        5
  P9  M Level    Any    NA               Y     H, NH
        5
  PlO M Level    Any    NA               --    H, NH
        5
                                  27

A    P11 M Level Any 500m        -- H     Color,
2          4                              Neighborhood,
     P12 M Level Any NA for PV,  Y  H, NH Famous landmark(s)
           5         NA for EV            near to the address,
     P13 0 Level Any NA for PV,  Y  H, NH Google Map PIN,
           5         NA for EV            Street address,
     P14 0 Level Any NA for PV,  Y  H. NH Distance units from
           5         NA for EV            Point A to specified
     P15 0 Level Any NA for PV,  Y  H, NH Address (by drive,
           5         NA for EV            by walk), Terrain,
     P16 0 Level Any NA for PV,  Y  H, NH Traffic conditions
           5         NA for EV            (Regular), Traffic
     P17 M Level Any NA          Y  H, NH conditions
           5                              influencing by
     P18 M Level Any NA          Y  H, NH nearby events
           5
     P19 M Level Any NA          Y  H, NH
           5
     P20 M Level Any NA          -- H, NH
           5
A    P21 M Level Any NA          -- H     Nick name,
3          3                              Mapping name to
     P22 M Level Any NA          -- H     face (physical
           4                              attributes of a
     P23 M Level Any NA          -- H, NH person)
           4
     P24 O Level Any NA          -- H
           2
A    P25 M Level Any NA          -- H. NH Add-on card details,
4 ri       2                              C affiliated picture
                              28

           P26    M Level      Any   NA                --      H, NH   background
                      2                                                branding, Co-brand
           P27    M Level      Any   NA                --      H, NH
                      2
           P28    M Level      Any   NA                --      H, NH
                      2
           P29    M Level      Any    NA               --      H. NH
                      2
A          P30    M Level            NA                --      H, NH   Add-on card details
5                     2                                                , Membership
           P31    M Level             NA               --      H, NH   details, Fees
                      2
           P32    M Level            NA                --      H, NH
           P33    M Level            NA                --      H, NH
                      2
           P34    M Level            NA                --      H, NH
                      2
         [082]    As illustrated in Table 1, the attribute (Al) residential address may include
verification parameters such as door number (P1), address line 1 (P2), address line 2 (P3), Town
(P4), State/County/Province (P5), Landmark (P6), City (P7), Zip Code (P8), Country (P9), and
Phone Number (P10). Also, the attribute (A2) office address includes door number (P11),
address line 1 (P12), address line 2 (P13), Town (P14), State/County/Province (P15), Landmark
(P16), City (P17), Zip Code (P18), Country (P19), and Phone Number (P20). In addition, the
attribute (A3) name may include verification parameters First name (P21), surname (P22), photo
(P23), alias name (P24). Also, the attribute (A4) card number includes issuer and affiliate (P25),
first name (P26), sirname (P27), expiry date (P28), and last 4 digits of card number (P29).
Further, the attribute (A5) club membership card number includes issuer (P30), first name (P31),
Last name (32), expiry date (P33), and last 4 digits of card number (P34).
                                                29

         [083]     Further referring to Table 1, the metadata associated with the verification
parameters includes usage, sensitivity, date/time, radius or distance from the target, GPS, target,
 and other associated attributes. Herein, it will be noted that the metadata may be representative
 of the contextual information associated with the plurality of targets. In table 1, the target can be
 a human (H) or a non-human (NH). Also, the notations EV and PV in the radius metadata stand
 for electronic verification and physical verification, respectively.
         [084]     In one embodiment, the system 200 may determine whether the new candidate's
 identity verification is previously performed or not. If the identity screening is previously
performed by the system 200, then the system may display the screening status for each attribute
 and a last verified timestamp corresponding to the said attribute. In case the candidate's identity
 is not previously verified or screened, a request may be placed in the system 200 for selecting the
 attributes for verification. In case of refreshing the verification, the verification status is available
 in a history record associated with the candidate. In one embodiment, only a system
 administrator may be authorized to see the set of targets who had previously verified the profile
 information of the candidate. In such a situation the bank authority can check only the
 verification status and last verified date and issue request for verification (New/Renewal).
Further, multiple requestors (or issuing authorities such as a bank, a passport issuing authority, a
job placement authority, and so on) can issue request for fresh verification for any candidate at
 any point of time.
         [085]     In one embodiment, the system 200 may be embodied in form of a software
 application. The issuing authority may install the software application to identify the targets on a
 crowd sourcing platfonn. The software application can be one of a mobile app, desktop app,
 browser app, API or web service integration. A plurality of targets may also install the software
 application in devices thereof, and may register with the software application to act as targets for
profile verification. The system 200 classifies the targets into different categories based on the
target-profile information (as illustrated in Table 1) associated with the plurality of targets. In
 addition to the target-profile information illustrated in Table 1, the target-profile information
may also include nature of the business in which a target user are engaged, the place or
residence, places frequently visited, and so on. The system 200 identifies certain attributes that
 can be verified by a set of target. For instance, the system 200 may classify all the targets who
may interact with the candidate in relation to the address of the user into the set of target that can
                                                    30

verify the address of the candidate i.e. a set of targets in relation to the address of the new user
are grouped as a set of target users associated with the address attribute. It will be noted that the
system can categorize the set of targets for screening of multiple attributes of the candidate. Such
multiple attributes can be combined into one subset-profile so that the set of targets can screen
the subset-profile information of the candidate for verification purposes. It will also be noted that
immediate family could be a participant of crowd sourcing platform. However, the system 200
would not consider the candidate or immediate family in the set of target users for the purpose of
identity or address verification.
         [086]   In one embodiment, the profile information of the candidate is divided into a set
of profile fragments by the system 200. Further, each subset-profile is generated based on one or
more attributes selected from the profile fragments. In this example, a subset-profile containing
the attributes "address of the user" and "user present at home" can be clubbed together to form a
subset-profile.
         [087]   In order to verify this subset-profile, the system 200 determines the set of target
through a random allotment mechanism based on the natural interactions of the target users with
the new user in the physical world. The system 200 performs a ready lookup for a quick
reference for a target user with verified KYC. The target users are selected based on recent
verification update for one-off or high value transactions by non-bank account holders for drafts,
remittances and the like. This system 200 could be extended to verification of medical history,
criminal records, credit history, and so on. For instance, in the present situation, a food delivery
boy, a friend, and a grocery store keeper may be identified as a set of target users who can verify
the address attribute associated with the user, since these target users are physically visiting the
address of the new user for some reason or the other at different time of the week. Further, the
set of targets may also include non-human entities such as a webcam fitted in the society in
which the new user claims to stay webcam at the grocery store which may capture the new users
photograph in order to verify his photograph given in the profile details. The non-human entities
may also include driverless cars, intelligent billboards, surveillance devices, cameras or drones.
In the next step, a set of questions corresponding to the address micro profile are generated by
the system 200. The set of questions may include challenge-response based questions for
verifying the address subset-profile of the candidate. This set of targets is then prompted with
these different challenge based questions depending on their location and the address provided
                                                 31

by the new user. The challenge based questions may include picture, text, Yes/No, Multiple
choice, vote, partial data entry type questions. For example - send/upload selfie of a food
delivery boy with customer.
        [088]     In this embodiment, the food delivery boy may be asked with a question asking
the society name of the candidate's address. Further, the friend of the user may be asked to verify
the flat number of the new user and the like. In one embodiment, the multiple questions are
created with different complexity level such as simple, medium, or hard and assigned to different
target users.
        [089]     Examples of various questions (or queries) corresponding to various attributes,
that may be provided for verification to the set of targets may include:
For attribute A1, and verification parameters P2-P 10:
Target type: online map/directory service
Sample Question: What is the distance from {A} to {B} located near {landmark} by car/public
    transit?
Outcome:
Verification completed: P2-P10
Verification Pending: Pl. Door numbers information not available in online map/directory
    service.
Verification Completeness: 90%
        [090]     For attributes Al, A3, for verification parameters P1-P10:
Target type: Human
Sample Question: What is the name on the mailbox at address (Address)?
Outcome:
Verification completed: P1-P10, P21-23
Verification Pending: None
Verification Completeness: 100%
[090]   For attribute A2, for verification parameters P11 -P20:
                                                  32

Target Agent type: online map/directory service
Sample Question: Where is this address located in (City)
Outcome:
Verification completed: P1 1-P20
Verification Pending: None
Verification Completeness: 100%
        [091]    For attributes A3, A4, for verification parameters P21-P29:
Target type: Human
Sample Question: Please select the name of the person {display photo} whose credit card
    number ends with **** *        *    4327 to complete the payment transaction at your point of
    sale (POS).
Answer Options. Williams Carl, Bruce David, Thornton Bill, Philips Luke, None of these
Outcome:
Verification completed: P21-P29
Verification Pending: None
Verification Completeness: 100%
        [092]    After receiving response from the set of target the system 200 enables
verification of the subset profile containing the address, by comparing the subset profile
infonnation with the inputs received from the set of target. For this purpose, initially system 200
aggregates all the inputs received from the food delivery boy, the user's friend and the grocery
store keeper against the candidate. The inputs are normalized and aggregated. The aggregated
inputs are compared based upon an average mean value of the subset-profile for verifying profile
data provided by the candidate. Further, it should be noted that as part of this crowdsourcing
engagement, a candidate's online/social identities could be new information that could be
gathered which could be updated in the system 200. If many target users are able to corroborate
the newly gathered information, system 200 could be considered as a source of new verified
information. These could be used to create additional subset profiles during future requests for
                                                 33

verification. Further, the system 200 is enabled to generate verification report corresponding to
the address subset-profile of the candidate based on the comparison between subset-profile and
the corresponding inputs received from the set of target user. In a similar manner, all the subset
profiles from the set of subset-profiles associated with the candidate are analysed using the
crowd sourcing platform for verifying the profile data associated with the candidate. The
aggregated responses are tagged to a specific profile date/timestamp and sent to the processor
which employs a mathematical model to compute a score based on the responses. In an
embodiment, said score can be used to determine if the subset profile information (for example,
the address) being verified can be processed or a physical verification is further required or not.
Accordingly, the processor places the request in the workflow of a field officer. The system 200
also employs learning algorithms such as linear regression to build its knowledge base and
enhance its calculation accuracy.
         [093]    In one embodiment, the crowd sourced verification disclosed herein is not
limited only to verification of identity of individuals. The crowd sourced verification could be
extended for Small and Medium Enterprises (SMEs), business, corporate, partnership firms,
business entities, finns, and companies. Many banks rely on third party certification or
intermediaries to verify customer when it comes to Alien, Non-Resident Accounts and for cross
border parties.
         [094]    Although implementations of system and method for verification of identity of a
user, it is to be understood that the appended claims are not necessarily limited to the specific
features or methods described herein. However, the specific features and methods are disclosed
as examples of implementations for verifying the identity of a candidate.
         [095]    The illustrated steps are set out to explain the exemplary embodiments shown,
and it should be anticipated that ongoing technological development will change the manner in
which particular functions are performed. These examples are presented herein for purposes of
illustration, and not limitation. Further, the boundaries of the functional building blocks have
been arbitrarily defined herein for the convenience of the description. Alternative boundaries
can be defined so long as the specified functions and relationships thereof are appropriately
performed. Alternatives (including equivalents, extensions, variations, deviations, etc., of those
described herein) will be apparent to persons skilled in the relevant art(s) based on the teachings
contained herein.      Such alternatives fall within the scope and spirit of the disclosed
                                                  34

embodiments. Also, the words "comprising," "having," "containing," and "including," and other
similar forms are intended to be equivalent in meaning and be open ended in that an item or
items following any one of these words is not meant to be an exhaustive listing of such item or
items, or meant to be limited to only the listed item or items. It must also be noted that as used
herein and in the appended claims, the singular fonns "a," "an," and "the" include plural
references unless the context clearly dictates otherwise.
        [096]     Furthermore, one or more computer-readable storage media may be utilized in
implementing embodiments consistent with the present disclosure. A computer-readable storage
medium refers to any type of physical memory on which information or data readable by a
processor may be stored. Thus, a computer-readable storage medium may store instructions for
execution by one or more processors, including instructions for causing the processor(s) to
perfonn steps or stages consistent with the embodiments described herein. The term "computer
readable medium" should be understood to include tangible items and exclude carrier waves and
transient signals, i.e., be non-transitory. Examples include random access memory (RAM), read
only memory (ROM), volatile memory, nonvolatile memory, hard drives, CD ROMs, DVDs,
flash drives, disks, and any other known physical storage media.
        [097]     It is intended that the disclosure and examples be considered as exemplary only,
with a true scope and spirit of disclosed embodiments being indicated by the following claims.
                                                   35

CLAIMS
WHAT IS CLAIMED IS:
 I1.    A processor-implemented method for candidate profile screening comprising:
receiving, via one or more hardware processors, a request for screening of a candidate profile
        associated with a candidate, the candidate profile comprising a plurality of candidate
        profile attributes;
dividing, via the one or more hardware processors, the candidate profile into a plurality of
        subset-profiles, each subset-profile comprising subset-profile information associated with
        one or more candidate profile attributes of the plurality of candidate profile attributes;
        and
validating, via the one or more hardware processors, the subset-profile information of one or
        more subset-profiles of the plurality of subset-profiles, wherein validating the sub-set
        profile information of a subset-profile comprises:
                mapping the subset-profile information associated with the plurality of subset
        profiles with target-profile information of a plurality of targets to identify a set of targets
        from amongst the plurality of targets, a target of the set of targets capable of screening
        the subset-profile information of the one or more subset-profiles, the target-profile
        information comprising at least one of real-time information and contextual information
        of the plurality of targets;
                provisioning one or more queries to the set of targets to enable the set of targets to
        perform screening of the subset-profile information;
                receiving one or more responses to the one or more queries from the set of targets,
        wherein the one or more responses facilitates in validating the subset-profile information
        of the candidate profile;
                computing an aggregated weightage associated with the one or more responses
        received from the set of targets, the aggregated weightage computed based at least on an
        extent of matching of the one or more responses with the one or more candidate profile
        attributes of the subset-profile information and a confidence score associated with each
        target of the set of targets, wherein the confidence score associated with the each target is
        indicative of a probability of accuracy of responses provided by the target, and wherein
                                                   36

        the confidence score is computed based on at least one of past history of responses
        provided by the target, promptness in providing the responses, correctness of the
        responses, and difficulty level of previous queries assigned to the target; and
                 comparing the aggregated weightage with a threshold value of the aggregated
        weightage to identify the subset-profile information as one of a valid information and an
        invalid information;
wherein a candidate profile attribute of the plurality of candidate profile attributes comprises a
        plurality of verification parameters, and wherein a verification parameter of the plurality
        of verification parameters is associated with an importance rating and a sensitivity level,
wherein the importance rating of the verification parameter indicative of relevance of the
        verification parameter to determine if the verification parameter is mandatory for
        verification of the sub-profile information, and
wherein, the sensitivity level associated with the verification parameter indicative of sensitivity
        of sub-profile information associated with the verification parameter;
wherein identifying the set of targets comprises:
associating the contextual information of the plurality of targets with the plurality of verification
        parameters of the subset-profile information based on a plurality of mapping rules,
identifying a plurality of lists of targets from the plurality of targets based on associating, each
        list of the plurality of lists comprising one or more targets capable of screening one or
        more verification parameters of the plurality of verification parameters;
computing degree of acquaintances between each target of the plurality of lists of targets based
        on a frequency of occurrence of said targets in the plurality of lists; and
selecting the set of targets from the plurality of lists of targets based on a comparison of the
        degree of acquaintances with a plurality of threshold values of the degree of
        acquaintance, the plurality of threshold values defining a range of the degree of
        acquaintance, the plurality of threshold values comprising at least an upper level of the
        degree of acquaintance and a lower level of the degree of acquaintance.
2. The method of claim 1, further comprising receiving at least one trigger notification prior to
        provisioning the one or more queries to the set of targets, the at least one trigger
        notification notifying availability of the subset-profile information associated with the
                                                   37

         subset-profile, the at least one trigger notification generated based on at least one of the
         plurality of candidate profile attributes and an attribute-related activity of the candidate.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein a target of the plurality of targets comprises one of a hand
         held device and a fixed device, and wherein the contextual information of the target being
         the hand-held device comprises attributes of registered user of the hand-held device, and
         wherein the contextual information of the target being the fixed device comprises device
         information of the fixed device.
4. The method of claim 3, wherein the attributes of the registered user of the hand-held device
         comprises static target attributes, dynamic target attributes, target verification parameters,
         and target constraints, and wherein the target constraints comprises multi-level
         constraints, the multi-level constraints being selectively applied to the plurality of targets
         for identifying the set of targets.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein identifying the sub-profile information as the invalid
         information comprises detecting an anomaly in the subset-profile information on
         determination of the aggregated weightage being less the threshold value of the aggregate
         weightage, and wherein identifying the sub-profile information as the valid information
         comprises determining the aggregated weightage as greater than or equal to the threshold
         value of the aggregate weightage.
6. A processor-implemented system for candidate profile screening, the system comprising:
at least one memory storing instructions; and
one or more hardware processors coupled to said at least one memory, wherein the one or more
         hardware processors configured by said instructions to:
                 receive a request for screening of a candidate profile associated with a candidate,
         the candidate profile comprising a plurality of candidate profile attributes;
                 divide the candidate profile into a plurality of subset-profiles, each subset-profile
         comprising subset-profile information associated with one or more candidate profile
         attributes of the plurality of candidate profile attributes; and
                                                    38

               validate the sub-set profile information of one or more subset-profiles of the
       plurality of subset-profiles, wherein to validate the sub-set profile information of a
       subset-profile, the one or more hardware processors are configured by said instructions
       to:
                       map the subset-profile information associated with the plurality of subset
       profiles with target-profile information of a plurality of targets to identify a set of targets
       from amongst the plurality of targets, a target of the set of targets capable of screening
       the subset-profile information of the one or more subset-profiles, the target-profile
       information comprising at least one of real-time information and contextual information
       of the plurality of targets;
                       provision one or more queries to the set of targets to enable the set of
       targets to perform screening of the subset-profile information;
                       receive one or more responses to the one or more queries from the set of
       targets, wherein the one or more responses facilitates in validating the subset-profile
       information of the candidate profile;
                       compute an aggregated weightage associated with the one or more
       responses received from the set of targets, the aggregated weightage computed based at
       least on an extent of matching of the one or more responses with the one or more
       candidate profile attributes of the subset-profile information and a confidence score
       associated with each target of the set of targets, wherein the confidence score associated
       with the each target is indicative of a probability of accuracy of responses provided by
       the target, and wherein the confidence score is computed based on at least one of past
       history of responses provided by the target, promptness in providing the responses,
       correctness of the responses, and difficulty level of previous queries assigned to the
       target; and
                       compare the aggregated weightage with a threshold value of the
       aggregated weightage to identify the subset-profile information as one of a valid
       information and an invalid information;
wherein a candidate profile attribute of the plurality of candidate profile attributes comprises a
       plurality of verification parameters, and wherein a verification parameter of the plurality
       of verification parameters is associated with an importance rating and a sensitivity level,
                                                 39

wherein the importance rating of the verification parameter indicative of relevance of the
        verification parameter to determine if the verification parameter is mandatory for
        verification of the sub-profile information, and
wherein, the sensitivity level associated with the verification parameter indicative of sensitivity
        of sub-profile information associated with the verification parameter;
wherein identifying the set of targets comprises:
associating the contextual information of the plurality of targets with the plurality of verification
        parameters of the subset-profile information based on a plurality of mapping rules,
identifying a plurality of lists of targets from the plurality of targets based on associating, each
        list of the plurality of lists comprising one or more targets capable of screening one or
        more verification parameters of the plurality of verification parameters;
computing degree of acquaintances between each target of the plurality of lists of targets based
        on a frequency of occurrence of said targets in the plurality of lists; and
selecting the set of targets from the plurality of lists of targets based on a comparison of the
        degree of acquaintances with a plurality of threshold values of the degree of
        acquaintance, the plurality of threshold values defining a range of the degree of
        acquaintance, the plurality of threshold values comprising at least an upper level of the
        degree of acquaintance and a lower level of the degree of acquaintance.
7. The system of claim 6, said one or more hardware processors are further configured by the
        instructions to receive at least one trigger notification prior to provisioning the one or
        more queries to the set of targets, the at least one trigger notification notifying availability
        of the subset-profile information associated with the subset-profile, the at least one
        trigger notification generated based on at least one of the plurality of candidate profile
        attributes and an attribute-related activity of the candidate.
8. The system of claim 6, wherein a target of the plurality of targets comprises one of a hand
        held device and a fixed device, and wherein the contextual information of the target being
        the hand-held device comprises attributes of registered user of the hand-held device, and
        wherein the contextual information of the target being the fixed device comprises device
        information of the fixed device.
                                                   40

9. The system of claim 8, wherein the attributes of the registered user of the hand-held device
        comprises static target attributes, dynamic target attributes, target verification parameters,
        and target constraints, and wherein the target constraints comprises multi-level
        constraints, the multi-level constraints being selectively applied to the plurality of targets
        for identifying the set of targets.
 10. The system of claim 6, wherein to identify the sub-profile information as the invalid
        information, one or more hardware processors are further configured by the instructions
        to detect an anomaly in the subset-profile information on determination of the aggregated
        weightage being less than the threshold value of the aggregate weightage, and wherein to
        identify the sub-profile information as the valid information one or more hardware
        processors are further configured by the instructions to determine the aggregated
        weightage as greater than or equal to the threshold value of the aggregate weightage.
 11. A non-transitory computer-readable medium having embodied thereon a computer program
        for executing a method for screening candidate profile, the method comprising:
receiving a request for screening of a candidate profile associated with a candidate, the candidate
        profile comprising a plurality of candidate profile attributes;
dividing the candidate profile into a plurality of subset-profiles, each subset-profile comprising
        subset-profile information associated with one or more candidate profile attributes of the
        plurality of candidate profile attributes; and
validating the sub-set profile information of one or more subset-profiles of the plurality of
        subset-profiles, wherein validating the sub-set profile information of a subset-profile
        comprises:
                mapping the subset-profile information associated with the plurality of subset
        profiles with target-profile information of a plurality of targets to identify a set of targets
        from amongst the plurality of targets, a target of the set of targets capable of screening
        the subset-profile information of the one or more subset-profiles, the target-profile
        information comprising at least one of real-time information and contextual information
        of the plurality of targets;
                                                   41

                  provisioning one or more queries to the set of targets to enable the set of targets to
         perform screening of the subset-profile information;
                  receiving one or more responses to the one or more queries from the set of targets,
         wherein the one or more responses facilitates in validating the subset-profile information
         of the candidate profile;
                  computing an aggregated weightage associated with the one or more responses
         received from the set of targets, the aggregated weightage computed based at least on an
         extent of matching of the one or more responses with the one or more candidate profile
         attributes of the subset-profile information and a confidence score associated with each
         target of the set of targets; and
                  comparing the aggregated weightage with a threshold value of the aggregated
         weightage to identify the subset-profile information as one of a valid information and an
         invalid information;
wherein a candidate profile attribute of the plurality of candidate profile attributes comprises a
       plurality of verification parameters, and wherein a verification parameter of the plurality of
       verification parameters is associated with an importance rating and a sensitivity level,
wherein the importance rating of the verification parameter indicative of relevance of the
       verification parameter to determine if the verification parameter is mandatory for
       verification of the sub-profile information, and
wherein, the sensitivity level associated with the verification parameter indicative of sensitivity
       of sub-profile information associated with the verification parameter;
wherein identifying the set of targets comprises:
associating the contextual information of the plurality of targets with the plurality of verification
      parameters of the subset-profile information based on a plurality of mapping rules,
identifying a plurality of lists of targets from the plurality of targets based on associating, each
       list of the plurality of lists comprising one or more targets capable of screening one or
       more verification parameters of the plurality of verification parameters;
computing degree of acquaintances between each target of the plurality of lists of targets based
       on a frequency of occurrence of said targets in the plurality of lists; and
selecting the set of targets from the plurality of lists of targets based on a comparison of the
         degree of acquaintances with a plurality of threshold values of the degree of
                                                    42

acquaintance, the plurality of threshold values defining a range of the degree of
acquaintance, the plurality of threshold values comprising at least an upper level of the
degree of acquaintance and a lower level of the degree of acquaintance.
                                         43

<removed-date>
                                     1/4
                                           102
                                                 106          108
                     104-1
<removed-apn>
                      104-2
                     104-n
                                                       100
                                    FIG. 1
                                                             200
               MEMORY 204                        208
               MODULES 220
               222            224                            206
                                                       I/O INTERFACE
               226            228
               230            232
               234            236
              REPOSITORY 240
                                                          202
               242            244                      PROCESSOR
               246            248
                                    FIG. 2

<removed-date>
                                      2/4
                   RECEIVE A REQUEST FOR SCREENING OF A             302
                  CANDIDATE PROFILE HAVING A PLURALITY OF
                      CANDIDATE PROFILE ATTRIBUTES
<removed-apn>
              PARTITION THE CANDIDATE PROFILE INTO A PLURALITY      304
                             OF SUBSET-PROFILES
              MAP THE SUBSET-PROFILE INFORMATION ASSOCIATED
                WITH THE PLURALITY OF SUBSET-PROFILES WITH          306
               TARGET-PROFILE INFORMATION OF A PLURALITY OF
                   TARGETS TO IDENTIFY A SET OF TARGETS
               PROVISION ONE OR MORE QUERIES TO THE SET OF          308
                 TARGETS TO ENABLE THE SET OF TARGETS TO
                PERFORM SCREENING OF THE SUBSET-PROFILE
                              INFORMATION
                                                                    310
              RECEIVE ONE OR MORE RESPONSES TO THE ONE OR
                 MORE QUERIES FROM THE SET OF TARGETS
              COMPUTE AN AGGREGATED WEIGHTAGE ASSOCIATED
              WITH THE ONE OR MORE RESPONSES RECEIVED FROM
              THE SET OF TARGETS BASED AT LEAST ON AN EXTENT        312
                OF MATCHING OF THE ONE OR MORE RESPONSES
                  WITH THE ONE OR MORE CANDIDATE PROFILE
              ATTRIBUTES OF THE SUB-PROFILE INFORMATION AND
                 A CONFIDENCE SCORE ASSOCIATED WITH EACH
                       TARGET OF THE SET OF TARGETS
                COMPARE THE AGGREGATED WEIGHTAGE WITH A
              THRESHOLD VALUE OF WEIGHTAGE TO IDENTIFY THE          314
               SUBSET-PROFILE INFORMATION AS ONE OF A VALID
                  INFORMATION AND AN INVALID INFORMATION
                                    FIG. 3                    300

<removed-date>
                                             3/4
               RECEIVE A REQUEST FOR SCREENING OF A CANDIDATE       402
                  PROFILE HAVING A PLURALITY OF ATTRIBUTES
              PARTITION THE CANDIDATE PROFILE INTO A PLURALITY OF   404
               SUBSET PROFILES HAVING SUB-PROFILE INFORMATION
<removed-apn>
                   ASSOCIATED WITH ONE OR MORE ATTRIBUTES
               MAP THE SUBSET-PROFILE INFORMATION ASSOCIATED         406
              WITH THE PLURALITY OF SUBSET PROFILES WITH TARGET-
                PROFILE INFORMATION OF A PLURALITY OF TARGETS
                  IDENTIFY A SET OF TARGETS FROM THE PLURALITY OF
                                                                    408
                           TARGETS BASED ON THE MAPPING
                                                     410
                                     TRIGGER
                                                            NO
              B                 NOTIFICATION TO BE
                                   GENERATED?
                                             YES
                      RECEIVE AT LEAST ONE TRIGGER NOTIFICATION
                     NOTIFYING AVAILABILITY OF THE SUBSET PROFILE   412
                  INFORMATION ASSOCIATED WITH THE SUBSET-PROFILE
                                                                    414
                   PROVISION ONE OR MORE QUERIES TO THE SET OF
                                     TARGETS
                   RECEIVE ONE OR MORE RESPONSES TO THE ONE OR      416
                      MORE QUERIES FROM THE SET OF TARGETS
                  ASSIGN INDIVIDUAL WEIGHTAGES TO EACH OF THE ONE
                  OR MORE RESPONSES BASED ON CONFIDENCE SCORE       418
                  AND EXTENT OF MATCHING OF RESPONSES WITH SUB-
                                 PROFILEINFOMRATION
                                         A
                                                              400
                                        FIG. 4A

<removed-date>
                                         4/4
                                     A
               COMPUTE AN AGGREGATED WEIGHTAGE BASED ON          420
<removed-apn>
                         INDIVIDUAL WEIGHTAGES
                                                   422
                                AGGREGATE
              YES         WEIGHTAGE GREATER THAN
                          OR EQUAL TO THRESHOLD
                           VALUE OF WEIGHTAGE?
                                         NO
                                                                 424
                IDENTIFY THE SUBSET PROFILE INFORMATION AS
                        INVALID PROFILE INFORMATION
                IDENTIFY THE SUBSET PROFILE INFORMATION AS
                                                                  426
                         VALID PROFILE INFORMATION
                                                    428
                                THE PLURALITY
                                                           NO
                         OF SUBSET PROFILES CHECKED
                                 FOR VALIDITY?
                                         YES
                                                                432
                        PROFILE CHECKED FOR VALIDITY
                                                                430
                    CONSIDER ANOTHER SUBSET PROFILE FROM
                      THE PLURALITY OF SUBSET PROFILES
                                     B
                                                                400
                                  FIG. 4B

