                                               Abstract
        A novel UDP-Gal regeneration process and its combined use with a galactosyltransferease
to add galactose to a suitable acceptor substrate. Also described herein are synthetic methods for
generating Globo-series oligosaccharides in large scale, wherein the methods may involve the
combination of a glycosyltransferase reaction and a nucleotide sugar regeneration process.

                        Large Scale Enzymatic Synthesis of Oligosaccharides
                                            Related Applications
   This application is a divisional application of Australian Patent Application No. <removed-apn>,
 5 which is a divisional of Australian Patent Application No. 2013305937, the contents of which
   are incorporated herein by reference. The present application claims priority under 35 U.S.C. §
   119(e) to U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61/684,974, filed August 20, 2012, which is
   herein incorporated by reference in its entirety.
10                                                Background
            Globopentaose (Gb5), fucosyl-Gb5 (Globo H), and sialyl-Gb5 (SSEA4) are globo
   series glycosphingolipid and were first discovered in 1983 in cultured human teratocarcinoma
   cell linel11 and subsequently found in several malignant cancers.E21 31 ] Report showed Globo H
   overexpression in up to 61%, Gb5 overexpression in 77.5% and SSEA4 overpression in 95%
15 in breast cancer patients .[4] On the other hand, HER2 gene, the target for therapeutic
   monoclonal antibody Trastuzumab (Herceptin) that interferes with the HER2/neu receptor, is
   overexpressed in only 25% breast cancer patients 51 . The comparison clearly demonstrated that
   the glycosphingolipid antigens (Gb5 and its derivative, Globo H and SSEA4) are better
   candidates to be developed into cancer vaccine. Hence, Globo H has been conjugated to the
20 keyhole limpet hemocyanin (KLH) as a cancer vaccine, and is under phase III clinical trial in
   some country now.[ 61
            There are several disadvantages of current methods used for the synthesis of Gb5,
   Globo H and SSEA4. The traditional chemical synthesis is tedious and labor-consuming, and
   several protection and de-protection steps are necessary to achieve high purity and correct
25 stereotype and always lead to the very low total yields. Till now there are many reports for the
   chemical synthesis of Globo H. [71 [8] [9] [10] [11] [12] [13] [14] However, only two reports have been
   published for SSEA4 synthesis. Hsu et al reported a one-pot chemical synthesis approach to
   assembled the glycan part of SSEA-4 in 24% yield[151 Zhen et al. reported the use of a
   chemoenzymatic method to synthesize SSEA-4 in milligram scale.                 [16] On the other hand, the
30 enzymatic synthesis of Globo H based on Leloir-type glycosyltransferase only requires the
   active nucleotide sugar as donor to catalyze the glycosylation reaction. Nonetheless, the
   nucleotide sugar is too expensive to synthesize in large scale. Moreover, the by-product
   pyrophosphate and nucleoside diphosphate inhibit the nucleotide sugar formation of
   pyrophosphorylase     [15] and Leloir-type glycosyltransferase; therefore, how to develop a
35 regeneration strategy is necessary to overcome the limitation and to recharge the nucleotide
                                                           1

    to achieve constitute nucleotide sugar product in order to continue the reaction. During the
    past several years, many groups worked to tackle the major problem of nucleotide sugar
    regeneration and most of the sugar nucleotide regeneration have been solved. However, there
    is still some space to improve the technology of sugar nucleotide regeneration, expecially the
 5  UDP-Gal regenerate is much difficult. For example, UDP-Gal regeneration was first
    proposed in 1982 by Wong and Whiteside via UDP-Glc C4 epimerase to interconverse UDP
    Glc and UDP-Gal     (171). Ten years later, our group developed the secondary UDP-Gal
    regeneration method. Instead of using UDP-Glc C4 epimerase, Glc-1-phosphate
    uridylyltransferase located in galactose operon in E. coli was used to interchange Gal-I
 0  phosphate and UDP-Glc to Glc-1-phosphate and UDP-Gal. E18 However, the final pathway to
    directly condense UTP and Gal-I-phosphate to form UDP-Gal was not established due to the
    absence of suitable enzyme. Because the target compunds Gb5, Globo H and SSEA4 ae Gal
    related molecules, how to overcome the major difficult of UDP-Gal regeneration and increase
    its efficiency will be the key point for large scale enzymatic synthesis of Gb5, Globo H and
 5  SSEA4.
              In summary, there are several limitations to current methods of large scale
    synthesizing Gb5, Globo H and SSEA4 in the art. Thus, there is a need for new synthetic
    procedures that produce Gb5, Globo H, SSEA4, and intermediates thereto in an efficient
    manner.
 10
                                        Summary of the Invention
              The present disclosure is based on the development of new nucleotide sugar
    regeneration processes and their applications in sugar synthesis. Such sugar synthesis
    methods, involving the combination of at least one nucleotide sugar regeneration system
25  (e.g., the UDP-Gal regeneration system described herein) and at least one glycosyltransferase
    (e.g., galactosyltransferase), were used in synthesizing various oligosaccharides (tailed),
    including allyl-tailed Gb3, Gb4, Gb5 (also known as SSEA3), Fucosyl-Gb5 (also known as
    Globo H), and Sialyl-Gb5 (also known as SSEA4), with unexpectedly high efficiency and
    yields. More specifically, the synthetic approaches described herein unexpectedly allow
30  chain reactions to produce final products, such as Globo H and SSEA4, without the need to
    purify intermediates.
              Accordingly, one aspect of the present disclosure relates to methods for adding a
    galactose residue to a substrate via the action of a galactosyltransferase coupled with a UDP
                                                     2

    Gal regeneration process. The method comprises: (i) producing UDP-Gal from galactose in
    the presence of a set of UDP-Gal regeneration enzymes, wherein the set of UDP-Gal
    regeneration enzymes comprises a galactokinase, an UDP-sugar pyrophosphorylase, a
    pyruvate kinase, and optionally, a pyrophosphatase; (ii) reacting the UDP-Gal with a
 5  substrate molecule (e.g., a polysaccharide, an oligosaccharide, a glycoprotein, a glycolipid, or
    an aglycone) via action of a galactosyltransferase (e.g., an alphal ,4-galactosyltransferase, a
    betal ,4-galactosyltransferase, an alphal ,3-galactosyltransferase, or a betal,3
    galactosyltransferase) to add a galactose residue to the substrate molecule; and, optionally,
    (iii) isolating the galactosylated product thus produced. Steps (i) and (ii) can take place in a
 0  reaction mixture comprising the set of UDP-Gal regeneration enzymes, the
    galactosyltransferase, the substrate molecule, galactose, ATP, and UTP. In some examples,
    the substrate molecule is a ceramide or a glycosphingolipid.
             Another aspect of the present disclosure relates to methods for synthesizing
    oligosaccharides involving at least one nucleotide sugar regeneration process (e.g., UDP-Gal
 5  regeneration) and at least one reaction of adding a monosaccaride, e.g., galactose (Gal), N
    acetylgalatocoamine (GalNAc), fucose (Fuc), and sialic acid (Neu5Ac), onto a suitable
    acceptor via action of a glycosyltranferase, e.g., galactosyltransferase, fucosyltransferase,
    sialyltransferase, and N-acetylgalactosaminyltransferase.
             In some embodiments, the method described herein for enzymatically synthesizing an
 '0 oligosaccharide, uses lactose (e.g., tailed) as the starting material. The method comprises: (i)
    producing UDP-Gal from galactose in the presence of a set of UDP-Gal regeneration
    enzymes, wherein the set of UDP-Gal regeneration enzymes comprises a galactokinase (e.g.,
    from E. coli), an UDP-sugar pyrophosphorylase (e.g., from A. thaliana),a pyruvate kinase
    (e.g., from E. coli), and optionally, a pyrophosphatase (e.g., from E. coli); (ii) converting Lac
25  OR      into Gb3-OR     in the presence of the UDP-Gal and an alpha-1,4 galactosyltransferase
    (e.g., a LgtC such as that from N. meningitides), wherein RiA is hydrogen, substituted or
    unsubstituted alkyl, substituted or unsubstituted alkenyl, substituted or unsubstituted alkynyl,
    substituted or unsubstituted carbocyclyl, substituted or unsubstituted heterocyclyl, substituted
    or unsubstituted aryl, substituted or unsubstituted heteroaryl, or an oxygen protecting group.
30  Lac-OR1A refers to lactose ( -D-galactopyranosyl-(1->4)-D-glucose) (e.g., also encompassed
                                         2A   3A   5A    2B    3B       5
    by Formula (I), wherein each of R2 , R , R , R , R          B, and R5 B is hydrogen) wherein the
    group attached to the anomeric carbon of lactose is an -OR         group, and wherein RiA is as
    defined herein.
                                                     3

             Examples of RiA include, but are not limited to hydrogen, allyl, biotin, a ceramide, or
    a non-hydrogen group (e.g., alkyl) which is further substituted with a substituted or
    unsubstituted thio, substituted or unsubstituted amino, carbonyl (e.g., carboxylic acid), azido,
    alkenyl (e.g., allyl), alkynyl (e.g., propargyl), biotin, or a ceramide group. In certain
 5  embodiments, RiA is hydrogen, allyl, substituted alkyl, biotin, or a ceramide.
             When necessary, Gb3-OR1A can be isolated from the reaction mixture.
              Steps (i) and (ii) can occur in a Gb3-synthesis reaction mixture comprising galactose,
    PEP, ATP, UTP, the Lac-OR I, the alpha-1,4-galactosyltransferase, and the set of UDP-Gal
    regeneration enzymes. In one example, the molar ratio of the Lac-OR          and galactose in the
 0  Gb3-synthesis reaction mixture is 1:1 before occurrence of any enzymatic reactions.
             Any of the methods described above can further comprise: (iii) converting the Gb3
    OR      into Gb4-OR      in the presence of UDP-GalNAc and a betal,3-N
    acetylgalactosaminyltransferase (e.g., a LgtD from a suitable organism such as H. influenza),
    which can be coupled with (iv) producing the UDP-GalNAc from GalNAc in the presence of
 5  a set of UDP-GalNAc regeneration enzymes, wherein the set of UDP-GalNAc regeneration
    enzymes comprises an N-acetylhexosamine 1-kinase (e.g., from B. longum), an N
    acetylglucosamine 1-phosphate uridyltransferase (e.g., from E. coli), and a pyruvate kinase
    (e.g., from E. coli), and optionally, a pyrophosphatase (e.g., from E. coli). Steps (iii) and (iv)
    can be carried out in a Gb4-synthesis reaction mixture comprising GalNAc, PEP, ATP, UTP,
 '0 the Gb3-OR I, the betal,3-N-acetylgalactosaminyltransferase, and the set of UDP-GalNAc
    regeneration enzymes. In one example, the Gb4-synthesis reaction mixture is prepared by
    mixing the Gb3-synthesis reaction mixture with at least GalNAc, the betal,3-N
    acetylgalactosaminyltransferase, the N-acetylhexosamine 1-kinase, and the N
    acetylglucosamine 1-phosphate uridyltransferase. When necessary, Gb4-OR1A can be
25  isolated from the reaction mixture.
             After synthesis of Gb4-ORA, the method as described above can further comprise: (v)
    converting the Gb4-OR1A into Gb5-OR1A in the presence of UDP-Gal and a betal,3
    galactosyltransferase (e.g., a LgtD such as that from H. influenza), which can be coupled with
    (vi) producing the UDP-Gal from galactose in the presence of the set of UDP-Gal
30  regeneration enzymes described herein. In one example, (v) and (vi) take place in a Gb5
    synthesis reaction mixture comprising galactose, PEP, ATP, UTP, the Gb4-ORA, the
    betal,3-galactosyltransferase, and the set of UDP-Gal regeneration enzymes. The resultant
    Gb5-OR       can be isolated from the reaction mixture.
                                                      4

              The above method can further comprise steps for converting the Gb5-OR1A thus
     obtained into Fucosyl-Gb5-OR        (Globo H) or into Sialyl-Gb5- OR1A (SSEA4).
              For Globo H synthesis, the method can further comprise: (vii) converting the Gb5
     OR1A into Fucosyl-Gb5-OR1A in the presence of GDP-Fuc and an alphal,2-fucosyltransferase
 5   (e.g., from H. pylor), which can be coupled with (viii) producing the GDP-Fuc from fucose in
     the presence of a set of GDP-Fuc regeneration enzymes, wherein the set of GDP-Fuc
     regeneration enzymes comprises a L-fucokinase/GDP-fucose pyrophosphorylase (e.g., B.
    fragilis), a pyruvate kinase (e.g., from E. coli), and a pyrophosphatase (e.g., from E. coli). In
     one example, steps (vii) and (viii) occur in a Fucosyl-Gb5 -synthesis reaction mixture
 0   comprising fucose, ATP, GTP, PEP, the Gb5-OR, the alphal ,2-fucosyltransferase, and the set
     of GDP-Fuc regeneration enzymes. The Fucosyl-Gb5-synthesis reaction mixture can be
     prepared by mixing the Gb5-synthesis reaction mixture with at least fucose, GTP, the
     alphal ,2-fucosyltransferase, and the L-fucokinase/GDP-fucose pyrophosphorylase. When
     necessary, the resultant Fucosyl-Gb5-OR       can be isolated from the reaction mixture.
 5            For SSEA4 synthesis, the method can further comprise: (ix) converting the Gb5-OR1A
     into Sialyl-Gb5-OR      in the presence of CMP-Neu5Ac and an alpha2,3-sialyltransferase
     (e.g., from M. bacteria),and (x) producing the CMP-Neu5Ac from Neu5Ac in the presence
     of a set of CMP-Neu5Ac regeneration enzymes, wherein the set of CMP-Neu5Ac
     regeneration enzymes comprises a cytidine monophosphate kinase (e.g., from E. coli), a
 '0  CMP-sialic acid synthetase (e.g., from P. Multocida), a pyruvate kinase (e.g., from E. coli),
     and optionally a pyrophosphatase (e.g., from E. coli). Steps (ix) and (x) can occur in a Sialyl
     Gb5-synthesis reaction mixture comprising Neu5Ac, CTP, PEP, the Gb5-ORA, the alpha
     2,3-sialyltransferase, and the set of CMP-Neu5Ac regeneration enzymes. The Sialyl-Gb5
     synthesis reaction mixture is prepared by mixing the Gb5-synthesis reaction mixture with at
25   least Neu5Ac, CTP, the alpha 2,3-sialyltransferase, the cytidine monophosphate kinase, and
     the CMP-sialic acid synthetase. The Sialyl-Gb5-OR1A can then be isolated from the reaction
     mixture.
              In one example, a method for synthesizing Globo H can be performed as follows: (i)
     producing UDP-Gal from galactose in the presence of the UDP-Gal regeneration enzymes as
30   described herein, (ii) converting Lac-OR     as described herein into Gb3-OR      in a Gb3
     synthesis reaction mixture comprising at least the UDP-Gal, an alpha-1,4
     galactosyltransferase, and the UDP-Gal regeneration enzymes, (iii) mixing the Gb3-synthesis
     reaction mixture with at least GalNAc, the beta 1,3-N-acetylgalactosaminyltransferase, the N
                                                     5

    acetylhexosamine 1-kinase, and the N-acetylglucosamine 1-phosphate uridyltransferase to
    form a Gb4-synthesis reaction mixture, (iv) incubating the Gb4-synthesis reaction mixture
    under conditions allowing conversion of Gb3 -OR         to Gb4-ORA, (v) further incubating the
    Gb4-synthesis reaction mixture in the presence of a p-1,3-galactosyltransferase under
 5  conditions allowing conversion of the Gb4-OR1A to Gb5-OR A (vi) mixing the Gb5-ORIA
    containing reaction mixture with at least fucose, GTP, the alphal ,2-fucosyltransferase, and
    the L-fucokinase/GDP-fucose pyrophosphorylase to form a Fucosyl-Gb5-OR 1A reaction
    mixture; (vii) incubating the Fucosyl-Gb5 -OR 1A reaction mixture under conditions allowing
    conversion of the Gb5-OR        to Fucosyl-Gb5-OR     , and optionally, (viii) isolating the
 0  Fucosyl-Gb5-OR
              In another example, a method for synthesizing Globo H can be performed as follows:
    (i) producing UDP-Gal from galactose in the presence of the UDP-Gal regeneration enzymes
    as described herein, (ii) converting Lac-OR      as described herein into Gb3-OR        in a Gb3
    synthesis reaction mixture comprising at least the UDP-Gal, an alpha-1,4
 5  galactosyltransferase, and the UDP-Gal regeneration enzymes, (iii) mixing the Gb3-synthesis
    reaction mixture with at least GalNAc, the beta 1,3-N-acetylgalactosaminyltransferase, the N
    acetylhexosamine 1 -kinase, and the N-acetylglucosamine 1-phosphate uridyltransferase to
    form a Gb4-synthesis reaction mixture, (iv) incubating the Gb4-synthesis reaction mixture
    under conditions allowing conversion of Gb3 -OR 1Ato Gb4-ORIA; (v) isolating the Gb4
 '0 OR     ; (vi) mixing the Gb4-OR     with a beta 1,3-galactosyltransferase and the set of UDP-Gal
    regeneration enzymes to form a Gb5-synthesis reaction mixture; (vii) incubating the Gb5
    synthesis reaction mixture under conditions allowing conversion of the Gb4-OR 1Ato Gb5
    OR     , (viii) mixing the Gb5-synthesis reaction mixture with at least at least fucose, GTP, the
    alphal ,2-fucosyltransferase, and the L-fucokinase/GDP-fucose pyrophosphorylase to form a
25  Fucosyl-Gb5-OR1A reaction mixture; (ix) incubating the Fucosyl-Gb5-OR1A reaction mixture
    under conditions allowing conversion of the Gb5-OR1A to Fucosyl-Gb5-OR1A; and
    optionally, (x) isolating the Fucosyl-Gb5-ORA.
              A method for synthesizing SSEA4 can be performed as follows: (i) producing UDP
    Gal from galactose in the presence of the UDP-Gal regeneration enzymes as described herein,
30  (ii) converting Lac-OR      as described herein into Gb3-OR      in a Gb3-synthesis reaction
    mixture comprising at least the UDP-Gal, an alpha-1,4 galactosyltransferase, and the UDP
    Gal regeneration enzymes, (iii) mixing the Gb3-synthesis reaction mixture with at least
    GalNAc, the beta 1,3 -N-acetylgalactosaminyltransferase, the N-acetylhexosamine 1-kinase,
                                                     6

    and the N-acetylglucosamine 1-phosphate uridyltransferase to form a Gb4-synthesis reaction
    mixture, (iv)
    incubating the Gb4-synthesis reaction mixture under conditions allowing conversion of Gb3
    OR      to Gb4-OR I, (v) further incubating the Gb4-synthesis reaction mixture in the presence
 5  of a p-1,3-galactosyltransferase under conditions allowing conversion of the Gb4-OR1A to
    Gb5-OR      A  (vi) mixing the Gb4-synthesis reaction mixture with at least at least Neu5Ac,
    CTP, the alpha2,3-sialyltransferase, the cytidine monophosphate kinase, and the CMP-sialic
    acid synthetase to form a Sialyl-Gb5-OR1A reaction mixture; (vii) incubating the Sialyl-Gb5
    OR1A reaction mixture under conditions allowing conversion of the Gb5-OR              to Sialyl-Gb5
        lA                                                         1A
 0  OR     ; and optionally, (viii) isolating the Sialyl-Gb5-OR
              Alternatively, a method for synthesizing SSEA4 can be performed as follows: (i)
    producing UDP-Gal from galactose in the presence of the UDP-Gal regeneration enzymes as
    described herein, (ii) converting Lac-OR         as described herein into Gb3-OR      in a Gb3
    synthesis reaction mixture comprising at least the UDP-Gal, an alpha-1,4
 5  galactosyltransferase, and the UDP-Gal regeneration enzymes, (iii) mixing the Gb3-synthesis
    reaction mixture with at least GalNAc, the beta 1,3-N-acetylgalactosaminyltransferase, the N
    acetylhexosamine 1-kinase, and the N-acetylglucosamine 1-phosphate uridyltransferase to
    form a Gb4-synthesis reaction mixture, (iv) incubating the Gb4-synthesis reaction mixture
    under conditions allowing conversion of Gb3 -OR 1Ato Gb4-ORIA; (v) isolating the Gb4
 '0 OR     ; (vi) mixing the Gb4-OR        with a beta 1,3-galactosyltransferase and the set of UDP-Gal
    regeneration enzymes to form a Gb5-synthesis reaction mixture; (vii) incubating the Gb5
    synthesis reaction mixture under conditions allowing conversion of the Gb4-OR 1Ato Gb5
    OR     ; (viii) mixing the Gb5-OR1A with an alpha2,3sialyltransferase and a set of CMP
    Neu5Ac regeneration enzymes to form a Sialyl-Gb5-synthesis reaction mixture, wherein the
25  set of CMP-Neu5Ac regeneration enzymes comprises a cytidine monophosphate kinase, a
    CMP-sialic acid synthetase, a pyruvate kinase, and a pyrophosphatase; (ix) incubating the
    Sialyl-Gb5-synthesis reaction mixture under conditions allowing conversion of the Gb4
    OR      to Sialyl-Gb5-ORA; and optionally, (x) isolating the Sialyl-Gb5-ORA.
              In some embodiments, the method described herein for enzymatically synthesizing an
30  oligosaccharide uses Gb3 (e.g., tailed) as the starting material. The method comprises: (i)
    producing UDP-GalNAc from GalNAc in the presence of the set of UDP-GalNAc
    regeneration enzymes as described above, and converting Gb3-OR              into Gb4-OR1A in the
    presence of the UDP-GalNAc and a beta 1,3 -N-acetylgalactosaminyltransferase, wherein R1A
                                                        7

    is hydrogen, substituted or unsubstituted alkyl, substituted or unsubstituted alkenyl,
    substituted or unsubstituted alkynyl, substituted or unsubstituted carbocyclyl, substituted or
    unsubstituted heterocyclyl, substituted or unsubstituted aryl, substituted or unsubstituted
    heteroaryl, or an oxygen protecting group. Examples of RiA include, but are not limited to,
 5  hydrogen, allyl, biotin, a ceramide, or a non-hydrogen group (e.g., alkyl) which is further
    substituted with a substituted or unsubstituted thio, substituted or unsubstituted amino,
    carbonyl (e.g., carboxylic acid), azido, alkenyl (e.g., allyl), alkynyl (e.g., propargyl), biotin,
    or a ceramide group. In certain embodiments, RiA is hydrogen, allyl, substituted alkyl, biotin,
    or a ceramide. Steps (i) and (ii) can occur in a Gb4-synthesis reaction mixture comprising
 0  GalNAc, PEP, ATP, UTP, the Gb3-OR I, the betal ,3-N-acetylgalactosaminyltransferase, and
    the set of UDP-GalNAc regeneration enzymes. The Gb4-OR1A can be isolated if necessary.
            The above method can further comprise: (iii) converting the Gb4-OR           into Gb5
    OR     in the presence of UDP-Gal and a betal,3-galactosyltransferase, which can be coupled
    with (iv)
 5  producing the UDP-Gal from galactose in the presence of the set of UDP-Gal regeneration
    enzymes as described herein. (iii) and (iv) can take place in a Gb5-synthesis reaction mixture
    comprising galactose, PEP, ATP, UTP, the Gb4-OR I, the betal ,3-galactosyltransferase, and
    the set of UDP-Gal regeneration enzymes. The resultant Gb5-OR1A can be isolated from the
    reaction mixture.
 10         In one example, the Gb5-OR1A is then converted into Fucosyl-Gb5-OR1A as follows:
    (v) converting the Gb5-OR 1A into Fucosyl-Gb5-OR1A in the presence of GDP-Fuc and an
    alphal ,2-fucosyltransferase, which can be coupled with (vi) producing the GDP-Fuc from
    fucose in the presence of the set of GDP-Fuc regeneration enzymes described herein. Steps
    (v) and (vi) can be carried out in a Fucosyl-Gb5 -synthesis reaction mixture comprising
25  fucose, ATP, GTP, PEP, the Gb5-ORA, the alphal,2-fucosyltransferase, and the set of GDP
    Fuc regeneration enzymes. When desired, the Fucosyl-Gb5-synthesis reaction mixture is
    prepared by mixing the Gb5-synthesis reaction mixture with at least fucose, GTP, the
    alphal ,2-fucosyltransferase, and the L-fucokinase/GDP-fucose pyrophosphorylase. The
                                                                     1A
    method can further comprise isolating the Fucosyl-Gb5-OR
30          In another example, the Gb5-OR        is then converted into Sialyl-Gb5-OR1A as
    follows: (vii) converting the Gb5-OR      into Sialyl-Gb5-OR        in the presence of CMP
    Neu5Ac and an alpha 2,3-sialyltransferase, which can be coupled with (viii) producing the
    CMP-Neu5Ac from Neu5Ac in the presence of the set of CMP-Neu5Ac regeneration
                                                      8

    enzymes described herein. Steps (vii) and (viii) can occur in a Sialyl-Gb5-synthesis reaction
    mixture comprising Neu5Ac, CTP, PEP, the Gb5-ORlI,          the alpha 2,3-sialyltransferase, and
    the set of CMP-Neu5Ac regeneration enzymes. In some instances, the Sialyl-Gb5-synthesis
    reaction mixture is prepared by mixing the Gb5-synthesis reaction mixture with at least
 5  Neu5Ac, CTP, the alpha 2,3-sialyltransferase, the cytidine monophosphate kinase, and the
    CMP-sialic acid synthetase. The resultant Sialyl-Gb5-OR 1A can be isolated from the reaction
    mixture.
             In yet other embodiments, the methods described herein relate to synthesizing
    oligosaccharides, using Gb4 (e.g., tailed) as a starting material. Such a method comprises: (i)
 0  producing UDP-Gal from galactose in the presence of the set of UDP-Gal regeneration
    enzymes described herein, and (ii) converting Gb4-OR1A into Gb5-OR           in the presence of
    UDP-Gal and a beta 1,3-galactosyltransferase, wherein RiA is hydrogen, substituted or
    unsubstituted alkyl, substituted or unsubstituted alkenyl, substituted or unsubstituted alkynyl,
    substituted or unsubstituted carbocyclyl, substituted or unsubstituted heterocyclyl, substituted
 5  or unsubstituted aryl, substituted or unsubstituted heteroaryl, or an oxygen protecting group.
    Examples of RiA include, but are not limited, to hydrogen, allyl, biotin, a ceramide, or a non
    hydrogen group (e.g., alkyl) which is further substituted with a substituted or unsubstituted
    thio, substituted or unsubstituted amino, carbonyl (e.g., carboxylic acid), azido, alkenyl (e.g.,
    allyl), alkynyl (e.g., propargyl), biotin, or a ceramide group. In certain embodiments, R1A is
 '0 hydrogen, allyl, substituted alkyl, biotin, or a ceramide. In this method, steps (i) and (ii) can
    occur in a Gb5-synthesis reaction mixture comprising galactose, PEP, ATP, UTP, the Gb4
    OR I, the betal,3-galactosyltransferase, and the set of UDP-Gal regeneration enzymes.
    Alternatively or in addition, the Gb5-OR1A thus produced can be isolated.
             The above method can further comprise: (iii) converting the Gb5-OR1A into Fucosyl
25  Gb5-OR       in the presence of GDP-Fuc and an alphal ,2-fucosyltransferase, which can be
    coupled with (iv) producing the GDP-Fuc from fucose in the presence of the set of GDP-Fuc
    regeneration enzymes, which is also described herein. Steps (iii) and (iv) can take place
    in a Fucosyl-Gb5-synthesis reaction mixture comprising fucose, ATP, GTP, PEP, the Gb5
    OR^, the alphal,2-fucosyltransferase, and the set of GDP-Fuc regeneration enzymes. The
30  Fucosyl-Gb5 -synthesis reaction mixture is prepared by mixing the Gb5-synthesis reaction
    mixture with at least fucose, GTP, the alphal ,2-fucosyltransferase, and the L
    fucokinase/GDP-fucose pyrophosphorylase. The resultant Fucosyl-Gb5-OR1A can be isolated
    from the reaction mixture.
                                                      9

            Alternatively, the above method can further comprise: (v) converting the Gb5-OR IA
    into Sialyl-Gb5-OR       in the presence of CMP-Neu5Ac and an alpha 2,3-sialyltransferase,
    which can be coupled with (v) producing the CMP-Neu5Ac from Neu5Ac in the presence of
    the set of CMP-Neu5Ac regeneration enzymes described herein. Steps (v) and (vi) can occur
                                                                                                 IA
 5  in a Sialyl-Gb5-synthesis reaction mixture comprising Neu5Ac, CTP, PEP, the Gb5-OR
    the alpha 2,3-sialyltransferase, and the set of CMP-Neu5Ac regeneration enzymes. The
    Sialyl-Gb5-synthesis reaction mixture is prepared by mixing the Gb5-synthesis reaction
    mixture with at least Neu5Ac, CTP, the alpha 2,3-sialyltransferase, the cytidine
    monophosphate kinase, and the CMP-sialic acid synthetase. The Sialyl-Gb5-OR IAproduced
 0  in this method can be isolated from the reaction mixture.
            In some other embodiments, the methods described herein relate to synthesis of a
    Fucosyl-Gb5 oligosaccharide (Globo H) from Gb5. The method comprising: (i) producing
    GDP-Fuc from fucose in the presence of the set of GDP-Fuc regeneration enzymes described
    herein, (ii) converting Gb5-ORIA into Fucosyl-Gb5-ORIA in the presence of the GDP-Fuc
                                                                                               IA
 5  and an alphal,2-fucosyltransferase, and, optionally, (iii) isolating the Fucosyl-Gb5-OR
    Steps (i) and (ii) can occur in a Fucosyl-Gb5-synthesis reaction mixture comprising fucose,
    ATP, GTP, PEP, the Gb5-ORIA, the alphal ,2-fucosyltransferase, and the set of GDP-Fuc
    regeneration enzymes.
            In some other embodiments, the methods described herein relate to synthesis of a
 '0 Sialyl-Gb5 oligosaccharide (Globo H) from Gb5. The method comprises: (i) producing
    CMP-Neu5Ac from Neu5Ac in the presence of the set of CMP-Neu5Ac regeneration
    enzymes described herein, (ii) converting Gb5-OR          into Sialyl-Gb5-ORIA in the presence of
    CMP-Neu5Ac and an alpha 2,3-sialyltransferase, and, optionally, (iii) isolating the Sialyl
    Gb5-OR I.     Steps (i) and (ii) can take place in a Sialyl-Gb5-synthesis reaction mixture
25  comprising Neu5Ac, CTP, PEP, the Gb5-OR, the alpha 2,3-sialyltransferase, and the set of
    CMP-Neu5Ac regeneration enzymes.
            In any of the synthesis methods described herein, either at least one of the involved
    enzymes or at least one of the substrates of each reaction (e.g., lactose, Gb3, Gb4, or Gb5)
    can be immobilized on a support member.
30          Another aspect of the present disclosure features enzymatic reactors for synthesizing
    oligosaccharides using the methods described herein. Such an enzymatic reactor can
    comprise one or more of the following reaction chambers:
                                                     10

             (a)     a reaction chamber for synthesizing Gb3-ORA, wherein the chamber
    comprises an alphal,4-galactosyltransferase, and a set of UDP-Gal regeneration enzymes,
    which comprises a galactokinase, a UDP-sugar pyrophosphorylase, a pyruvate kinase, and
    optionally a pyrophosphatase;
 5           (b)     a reaction chamber for synthesizing Gb4-ORA, wherein the chamber
    comprises a betal,3-N-acetylgalactosaminyltransferase and a set of UDP-GalNAc
    regeneration enzymes, which comprises an N-acetylhexosamine 1 -kinase, an N
    acetylglucosamine 1-phosphate uridylyltransferase, a pyruvate kinase, and optionally a
    pyrophosphatase;
                                                                         1A
 0           (c)     a reaction chamber for synthesizing Gb5-OR             , wherein the chamber
    comprises a betal,3-galactosyltransferase, and the set of UDP-Gal regeneration enzymes;
             (d)     a reaction chamber for synthesizing Fucosyl-Gb5-OR^, wherein the chamber
    comprises an alphal ,2-fucosyltransferase and a set of GDP-Fuc regeneration enzymes, which
    comprises an L-fucokinase/GDP-fucose pyrophosphorylase, a pyruvate kinase, and optionally
 5  a pyrophosphatase; and
             (e)     a reaction chamber for synthesizing Sialyl-Gb5-OR^, wherein the chamber
    comprises an alpha2,3-sialyltransferase and a set of CMP-Neu5Ac regeneration enzymes,
    which comprises a cytidine monophosphate kinase, a CMP-sialic acid synthetase, a pyruvate
    kinase, and optionally a pyrophosphatase.
 10          In some examples, the enzymatic reactor comprises reaction chambers: (a) and (b);
    (a), (b), and (c); (a), (b), (c), and (d); (a), (b), (c), and (e); (b) and (c); (b), (c), and (d); (b), (c),
    and (e); (c) and (d); or (c) and (e).
             In another example, the enzymatic reactor described herein comprises a reaction
    chamber that comprises a galactosyltransferase (e.g., an alphal ,4-galactosyltransferase, a
25  betal ,4-galactosyltransferase, an alphal ,3-galactosyltransferase, or a betal,3
    galactosyltransferase) and a set of UDP-Gal regeneration enzymes as described herein, which
    may comprise a galactokinase, an UDP pyrophosphoylase, a pyruvate kinase, and optionally
    a pyrophosphatase.
             In any of the reaction chambers, one or more of the enzymes can be immobilized on a
30  support member. In some examples, one or more of the set of UDP-Gal regeneration
    enzymes, the set of UDP-GalNAc regeneration enzymes, the set of GDP-Fuc regeneration
    enzymes, and the set of CMP-Neu5Ac regeneration enzymes are each immobilized on a
                                                         11

    support member. In other examples, all of the enzymes in a reaction chamber are
    immobilized on a support member.
             Also within the scope of the present disclosure are oligosaccharides obtained from
    any of the synthesis methods described herein.
 5           The details of one or more embodiments of the invention are set forth in the Detailed
    Description of Certain Embodiments, as described below. Other features, objects, and
    advantages of the invention will be apparent from the Definitions, Drawings, Examples, and
    Claims.
 0                                        Chemical Definitions
             Definitions of specific functional groups and chemical terms are described in more
    detail below. The chemical elements are identified in accordance with the Periodic Table of
    the Elements, CAS version, Handbook of Chemistry and Physics, 75th Ed., inside cover, and
    specific functional groups are generally defined as described therein. Additionally, general
 5  principles of organic chemistry, as well as specific functional moieties and reactivity, are
    described in Organic Chemistry, Thomas Sorrell, University Science Books, Sausalito, 1999;
    Smith and March March 's Advanced Organic Chemistry, 5th Edition, John Wiley & Sons,
    Inc., New York, 2001; Larock, Comprehensive Organic Transformations,VCH Publishers,
    Inc., New York, 1989; and Carruthers, Some Modern Methods of OrganicSynthesis,          3rd
 '0 Edition, Cambridge University Press, Cambridge, 1987.
             Compounds described herein can comprise one or more asymmetric centers, and thus
    can exist in various stereoisomeric forms, e.g., enantiomers and/or diastereomers. For
    example, the compounds described herein can be in the form of an individual enantiomer,
    diastereomer or geometric isomer, or can be in the form of a mixture of stereoisomers,
25  including racemic mixtures and mixtures enriched in one or more stereoisomer. Isomers can
    be isolated from mixtures by methods known to those skilled in the art, including chiral high
    pressure liquid chromatography (HPLC) and the formation and crystallization of chiral salts;
    or preferred isomers can be prepared by asymmetric syntheses. See, for example, Jacques et
    al., Enantiomers,Racemates and Resolutions (Wiley Interscience, New York, 1981); Wilen
30  et al., Tetrahedron 33:2725 (1977); Eliel, E.L. Stereochemistry of Carbon Compounds
    (McGraw-Hill, NY, 1962); and Wilen, S.H. Tables ofResolving Agents and Optical
    Resolutions p. 268 (E.L. Eliel, Ed., Univ. of Notre Dame Press, Notre Dame, IN 1972). The
                                                    12

    invention additionally encompasses compounds as individual isomers substantially free of
    other isomers, and alternatively, as mixtures of various isomers.
             When a range of values is listed, it is intended to encompass each value and sub
    range within the range. For example "C1 _6 alkyl" is intended to encompass, C1, C2 , C3 , C4 ,
 5  Cs, C6, C 1 _6 , C 1 _5 , CI4, C 1 _3, C 1- 2, C2-65, C2-5 , C2-4, C2- 3, C3 _6 , C3 _5 , C3 _4, C4_-, C4 _5 , and C 5s6
    alkyl.
             As used herein, "alkyl" refers to a radical of a straight-chain or branched saturated
    hydrocarbon group having from 1 to 30 carbon atoms ("C 1-30 alkyl"). In some embodiments,
    an alkyl group has 1 to 20 carbon atoms ("C 1-20 alkyl"). In some embodiments, an alkyl
 0  group has I to 10 carbon atoms ("C1 _10 alkyl"). In some embodiments, an alkyl group has 1
    to 9 carbon atoms ("C1 _9 alkyl"). In some embodiments, an alkyl group has 1 to 8 carbon
    atoms ("C1 _s alkyl"). In some embodiments, an alkyl group has 1 to 7 carbon atoms ("C1 _7
    alkyl"). In some embodiments, an alkyl group has 1 to 6 carbon atoms ("C1_ alkyl"). In
    some embodiments, an alkyl group has 1 to 5 carbon atoms ("C1 _5 alkyl"). In some
 5  embodiments, an alkyl group has 1 to 4 carbon atoms ("CI                         alkyl"). In some embodiments,
    an alkyl group has 1 to 3 carbon atoms ("C1 _3 alkyl"). In some embodiments, an alkyl group
    has 1 to 2 carbon atoms ("C1 2 alkyl"). In some embodiments, an alkyl group has 1 carbon
    atom ("C1 alkyl"). In some embodiments, an alkyl group has 2 to 6 carbon atoms ("C2 -6
    alkyl"). Examples of C1 _ alkyl groups include methyl (C1), ethyl (C 2 ), n-propyl (C3 ),
 '0 isopropyl (C3 ), n-butyl (C 4 ), tert-butyl (C 4 ), sec-butyl (C 4 ), iso-butyl (C 4 ), n-pentyl (C5 ), 3
    pentanyl (C5 ), amyl (C5 ), neopentyl (C5 ), 3-methyl-2-butanyl (Cs), tertiary amyl (Cs), and n
    hexyl (C). Additional examples of alkyl groups include n-heptyl (C7 ), n-octyl (Cs) and the
    like. Unless otherwise specified, each instance of an alkyl group is independently
    unsubstituted (an "unsubstituted alkyl") or substituted (a "substituted alkyl") with one or
25  more substituents. In certain embodiments, the alkyl group is an unsubstituted C1 _0 alkyl
    (e.g., -CH 3). In certain embodiments, the alkyl group is a substituted C1 _10 alkyl.
             As used herein, "alkenyl" or "alkene" refers to a radical of a straight-chain or
    branched hydrocarbon group having from 2 to 30 carbon atoms and one or more double
    bonds (e.g., 1, 2, 3, or 4 double bonds). In some embodiments, an alkenyl group has 2 to 20
30  carbon atoms ("C2 - 2 0 alkenyl"). In some embodiments, an alkenyl group has 2 to 10 carbon
    atoms ("C 2 -io alkenyl"). In some embodiments, an alkenyl group has 2 to 9 carbon atoms
    ("C2 -9 alkenyl"). In some embodiments, an alkenyl group has 2 to 8 carbon atoms ("C2 -8
    alkenyl"). In some embodiments, an alkenyl group has 2 to 7 carbon atoms ("C2 7 alkenyl").
                                                                 13

    In some embodiments, an alkenyl group has 2 to 6 carbon atoms ("C2 -6 alkenyl"). In some
    embodiments, an alkenyl group has 2 to 5 carbon atoms ("C2-5 alkenyl"). In some
    embodiments, an alkenyl group has 2 to 4 carbon atoms ("C2-4 alkenyl"). In some
    embodiments, an alkenyl group has 2 to 3 carbon atoms ("C2- 3 alkenyl").             In some
 5  embodiments, an alkenyl group has 2 carbon atoms ("C2 alkenyl").              The one or more
    carbon-carbon double bonds can be internal (such as in 2-butenyl) or terminal (such as in 1
    butenyl). Examples of C2-4 alkenyl groups include ethenyl (C2 ), 1-propenyl ("allyl", C3 ), 2
    propenyl (C 3 ), 1-butenyl (C 4 ), 2-butenyl (C 4 ), butadienyl (C 4 ), and the like. Examples of C2
    6 alkenyl   groups include the aforementioned C2 -4 alkenyl groups as well as pentenyl (C5 ),
 0  pentadienyl (C5), hexenyl (C), and the like. Additional examples of alkenyl include heptenyl
    (C7 ), octenyl (Cs), octatrienyl (Cs), and the like. Unless otherwise specified, each instance of
    an alkenyl group is independently unsubstituted (an "unsubstituted alkenyl") or substituted (a
    "substituted alkenyl") with one or more substituents. In certain embodiments, the alkenyl
    group is an unsubstituted C2-io alkenyl. In certain embodiments, the alkenyl group is a
 5  substituted C2 -i 0 alkenyl.
             As used herein, "alkynyl" or "alkyne" refers to a radical of a straight-chain or
    branched hydrocarbon group having from 2 to 30 carbon atoms and one or more triple bonds
    (e.g., 1, 2, 3, or 4 triple bonds) ("C 2 -io alkynyl"). In some embodiments, an alkynyl group has
    2 to 20 carbon atoms ("C2 -2 0 alkynyl"). In some embodiments, an alkynyl group has 2 to 10
 '0 carbon atoms ("C 2 -io alkynyl"). In some embodiments, an alkynyl group has 2 to 9 carbon
    atoms ("C2 -9 alkynyl"). In some embodiments, an alkynyl group has 2 to 8 carbon atoms
    ("C2-s alkynyl"). In some embodiments, an alkynyl group has 2 to 7 carbon atoms ("C2 -7
    alkynyl"). In some embodiments, an alkynyl group has 2 to 6 carbon atoms ("C2 -6 alkynyl").
    In some embodiments, an alkynyl group has 2 to 5 carbon atoms ("C2 -5 alkynyl"). In some
25  embodiments, an alkynyl group has 2 to 4 carbon atoms ("C2-4 alkynyl"). In some
    embodiments, an alkynyl group has 2 to 3 carbon atoms ("C2 -3 alkynyl"). In some
    embodiments, an alkynyl group has 2 carbon atoms ("C2 alkynyl"). The one or more carbon
    carbon triple bonds can be internal (such as in 2-butynyl) or terminal (such as in 1-butynyl).
    Examples of C2-4 alkynyl groups include, without limitation, ethynyl (C 2 ), 1-propynyl (C 3 ),
30  2-propynyl (C 3 ), 1-butynyl (C4 ), 2-butynyl (C 4 ), and the like. Examples of C2 -6 alkenyl
    groups include the aforementioned C2-4 alkynyl groups as well as pentynyl (C5 ), hexynyl
    (C), and the like. Additional examples of alkynyl include heptynyl (C7 ), octynyl (Cs), and
    the like. Unless otherwise specified, each instance of an alkynyl group is independently
                                                       14

    unsubstituted (an "unsubstituted alkynyl") or substituted (a "substituted alkynyl") with one or
    more substituents. In certain embodiments, the alkynyl group is an unsubstituted C2 -i 0
    alkynyl. In certain embodiments, the alkynyl group is a substituted C2-i 0 alkynyl.
            As used herein, "carbocyclyl" refers to a radical of a non-aromatic cyclic
 5  hydrocarbon group having from 3 to 10 ring carbon atoms ("C3 _10 carbocyclyl") and zero
    heteroatoms in the non-aromatic ring system. In some embodiments, a carbocyclyl group
    has 3 to 8 ring carbon atoms ("C3 _8 carbocyclyl"). In some embodiments, a carbocyclyl
    group has 3 to 7 ring carbon atoms ("C3 _7 carbocyclyl"). In some embodiments, a carbocyclyl
    group has 3 to 6 ring carbon atoms ("C3 _6 carbocyclyl"). In some embodiments, a
 0  carbocyclyl group has 5 to 10 ring carbon atoms ("C5 _10 carbocyclyl").         Exemplary C3 _6
    carbocyclyl groups include, without limitation, cyclopropyl (C 3 ), cyclopropenyl (C3 ),
    cyclobutyl (C 4 ), cyclobutenyl (C 4 ), cyclopentyl (C5 ), cyclopentenyl (C5 ), cyclohexyl (C),
    cyclohexenyl (C6 ), cyclohexadienyl (C), and the like. Exemplary C3 _s carbocyclyl groups
    include, without limitation, the aforementioned C3 _6 carbocyclyl groups as well as
 5  cycloheptyl (C7), cycloheptenyl (C7 ), cycloheptadienyl (C7), cycloheptatrienyl (C7 ),
    cyclooctyl (Cs), cyclooctenyl (Cs), bicyclo[2.2.1]heptanyl (C7 ), bicyclo[2.2.2]octanyl (Cs),
    and the like. Exemplary C3 _10 carbocyclyl groups include, without limitation, the
    aforementioned C3 _8 carbocyclyl groups as well as cyclononyl (C9 ), cyclononenyl (C9 ),
    cyclodecyl (Cio), cyclodecenyl (Cio), octahydro-1H-indenyl (C9 ), decahydronaphthalenyl
 '0 (Cio), spiro[4.5]decanyl (Cio), and the like. As the foregoing examples illustrate, in certain
    embodiments, the carbocyclyl group is either monocyclic ("monocyclic carbocyclyl") or
    polycyclic (e.g., containing a fused, bridged or spiro ring system such as a bicyclic system
    ("bicyclic carbocyclyl") or tricyclic system ("tricyclic carbocyclyl")) and can be saturated or
    can contain one or more carbon-carbon double or triple bonds. "Carbocyclyl" also includes
25  ring systems wherein the carbocyclyl ring, as defined above, is fused with one or more aryl or
    heteroaryl groups wherein the point of attachment is on the carbocyclyl ring, and in such
    instances, the number of carbons continue to designate the number of carbons in the
    carbocyclic ring system. Unless otherwise specified, each instance of a carbocyclyl group is
    independently unsubstituted (an "unsubstituted carbocyclyl") or substituted (a "substituted
30  carbocyclyl") with one or more substituents. In certain embodiments, the carbocyclyl group
    is an unsubstituted C3_10 carbocyclyl. In certain embodiments, the carbocyclyl group is a
    substituted C3 _10 carbocyclyl.
                                                     15

            In some embodiments, "carbocyclyl" is a monocyclic, saturated carbocyclyl group
    having from 3 to 10 ring carbon atoms ("C3 _10 cycloalkyl"). In some embodiments, a
    cycloalkyl group has 3 to 8 ring carbon atoms ("C3 _8 cycloalkyl"). In some embodiments, a
    cycloalkyl group has 3 to 6 ring carbon atoms ("C3 _6 cycloalkyl"). In some embodiments, a
 5  cycloalkyl group has 5 to 6 ring carbon atoms ("C5 -6 cycloalkyl"). In some embodiments, a
    cycloalkyl group has 5 to 10 ring carbon atoms ("C5 _10 cycloalkyl").    Examples of C5 -6
    cycloalkyl groups include cyclopentyl (C5 ) and cyclohexyl (C5 ). Examples of C3 _6 cycloalkyl
    groups include the aforementioned C5 -6 cycloalkyl groups as well as cyclopropyl (C 3 ) and
    cyclobutyl (C4 ). Examples of C3 _8 cycloalkyl groups include the aforementioned C3 _6
 0  cycloalkyl groups as well as cycloheptyl (C7 ) and cyclooctyl (C8 ). Unless otherwise
    specified, each instance of a cycloalkyl group is independently unsubstituted (an
    "unsubstituted cycloalkyl") or substituted (a "substituted cycloalkyl") with one or more
    substituents. In certain embodiments, the cycloalkyl group is an unsubstituted C3 _10
    cycloalkyl. In certain embodiments, the cycloalkyl group is a substituted C3 _10 cycloalkyl.
 5          As used herein, "heterocyclyl" refers to a radical of a 3- to 14-membered non
    aromatic ring system having ring carbon atoms and 1 to 4 ring heteroatoms, wherein each
    heteroatom is independently selected from nitrogen, oxygen, and sulfur ("3-14 membered
    heterocyclyl").   In heterocyclyl groups that contain one or more nitrogen atoms, the point of
    attachment can be a carbon or nitrogen atom, as valency permits. A heterocyclyl group can
 '0 either be monocyclic ("monocyclic heterocyclyl") or polycyclic (e.g., a fused, bridged or
    spiro ring system such as a bicyclic system ("bicyclic heterocyclyl") or tricyclic system
    ("tricyclic heterocyclyl")), and can be saturated or can contain one or more carbon-carbon
    double or triple bonds. Heterocyclyl polycyclic ring systems can include one or more
    heteroatoms in one or both rings. "Heterocyclyl" also includes ring systems wherein the
25  heterocyclyl ring, as defined above, is fused with one or more carbocyclyl groups wherein the
    point of attachment is either on the carbocyclyl or heterocyclyl ring, or ring systems wherein
    the heterocyclyl ring, as defined above, is fused with one or more aryl or heteroaryl groups,
    wherein the point of attachment is on the heterocyclyl ring, and in such instances, the number
    of ring members continue to designate the number of ring members in the heterocyclyl ring
30  system. Unless otherwise specified, each instance of heterocyclyl is independently
    unsubstituted (an "unsubstituted heterocyclyl") or substituted (a "substituted heterocyclyl")
    with one or more substituents. In certain embodiments, the heterocyclyl group is an
                                                   16

    unsubstituted 3-14 membered heterocyclyl. In certain embodiments, the heterocyclyl group
    is a substituted 3-14 membered heterocyclyl.
            In some embodiments, a heterocyclyl group is a 5-10 membered non-aromatic ring
    system having ring carbon atoms and 1-4 ring heteroatoms, wherein each heteroatom is
 5  independently selected from nitrogen, oxygen, and sulfur ("5-10 membered heterocyclyl").
    In some embodiments, a heterocyclyl group is a 5-8 membered non-aromatic ring system
    having ring carbon atoms and 1-4 ring heteroatoms, wherein each heteroatom is
    independently selected from nitrogen, oxygen, and sulfur ("5-8 membered heterocyclyl"). In
    some embodiments, a heterocyclyl group is a 5-6 membered non-aromatic ring system
 0  having ring carbon atoms and 1-4 ring heteroatoms, wherein each heteroatom is
    independently selected from nitrogen, oxygen, and sulfur ("5-6 membered heterocyclyl"). In
    some embodiments, the 5-6 membered heterocyclyl has 1-3 ring heteroatoms selected from
    nitrogen, oxygen, and sulfur. In some embodiments, the 5-6 membered heterocyclyl has 1-2
    ring heteroatoms selected from nitrogen, oxygen, and sulfur. In some embodiments, the 5-6
 5  membered heterocyclyl has 1 ring heteroatom selected from nitrogen, oxygen, and sulfur.
            Exemplary 3-membered heterocyclyl groups containing 1 heteroatom include,
    without limitation, azirdinyl, oxiranyl, thiorenyl. Exemplary 4-membered heterocyclyl
    groups containing 1 heteroatom include, without limitation, azetidinyl, oxetanyl and
    thietanyl. Exemplary 5-membered heterocyclyl groups containing 1 heteroatom include,
 '0 without limitation, tetrahydrofuranyl, dihydrofuranyl, tetrahydrothiophenyl,
    dihydrothiophenyl, pyrrolidinyl, dihydropyrrolyl and pyrrolyl-2,5-dione. Exemplary 5
    membered heterocyclyl groups containing 2 heteroatoms include, without limitation,
    dioxolanyl, oxathiolanyl and dithiolanyl. Exemplary 5-membered heterocyclyl groups
    containing 3 heteroatoms include, without limitation, triazolinyl, oxadiazolinyl, and
25  thiadiazolinyl. Exemplary 6-membered heterocyclyl groups containing 1 heteroatom
    include, without limitation, piperidinyl, tetrahydropyranyl, dihydropyridinyl, and thianyl.
    Exemplary 6-membered heterocyclyl groups containing 2 heteroatoms include, without
    limitation, piperazinyl, morpholinyl, dithianyl, dioxanyl. Exemplary 6-membered
    heterocyclyl groups containing 2 heteroatoms include, without limitation, triazinanyl.
30  Exemplary 7-membered heterocyclyl groups containing 1 heteroatom include, without
    limitation, azepanyl, oxepanyl and thiepanyl. Exemplary 8-membered heterocyclyl groups
    containing 1 heteroatom include, without limitation, azocanyl, oxecanyl and thiocanyl.
    Exemplary bicyclic heterocyclyl groups include, without limitation, indolinyl, isoindolinyl,
                                                    17

    dihydrobenzofuranyl, dihydrobenzothienyl, tetrahydrobenzothienyl, tetrahydrobenzofuranyl,
    tetrahydroindolyl, tetrahydroquinolinyl, tetrahydroisoquinolinyl, decahydroquinolinyl,
    decahydroisoquinolinyl, octahydrochromenyl, octahydroisochromenyl,
    decahydronaphthyridinyl, decahydro-1,8-naphthyridinyl, octahydropyrrolo[3,2-b]pyrrole,
 5  indolinyl, phthalimidyl, naphthalimidyl, chromanyl, chromenyl, 1H-benzo[e][1,4]diazepinyl,
    1,4,5,7-tetrahydropyrano[3,4-b]pyrrolyl, 5,6-dihydro-4H-furo[3,2-b]pyrrolyl, 6,7-dihydro
    5H-furo[3,2-b]pyranyl, 5,7-dihydro-4H-thieno[2,3-c]pyranyl, 2,3-dihydro-1H
    pyrrolo[2,3-b]pyridinyl, 2,3-dihydrofuro[2,3-b]pyridinyl, 4,5,6,7-tetrahydro-1H-pyrrolo
    [2,3-b]pyridinyl, 4,5,6,7-tetrahydrofuro[3,2-c]pyridinyl, 4,5,6,7-tetrahydrothieno[3,2
 0  b]pyridinyl, 1,2,3,4-tetrahydro-1,6-naphthyridinyl, and the like.
             As used herein, "aryl" refers to a radical of a monocyclic or polycyclic (e.g., bicyclic
    or tricyclic) 4n+2 aromatic ring system (e.g., having 6, 10, or 14 7r electrons shared in a cyclic
    array) having 6-14 ring carbon atoms and zero heteroatoms provided in the aromatic ring
    system ("C6 _14 aryl"). In some embodiments, an aryl group has 6 ring carbon atoms ("C6
 5  aryl"; e.g., phenyl). In some embodiments, an aryl group has 10 ring carbon atoms ("Cio
    aryl"; e.g., naphthyl such as 1-naphthyl and 2-naphthyl).      In some embodiments, an aryl
    group has 14 ring carbon atoms ("C 14 aryl"; e.g., anthracyl). "Aryl" also includes ring
    systems wherein the aryl ring, as defined above, is fused with one or more carbocyclyl or
    heterocyclyl groups wherein the radical or point of attachment is on the aryl ring, and in such
 '0 instances, the number of carbon atoms continue to designate the number of carbon atoms in
    the aryl ring system. Unless otherwise specified, each instance of an aryl group is
    independently unsubstituted (an "unsubstituted aryl") or substituted (a "substituted aryl")
    with one or more substituents. In certain embodiments, the aryl group is an unsubstituted C6 _
    14 aryl. In certain embodiments, the aryl group is a substituted C 6 _14 aryl.
25           As used herein, "heteroaryl" refers to a radical of a 5-14 membered monocyclic or
    polycyclic (e.g., bicyclic, tricyclic) 4n+2 aromatic ring system (e.g., having 6, 10, or 14 It
    electrons shared in a cyclic array) having ring carbon atoms and 1-4 ring heteroatoms
    provided in the aromatic ring system, wherein each heteroatom is independently selected
    from nitrogen, oxygen and sulfur ("5-14 membered heteroaryl"). In heteroaryl groups that
30  contain one or more nitrogen atoms, the point of attachment can be a carbon or nitrogen
    atom, as valency permits. Heteroaryl polycyclic ring systems can include one or more
    heteroatoms in one or both rings. "Heteroaryl" includes ring systems wherein the heteroaryl
    ring, as defined above, is fused with one or more carbocyclyl or heterocyclyl groups wherein
                                                     18

    the point of attachment is on the heteroaryl ring, and in such instances, the number of ring
    members continue to designate the number of ring members in the heteroaryl ring system.
    "Heteroaryl" also includes ring systems wherein the heteroaryl ring, as defined above, is
    fused with one or more aryl groups wherein the point of attachment is either on the aryl or
 5  heteroaryl ring, and in such instances, the number of ring members designates the number of
    ring members in the fused polycyclic (aryl/heteroaryl) ring system. Polycyclic heteroaryl
    groups wherein one ring does not contain a heteroatom (e.g., indolyl, quinolinyl, carbazolyl,
    and the like) the point of attachment can be on either ring, i.e., either the ring bearing a
    heteroatom (e.g., 2-indolyl) or the ring that does not contain a heteroatom (e.g., 5-indolyl).
 0           In some embodiments, a heteroaryl group is a 5-10 membered aromatic ring system
    having ring carbon atoms and 1-4 ring heteroatoms provided in the aromatic ring system,
    wherein each heteroatom is independently selected from nitrogen, oxygen, and sulfur ("5-10
    membered heteroaryl"). In some embodiments, a heteroaryl group is a 5-8 membered
    aromatic ring system having ring carbon atoms and 1-4 ring heteroatoms provided in the
 5  aromatic ring system, wherein each heteroatom is independently selected from nitrogen,
    oxygen, and sulfur ("5-8 membered heteroaryl"). In some embodiments, a heteroaryl group
    is a 5-6 membered aromatic ring system having ring carbon atoms and 1-4 ring heteroatoms
    provided in the aromatic ring system, wherein each heteroatom is independently selected
    from nitrogen, oxygen, and sulfur ("5-6 membered heteroaryl"). In some embodiments, the
 '0 5-6 membered heteroaryl has 1-3 ring heteroatoms selected from nitrogen, oxygen, and
    sulfur. In some embodiments, the 5-6 membered heteroaryl has 1-2 ring heteroatoms
    selected from nitrogen, oxygen, and sulfur. In some embodiments, the 5-6 membered
    heteroaryl has 1 ring heteroatom selected from nitrogen, oxygen, and sulfur.        Unless
    otherwise specified, each instance of a heteroaryl group is independently unsubstituted (an
25  "unsubstituted heteroaryl") or substituted (a "substituted heteroaryl") with one or more
    substituents. In certain embodiments, the heteroaryl group is an unsubstituted 5-14
    membered heteroaryl. In certain embodiments, the heteroaryl group is a substituted 5-14
    membered heteroaryl.
             Exemplary 5-membered heteroaryl groups containing 1 heteroatom include, without
30  limitation, pyrrolyl, furanyl and thiophenyl. Exemplary 5-membered heteroaryl groups
    containing 2 heteroatoms include, without limitation, imidazolyl, pyrazolyl, oxazolyl,
    isoxazolyl, thiazolyl, and isothiazolyl. Exemplary 5-membered heteroaryl groups containing
    3 heteroatoms include, without limitation, triazolyl, oxadiazolyl, and thiadiazolyl. Exemplary
                                                   19

    5-membered heteroaryl groups containing 4 heteroatoms include, without limitation,
    tetrazolyl. Exemplary 6-membered heteroaryl groups containing 1 heteroatom include,
    without limitation, pyridinyl. Exemplary 6-membered heteroaryl groups containing 2
    heteroatoms include, without limitation, pyridazinyl, pyrimidinyl, and pyrazinyl. Exemplary
 5  6-membered heteroaryl groups containing 3 or 4 heteroatoms include, without limitation,
    triazinyl and tetrazinyl, respectively. Exemplary 7-membered heteroaryl groups containing 1
    heteroatom include, without limitation, azepinyl, oxepinyl, and thiepinyl. Exemplary 5,6
    bicyclic heteroaryl groups include, without limitation, indolyl, isoindolyl, indazolyl,
    benzotriazolyl, benzothiophenyl, isobenzothiophenyl, benzofuranyl, benzoisofuranyl,
 0  benzimidazolyl, benzoxazolyl, benzisoxazolyl, benzoxadiazolyl, benzthiazolyl,
    benzisothiazolyl, benzthiadiazolyl, indolizinyl, and purinyl. Exemplary 6,6-bicyclic
    heteroaryl groups include, without limitation, naphthyridinyl, pteridinyl, quinolinyl,
    isoquinolinyl, cinnolinyl, quinoxalinyl, phthalazinyl, and quinazolinyl. Exemplary tricyclic
    heteroaryl groups include, without limitation, phenanthridinyl, dibenzofuranyl, carbazolyl,
 5  acridinyl, phenothiazinyl, phenoxazinyl and phenazinyl.
             As used herein, the term "partially unsaturated" refers to a ring moiety that includes at
    least one double or triple bond. The term "partially unsaturated" is intended to encompass
    rings having multiple sites of unsaturation, but is not intended to include aromatic groups
    (e.g., aryl or heteroaryl moieties) as herein defined.
 10          As used herein, the term "saturated" refers to a ring moiety that does not contain a
    double or triple bond, i.e., the ring contains all single bonds.
             Alkyl, alkenyl, alkynyl, heteroalkyl, heteroalkenyl, heteroalkynyl, carbocyclyl,
    heterocyclyl, aryl, and heteroaryl groups, as defined herein, are optionally substituted (e.g.,
    "substituted" or "unsubstituted" alkyl, "substituted" or "unsubstituted" alkenyl, "substituted"
25  or "unsubstituted" alkynyl, "substituted" or "unsubstituted" heteroalkyl, "substituted" or
    "unsubstituted" heteroalkenyl, "substituted" or "unsubstituted" heteroalkynyl, "substituted"
    or "unsubstituted" carbocyclyl, "substituted" or "unsubstituted" heterocyclyl, "substituted" or
    "unsubstituted" aryl or "substituted" or "unsubstituted" heteroaryl group). In general, the
    term "substituted", whether preceded by the term "optionally" or not, means that at least one
30  hydrogen present on a group (e.g., a carbon or nitrogen atom) is replaced with a permissible
    substituent, e.g., a substituent which upon substitution results in a stable compound, e.g., a
    compound which does not spontaneously undergo transformation such as by rearrangement,
    cyclization, elimination, or other reaction. Unless otherwise indicated, a "substituted" group
                                                    20

   has a substituent at one or more substitutable positions of the group, and when more than one
   position in any given structure is substituted, the substituent is either the same or different at
   each position. The term "substituted" is contemplated to include substitution with all
   permissible substituents of organic compounds, any of the substituents described herein that
 5 results in the formation of a stable compound. The present invention contemplates any and
   all such combinations in order to arrive at a stable compound. For purposes of this invention,
   heteroatoms such as nitrogen may have hydrogen substituents and/or any suitable substituent
   as described herein which satisfy the valencies of the heteroatoms and results in the formation
   of a stable moiety.
 0           Exemplary carbon atom substituents include, but are not limited to, halogen, -CN,
   NO 2, -N 3 , -SO 2H, -SO 3 H, -OH, -ORaa, -ON(R            ')2,   -N(Rb   )2, -N(Re)3'X-,    -N(ORc )R       ,
   SH, -SR-, -SSRcc, -C(=O)R", -CO 2 H, -CHO, -C(ORcc) 2, -CO 2 R", -OC(=O)R",
   OCO 2 Raa, -C(=O)N(Rl        )2, -OC(=O)N(Rl      )2,  -NRbbC(=O)Raa, -NR          bCO 2 R",
   NRbbC(=O)N(Rb         )2, -C(=NRl )R     , -C(=NRe)OR           , -OC(=NRe)R,        -OC(=NRb )OR-,
 5 C(=NRb )N(Re)2, -OC(=NR             )N(Rb )2, -NRbbC(=NRb)N(Rb )2, -C(=O)NRbbSO                    2 R",
   NRbSO 2 Raa, -SO 2N(Rb )2, -SO       2 Raa, -SO 2 ORaa, -OSO 2R", -S(=O)Raa, -OS(=O)Raa,
   Si(Raa) 3 , -OSi(Raa) 3 -C(=S)N(Rb )2, -C(=O)SRaa, -C(=S)SRaa,                -SC(=S)SRaa, -SC(=O)SRaa,
   -OC(=O)SRaa, -SC(=O)ORaa, -SC(=O)Raa, -P(=0) 2 Raa, -OP(=0) 2 Raa, -P(=O)(Raa) 2,
   OP(=O)(Raa) 2 , -OP(=O)(ORcc) 2, -P(=0) 2N(Rl )2, -OP(=O) 2N(Rb )2, -P(=O)(NR b)2,
 0 OP(=0(=O)            -NReP(=O)(ORc) 2 , -NR P(=0)(NR                 )2, -P(Rcc) 2, -P(R) c)2,
                                                                                               3 , -OP(Rcc) 2 ,
   OP(RCc) 3 , -B(Raa) 2 , -B(ORcc) 2, -BR'(ORcc),         C1 _1o alkyl, C1 _10 perhaloalkyl, C2 -10 alkenyl,
   C2 -10 alkynyl, C1-10 heteroalkyl, C2 -10 heteroalkenyl, C2-ioheteroalkynyl, C 3 _1         4 carbocyclyl, 3
   14 membered heterocyclyl, C6_14 aryl, and 5-14 membered heteroaryl, wherein each alkyl,
   alkenyl, alkynyl, heteroalkyl, heteroalkenyl, heteroalkynyl, carbocyclyl, heterocyclyl, aryl,
25 and heteroaryl is independently substituted with 0, 1, 2, 3, 4, or 5 Rdd groups;
             or two geminal hydrogens on a carbon atom are replaced with the group =0, =S,
   =NN(Rl )2,     =NNReC(=O)Raa, =NNR             C(=O)ORaa,       =NNRbbS(=O)      2 R", =NRbb, or =NORc;
             each instance of Raa is, independently, selected from C1_10 alkyl, CI_10 perhaloalkyl,
   C 2 -10 alkenyl, C 2-10 alkynyl, C1 _10 heteroalkyl, C 2-io heteroalkenyl, C2-ioheteroalkynyl, C 3 _10
30 carbocyclyl, 3-14 membered heterocyclyl, C 6 _14 aryl, and 5-14 membered heteroaryl, or two
   Raa groups are joined to form a 3-14 membered heterocyclyl or 5-14 membered heteroaryl
   ring, wherein each alkyl, alkenyl, alkynyl, heteroalkyl, heteroalkenyl, heteroalkynyl,
                                                         21

    carbocyclyl, heterocyclyl, aryl, and heteroaryl is independently substituted with 0, 1, 2, 3, 4,
    or 5 Rdd groups;
             each instance of Rbb is, independently, selected from hydrogen, -OH, -ORaa
    N(RCc) 2 , -CN, -C(=O)Raa, -C(=O)N(Rcc) 2 , -CO 2 Raa, -SO        2 Raa, -C(=NRcc)ORaa, _
 5  C(=NRCc)N(RCc) 2 , -SO2 N(Rcc) 2 , -SO 2 R"c, -SO 2 ORcc, -SORaa, -C(=S)N(Rcc) 2 , -C(=O)SRcc,
    C(=S)SRCc, -P(=0) 2 Raa, -P(=O)(Raa) 2 , -P(=0) 2 N(Rcc) 2 , -P(=O)(NRcc)      2, C1-10 alkyl, C1 _1 0
    perhaloalkyl, C 2 -io alkenyl, C 2-io alkynyl, CI_10 heteroalkyl, C2-io heteroalkenyl, C 2
    ioheteroalkynyl, C3_10 carbocyclyl, 3-14 membered heterocyclyl, C 6 _14 aryl, and 5-14
    membered heteroaryl, or two Rbb groups are joined to form a 3-14 membered heterocyclyl or
 0  5-14 membered heteroaryl ring, wherein each alkyl, alkenyl, alkynyl, heteroalkyl,
    heteroalkenyl, heteroalkynyl, carbocyclyl, heterocyclyl, aryl, and heteroaryl is independently
    substituted with 0, 1, 2, 3, 4, or 5 Rdd groups;
             each instance of RCc is, independently, selected from hydrogen, C1 _10 alkyl, C1 _10
    perhaloalkyl, C 2 -io alkenyl, C 2-io alkynyl, C1 _10 heteroalkyl, C2 -10 heteroalkenyl, C 2
 5  ioheteroalkynyl, C3_10 carbocyclyl, 3-14 membered heterocyclyl, C 6 _14 aryl, and 5-14
    membered heteroaryl, or two RCc groups are joined to form a 3-14 membered heterocyclyl or
    5-14 membered heteroaryl ring, wherein each alkyl, alkenyl, alkynyl, heteroalkyl,
    heteroalkenyl, heteroalkynyl, carbocyclyl, heterocyclyl, aryl, and heteroaryl is independently
    substituted with 0, 1, 2, 3, 4, or 5 Rdd groups;
 10          each instance of Rdd iS, independently, selected from halogen, -CN, -NO 2 , -N 3 ,
    SO 2 H, -SO    3 H, -OH, -OR**, -ON(Rf) 2 , -N(Rf) 2 , -N(Rff) 3 vX, -N(OR**)R', -SH, -SR**,
    SSRee, -C(=O)Ree, -CO 2 H, -CO 2 Ree, -OC(=O)Ree,            -OCO 2 Ree, -C(=O)N(Rf)    2,
    OC(=O)N(Rff) 2 , -NRffC(=O)R**, -NRffCO 2 R*, -NRfC(=O)N(Rff) 2, -C(=NRff)OR**,
    OC(=NRff)Ree, -OC(=NRff)ORee,          -C(=NRff)N(Rff)    2,  -OC(=NRff)N(Rff)   2,
25  NRffC(=NRff)N(Rff)      2 ,-NRffSO 2Ree, -SO 2N(Rf) 2 , -SO 2 Ree, -SO 2 ORee, -OSO 2 Ree, -S(=O)Ree,
     -Si(Ree) 3 , -OSi(Ree) 3 , -C(=S)N(Rff) 2, -C(=O)SRee, -C(=S)SRee, -SC(=S)SRee, -P(=0) 2 Ree,
    P(=O)(Ree) 2 , -OP(=O)(Ree) 2 , -OP(=O)(ORee) 2 , C1_6 alkyl, CI 6 perhaloalkyl, C2 -6 alkenyl, C2
    6 alkynyl, C1- 6 heteroalkyl, C 2 -6 heteroalkenyl, C 2-6 heteroalkynyl, C3 _10 carbocyclyl, 3-10
    membered heterocyclyl, C6 _10 aryl, 5-10 membered heteroaryl, wherein each alkyl, alkenyl,
30  alkynyl, heteroalkyl, heteroalkenyl, heteroalkynyl, carbocyclyl, heterocyclyl, aryl, and
    heteroaryl is independently substituted with 0, 1, 2, 3, 4, or 5 R99 groups, or two geminal Rdd
    substituents can be joined to form =0 or =S;
                                                       22

              each instance of Ree is, independently, selected from C1 _6 alkyl, C 1 _4 perhaloalkyl, C2
    6 alkenyl, C2- 6 alkynyl, C 1-6 heteroalkyl, C2 -6 heteroalkenyl, C 2-6 heteroalkynyl, C3 _10
    carbocyclyl, C 6 -_0 aryl, 3-10 membered heterocyclyl, and 3-10 membered heteroaryl,
    wherein each alkyl, alkenyl, alkynyl, heteroalkyl, heteroalkenyl, heteroalkynyl, carbocyclyl,
 5  heterocyclyl, aryl, and heteroaryl is independently substituted with 0, 1, 2, 3, 4, or 5 Rgg
    groups;
              each instance of Rf is, independently, selected from hydrogen, C1 _6 alkyl, C1 _6
    perhaloalkyl, C2 -6 alkenyl, C2-6 alkynyl, C1-6 heteroalkyl, C2-6 heteroalkenyl, C2
    6heteroalkynyl,    C3 _10 carbocyclyl, 3-10 membered heterocyclyl, C6            -10 aryl and 5-10
 0  membered heteroaryl, or two R groups are joined to form a 3-14 membered heterocyclyl or
    5-14 membered heteroaryl ring, wherein each alkyl, alkenyl, alkynyl, heteroalkyl,
    heteroalkenyl, heteroalkynyl, carbocyclyl, heterocyclyl, aryl, and heteroaryl is independently
    substituted with 0, 1, 2, 3, 4, or 5 R99 groups; and
              each instance of R99 is, independently, halogen, -CN, -NO 2 , -N 3 , -SO           2 H, -SO   3 H,
 5  OH, -OC1_ 6 alkyl, -ON(CI 6 alkyl) 2 , -N(CI 6 alkyl) 2 , -N(C 1 _6 alkyl) 3 vX-, -NH(CI 6
    alkyl)27X-, -NH 2 (C1 _6 alkyl) X-, -NH 3 vX-, -N(OC1-6 alkyl)(C1-6 alkyl), -N(OH)(C1-6 alkyl),
    -NH(OH), -SH, -SC 1 _6 alkyl, -SS(C 1 _-alkyl), -C(=O)(C 1 _6 alkyl), -CO 2 H, -C0 2 (C1 _6
    alkyl), -OC(=O)(C 1 _6 alkyl), -OC0 2 (C1 _6 alkyl), -C(=0)NH 2 , -C(=0)N(C 1 _6 alkyl) 2 ,
    OC(=0)NH(C 1 _6 alkyl), -NHC(=0)( C 1 _4 alkyl), -N(C 1 _6 alkyl)C(=O)( C1 _6 alkyl),
 10 NHCO 2 (C1 _6 alkyl), -NHC(=0)N(C 1 _6 alkyl) 2 , -NHC(=0)NH(C 1 _6 alkyl), -NHC(=O)NH 2,
    -C(=NH)O(C      1 _-alkyl),-OC(=NH)(C 1 _-alkyl), -OC(=NH)OC             1 _-alkyl, -C(=NH)N(C        16 _
    alkyl) 2 , -C(=NH)NH(C 1 _6 alkyl), -C(=NH)NH 2 , -OC(=NH)N(C1-6 alkyl) 2 ,
    OC(NH)NH(C 1 _- alkyl), -OC(NH)NH 2, -NHC(NH)N(C                  1_6 alkyl) 2 , -NHC(=NH)NH         2,
    NHSO 2(C 1 _6 alkyl), -SO 2N(C 1 _  6 alkyl) 2 , -SO 2 NH(C 1 _6 alkyl), -SO 2NH 2 ,-S0 2 C1 _   6 alkyl,
25   S0 2 0C 1 _-alkyl, -OS0 2 C1 _6 alkyl, -SOCi     4 alkyl, -Si(C 1 _-alkyl) 3 , -OSi(C 1 6_ alkyl) 3
    C(=S)N(C 1 6_ alkyl) 2 , C(=S)NH(C 1 _6 alkyl), C(=S)NH 2 , -C(=0)S(C 14_ alkyl), -C(=S)SC 1 _
    alkyl, -SC(=S)SC       _ alkyl, -P(=0) 2(C1 _-alkyl), -P(=O)(C 1 _6 alkyl) 2 , -OP(=0)(C 1 _6 alkyl) 2,
                          16
    OP(=0)(OC 1 _6 alkyl) 2 , C1 _4 alkyl, C1 _6 perhaloalkyl, C2-6 alkenyl, C2 -6 alkynyl, C1 _
    6heteroalkyl,   C2 -6 heteroalkenyl, C 2-6 heteroalkynyl, C3 _10 carbocyclyl, C6 _10 aryl, 3-10
30  membered heterocyclyl, 5-10 membered heteroaryl; or two geminal R99 substituents can be
    joined to form =0 or =S; wherein X- is a counterion.
              As used herein, the term "halo" or "halogen" refers to fluorine (fluoro, -F), chlorine
    (chloro, -Cl), bromine (bromo, -Br), or iodine (iodo, -I).
                                                         23

             As used herein, a "counterion" is a negatively charged group associated with a
    positively charged quarternary amine in order to maintain electronic neutrality. Exemplary
    counterions include halide ions (e.g., F-, Cl-, Br-, F), N0    3 , C10 4 , OH-, H 2 PO4-, HS0  4  ,
    sulfonate ions (e.g., methansulfonate, trifluoromethanesulfonate, p-toluenesulfonate,
 5  benzenesulfonate, 10-camphor sulfonate, naphthalene-2-sulfonate, naphthalene- 1-sulfonic
    acid-5-sulfonate, ethan-1-sulfonic acid-2-sulfonate, and the like), and carboxylate ions
    (e.g., acetate, ethanoate, propanoate, benzoate, glycerate, lactate, tartrate, glycolate, and the
    like).
             As used herein, the term "carbonyl" refers a group wherein the carbon directly
 0  attached to the parent molecule is sp 2 hybridized, and is substituted with an oxygen, nitrogen
    or sulfur atom, e.g., a group selected from ketones (-C(=O)Raa), carboxylic acids (-CO2 H),
    aldehydes (-CHO), esters (-CO2 Ra, -C(=0)SRaa -C(=S)SRaa), amides (-C(=0)N(Rkb)                 2 ,
    C(=O)NR      SO 2Raa, -C(=S)N(Rl    )2), and imines (-C(=NRE )R aa, -C(=NRe)ORaa),
    C(=NRb )N(Re) 2 ), wherein Raa and Rbb are as defined herein.
 5           As used herein, "azide" or "azido" refers to the group -N 3 .
    As used herein, the term "thiol" or "thio" refers to the group -SH. The term "substituted
    thiol" or "substituted thio," by extension, refers to a thiol group wherein the sulfur atom
    directly attached to the parent molecule is substituted with a group other than hydrogen, and
    includes groups selected from -SRaa, -S=SR"c, -SC(=S)SRaa, -SC(=O)SRaa, -SC(=O)ORaa
 '0 and -SC(=O)Raa, wherein Raa and R"C are as defined herein.
    As used herein, the term, "amino" or "amine" refers to the group -NH 2 . The term
    "substituted" amino or amine, by extension, refers to a monosubstituted amino, a
    disubstituted amino, or a trisubstituted amino, as defined herein. In certain embodiments, the
    "substituted amino" is a monosubstituted amino or a disubstituted amino group.
25  As used herein, the term "monosubstituted amino" or "monosubstituted amine" refers to an
    amino group wherein the nitrogen atom directly attached to the parent molecule is substituted
    with one hydrogen and one group other than hydrogen, and includes groups selected from
    NH(R ), -NHC(=O)Raa, -NHCO 2 Raa, -NHC(=O)N(RE               )2,  -NHC(=NRe)N(RE        )2,
    NHSO 2Raa, -NHP(=O)(ORc)        2, and -NHP(=0)(NRE      )2, wherein Raa, Rbb and RC are as
30  defined herein, and wherein    Rbb of the group -NH(Rbb) is not hydrogen.
             As used herein, the term "disubstituted amino" or "disubstituted amine" refers to an
    amino group wherein the nitrogen atom directly attached to the parent molecule is substituted
    with two groups other than hydrogen, and includes groups selected from -N(RE            )2, -NRb
                                                    24

   C(=O)Raa, -NRCO2Raa, -NRb C(=O)N(Rb)2, -NReC(=NRe)N(R)2, -NReSO 2 R                                          _,
                       bb             bb             bbaa                      b
   NR P(=O)(OR)          2, and -NR P(=O)(NR )2, wherein R , Re, and RCc are as defined herein,
   with the proviso that the nitrogen atom directly attached to the parent molecule is not
   substituted with hydrogen.
 5           As used herein, the term "trisubstituted amino" or "trisubstituted amine" refers to an
   amino group wherein the nitrogen atom directly attached to the parent molecule is substituted
   with three groups, and includes groups selected from -N(Rb )3 and -N(Rbb) 3 vX-, wherein R
   and X- are as defined herein.
             As used herein, "biotin", e.g., as an exemplary R               group, comprises the structure:
                                             0                       H
             As used herein, a "ceramide", e.g., as an exemplary RIA group, comprises the
   structure:
                                                        OH
                                                                    C13H27
                                                  HN        0
                                                        R'
 5 wherein R' is an optionally substituted C6 -C 3 0 alkyl (e.g., C6 ,C7, C 8 ,C9 , CIO, C 11, C 12, C 13,
   C 14, C15, C16, C 17, C18, C 19, C20, C2 1, C22, C23, C 24, C 25, C26, C27, C 28, C29 , or C30 alkyl),
   optionally substituted C 6 -C 3 0alkenyl (e.g., C6 ,C 7, C8 , C 9, C10 , C11, C 12, C 13, C 14, C15 , C16 , C 17,
   C 18, C 19, C20, C2 1, C22, C23, C 24, C 25, C26, C27, C 28, C29 , or C 30 alkenyl), or optionally
   substituted C 6 -C 30alkynyl (e.g., C6 , C 7, C8 , C 9, C10 , C11 , C 12, C 13, C 14, C15 , C16, C 17, C18 , C 19,
20 C 20, C2 1, C22, C23 , C 24, C25, C26, C27, C28, C29 , or C 30 alkynyl) group.
             Nitrogen atoms can be substituted or unsubstituted as valency permits, and include
   primary, secondary, tertiary, and quartemary nitrogen atoms. Exemplary nitrogen atom
   substitutents include, but are not limited to, hydrogen, -OH, -ORaa, -N(Rcc) 2 , -CN,
   C(=O)Raa, -C(=O)N(Rcc) 2, -CO 2 Ra, -SO 2 Raa, -C(=NRbb)Raa, -C(=NRcc)ORaa, _
25 C(=NRCc)N(RCc) 2 , -SO 2 N(Rcc) 2 , -SO 2 R"", -SO 2 ORcc, -SORaa, -C(=S)N(Rcc) 2 , -C(=O)SRcc,
   C(=S)SRCc, -P(=0) 2Raa, -P(=O)(Raa) 2 , -P(=O)            2 N(Rcc) 2 , -P(=O)(NRcc) 2, C1-10 alkyl, C1-10
   perhaloalkyl, C 2 -io alkenyl, C 2-io alkynyl, C 1 _10 heteroalkyl, C 2 -1 0 heteroalkenyl, C 2 -10
   heteroalkynyl, C3 _10 carbocyclyl, 3-14 membered heterocyclyl, C6 _14 aryl, and 5-14
                                                           25

    membered heteroaryl, or two RC groups attached to an N atom are joined to form a 3-14
    membered heterocyclyl or 5-14 membered heteroaryl ring, wherein each alkyl, alkenyl,
    alkynyl, heteroalkyl, heteroalkenyl, heteroalkynyl, carbocyclyl, heterocyclyl, aryl, and
    heteroaryl is independently substituted with 0, 1, 2, 3, 4, or 5 Rdd groups, and wherein Raa,
     Rbb            d
 5  R     RC", and Rdd are as defined above.
             In certain embodiments, the substituent present on the nitrogen atom is an nitrogen
    protecting group (also referred to herein as an "amino protecting group"). Nitrogen
    protecting groups include, but are not limited to, -OH, -ORaa, -N(Rcc)           2, -C(=O)Raa      _
    C(=O)N(RCc) 2 , -CO 2 Raa, -SO    2 Raa, -C(=NRcc)Raa, -C(=NRcc)ORaa,        -C(=NRcc)N(Rcc) 2 ,
 0  SO2N(RCc) 2 , -SO 2 R"c, -SO 2ORcc, -SORa, -C(=S)N(Rcc) 2, -C(=O)SRcc, -C(=S)SRcc, C1_10
    alkyl (e.g., aralkyl, heteroaralkyl), C 2 -i 0 alkenyl, C 2-io alkynyl, C1_10 heteroalkyl, C 2 -i 0
    heteroalkenyl, C2 -10 heteroalkynyl, C3_10 carbocyclyl, 3-14 membered heterocyclyl, C 6 _14
    aryl, and 5-14 membered heteroaryl groups, wherein each alkyl, alkenyl, alkynyl,
    heteroalkyl, heteroalkenyl, heteroalkynyl, carbocyclyl, heterocyclyl, aralkyl, aryl, and
                                                                            dd                           a
 5  heteroaryl is independently substituted with 0, 1, 2, 3, 4, or 5 R         groups, and wherein Raa
    Rb , RCc and   Rdd are as defined herein. Nitrogen protecting groups are well known in the art
    and include those described in detail in Protecting Groups in OrganicSynthesis, T. W.
    Greene and P. G. M. Wuts,      3 rd edition, John Wiley & Sons, 1999, incorporated herein by
    reference.
 10          For example, nitrogen protecting groups such as amide groups (e.g., -C(=O)Raa)
    include, but are not limited to, formamide, acetamide, chloroacetamide, trichloroacetamide,
    trifluoroacetamide, phenylacetamide, 3-phenylpropanamide, picolinamide, 3
    pyridylcarboxamide, N-benzoylphenylalanyl derivative, benzamide, p-phenylbenzamide, o
    nitophenylacetamide, o-nitrophenoxyacetamide, acetoacetamide, (N'
25  dithiobenzyloxyacylamino)acetamide, 3-(p-hydroxyphenyl)propanamide, 3-(o
    nitrophenyl)propanamide, 2-methyl-2-(o-nitrophenoxy)propanamide, 2-methyl-2-(o
    phenylazophenoxy)propanamide, 4-chlorobutanamide, 3-methyl-3-nitrobutanamide, o
    nitrocinnamide, N-acetylmethionine derivative, o-nitrobenzamide and o
    (benzoyloxymethyl)benzamide.
30           Nitrogen protecting groups such as carbamate groups (e.g., -C(=O)ORaa) include, but
    are not limited to, methyl carbamate, ethyl carbamante, 9-fluorenylmethyl carbamate (Fmoc),
    9-(2-sulfo)fluorenylmethyl carbamate, 9-(2,7-dibromo)fluoroenylmethyl carbamate, 2,7-di
    t-butyl-[9-(10,10-dioxo-10,10,10,10-tetrahydrothioxanthyl)]methyl               carbamate (DBD
                                                        26

    Tmoc), 4-methoxyphenacyl carbamate (Phenoc), 2,2,2-trichloroethyl carbamate (Troc), 2
    trimethylsilylethyl carbamate (Teoc), 2-phenylethyl carbamate (hZ), 1-(1-adamantyl)-1
    methylethyl carbamate (Adpoc), 1,1-dimethyl-2-haloethyl carbamate, 1,1-dimethyl-2,2
    dibromoethyl carbamate (DB-t-BOC), 1,1-dimethyl-2,2,2-trichloroethyl carbamate
 5  (TCBOC), 1-methyl-1-(4-biphenylyl)ethyl carbamate (Bpoc), 1-(3,5-di-t-butylphenyl)-1
    methylethyl carbamate (t-Bumeoc), 2-(2'- and 4'-pyridyl)ethyl carbamate (Pyoc), 2-(NN
    dicyclohexylcarboxamido)ethyl carbamate, t-butyl carbamate (BOC), 1-adamantyl
    carbamate (Adoc), vinyl carbamate (Voc), allyl carbamate (Alloc), 1-isopropylallyl
    carbamate (Ipaoc), cinnamyl carbamate (Coc), 4-nitrocinnamyl carbamate (Noc), 8-quinolyl
 0  carbamate, N-hydroxypiperidinyl carbamate, alkyldithio carbamate, benzyl carbamate (Cbz),
    p-methoxybenzyl carbamate (Moz), p-nitobenzyl carbamate, p-bromobenzyl carbamate, p
    chlorobenzyl carbamate, 2,4-dichlorobenzyl carbamate, 4-methylsulfinylbenzyl carbamate
    (Msz), 9-anthrylmethyl carbamate, diphenylmethyl carbamate, 2-methylthioethyl carbamate,
    2-methylsulfonylethyl carbamate, 2-(p-toluenesulfonyl)ethyl carbamate, [2-(1,3
 5  dithianyl)]methyl carbamate (Dmoc), 4-methylthiophenyl carbamate (Mtpc), 2,4
    dimethylthiophenyl carbamate (Bmpc), 2-phosphonioethyl carbamate (Peoc), 2
    triphenylphosphonioisopropyl carbamate (Ppoc), 1,1 -dimethyl-2-cyanoethyl carbamate, m
    chloro-p-acyloxybenzyl carbamate, p-(dihydroxyboryl)benzyl carbamate, 5
    benzisoxazolylmethyl carbamate, 2-(trifluoromethyl)-6-chromonylmethyl carbamate
 '0 (Tcroc), m-nitrophenyl carbamate, 3,5-dimethoxybenzyl carbamate, o-nitrobenzyl
    carbamate, 3,4-dimethoxy-6-nitrobenzyl carbamate, phenyl(o-nitrophenyl)methyl
    carbamate, t-amyl carbamate, S-benzyl thiocarbamate, p-cyanobenzyl carbamate, cyclobutyl
    carbamate, cyclohexyl carbamate, cyclopentyl carbamate, cyclopropylmethyl carbamate, p
    decyloxybenzyl carbamate, 2,2-dimethoxyacylvinyl carbamate, o-(NN
25  dimethylcarboxamido)benzyl carbamate, 1,1-dimethyl-3-(NN-dimethylcarboxamido)propyl
    carbamate, 1,1-dimethylpropynyl carbamate, di(2-pyridyl)methyl carbamate, 2
    furanylmethyl carbamate, 2-iodoethyl carbamate, isoborynl carbamate, isobutyl carbamate,
    isonicotinyl carbamate, p-(p '-methoxyphenylazo)benzyl carbamate, 1-methylcyclobutyl
    carbamate, 1-methylcyclohexyl carbamate, 1-methyl-1-cyclopropylmethyl carbamate, 1
30  methyl-1-(3,5-dimethoxyphenyl)ethyl carbamate, 1-methyl-1-(p-phenylazophenyl)ethyl
    carbamate, 1-methyl-1-phenylethyl carbamate, 1-methyl-1-(4-pyridyl)ethyl carbamate,
    phenyl carbamate, p-(phenylazo)benzyl carbamate, 2,4,6-tri-t-butylphenyl carbamate, 4
    (trimethylammonium)benzyl carbamate, and 2,4,6-trimethylbenzyl carbamate.
                                                27

            Nitrogen protecting groups such as sulfonamide groups (e.g., -S(=0) 2 Raa) include, but
    are not limited to, p-toluenesulfonamide (Ts), benzenesulfonamide, 2,3,6,-trimethyl-4
    methoxybenzenesulfonamide (Mtr), 2,4,6-trimethoxybenzenesulfonamide (Mtb), 2,6
    dimethyl-4-methoxybenzenesulfonamide (Pme), 2,3,5,6-tetramethyl-4
 5  methoxybenzenesulfonamide (Mte), 4-methoxybenzenesulfonamide (Mbs), 2,4,6
    trimethylbenzenesulfonamide (Mts), 2,6-dimethoxy-4-methylbenzenesulfonamide (iMds),
    2,2,5,7,8-pentamethylchroman-6-sulfonamide (Pmc), methanesulfonamide (Ms),
    trimethylsilylethanesulfonamide (SES), 9-anthracenesulfonamide, 4-(4',8'
    dimethoxynaphthylmethyl)benzenesulfonamide (DNMBS), benzylsulfonamide,
 0  trifluoromethylsulfonamide, and phenacylsulfonamide.
            Other nitrogen protecting groups include, but are not limited to, phenothiazinyl-(10)
    acyl derivative, N'-p-toluenesulfonylaminoacyl derivative, N'-phenylaminothioacyl
    derivative, N-benzoylphenylalanyl derivative, N-acetylmethionine derivative, 4,5-diphenyl
    3-oxazolin-2-one, N-phthalimide, N-dithiasuccinimide (Dts), N-2,3-diphenylmaleimide,
 5  N-2,5-dimethylpyrrole, N-1, 1,4,4-tetramethyldisilylazacyclopentane adduct (STABASE),
    5-substituted 1,3-dimethyl-1,3,5-triazacyclohexan-2-one, 5-substituted 1,3-dibenzyl
    1,3,5-triazacyclohexan-2-one, 1-substituted 3,5-dinitro-4-pyridone, N-methylamine, N
    allylamine, N-[2-(trimethylsilyl)ethoxy]methylamine (SEM), N-3-acetoxypropylamine, N
    (1-isopropyl-4-nitro-2-oxo-3-pyroolin-3-yl)amine, quaternary ammonium salts, N
 '0 benzylamine, N-di(4-methoxyphenyl)methylamine, N-5-dibenzosuberylamine, N
    triphenylmethylamine (Tr), N-[(4-methoxyphenyl)diphenylmethyl]amine (MMTr), N-9
    phenylfluorenylamine (PhF), N-2,7-dichloro-9-fluorenylmethyleneamine, N
    ferrocenylmethylamino (Fcm), N-2-picolylamino N'-oxide, N-1,1
    dimethylthiomethyleneamine, N-benzylideneamine, N-p-methoxybenzylideneamine, N
25  diphenylmethyleneamine, N-[(2-pyridyl)mesityl]methyleneamine, N-(N',N'
    dimethylaminomethylene)amine, N,N'-isopropylidenediamine, N-p-nitrobenzylideneamine,
    N-salicylideneamine, N-5-chlorosalicylideneamine, N-(5-chloro-2
    hydroxyphenyl)phenylmethyleneamine, N-cyclohexylideneamine, N-(5,5-dimethyl-3-oxo
    1-cyclohexenyl)amine, N-borane derivative, N-diphenylborinic acid derivative, N
30  [phenyl(pentaacylchromium- or tungsten)acyl]amine, N-copper chelate, N-zinc chelate, N
    nitroamine, N-nitrosoamine, amine N-oxide, diphenylphosphinamide (Dpp),
    dimethylthiophosphinamide (Mpt), diphenylthiophosphinamide (Ppt), dialkyl
    phosphoramidates, dibenzyl phosphoramidate, diphenyl phosphoramidate,
                                                 28

    benzenesulfenamide, o-nitrobenzenesulfenamide (Nps), 2,4-dinitrobenzenesulfenamide,
    pentachlorobenzenesulfenamide, 2-nitro-4-methoxybenzenesulfenamide,
    triphenylmethylsulfenamide, and 3-nitropyridinesulfenamide (Npys).
            In certain embodiments, the substituent present on an oxygen atom is an oxygen
 5  protecting group (also referred to herein as an "hydroxyl protecting group"). Oxygen
    protecting groups include, but are not limited to, -Raa, -N(R ')2, -C(=O)SRaa, -C(=O)Raa                _
    CO 2 Raa, -C(=O)N(R       )2, -C(=NRb)Raa, -C(=NR           )ORaa, -C(=NR       )N(R ')2, -S(=O)Raa,
    SO 2 Raa, -Si(Raa) 3, -P(Rcc) 2, -P(Rcc)  3, -P(=0) 2 Raa, -P(=O)(Raa) 2, -P(=O)(ORcc) 2 ,
    P(=O) 2 N(R    )2, and -P(=O)(NR        )2, wherein Ra, Rb , and RCc are as defined herein. Oxygen
 0  protecting groups are well known in the art and include those described in detail in Protecting
    Groups in OrganicSynthesis, T. W. Greene and P. G. M. Wuts,               3 rd edition, John Wiley &
    Sons, 1999, incorporated herein by reference.
            Exemplary oxygen protecting groups include, but are not limited to, methyl,
    methoxylmethyl (MOM), methylthiomethyl (MTM), t-butylthiomethyl,
 5  (phenyldimethylsilyl)methoxymethyl (SMOM), benzyloxymethyl (BOM), p
    methoxybenzyloxymethyl (PMBM), (4-methoxyphenoxy)methyl (p-AOM), guaiacolmethyl
    (GUM), t-butoxymethyl, 4-pentenyloxymethyl (POM), siloxymethyl, 2
    methoxyethoxymethyl (MEM), 2,2,2-trichloroethoxymethyl, bis(2-chloroethoxy)methyl, 2
    (trimethylsilyl)ethoxymethyl (SEMOR), tetrahydropyranyl (THP), 3
 '0 bromotetrahydropyranyl, tetrahydrothiopyranyl, 1-methoxycyclohexyl, 4
    methoxytetrahydropyranyl (MTHP), 4-methoxytetrahydrothiopyranyl, 4
    methoxytetrahydrothiopyranyl S,S-dioxide, 1-[(2-chloro-4-methyl)phenyl]-4
    methoxypiperidin-4-yl (CTMP), 1,4-dioxan-2-yl, tetrahydrofuranyl, tetrahydrothiofuranyl,
    2,3,3a,4,5,6,7,7a-octahydro-7,8,8-trimethyl-4,7-methanobenzofuran-2-yl,                  i-ethoxyethyl,
25  1-(2-chloroethoxy)ethyl, 1-methyl-1-methoxyethyl, 1-methyl-1-benzyloxyethyl, 1
    methyl-1-benzyloxy-2-fluoroethyl, 2,2,2-trichloroethyl, 2-trimethylsilylethyl, 2
    (phenylselenyl)ethyl, t-butyl, allyl, p-chlorophenyl, p-methoxyphenyl, 2,4-dinitrophenyl,
    benzyl (Bn), p-methoxybenzyl, 3,4-dimethoxybenzyl, o-nitrobenzyl, p-nitrobenzyl, p
    halobenzyl, 2,6-dichlorobenzyl, p-cyanobenzyl, p-phenylbenzyl, 2-picolyl, 4-picolyl, 3
30  methyl-2-picolyl N-oxido, diphenylmethyl, p,p '-dinitrobenzhydryl, 5-dibenzosuberyl,
    triphenylmethyl, a-naphthyldiphenylmethyl, p-methoxyphenyldiphenylmethyl, di(p
    methoxyphenyl)phenylmethyl, tri(p-methoxyphenyl)methyl, 4-(4'
    bromophenacyloxyphenyl)diphenylmethyl, 4,4',4"-tris(4,5
                                                        29

    dichlorophthalimidophenyl)methyl, 4,4',4"-tris(levulinoyloxyphenyl)methyl, 4,4',4"
    tris(benzoyloxyphenyl)methyl, 3-(imidazol-1-yl)bis(4',4"-dimethoxyphenyl)methyl, 1,1
    bis(4-methoxyphenyl)-l'-pyrenylmethyl, 9-anthryl, 9-(9-phenyl)xanthenyl, 9-(9-phenyl
    10-oxo)anthryl, 1,3-benzodithiolan-2-yl, benzisothiazolyl S,S-dioxido, trimethylsilyl
 5  (TMS), triethylsilyl (TES), triisopropylsilyl (TIPS), dimethylisopropylsilyl (IPDMS),
    diethylisopropylsilyl (DEIPS), dimethylthexylsilyl, t-butyldimethylsilyl (TBDMS), t
    butyldiphenylsilyl (TBDPS), tribenzylsilyl, tri-p-xylylsilyl, triphenylsilyl,
    diphenylmethylsilyl (DPMS), t-butylmethoxyphenylsilyl (TBMPS), formate,
    benzoylformate, acetate, chloroacetate, dichloroacetate, trichloroacetate, trifluoroacetate,
 0  methoxyacetate, triphenylmethoxyacetate, phenoxyacetate, p-chlorophenoxyacetate, 3
    phenylpropionate, 4-oxopentanoate (levulinate), 4,4-(ethylenedithio)pentanoate
    (levulinoyldithioacetal), pivaloate, adamantoate, crotonate, 4-methoxycrotonate, benzoate, p
    phenylbenzoate, 2,4,6-trimethylbenzoate (mesitoate), alkyl methyl carbonate, 9
    fluorenylmethyl carbonate (Fmoc), alkyl ethyl carbonate, alkyl 2,2,2-trichloroethyl carbonate
 5  (Troc), 2-(trimethylsilyl)ethyl carbonate (TMSEC), 2-(phenylsulfonyl) ethyl carbonate
    (Psec), 2-(triphenylphosphonio) ethyl carbonate (Peoc), alkyl isobutyl carbonate, alkyl vinyl
    carbonate alkyl allyl carbonate, alkyl p-nitrophenyl carbonate, alkyl benzyl carbonate, alkyl
    p-methoxybenzyl carbonate, alkyl 3,4-dimethoxybenzyl carbonate, alkyl o-nitrobenzyl
    carbonate, alkyl p-nitrobenzyl carbonate, alkyl S-benzyl thiocarbonate, 4-ethoxy-1
 '0 napththyl carbonate, methyl dithiocarbonate, 2-iodobenzoate, 4-azidobutyrate, 4-nitro-4
    methylpentanoate, o-(dibromomethyl)benzoate, 2-formylbenzenesulfonate, 2
    (methylthiomethoxy)ethyl, 4-(methylthiomethoxy)butyrate, 2
    (methylthiomethoxymethyl)benzoate, 2,6-dichloro-4-methylphenoxyacetate, 2,6-dichloro
    4-(1,1,3,3-tetramethylbutyl)phenoxyacetate, 2,4-bis(1,1-dimethylpropyl)phenoxyacetate,
25  chlorodiphenylacetate, isobutyrate, monosuccinoate, (E)-2-methyl-2-butenoate, o
    (methoxyacyl)benzoate, a-naphthoate, nitrate, alkyl N,N,N',N'
    tetramethylphosphorodiamidate, alkyl N-phenylcarbamate, borate, dimethylphosphinothioyl,
    alkyl 2,4-dinitrophenylsulfenate, sulfate, methanesulfonate (mesylate), benzylsulfonate, and
    tosylate (Ts).
30          These and other exemplary substituents are described in more detail in the Detailed
    Description, Examples, and claims. The invention is not intended to be limited in any
    manner by the above exemplary listing of substituents.
            As used herein, the term "salt" refers to any and all salts.
                                                   30

            The term "pharmaceutically acceptable salt" refers to those salts which are, within the
   scope of sound medical judgment, suitable for use in contact with the tissues of humans and
   lower animals without undue toxicity, irritation, allergic response and the like, and are
   commensurate with a reasonable benefit/risk ratio. Pharmaceutically acceptable salts are well
 5 known in the art. For example, Berge et al., describes pharmaceutically acceptable salts in
   detail in J. PharmaceuticalSciences (1977) 66:1-19. Pharmaceutically acceptable salts of
   the compounds of this invention include those derived from suitable inorganic and organic
   acids and bases. Examples of pharmaceutically acceptable, nontoxic acid addition salts are
   salts of an amino group formed with inorganic acids such as hydrochloric acid, hydrobromic
 0 acid, phosphoric acid, sulfuric acid and perchloric acid or with organic acids such as acetic
   acid, oxalic acid, maleic acid, tartaric acid, citric acid, succinic acid or malonic acid or by
   using other methods used in the art such as ion exchange. Other pharmaceutically acceptable
   salts include adipate, alginate, ascorbate, aspartate, benzenesulfonate, benzoate, bisulfate,
   borate, butyrate, camphorate, camphorsulfonate, citrate, cyclopentanepropionate, digluconate,
 5 dodecylsulfate, ethanesulfonate, formate, fumarate, glucoheptonate, glycerophosphate,
   gluconate, hemisulfate, heptanoate, hexanoate, hydroiodide, 2-hydroxy-ethanesulfonate,
   lactobionate, lactate, laurate, lauryl sulfate, malate, maleate, malonate, methanesulfonate, 2
   naphthalenesulfonate, nicotinate, nitrate, oleate, oxalate, palmitate, pamoate, pectinate,
   persulfate, 3-phenylpropionate, phosphate, picrate, pivalate, propionate, stearate, succinate,
 0 sulfate, tartrate, thiocyanate, p-toluenesulfonate, undecanoate, valerate salts, and the like.
   Pharmaceutically acceptable salts derived from appropriate bases include alkali metal,
   alkaline earth metal, ammonium and N'(C 1 4alkyl) 4 salts. Representative alkali or alkaline
   earth metal salts include sodium, lithium, potassium, calcium, magnesium, and the like.
   Further pharmaceutically acceptable salts include, when appropriate, nontoxic ammonium,
25 quaternary ammonium, and amine cations formed using counterions such as halide,
   hydroxide, carboxylate, sulfate, phosphate, nitrate, lower alkyl sulfonate, and aryl sulfonate.
                                   Brief Description of the Drawings
            Figure 1 depicts the chemical structures of allyl-tailed Gb3, Gb4, Gb5, Globo H, and
30 SSEA4.
            Figure 2 depicts glycosylation reactions combined with nucleotide sugar regeneration
   and synthesis results monitored by TLC. A: Combined galactosylation with UDP-Gal
   regeneration for synthesizing, e.g., allyl-Gb3. B: Combined acetylgalactosamination with
                                                    31

    UDP-GalNAc regeneration for synthesizing, e.g., allyl-Gb4. C: Combined galactosylation
    with UDP-Gal regeneration for synthesizing, e.g., allyl-Gb5. D: Combined fucosylation with
    GDP-Fuc regeneration for synthesizing, e.g., allyl-Globo H. E: Combined sialylation with
    CMP-Neu5Ac regeneration for synthesizing, e.g., allyl-SSEA4.
 5          Figure 3 depicts the biosynthetic pathway of glycosphingolipids, involveing addition
    of galactose residues, which can be calayzed by a galactosyltranferase coupled with the UDP
    Gal regeneration process described herein.
            Figure 4 depicts the enzymatic synthetic strategy in the manufacture of Globo H via
    the lactose (Lac) -- Gb3 -- Gb4-- Gb5 pathway using a nucleotide sugar regeneration
 0  system.
            Figure 5 depicts the enzymatic synthetic strategy in the manufacture of SSEA4 via
    the Lac-- Gb3 -- Gb4-- Gb5 pathway using a nucleotide sugar regeneration system.
            Figure 6 depicts the enzymatic synthetic strategy in the manufacture of allyl-Globo H
    via the allyl-Lac-*allyl-Gb3-*allyl-Gb4--allyl-Gb5 pathway using a nucleotide sugar
 5  regeneration system.
            Figure 7 depicts the enzymatic synthetic strategy in the manufacture of allyl-SSEA4
    via the allyl-Lac-*allyl-Gb3-*allyl-Gb4--allyl-Gb5 pathway using a nucleotide sugar
    regeneration system.
            Figure 8 depicts the high purity obtained in the biosynthesis of intermediates allyl
 '0 Gb3, allyl-Gb4, and allyl-Gb5.
            Figure 9 depicts the high purity obtained in the biosynthesis of allyl-Globo H from
    allyl-Gb5 using unmodified and modified FutC.
            Figure 10 depicts the high purity obtained in the biosynthesis of allyl-SSEA4 from
    allyl-Gb5 using JT-FAJ-16.
25
                                Detailed Description of the Invention
            Described herein are newly developed nucleotide sugar regeneration processes and
    their uses in adding sugar residues to suitable acceptors via the action of a
    suitableglycosyltransferase. These approaches allow chain reactions for synthesizing
30  glycosylated molecules, such as oligosaccharides (e.g., Gb3, Gb4, Gb5, Globo H, and
    SSEA4) without the need to purify intermiedates, resulting in unexpectedly rapid production
    of the glycosylated products with unexpectedly high yields. In addition, the synthesis
                                                   32

  methods described herein can be used for large scale production of desired oligosaccharides
  and glycoconjugates.
  UDP-Gal Regeneration System and its Use in Galactosylation
5        The UDP-Gal regeneration system is exemplified in Figure 2A, involving the
  enzymes listed in Table 1 below:
  Table 1: Enzymes Used in UDP-Gal Regeneration System
         Enzyme                        Activity                            Examples
  Galactokinase (GalK)    Catalyzes the phosphorylation     E. coli (e.g., GenBank accession
                          of alpha-D-galactose to produce   no. AP012306.1
                          galactose-I-phosphate (Gal-I-     H. sapiens (e.g., GenBank
                          P) in the presence of ATP         accession no. NP_000145)
                                                            M. hydrothermalis (e.g., GenBank
                                                            accession no. YP_004368991)
                                                            S. sputigena (e.g., GenBank
                                                            accession no. AEC00832)
                                                            H. hydrossis (e.g., GenBank
                                                            accession no. YP_004451189)
  UDP-sugar               Catalyzes the conversion of       A.thaliana (e.g., GenBank
  pyrophosphorylase       Gal-I-P to UDP-Gal in the         accession no. AF360236.1
  (USP)                   presence of UTP                   L. major (e.g., GenBank accession
                                                            no. ABY79093)
                                                            T. cruzi (e.g., GenBank accession
                                                            no. ADD 10758)
                                                            L. donovani (e.g., GenBank
                                                            accession no. XP_00385998)
                                                            G. max (e.g., GenBank accession
                                                            no. NP_001237434)
  Pyruvate kinase         Catalyzes the transfer of a       E. coli (e.g., GenBank accession
  (PykF)                  phosphate group from              no. U00096.2)
                          phosphoenolpyruvate (PEP) to      N. hamburgensis(e.g., GenBank
                          ADP, producing pyruvate and       accession no. YP_576506)
                          ATP or UTP                        R. palustris (e.g., GenBank
                                                            accession no. YP_7830161)
                                                            M. ruestringensis(e.g., GenBank
                                                            accession no. YP_004787669)
                                                            H. hydrossis (e.g., GenBank
                                                            accession no. YP_004450514)
                                                            S. coccoides (e.g., GenBank
                                                            accession no. YP_00441096)
  Pyrophosphatase         Acid anhydride hydrolase that     E. coli (e.g., GenBank accession
  (PPA) (Optional)        acts upon diphosphate bonds       no. U00096.2
                                                            G. theta (e.g., GenBank accession
                                                            no. CA177906)
                                                33

           Enizyme                         Activity                           Examples
                                                                 C. butyricum (e.g., GenBank
                                                                 accession no. ZP_04525837)
                                                                 L. plantarum (e.g., GenBank
                                                                 accession no. EFK28054)
                                                                 L. suebicus (e.g., GenBan
                                                                 accession no. ZP_09451344)
            The enzymes to be used in the UDP-Gal regeneration system described herein can be
   a wild-type enzyme. As used herein, a wild-type enzyme is a naturally occurring enzyme
   found in a suitable species. In some examples, the GalK, USP, PykF, and PPA enzymes can
 5 be from E. coli, A. thaliana,E. coli, and E. coli, respectively. Examples of the enzymes from
   these species are listed in Table 1 above. Others can be readily identified by those skilled in
   the art, e.g., search a publicly available gene database, such as GenBank. In other examples,
   these enzymes are homologs of those from the just-noted species, which are within the
   knowledge of those skilled in the art. For example, such homologs can be identified by
 0 searching GenBank using the amino acid sequence or the coding nucleotide sequence of an
   exemplary enzyme as a search query.
            Alternatively, the enzymes involved in the UDP-Gal regeneration system can be a
   functional variant of a wild-type counterpart. As used herein, a functional variant of a wild
   type enzyme possesses the same enzymatic activity as the wild-part counterpart and typically
 5 shares a high amino acid sequence homology, e.g., at least 80%, 85%, 90%, 95, or 98%
   identical to the amino acid sequence of the wild-type counterpart. The "percent identity" of
   two amino acid sequences is determined using the algorithm of Karlin and Altschul Proc.
   Nati. A cad. Sci. USA 87:2264-68, 1990, modified as in Karlin and Altschul Proc. Nati. A cad.
   Sci. USA 90:5873-77, 1993. Such an algorithm is incorporated into the NBLAST and
20 XBLAST programs (version 2.0) of Altschul, et al.J. Mol. Biol. 215:403-10, 1990. BLAST
   protein searches can be performed with the XBLAST program, score=50, wordlength=3 to
   obtain amino acid sequences homologous to the protein molecules of interest. Where gaps
   exist between two sequences, Gapped BLAST can be utilized as described in Altschul et al.,
   Nucleic Acids Res. 25(17):3389-3402, 1997. When utilizing BLAST and Gapped BLAST
25 programs, the default parameters of the respective programs (e.g., XBLAST and NBLAST)
   can be used.
            A functional variant can have various mutations, including addition, deletion, or
   substitution of one or more amino acid residues. Such a variant often contain mutations in
                                                    34

    regions that are not essential to the enzymatic activity of the wild-type enzyme and may
    contain no mutations in functional domains or contain only conservative amino acid
    substitutions. The skilled artisan will realize that conservative amino acid substitutions may
    be made in lipoic acid ligase mutants to provide functionally equivalent variants, i.e., the
 5  variants retain the functional capabilities of the particular lipoic acid ligase mutant. As used
    herein, a "conservative amino acid substitution" refers to an amino acid substitution that does
    not alter the relative charge or size characteristics of the protein in which the amino acid
    substitution is made. Variants can be prepared according to methods for altering polypeptide
    sequence known to one of ordinary skill in the art such as are found in references which
 0  compile such methods, e.g. Molecular Cloning: A Laboratory Manual, J. Sambrook, et al.,
    eds., Second Edition, Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory Press, Cold Spring Harbor, New York,
    1989, or Current Protocols in Molecular Biology, F.M. Ausubel, et al., eds., John Wiley &
    Sons, Inc., New York. Conservative substitutions of amino acids include substitutions made
    amongst amino acids within the following groups: (a) M, I, L, V; (b) F, Y, W; (c) K, R, H;
 5  (d) A, G; (e) S, T; (f) Q, N; and (g) E, D.
            Any of the enzymes involved in the UDP-Gal regeneration system can be prepared
    via routine technology. In one example, the enzyme is isolated form a natural source. In
    other examples, the enzyme is prepared by routine recombinant technology. When
    necessary, the coding sequence of a target enzyme can be subjected to coden optimization
 '0 based on the host cell used for producing the enzyme. For example, when E. coli cells are
    used as the host for producing an ezyme via recombinant technology, the gene encoding that
    enzyme can be modified such that it contains codons commonly used in E. coli.
            As illustrated in Figure 2A, the UDP-Gal regeneration system can be used in
    conjuction with a galactosylation reaction via the activity of a galactosyltransferase to add a
25  galactose residue to a suitable substrate. Examples of galactosyltransferases are listed in
    Table 2 below:
30
                                                     35

  Table 2. Galactosyltransferases
       Galactosyltransferase             Enzymatic Activity                  Examples
  Beta-1,4-                          Catalyzes the transfer of    Homo sapiens [e.g., GI:
  Galactosyltransferase              galactose from UDP-Gal to    903740]
  (B4GALT), including                a suitable acceptor, such as Rattus norvegicus [e.g., GI:
  isoforms 1-7 (                     a glycoprotein or            3258653]
  Beta-1,4-galactosyltransferase     glycolipid acceptor having   Zobellia galactanivorans[e.g.,
  1-7)                               a terminal 2-acetamido-2-    GI: 340619721]
                                     deoxy-D-glucosyl- group,     Clostridiumperfringens [e.g.,
                                     in an betal,4-linkage        GI: 18309463]
  Beta-1,3-                          Catalyzes the transfer of    Culex quinquefasciatus[e.g.,
  Galactosyltransferase              galactose from UDP-Gal to    GI:167873909]
  (B3GALNT)                          a suitable acceptor, such as Zea mays [e.g., GI:
                                     a glycoprotein or            195643406]
                                     glycolipid acceptor having   Brachyspirapilosicoli [e.g.,
                                     a terminal 2-acetamido-2-    GI: 300871377]
                                     deoxy-D-glucosyl- group,     Enterococcusfaecium [e.g.,
                                     or a GalNAc residue, in an   GI: 257822935]
                                     betal,3-linkage              LgtD, from, e.g., Haemophilus
                                                                  influenza [L42023.1]
  Alpha-1,4-                         Catalyzes the transfer of a  Homo sapiens [e.g.,
  Galactosyltransferase              galactose from UDP-Gal to    GI:55956926]
  (A4GALT)                           a suitable acceptor such as  Mustela putoriusfuro [e.g., GI:
  e.g.:                              a glycoprotein or a          355666115]
  Lactosylceramide 4-alpha-          glycolipid having, e.g., a   Mus musculus [e.g., GI:
  galactosyltransferase              terminal galactose residue   51921295]
                                     or a GlcNAc residue in an    Rattus norvegicus [e.g., GI:
                                     alpha 1,4-linkage            67677925]
                                                                  LgtC from, e.g., Neisseria
                                                                  meningitides [e.g.,
                                                                  AF355193.1]
  Alpha-1,3-                         Catalyzes the transfer of a  Mus musculus [e.g.,
  Galactosyltransferase              galactose from UDP-Gal to    GI:224922807]
  (A3GALT)                           a suitable acceptor such as  Mustela putoriusfuro [e.g., GI:
  e.g.:                              a glycoprotein or a          355690122]
  Alpha-1,3-                         glycolipid having, e.g., a   Cebuspaella [e.g., GI:
  Galactosyltransferase 1            terminal galactose residue   19698748]
  Alpha-1,3-                         or a GlcNAc residue in an    Rattus norvegicus [e.g., GI:
  Galactosyltransferase 2            alpha 1,3-linkage            28625949]
          Both wild-type galactosyltransferases and functional variants, as described above, are
  within the scope of this description. Such glycosyltransferases can be prepred via any routine
5 method.
                                                  36

          The combination of the UDP-Gal regeneration system and one or more
  galactosyltransferases can be used for adding a galactose residue to a suitable substrate (an
  acceptor) with high yields. Substrates for galactosyltransferase, e.g., described in Table 2
  above, are well known to those skilled in the art. Preferably, the substrate has a terminal
5 sugar residue (e.g., Gal, GalNAc, or GlcNAc) to which the galactose residue can be added.
  In some examples, the substrate is a polysaccharide (having > 50 monosaccharide units), an
  oligosaccharide (having 2-50 monosaccharide units), a glycoprotein or glycopeptide, or a
  glycolipid. The type of a galactosyltransferase to be used in the galactosylation methods
  descried herein depends on the end product of interest and the substrate for synthesizing the
) end product, which is well within the knowledge of a skilled artisan. The combined UDP
  Gal regeneration system/galactosyltransferase approach described herein can be used to
  synthesize glycosphingolipids. Examples are illustrated in Figure 3.
          In other examples, the combined UDP-Gal generation system/galactosyltranferase
  approach can be used for synthesizing Globo-series oligosaccharides, such as synthesis of
  Gb3 from lactose or synthesis of Gb5 from Gb4. Figures 2A and 2C. See also descriptions
  below.
  UDP-GalNAc Regeneration System and its Use in N-acetylgalactosamination
          A UDP-GalNAc regeneration system can be co-used with an N
) acetylgalactosaminyltransferase (GalNAcT), such as a betal,3-N
  acetylgalactosaminyltransferase, for addition of a GalNAc residue onto a suitable acceptor.
          Enzymes involved in an exemplary UDP-GalNAc regeneration system are shown in
  Table 3 below:
5 Table 3: Enzymes Used in UDP-GalNAc Regeneration System
            Enzvyme                          Activity                         Examples
  N-Acetylhexosamine 1-          Acts by a sequential two          GalNacK from B. longum
  Kinase (GalNAcK)               substrates-two products           (e.g., GenBank accession no.
                                 mechanism to convert ATP          CP000246.1
                                 and N-acetylhexosamine into       B. breve (e.g., GenBank
                                 ADP and N-acetyl-alpha-D-         accession no. ZP_06596651)
                                 hexosamine 1-phosphate.           A. haemolyticum (e.g.,
                                                                   GenBank accession no.
                                                                   YP_003696399
                                                                   B. bifidum (e.g., GenBank
                                                                   accession no. YP 003938776)
                                                 37

             Enzyme                         Activity                        Examples
  N-acetylglucosamine 1-         Catalyzes the conversion of    GImU from E. coli (e.g.,
  phosphate                      UTP and N-acetyl-alpha-D-      GenBank accession no.
  uridylyltransferase (GlmU)     glucosamine 1-phosphate into   U00096.2
                                 diphosphate and UDP-N-         A. thaliana(e.g., GenBank
                                 acetyl-D-glucosamine           accession no. AEE31311)
                                                                G. bemidjiensis (e.g.,
                                                                GenBank accession no.
                                                                ACH37122)
                                                                H. pylori (e.g., GenBank
                                                                accession no. YP_003728906)
  Pyruvate kinase (PykF)         Catalyzes the transfer of a    E. coli (e.g., GenBank
                                 phosphate group from           accession no. U00096.2)
                                 phosphoenolpyruvate (PEP)      N. hamburgensis(e.g.,
                                 to ADP, producing pyruvate     GenBank accession no.
                                 and ATP or UTP                 YP_576506)
                                                                R. palustris (e.g., GenBank
                                                                accession no. YP_7830161)
                                                                M. ruestringensis(e.g.,
                                                                GenBank accession no.
                                                                YP_004787669)
                                                                H. hydrossis (e.g., GenBank
                                                                accession no. YP_004450514)
                                                                S. coccoides (e.g., GenBank
                                                                accession no. YP_00441096)
  Pyrophosphatase (PPA)          Acid anhydride hydrolase that  E. coli (e.g., GenBank
  (Optional)                     acts upon diphosphate bonds    accession no. U00096.2
                                                                G. theta (e.g., GenBank
                                                                accession no. CA177906)
                                                                C. butyricum (e.g., GenBank
                                                                accession no. ZP_04525837)
                                                                L. plantarum (e.g., GenBank
                                                                accession no. EFK28054)
                                                                L. suebicus (e.g., GenBan
                                                                accession no. ZP_09451344)
          N-acetylgalactosaminyltransferase(e.g., beta-1,3-GalNAcT or beta-1,4-GalNAcT) is
  an enzyme that catalyzes the reaction in which a GAINAc residue is added onto a suitable
  acceptor, such as a peptide or an oligosaccharide. Examples include LgtD from H. influenza,
5 (GenBank accession no. L42023.1. Other examples include, but are not limited to, LgtD of B.
  garinii(e.g., GenBank accession no. AEW68905), LgtD of N. lactamica (e.g., GenBank
  accession no. AAN08512), and LgtD of R.felis (e.g., GenBank accession no. YP_246702).
                                                38

          Any of the enzymes used in the combined UDP-GalNAc regeneration
  system/GalNAcT approach can be either a wild-type enzyme or a functional variant thereof,
  as described herein. Any conventional method can be used for preparing such enzyme. In
  one example, this approach is applied for synthesizing Gb4 from Gb3. See, e.g., Figure 2B.
5
  GDP-Fuc Regeneration System and its Use in Fucosylation
          An GDP-Fuc regeneration system can be co-used with a fucosyltransferase (e.g., an
  alpha 1,2-fucosyltransferase, an alpha 1,3 -fucosyltransferase, or an alpha2,6
  fucosyltransferase) to add a fucose residue to a suitable acceptor, such as an oligosaccharide,
0 which can be conjugated to another molecule such as a lipid or a polypeptide.
          Enzymes involved in an exemplary GDP-Fuc regeneration system are shown in Table
  4 below:
  Table 4: Enzymes Used in GDP-Fuc Regeneration System
            Enzyme                          Activity                            Examples
  L-fucokinase/GDP-fucose       A biofunctional enzyme that       B.fragilis (e.g., GenBank
  pyrophosphorylase (FKP)       generates Fuc-1-P and GDP-         accession no. CR626927.1
                                Fuc from fucose and ATP           H. sapiens (e.g., GenBank
                                                                   accession no. NP_003829)
                                                                  R. norvegicus (e.g., GenBank
                                                                   accession no. NP_955788)
  Pyruvate kinase (PykF)        Catalyzes the transfer of a       E. coli (e.g., GenBank accession
                                phosphate group from              no. U00096.2)
                                phosphoenolpyruvate (PEP)         N. hamburgensis(e.g., GenBank
                                to ADP, producing pyruvate         accession no. YP_576506)
                                and ATP or UTP                    R. palustris(e.g., GenBank
                                                                   accession no. YP 7830161)
                                                                  M. ruestringensis(e.g.,
                                                                   GenBank accession no.
                                                                   YP_004787669)
                                                                  H. hydrossis (e.g., GenBank
                                                                   accession no. YP_004450514)
                                                                   S. coccoides (e.g., GenBank
                                                                   accession no. YP_00441096)
                                                  39

              Enzyme                          Activity                            Examples
   Pyrophosphatase (PPA)          Acid anhydride hydrolase          E. coli (e.g., GenBank accession
   (Optional)                     that acts upon diphosphate        no. U00096.2
                                  bonds                             G. theta (e.g., GenBank
                                                                    accession no. CA177906)
                                                                    C. butyricum (e.g., GenBank
                                                                    accession no. ZP_04525837)
                                                                    L. plantarum (e.g., GenBank
                                                                    accession no. EFK28054)
                                                                    L. suebicus (e.g., GenBan
                                                                    accession no. ZP_09451344)
           A fucosyltransferase transfers an L-fucose sugar from a GDP-fucose (guanosine
   diphosphate-fucose) donor substrate to an acceptor substrate, which can be another sugar.
   Fucosyltransferase can add the fucose residue to a core GlcNAc (N-acetylglucosamine) sugar
 5 as in the case of N-linked glycosylation, or to a protein, as in the case of 0-linked
   glycosylation. Fucosyltransferases include alphal ,3-fucosyltransferase, alphal,2
   fucosyltransferase, and alphal ,6-fucosyltransferase. Examples include alphal,2
   fucosyltransferase from E. coli (e.g., GenBank accession no. U00096.2), alpha 1,3
   fucosyltransferase from B.fragilis (e.g., GenBank accession no. YP_213404) and from X.
 0 laevis (e.g., GenBank accession no. NP_001083664), alpha 1,6-fucosyltransferase from X.
           Any of the enzymes used in the combined GDP-Fuc regeneration system/FucT
   approach can be either a wild-type enzyme or a functional variant thereof, as described
   herein. Any conventional method can be used for preparing such enzyme. In one example,
   this approach is applied for synthesizing Gb4 from Gb3. See, e.g., Figure 2D.
15
   CMP-Neu5Ac Regeneration System and its Use in Sialylation
           An CMP-Neu5Ac regeneration system can be coupled with a sialyltransferase, such
   as an alpha 2,3-sialyltransferase, to add a sialic acid residue (Neu5Ac) to a suitable acceptor
   substrate, such as an oligosaccharide.
20         Enzymes involved in an exemplary CMP-Neu5Ac regeneration system are shown in
   Table 5 below:
25
                                                   40

Table 5: Enzymes Used in CMP-Neu5Ac Regeneration System
         Enzyme                     Activity                        Examples
Cytidine monophosphate  Catalyzes phosphorylation of E. coli (e.g., GenBank accession
kinase (CMK)            CMP to produce CDP           no. U00096.2
                                                     B. amyloliquefaciens (e.g.,
                                                     GenBank accession no.
                                                     ABS74466)
                                                     M. leprae (e.g., GenBank
                                                     accession no. CAB08279)
                                                     M. avium (e.g., GenBank
                                                     accession no. AAS0373 1)
                                                     B. garinii(e.g., GenBank
                                                     accession no. AEW68468)
CMP-sialic acid         Catalyzes the synthesis of   P. multocida (e.g., GenBank
synthetase (Css)        CMP sialic acid from CTP     accession no. AE004439.1
                        and sialic acid.             N. meningitidis(e.g., GenBank
                                                     accession no. AAB60780)
                                                     0. mykiss (e.g., GenBank
                                                     accession no. BAB47150)
                                                     I. ioihiensis (e.g., GenBank
                                                     accession no. AAV81361)
                                                     C. jejuni (e.g., GenBank accession
                                                     no. AB132334)
Pyruvate kinase (PykF)  Catalyzes the transfer of a  E. coli (e.g., GenBank accession
                        phosphate group from         no. U00096.2)
                        phosphoenolpyruvate (PEP)    N. hamburgensis(e.g., GenBank
                        to ADP, producing pyruvate   accession no. YP_576506)
                        and ATP or UTP               R. palustris (e.g., GenBank
                                                     accession no. YP_7830161)
                                                     M. ruestringensis(e.g., GenBank
                                                     accession no. YP_004787669)
                                                     H. hydrossis (e.g., GenBank
                                                     accession no. YP_004450514)
                                                     S. coccoides (e.g., GenBank
                                                     accession no. YP_00441096)
Pyrophosphatase (PPA)   Acid anhydride hydrolase     E. coli (e.g., GenBank accession
(Optional)              that acts upon diphosphate   no. U00096.2
                        bonds                        G. theta (e.g., GenBank accession
                                                     no. CA177906)
                                                     C. butyricum (e.g., GenBank
                                                     accession no. ZP_04525837)
                                                     L. plantarum (e.g., GenBank
                                                     accession no. EFK28054)
                                                     L. suebicus (e.g., GenBan
                                                     accession no. ZP_09451344)
                                           41

             Sialyltransferases are enzymes that transfer sialic acid to nascent oligosaccharide.
    This family of enzymes adds sialic acid to the terminal portions of sialylated glycolipids
    (gangliosides) or to the N- or O-linked sugar chains of glycoproteins. There are about twenty
    different sialyltransferases, including sialyltransferases that add sialic acid with an alpha 2,3
 5  linkage to galactose (e.g., alpha 2,3-sialyltransferase), and sialyltransferases that add sialic
    acid with an alpha 2,6 linkage to galactose or N-acetylgalactosamine (e.g., alpha 2,6
    sialyltransferase). Examples include alpha 2,3-sialyltransferase from, e.g., M.
    bacteria(GenBankaccession no. AB308042.1), M. musculus (e.g., GenBank accession no.
    BAA06068), or P. multocida (e.g., GenBank accession no. AET 17056); and alpha 2,6
 0  sialyltransferase from, e.g., B. taurus (e.g., GenBank accession no. NP_001008668), C.
    griseus (e.g., GenBank accession no. NP_001233744), or R. norvegicus (e.g., GenBank
    accession no. AAC42086).
             Any of the enzymes used in the combined CMP-Neu5Ac regeneration
    system/sialyltransferase approach can be either a wild-type enzyme or a functional variant
 5  thereof, as described herein. Any conventional method can be used for preparing such
    enzyme. In one example, this approach is applied for synthesizing Gb4 from Gb3. Figure
    2E.
    Synthesis of Globo-series oligosaccharides
 10          The above-described combined approaches involving UDP-Gal
    regeneration/galactosyltransferase, UDP-GalNAc regeneration/GalNAcT, GDP-Fuc
    regeneration/fucosyltransferase, and CMP-Neu5Ac regeneration/sialyltransferase can be
    applied, either independently, or in combination, to synthesize Globo-series oligosaccharides,
    including Gb3. Gb4, Gb5, Globo H (fucosyl-Gb5), and SSEA4 (sialyl-Gb5). As discussed in
25  greater detail below, all of these Globo-series oligosaccharides can be either substituted or
    unsubstituted.
    Step S-I
             The first step in the biosynthetic approach (S-1) involves enzymatic conversion of a
30  compound of Formula (I), or salt thereof, to a compound of Formula (II), or salt thereof:
                                                     42

                                                         R4cO    OR5 C
                     HO    OR 5B          OR5A           HO               (UDP-Gal)
                R3BO             3              OR1A                OUDP
                            OR                2
                                     ~     OR A                   1
                                   (I)
                                                     R4CO    OR 5C
                                                      HO
                                                              HO     OR 5B         OR 5A
                                                           R3BO       O1390s            OR1A
                                                                                       2
                                                                      ORE            OR A
                                                                             (11)
   wherein R        is hydrogen, substituted or unsubstituted alkyl, substituted or unsubstituted
   alkenyl, substituted or unsubstituted alkynyl, substituted or unsubstituted carbocyclyl,
   substituted or unsubstituted heterocyclyl, substituted or unsubstituted aryl, substituted or
 5 unsubstituted heteroaryl, or an oxygen protecting group; and each instance of R2A, 2R3A , R5A
                            4C
   R2,2B R3,3B R5,5B R,2C R4c,  and R 5c is independently hydrogen, substituted or unsubstituted C1 6
   alkyl, or an oxygen protecting group.
             Thus, in one aspect, provided is a method of enzymatically synthesizing a compound
   of Formula (II), or salt thereof, from a compound of Formula (I), or salt thereof, comprising
 0 converting a compound of Formula (I) to a compound of Formula (II), or salt thereof, in the
   presence of uridine diphosphate-Gal (UDP-Gal) and an alpha-1,4 galactosyltransferase, and
   regenerating UDP-Gal from galactose in the presence of the set of enzymes listed in Table 1
   above. See, e.g., Figure 2A. To perform this enzymatic reaction, necessary components,
   such as galactose, galactosyltransferase, the set of UDP-Gal regeneration enzymes, ATP,
15 UTP, and others (e.g., Mg7-), can be mix to form a reaction mixture, which can be incubated
   under suitable conditions allowing production of Formula (II) compounds. Such conditions
   are well known to those skilled in the art. See also Examples below.
             The RiA group can serve as a functional group allowing conjugation of the Globo
   series oligosaccharides to another molecule, such as a protein or a lipid. Alternative, it can
20 serve as a protecting group.
             In certain embodiments, RiA is hydrogen.
             In other embodiments, R1A is substituted or unsubstituted alkyl, e.g., substituted or
   unsubstituted C16 alkyl, substituted or unsubstituted C2 _6 alkyl, substituted or unsubstituted C3_
   6 alkyl,  substituted or unsubstituted C4-6alkyl, substituted or unsubstituted C5-6alkyl,
                                                     43

    substituted or unsubstituted C2 _5 alkyl, substituted or unsubstituted C2 _4alkyl, substituted or
    unsubstituted C2 _3alkyl, substituted or unsubstituted Cialkyl, substituted or unsubstituted
    C2 alkyl, substituted or unsubstituted C3 alkyl, substituted or unsubstituted C4alkyl, substituted
    or unsubstituted C5 alkyl, or substituted or unsubstituted C6 alkyl. Biotin and a ceramide, as
 5  defined herein, are encompassed by substituted alkyl. In certain embodiments, RiA is an
    unsubstituted alkyl, e.g., in certain embodiments, R         is methyl, ethyl, propyl, isopropyl, see
    butyl, iso-butyl, or tert-butyl. Alternatively, in certain embodiments, R 1A is a substituted
    alkyl. In certain embodiments, R1is       alkyl which is further substituted with a substituted or
    unsubstituted thio, substituted or unsubstituted amino, carbonyl (e.g., carboxylic acid), azido,
 0  alkenyl (e.g., allyl), alkynyl (e.g., propargyl), biotin, or a ceramide group. In certain
    embodiments, such substituents are substituted at the terminal position (last carbon atom) of
    the alkyl group. In certain embodiments, R         is alkyl substituted with one or more amino (
    NH 2) groups. In certain embodiments, R         is alkyl substituted at the terminal position (last
    carbon atom) with an amino (-NH 2) group. In certain embodiments, RiA is -(CH 2)n-NH 2
 5  wherein n is 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, or 6. In certain embodiments, RiA is 5-pentylamino (-(CH 2)5 -NH 2).
             In certain embodiments, RiA is substituted or unsubstituted alkenyl, e.g., substituted
    or unsubstituted C2 _6 alkenyl, substituted or unsubstituted C3 _6 alkenyl, substituted or
    unsubstituted C4 _6 alkenyl, substituted or unsubstituted Cs5 6 alkenyl, substituted or
    unsubstituted C2 _5 alkenyl, substituted or unsubstituted C2 _4alkenyl, substituted or
 '0 unsubstituted C2 _3alkenyl, substituted or unsubstituted C2 alkenyl, substituted or unsubstituted
    C3 alkenyl, substituted or unsubstituted C4alkenyl, substituted or unsubstituted C5alkenyl, or
    substituted or unsubstituted C6 alkenyl. In certain embodiments, R1A is -(CH 2)m-CH=CH 2,
    wherein n is 1, 2, or 3. In certain embodiments, RiA is allyl (-CH 2CH=CH 2). In certain
    embodiments, RiA is alkenyl which is further substituted with a substituted or unsubstituted
25  thio, substituted or unsubstituted amino, carbonyl (e.g., carboxylic acid), azido, alkenyl (e.g.,
    allyl), alkynyl (e.g., propargyl), biotin, or a ceramide group. In certain embodiments, such
    substituents are substituted at the terminal position (last carbon atom) of the alkenyl group
             In certain embodiments, RiA is substituted or unsubstituted alkynyl, e.g., substituted
    or unsubstituted C2 _6 alkynyl, substituted or unsubstituted C3 _6 alkynyl, substituted or
30  unsubstituted C4 _6 alkynyl, substituted or unsubstituted Cs5 6 alkynyl, substituted or
    unsubstituted C2 _5 alkynyl, substituted or unsubstituted C2 _4alkynyl, substituted or
    unsubstituted C2 _3alkynyl, substituted or unsubstituted C2alkynyl, substituted or unsubstituted
    C3 alkynyl, substituted or unsubstituted C4 alkynyl, substituted or unsubstituted C5 alkynyl, or
                                                       44

    substituted or unsubstituted C6 alkynyl. In certain embodiments, RiA is alkynyl which is
    further substituted with a substituted or unsubstituted thio, substituted or unsubstituted amino,
    carbonyl (e.g., carboxylic acid), azido, alkenyl (e.g., allyl), alkynyl (e.g., propargyl), biotin,
    or a ceramide group. In certain embodiments, such substituents are substituted at the terminal
 5  position (last carbon atom) of the alkynyl group.
             In certain embodiments, RiA is substituted or unsubstituted heterocyclyl, e.g.,
    substituted or unsubstituted 5- to 8-membered heterocyclyl, substituted or unsubstituted 5- to
    7-membered heterocyclyl, substituted or unsubstituted 5- to 6-membered heterocyclyl,
    substituted or unsubstituted 5-membered heterocyclyl, substituted or unsubstituted 6
 0  membered heterocyclyl, substituted or unsubstituted 7-membered heterocyclyl, or substituted
    or unsubstituted 8-membered heterocyclyl. In certain embodiments, RIis           heterocyclyl which
    is further substituted with a substituted or unsubstituted thio, substituted or unsubstituted
    amino, carbonyl (e.g., carboxylic acid), azido, alkenyl (e.g., allyl), alkynyl (e.g., propargyl),
    biotin, or a ceramide group.
 5           In certain embodiments, RIA is substituted or unsubstituted carbocyclyl, e.g.,
    substituted or unsubstituted C3_ carbocyclyl, substituted or unsubstituted C3_ carbocyclyl,
    substituted or unsubstituted C3 4 carbocyclyl, substituted or unsubstituted C3 carbocyclyl,
    substituted or unsubstituted C4 carbocyclyl, substituted or unsubstituted C5 carbocyclyl, or
    substituted or unsubstituted C6 carbocyclyl. In certain embodiments, RIAis carbocyclyl
 '0 which is further substituted with a substituted or unsubstituted thio, substituted or
    unsubstituted amino, carbonyl (e.g., carboxylic acid), azido, alkenyl (e.g., allyl), alkynyl (e.g.,
    propargyl), biotin, or a ceramide group.
             In certain embodiments, RIAis substituted or unsubstituted aryl, e.g., substituted or
    unsubstituted C6 aryl (phenyl) or substituted or unsubstituted CIO aryl (naphthyl). In certain
25  embodiments, RiA is aryl which is further substituted with a substituted or unsubstituted thio,
    substituted or unsubstituted amino, carbonyl (e.g., carboxylic acid), azido, alkenyl (e.g.,
    allyl), alkynyl (e.g., propargyl), biotin, or a ceramide group.
             In certain embodiments, RiA is substituted or unsubstituted heteroaryl, e.g.,
    substituted or unsubstituted 5-membered heteroaryl or substituted or unsubstituted 6
30  membered heteroaryl. In certain embodiments, R Iis heteroaryl which is further substituted
    with a substituted or unsubstituted thio, substituted or unsubstituted amino, carbonyl (e.g.,
    carboxylic acid), azido, alkenyl (e.g., allyl), alkynyl (e.g., propargyl), biotin, or a ceramide
    group.
                                                     45

             In certain embodiments, R A is hydrogen, allyl, substituted alkyl, biotin, or a
    ceramide.
             It is further contemplated herein that RiA can be a mixture of any of the above recited
    non-hydrogen groups, e.g., substituted or unsubstituted alkyl, substituted or unsubstituted
 5  alkenyl, substituted or unsubstituted alkynyl, substituted or unsubstituted carbocyclyl,
    substituted or unsubstituted heterocyclyl, substituted or unsubstituted aryl, substituted or
    unsubstituted heteroaryl, to provide a linker group comprising 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, or 10
    different combinations of groups. As a non-limiting example, RiA may be a linker group
    comprising alkyl and aryl combination of groups, e.g., such as alkyl-aryl-alkyl, and which
 0  may optionally be further substituted at any position on the linker group (e.g., the terminal
    position) with a substituted or unsubstituted thio, substituted or unsubstituted amino, carbonyl
    (e.g., carboxylic acid), azido, alkenyl (e.g., allyl), alkynyl (e.g., propargyl), biotin, or a
    ceramide group.
             In certain embodiments, R1A is an oxygen protecting group, as defined herein.
 5           In certain embodiments, R2A is hydrogen. In certain embodiments, R2 A is substituted
    or unsubstituted C1_6 alkyl, e.g., substituted or unsubstituted Cialkyl, substituted or
    unsubstituted C2 alkyl, substituted or unsubstituted C3 alkyl, substituted or unsubstituted
    C4 alkyl, substituted or unsubstituted C5 alkyl, or substituted or unsubstituted C6 alkyl. In
    certain embodiments, R2A is an oxygen protecting group.
 10          In certain embodiments, R3 A is hydrogen. In certain embodiments, R3 A is substituted
    or unsubstituted C1_6 alkyl, e.g., substituted or unsubstituted Cialkyl, substituted or
    unsubstituted C2 alkyl, substituted or unsubstituted C3 alkyl, substituted or unsubstituted
    C4 alkyl, substituted or unsubstituted C5 alkyl, or substituted or unsubstituted C6 alkyl. In
    certain embodiments, R3A is an oxygen protecting group.
25           In certain embodiments, R5 A is hydrogen. In certain embodiments, R5 A is substituted
    or unsubstituted C1_6 alkyl, e.g., substituted or unsubstituted Cialkyl, substituted or
    unsubstituted C2 alkyl, substituted or unsubstituted C3 alkyl, substituted or unsubstituted
    C4 alkyl, substituted or unsubstituted C5 alkyl, or substituted or unsubstituted C6 alkyl. In
    certain embodiments, R5A is an oxygen protecting group.
30           In certain embodiments, R2B is hydrogen. In certain embodiments, R2B is substituted
    or unsubstituted C1_6 alkyl, e.g., substituted or unsubstituted Cialkyl, substituted or
    unsubstituted C2 alkyl, substituted or unsubstituted C3 alkyl, substituted or unsubstituted
                                                     46

    C4 alkyl, substituted or unsubstituted C5 alkyl, or substituted or unsubstituted C6 alkyl. In
    certain embodiments, R2B is an oxygen protecting group.
             In certain embodiments, R 3 B is hydrogen. In certain embodiments, R 3B is substituted
    or unsubstituted C1 _6 alkyl, e.g., substituted or unsubstituted Cialkyl, substituted or
 5  unsubstituted C2 alkyl, substituted or unsubstituted C3 alkyl, substituted or unsubstituted
    C 4 alkyl, substituted or unsubstituted C5 alkyl, or substituted or unsubstituted C6 alkyl. In
    certain embodiments, R3B is an oxygen protecting group.
             In certain embodiments, R 5 B is hydrogen. In certain embodiments, R 5B is substituted
    or unsubstituted C1 _6 alkyl, e.g., substituted or unsubstituted Cialkyl, substituted or
 0  unsubstituted C2 alkyl, substituted or unsubstituted C3 alkyl, substituted or unsubstituted
    C 4 alkyl, substituted or unsubstituted C5 alkyl, or substituted or unsubstituted C6 alkyl. In
    certain embodiments, R5B is an oxygen protecting group.
             In certain embodiments, R2C is hydrogen. In certain embodiments, R 2C is substituted
    or unsubstituted C1 _6 alkyl, e.g., substituted or unsubstituted Cialkyl, substituted or
 5  unsubstituted C2 alkyl, substituted or unsubstituted C3 alkyl, substituted or unsubstituted
    C 4 alkyl, substituted or unsubstituted C5 alkyl, or substituted or unsubstituted C6 alkyl. In
    certain embodiments, R 2 C is an oxygen protecting group.
             In certain embodiments, R 4C is hydrogen. In certain embodiments, R 4C is substituted
    or unsubstituted C1 _6 alkyl, e.g., substituted or unsubstituted Cialkyl, substituted or
 '0 unsubstituted C2 alkyl, substituted or unsubstituted C3 alkyl, substituted or unsubstituted
    C 4 alkyl, substituted or unsubstituted C5 alkyl, or substituted or unsubstituted C6 alkyl. In
    certain embodiments, R4c is an oxygen protecting group.
             In certain embodiments, R5 C is hydrogen. In certain embodiments, R5 C is substituted
    or unsubstituted C1 _6 alkyl, e.g., substituted or unsubstituted Cialkyl, substituted or
25  unsubstituted C2 alkyl, substituted or unsubstituted C3 alkyl, substituted or unsubstituted
    C 4 alkyl, substituted or unsubstituted C5 alkyl, or substituted or unsubstituted C6 alkyl. In
    certain embodiments, R       is an oxygen protecting group.
                                                              2A 3A    5A     2B 3B   5B  2C    4
             In certain embodiments, each instance of R2 A, R       ,R    , R , R , R , R , R4 c, and
    R C is independently hydrogen. In certain embodiments, R1A is substituted or unsubstituted
                                          2A 3A   5A    2B 3B    5B         C        5
30  alkenyl, and each instance of R2 A, R , R , R , R , R , R2c , R4 c, and Rsc is independently
    hydrogen. In certain embodiments, RiA is substituted or unsubstituted alkyl, and each
                      2A 3A   5A   2B    3B    5B   2C            5
    instance of R 2 A, R , R , R , R , R , R , R4 C, and Rsc is independently hydrogen.
                                                       47

          Exemplary compounds of Formula (I) include, but are not limited to,
  and salts thereof.
          Exemplary compounds of Formula (II) include, but are not limited to,
                                 HO     OH
                               HO
                                       HOO
                                                           OH
                                        HO     HOO             OH
                                              HO            OH
                                 HO&XS
                            HO    OH
                          HO
                                  HO01
                                     O    OH          OH
                                          HOHO
5                                                      OH      m   ,and
                              HO    OH
                            HO
                              -2    HO01
                                       O   OH          OH
                                           HO    H       OH      n
  and salts thereof.
  Step S-2
0         The second step in the biosynthetic approach (S-2) involves enzymatic conversion of
  a compound of Formula (II), or salt thereof, to a compound of Formula (III), or salt thereof:
                                                48

          R4CO     OR5C
          HO                                              R4 0 0     OR5D (UDP-GaINAc)
                R20          5                             HO         O    OUDP
                    HO    ORB              ORA                   AcHN
                R3BO i           39        O       R1A               HS2
                           OR               OR2AS
                                   (lI)
                                                                  4
                                               R4 DO    OR5D R CO          OR 5C
                                                HOO
                                                      AcHN                  0
                                                                            HO    OR5B         OR5A
                                                                        R 3Bo             O            1A
                                                                                   OR       ~    OR2A
                                                                                         (lii)
                1A   2A   3A    5A      2B  3B     5B   2C14
   wherein R       R    R     R       R    R3, R5, R2, R,           and R5 c are as defined herein; and each
   instance of R 4D and R5 D is independently hydrogen, substituted or unsubstituted C 1 _6 alkyl, or
   an oxygen protecting group.
 5          In certain embodiments, R2D is hydrogen. In certain embodiments, R2 D is substituted
   or unsubstituted C1 _6 alkyl, e.g., substituted or unsubstituted Cialkyl, substituted or
   unsubstituted C2 alkyl, substituted or unsubstituted C3 alkyl, substituted or unsubstituted
   C 4 alkyl, substituted or unsubstituted C 5alkyl, or substituted or unsubstituted C6 alkyl. In
   certain embodiments, R2D is a nitrogen protecting group, e.g., acetyl (Ac, -C=OCH 3).
 0          In certain embodiments, R4 D is hydrogen. In certain embodiments, R4 D is substituted
   or unsubstituted C1 _6 alkyl, e.g., substituted or unsubstituted Cialkyl, substituted or
   unsubstituted C2 alkyl, substituted or unsubstituted C3 alkyl, substituted or unsubstituted
   C 4 alkyl, substituted or unsubstituted C 5alkyl, or substituted or unsubstituted C6 alkyl. In
   certain embodiments, R4D is an oxygen protecting group.
15          In certain embodiments, R5 D is hydrogen. In certain embodiments, R5 D is substituted
   or unsubstituted C1 _6 alkyl, e.g., substituted or unsubstituted Cialkyl, substituted or
   unsubstituted C2 alkyl, substituted or unsubstituted C3 alkyl, substituted or unsubstituted
   C 4 alkyl, substituted or unsubstituted C 5alkyl, or substituted or unsubstituted C6 alkyl. In
   certain embodiments, R5D is an oxygen protecting group.
20          In certain embodiments, both of R 4 D and R5 D are hydrogen. In certain embodiments,
   R2D is a nitrogen protecting group, e.g., acetyl (Ac, -C=OCH 3), and R4 D and R 5D are each
   hydrogen.
                                                         49

            Exemplary compounds of Formula (III) include, but are not limited to,
                              HO    OH    HO    OH
                            HO            O
                                      HO                OH          OH
                                                HO         &-OH
                                                        HO            OH     ,
                         HO    OH     HO   OH
                      HOO
                                 NHAc         O   (OH       OH
                                           HO
                                                  HO
                                                       ~     ~
                                                                OH
                                                                        }m     ,and
                           HO    OH    HO    OH
                        HO            O
                                  NHAc          O    OH        OH
                                            HOXO                             NH2
                                                    HO            OH       n
   and salts thereof.
            In Step S-2, a method of enzymatically synthesizing a compound of Formula (III), or
10 salt thereof, from a compound of Formula (II), or salt thereof, is performed under suitable
   conditions. A substrate of Formula (II) can be prepared by any method known in the art or
   disclosed herein. In some examples, the Formula (II) compound is isolated from the reaction
   mixture described in Step S-1 above. In other examples, the whole reaction mixture of Step
   S-1 is used without purification of the Formula (II) compound produced therein. The
15 Formula (II) compound can be incubated with UDP-GalNAc in the presence of a GalNAcT
   (e.g., a betal,3-GalNAcT) under conditions allowing convertion of the Formula (II)
   compound to a Formula (III) compound. In some example, this GalNAcT-catalyzed reaction
   is coupled with the UDP-GalNAc regeneration process as described herein. Figure 2B. See
   also Examples below.
20
                                                  50

   Step S-3
             The third step in the biosynthetic approach (S-3) involves enzymatic conversion of a
   compound of Formula (III), or salt thereof, to a compound of Formula (IV), or salt thereof:
 5
         R4 DO    OR5D R4 CO      OR 5 C
          HO       0     O          O       R5                              R      OR      (UDP-Gal)
               AcHN                           52               201                     O
                                   HO     OROB             OR 5A
                               R3Bo        0OR3O                                        O1A        O
                                                            ORO                               OR2A
                                                   (111)
                              R4 EO     OR E R4 DO       OR 5D R4       OR  C
                                     R2 Eo            AcHN               0
                                                                         HO   OR 5B          OR 5A
                                                                      R3Bo     0         X    OO1A
                                                                               OROO           OR2A
                                                                                      (IV)
                1A    2A   3A    5A    2B    3B    5B   2C   4C    5C   2DD
   wherein R ,R ,R , R , R , R , R , R , R , R , R2 ,R4Dand R5 are as defined
                                                  4
   herein; and each instance of R 2 E,    R 3 E, R E, and R5 E is independently hydrogen, substituted or
 0 unsubstituted C1 _6 alkyl, or an oxygen protecting group.
             In certain embodiments, R2E is hydrogen. In certain embodiments, R2 E is substituted
   or unsubstituted C1 _6 alkyl, e.g., substituted or unsubstituted Cialkyl, substituted or
   unsubstituted C2 alkyl, substituted or unsubstituted C3 alkyl, substituted or unsubstituted
   C 4 alkyl, substituted or unsubstituted C5 alkyl, or substituted or unsubstituted C6 alkyl. In
15 certain embodiments, R2E is an oxygen protecting group.
             In certain embodiments, R3 E is hydrogen. In certain embodiments, R3 E is substituted
   or unsubstituted C1 _6 alkyl, e.g., substituted or unsubstituted Cialkyl, substituted or
   unsubstituted C2 alkyl, substituted or unsubstituted C3 alkyl, substituted or unsubstituted
   C 4 alkyl, substituted or unsubstituted C5 alkyl, or substituted or unsubstituted C6 alkyl. In
20 certain embodiments, R3E is an oxygen protecting group.
             In certain embodiments, R4 E is hydrogen. In certain embodiments, R 4 E is substituted
   or unsubstituted C1 _6 alkyl, e.g., substituted or unsubstituted Cialkyl, substituted or
                                                         51

   unsubstituted C2 alkyl, substituted or unsubstituted C3 alkyl, substituted or unsubstituted
   C4 alkyl, substituted or unsubstituted C5alkyl, or substituted or unsubstituted C6 alkyl. In
   certain embodiments, R4E is an oxygen protecting group.
           In certain embodiments, R5 Eis hydrogen. In certain embodiments, R5Eis substituted
 5 or unsubstituted C1 _6 alkyl, e.g., substituted or unsubstituted Cialkyl, substituted or
   unsubstituted C2 alkyl, substituted or unsubstituted C3 alkyl, substituted or unsubstituted
   C4 alkyl, substituted or unsubstituted C5alkyl, or substituted or unsubstituted C6 alkyl. In
   certain embodiments, R5E is an oxygen protecting group.
           In certain embodiments, R3 Eis hydrogen. In certain embodiments, R3 Eis substituted
 0 or unsubstituted C1 _6 alkyl, e.g., substituted or unsubstituted Cialkyl, substituted or
   unsubstituted C2 alkyl, substituted or unsubstituted C3 alkyl, substituted or unsubstituted
   C4 alkyl, substituted or unsubstituted C5alkyl, or substituted or unsubstituted C6 alkyl. In
   certain embodiments, R3E is an oxygen protecting group.
           In certain embodiments, each instance of R2E, R3E, R 4 E,and R5E is hydrogen.
 5         Exemplary compounds of Formula (IV) include, but are not limited to,
                      HO    OH        HO    OH      HO    OH
                    HO             O              0      H
                             OH               NHAc               OH           OH
                                                             HOO
                                                                 HO            OH
                                         H              HO        OH
               HO                                    HO
                        OH               NHAc               OH           OH
                                                        HO
                                                                          OOH      m    ,and
20
                 HO            O               O
                         OH                NHAc          O   OH           OH
                                                      H    O       HOO                NH2
                                                             HO             OH       n
                                                     52

   and salts thereof.
            Step S-3 involves an enzymatic reaction via the activity of a betal,3
   galactosyltransferase, which is performed under suitable conditions known to those skilled in
   the art. A substrate of Formula (III), such as Gb4, can be prepared by any method known in
5  the art or disclosed herein. In some examples, the Formula (III) compound is isolated from
   the reaction mixture described in Step S-2 above. In other examples, the whole reaction
   mixture of Step S-2 is used without purification of the Formula (III) compound produced
   therein. The Formula (III) compound can be incubated with UDP-Gal in the presence of a
   beta 1,3-galactosyltransferase under conditions allowing convertion of the Formula (III)
0  compound to a Formula (IV) compound. In some example, this GalT-catalyzed reaction is
   coupled with the UDP-Gal regeneration process as described herein. Figure 2A. See also
   Examples below.
            In some embodiments, a beta 1,3-GalNAcT/betal ,3-GalT bifunctional enzyme, such
   as LgtD from, e.g., H. influenza, is used in both Steps S-2 and S-3.
5
   Step S-4
            The compound of Formula (IV) may then be substituted at various positions on the
   terminal Ring E. For example, in certain embodiments of Formula (IV), wherein R 2 Eis
   hydrogen, an optional step in the biosynthetic approach (S-4) involves enzymatic conversion
'0 of a compound of Formula (IV-a), or salt thereof, to a compound of Formula (V), or salt
   thereof:
                                                  53

                    R4 EO     OR5E   R4DO    OR5D R4cO     OR 5 C
                  R 3 EO 4-0-                      O
                              HO          AcHNR20
                                                            HO    OR5B            OR5A
                                                         3              9g1A
                                                        R BO
                                                                   OR              OR2A
                                                                           (IV-a)
                                      OGDP
                                            (GDP-Fuc)
                                   O   OR 1F
                          R3F  0 OR2F
                                     S-4
                    R4EO      OR5E   R4DO    OR5D R4cO     OR 5 C
                    3Eo               O0             ~
                               O          AcHN              01
                                                                  OR 5B           OR 5A
                                    R1FHO
                                 f70-i
                                                        R3BO4         -j&j
                                                                         3 2gO         OR1A
                   R3              ORF(                                            OR 2A
                            RM0                     V              OR
   wherein R I, R 2A,R3 A, R5A, R 2B R3B, R 5B, R 2C, R 4C, R5C, R 2D, R 4D, R 5D, R 3E, R4E, and R 5E are
   as defined herein; and each instance of R1F, R 2 F, and R3 F is independently hydrogen,
   substituted or unsubstituted C1 _6 alkyl, or an oxygen protecting group.
 5          In certain embodiments, R1 F is hydrogen. In certain embodiments, RIF is substituted
   or unsubstituted C1_s alkyl, e.g., substituted or unsubstituted Cialkyl, substituted or
   unsubstituted C2 alkyl, substituted or unsubstituted C3 alkyl, substituted or unsubstituted
   C 4 alkyl, substituted or unsubstituted C5 alkyl, or substituted or unsubstituted C6 alkyl. In
   certain embodiments, R1F is an oxygen protecting group.
10          In certain embodiments, R 2 F is hydrogen. In certain embodiments, R 2 F is substituted
   or unsubstituted C1_s alkyl, e.g., substituted or unsubstituted Cialkyl, substituted or
   unsubstituted C2 alkyl, substituted or unsubstituted C3 alkyl, substituted or unsubstituted
   C 4 alkyl, substituted or unsubstituted C5 alkyl, or substituted or unsubstituted C6 alkyl. In
   certain embodiments, R 2 F is an oxygen protecting group.
15          In certain embodiments, R3 F is hydrogen. In certain embodiments, R3 F is substituted
   or unsubstituted C1 _6 alkyl, e.g., substituted or unsubstituted Cialkyl, substituted or
   unsubstituted C2 alkyl, substituted or unsubstituted C3 alkyl, substituted or unsubstituted
                                                     54

   C4 alkyl, substituted or unsubstituted C5 alkyl, or substituted or unsubstituted C6 alkyl. In
   certain embodiments, R3F is an oxygen protecting group.
           In certain embodiments, each instance of R1F, R2 F, and R3 F is hydrogen.
            Exemplary compounds of Formula (V) include, but are not limited to,
 5
                      HO    OH      HO    OH      HO     OH
                     HOOO                      O
                             O             NHAc         HO
                               OH                        HO                        OH
                    HO                OH               HO         OH
                HO                              HO
                               H        07V0
                          O             NHAc               OH             OH
                    HO   OH      HO    OH        HOjO
                            HO                                                         ,and
                  HOHO                                                    OH
                                                                  O
                 HHO
10
   and salts thereof.
            Step S-4 involves an enzymatic reaction via the activity of an alphal ,2
   fucosyltransferase, which is performed under suitable conditions known to those skilled in
   the art. A substrate of Formula (IV), such as Gb5, can be prepared by any method known in
15 the art or disclosed herein. In some examples, the Formula (IV) compound is isolated from
   the reaction mixture described in Step S-3 above. In other examples, the whole reaction
   mixture of Step S-3 is used without purification of the Formula (V) compound produced
   therein. The Formula (IV) compound can be incubated with GDP-Fuc in the presence of the
   fucosyltransferase under conditions allowing convertion of the Formula (IV) compound to a
                                                   55

   Formula (V) compound. In some example, this FucT-catalyzed reaction is coupled with the
   GDP-Fuc regeneration process as described herein. Figure 2D. See also Examples below.
   Step S-5
 5           In other embodiments of Formula (IV), wherein R3 E is hydrogen, an optional step in
   the biosynthetic approach (S-5) involves enzymatic conversion of a compound of Formula
   (IV-b), or salt thereof, to a compound of Formula (VI), or salt thereof:
        R 4 EO    OR 5 E R4 DO      OR5D R4 CO        OR 5 C
         HO                OO                       R-cO
                R2
                   EO            AcHN                  01
                                                       HO     OR5B               OR 5A
                                                   R3 Bo           3 9? O     S       OR1A
                                                                                     2
                                                                OR                OR A
                                                                        (IV-b)
            R9GO    OR 8G
                                     6
                      OR 7G COOR G
             R3GHN         0     OCMP
                         2
                      OR G (CMP-Neu5Ac)
                           S-5
     R9 GO     OR8G
                OR 7 G COORG R4 E0           OR 5E   R4D        OR 5D R4 C        ORC
       R3GHN       02
                 RR3                       R2 Eo       0     AcHN          R      0
                                                                                   HO   OR5B           OR 5A
                                                                               R3BO       O                 OR1A
                                                                                                           2
                                                                       (VI)               OR            OR A
                                                                                                (IV-b)
                1A    2A     3A    5A    2B    3B    5B    2C    4C     5C    2D    4D   5D  2E              5
10 wherein R , R2, R            ,R    , R2, R3, R5, Rc, Rc, Rc, R2, R4, R5, R2, R4E, and R5 Eare
   as defined herein; R3G is hydrogen, substituted or unsubstituted C1 _6 alkyl, or a nitrogen
                                                         6G7G     8G           9
   protecting group; and each instance of R6G, R               ,R    , and R 9G, is independently hydrogen,
   substituted or unsubstituted C1 _6 alkyl, or an oxygen protecting group.
             In certain embodiments, R3 G is hydrogen. In certain embodiments, R3 G is substituted
15 or unsubstituted C1 _6 alkyl, e.g., substituted or unsubstituted Cialkyl, substituted or
   unsubstituted C2 alkyl, substituted or unsubstituted C3 alkyl, substituted or unsubstituted
   C 4 alkyl, substituted or unsubstituted C 5alkyl, or substituted or unsubstituted C6 alkyl. In
   certain embodiments, R3G is a nitrogen protecting group, e.g., acetyl (Ac, -C=OCH 3).
                                                            56

            In certain embodiments, R6G is hydrogen. In certain embodiments, R6 Gis substituted
    or unsubstituted C1 _6 alkyl, e.g., substituted or unsubstituted Cialkyl, substituted or
    unsubstituted C2 alkyl, substituted or unsubstituted C3 alkyl, substituted or unsubstituted
    C4 alkyl, substituted or unsubstituted C5 alkyl, or substituted or unsubstituted C6 alkyl. In
 5  certain embodiments, R6 Gis an oxygen protecting group.
            In certain embodiments, R7 Gis hydrogen. In certain embodiments, R7 Gis substituted
    or unsubstituted C1 _6 alkyl, e.g., substituted or unsubstituted Cialkyl, substituted or
    unsubstituted C2 alkyl, substituted or unsubstituted C3 alkyl, substituted or unsubstituted
    C4 alkyl, substituted or unsubstituted C5 alkyl, or substituted or unsubstituted C6 alkyl. In
 0  certain embodiments, R7 Gis an oxygen protecting group.
            In certain embodiments, R8G is hydrogen. In certain embodiments, R8G is substituted
    or unsubstituted C1 _6 alkyl, e.g., substituted or unsubstituted Cialkyl, substituted or
    unsubstituted C2 alkyl, substituted or unsubstituted C3 alkyl, substituted or unsubstituted
    C4 alkyl, substituted or unsubstituted C5 alkyl, or substituted or unsubstituted C6 alkyl. In
 5  certain embodiments, R8G is an oxygen protecting group.
            In certain embodiments, R9 Gis hydrogen. In certain embodiments, R9 Gis substituted
    or unsubstituted C1 _6 alkyl, e.g., substituted or unsubstituted Cialkyl, substituted or
    unsubstituted C2 alkyl, substituted or unsubstituted C3 alkyl, substituted or unsubstituted
    C4 alkyl, substituted or unsubstituted C5 alkyl, or substituted or unsubstituted C6 alkyl. In
 '0 certain embodiments, R9G is an oxygen protecting group.
            In certain embodiments, each instance of R6G,R7G,RG, and R9Gis hydrogen. In
    certain embodiments, R3G is a nitrogen protecting group, e.g., acetyl (Ac, -C=OCH 3), each
    instance of R6G,R7G, RG, and R9 Gis hydrogen.
            Exemplary compounds of Formula (V) include, but are not limited to,
25
                                    HO    OH   HO    OH   HO    OH
                           HOOC            O           O         O
                 HHO   O  OH               OH          NHAC     HOO   OH         OH
                      AcHN   OH                                 HO                    O
                                                                        OH          OH
                                                      57

                              HO    OH   HO    OH    HO  OH
                      HOOC    O       O  O
                 HO         d
              HO      OHO             OH         NHAc    HOO   OH
                 AcHN    OH                              HO          O      OH
                                                                  OHHO        OH
   and
                              HO    OH   HO   OH    HO  OH
                      HOOC,         -
                 HO   HO      O          O        OO      O
              HO      OHO             OH         NHAc    HOO   OH          OH
                 AcHN   OH                               HO        O         O
                                                                  OHH            O     NH
                                                                              OH    4n
 5 and salts thereof.
            Step S-5 involves an enzymatic reaction via the activity of an alpha2,3
   sialyltransferase, which is performed under suitable conditions known to those skilled in the
   art. A substrate of Formula (IV), such as Gb5, can be prepared by any method known in the
   art or disclosed herein. In some examples, the Formula (IV) compound is isolated from the
 0 reaction mixture described in Step S-3 above. In other examples, the whole reaction mixture
   of Step S-3 is used without purification of the Formula (IV) compound produced therein. The
   Formula (IV) compound can be incubated with CMP-Neu5Ac in the presence of the
   sialyltransferase under conditions allowing convertion of the Formula (IV) compound to a
   Formula (V) compound. In some example, this Sialyltransferase-catalyzed reaction is
15 coupled with the CMP-Neu5Ac regeneration process as described herein. Figure 2E. See
   also Examples below.
            Each of the Steps S 1-S5, as well as any combination of consequtive steps as described
   above, is within the scope of this disclosure. Also within the scope of the present disclosure
   are any of the compounds produced in any of the synthesis methods described herein, e.g.,
20 those described above.
            In some embodiments, the present disclosure features methods for synthesizing Globo
   H or SSEA 4 from lactose via a chain reaction comprising Steps S-1, S-2, S-3, and S-4 or
   Steps S-1, S-2, S-3, or S-5 described above. The Globo H or SSEA4 can be either untailed
   (R being hydrogen; see Figures 3 and 4), or tailed (e.g., RiA being allyl; see Figures 5 and
25 6). In each step, the glycosyltransferase reaction can be coupled with the corresponding
                                                   58

    nucleotide sugar regeneration process. Figures 3-6. In one example, the above-described
    method is performed in a one-pot manner, i.e., each prior reaction mixture is used directly for
    the next step reaction without purifying the substrate produced in the prior reaction. In other
    words, the one-pot approach is free of any step for purifying any intermediate. Alternatively,
 5  Steps S-1 and S-2 are performed in a one-spot manner without purification of any
    intermediate. After Step S-2, Gb4 is isolated from the reaction mixture and the purified GB4
    is used for the following Steps S3, S4, and/or S5. No further purification step is performed
    for isolating other intermediate.
             The enzymes used in each reaction step can be dissolved in each reaction mixture, or
 0  immobilized on one or more support members. When necessary, additional enzymes can be
    added during the chain reaction.
    Enzymatic Reactors
             A chain enzymatic reaction comprising any combination of two or more consecutive
 5  steps as described above can be performed in an enzymatic reactor, which comprises one or
    more reaction chambers. Each reaction chamber is designed for perform one step of the
    chain reaction. In particular, each reaction chamber comprises enzymes involved in one step
    of the reaction, including each of Steps 1-S to 5-S described above.
             In some embodiments, one or more enzymes, or all of the enzymes, in each reaction
 '0 chamber are immobilized on a suitable support member (e.g., a support membrane). When
    necessary, reaction chambers for consecutive reaction steps can be connected such that, after
    termination of the enzymatic reaction in a prior reaction chamber, the resultant reaction
    mixture can flow into the following reaction chamber to allow the next reaction step to occur.
    In some examples, the product from the prior reaction is not purified and the whole reaction
25  mixture including the product is added into the next reaction chamber to allow occurrence of
    the next enzymatic reaction. See, e.g., Figures 3 and 4.
             For example, the reaction of Step 1-S can be performed in a first reaction chamber in
    the enzymatic reactor, wherein one or enzymes involved in Step 1-S are immobilized on a
    support member. After termination of Step 1-S, the reaction mixture (including the Gb3
30  product) in the first reaction chamber is placed into a second reaction chamber containing all
    enzymes and reagents necessary for Step 2-S for synthesis of Gb4. In one example, the Gb4
    is purified and used for the next reaction step. In another example, the whole reaction
    mixture in the second reaction chamber, including Gb4, is placed into a third reaction
                                                   59

    chamber that contains enzymes and reagents necessary for Step 3-S, in which Gb5 is
    synthesized. Afterwards, the reaction mixture from the third reaction chamber can be placed
    into a fourth reaction chamber containing enzymes and reagents necessary for Step 4-S or
    placed into a fifth reaction chamber containing enzymes and reagents necessary for Step 5-S.
 5           In other embodiments, the enzymatic reactor contains one reaction chamber including
    enzymes, reagents, and the suitable substrate, necessary for one of the synthesis steps
    described above. The substrate is immobilized on a support member. In one example, a
    reaction chamber contains the enzymes and reagents necessary for Step 1-S, in which the
    substrate, Lac-allyl, is immobilized on a support member. After Step 1-S, in which Gb3-allyl
 0  is synthesized, the reaction mixture in the reaction chamber is replaced with a second reaction
    mixture containing enzymes and reagents necessary for Step 2-S. After synthesis of Gb4
    allyl in Step 2-S, the second reaction mixture is replaced with a third reaction mixture
    containing enzymes and reagents for Step 3-S, in which Gb5-allyl is synthesized. Afterwards,
    the third reaction mixture is replaced with either a fourth reaction mixture containing the
 5  enzymes and reagents for Step 4-S (for synthesis of Globo H-allyl) or a fifth reaction mixture
    containing the enzymes and reagents for Step 5-S (for synthesis of SSEA 4-allyl).
             Without further elaboration, it is believed that one skilled in the art can, based on the
    above description, utilize the present invention to its fullest extent. The following specific
    embodiments are, therefore, to be construed as merely illustrative, and not limitative of the
 '0 remainder of the disclosure in any way whatsoever. All publications cited herein are
    incorporated by reference for the purposes or subject matter referenced herein.
                                                 Examples
25           These and other aspects of the present invention will be further appreciated upon
    consideration of the following Examples, which are intended to illustrate certain particular
    embodiments of the invention but are not intended to limit its scope, as defined by the claims.
    Example 1: Synthesis of Globo-series oligosaccharides
30  New Methodfor UDP-GalRegeneration
             In 2004, Kotake's group discovered an enzyme from Pea Sprouts, UDP-Sugar
    Pyrophosphorylase, which has broad substrate specificity toward different monosaccharide-I
    phosphate to form UDP-Sugar.J 19 Two years later, Kotake's and Somers' groups
                                                     60

independently published similar function enzyme, USP, existed in Arabidopsis. [20],[21] Very
recently, the homologous enzymes also proved existing in parasites, Leishmania and
Trypanosoma.'2 2   ] 2 11 The USP enzyme is interesting because of its intrinsic ability to
condense UTP with not only Glc- 1-phosphate and Gal- 1-phosphate but also other
monosaccharide-1-P, GlcA-1-phosphate, and Xyl-1-phosphate. Therefore, we chose USP to
condense Gal-I-phosphate with UTP directly to render the UDP-Gal regeneration and to
fulfill the third regeneration of UDP-Gal synthesis.
Synthesis of allyl-Gb3
        The reaction mixture (200 mL) contained 10 mmol of allyl-lac, 10 mmol of galactose,
22 mmol of Phosphoenolpyruvic acid (PEP), 0.05 mmol of ATP, 0.125 mmol of UTP with 10
mM MgCl 2 in 100 mM Tris-HCI buffer (pH 7.0). The reaction was initiated by addition 100
U of c-1,4-galactosyltransferase (LgtC), 50 U of galactokinase (GalK), 150 U of UDP-sugar
pyrophosphorylase (USP), 200 U of pyruvate kinase (PykF) and 200 U of pyrophosphatase
(PPA). The flask was incubated at 25 0C and the reaction progress was monitored by TLC,
and stained by p-anisaldehyde. More enzymes were added if any of the reaction was
incomplete until the reaction was complete, and the products were confirmed by TLC and
ESI-MS.
Synthesis of allyl-Gb4
        Following the allyl-Gb3 synthesis, additional components were added, including 9.9
mmol of N-acetylgalactosamine (GalNAc), 22 mmol of PEP, 100 U of p-1,3-N
acetylgalactosaminyltransferase (pl,3GalNAcT, LgtD), 50 U of N-acetylhexosamine 1
kinase (GalNAcK), 200 U of N-acetylglucosamine 1-phosphate uridylyltransferase (GlmU),
100 U of PykF and 100 U of PPA, in 220mL solution. The mixture was incubated at 25 'C
and monitored by TLC and ESI-MS as before until the reaction was complete. The product
was further purified by a C-18 gel column and characterized by NMR.
Synthesis of allyl-Gb5
        The reaction mixture (250 mL) contained 9 mmol of allyl-Gb4, 9 mmol of galactose,
22 mmol of PEP, 0.05 mmol of ATP, 0.125 mmol of UTP with 10 mM MgCl 2 in 100 mM
Tris-HCl buffer (pH 7.0). The reaction was initiated by addition of 200 U of P-1,3
                                                 61

 galactosyltransferase (pl,3GalT, LgtD), 50 U of GalK, 150 U of USP, 100 U of PyKF and
 100 U of PPA and incubated at 25 0C, until completion.
Synthesis of allyl-Globo H
        A half amount of the reaction product of allyl-Gb5 (-4.5 mmol) without additional
purification was used to produce allyl-globo H directly. A solution containing 5 mmol of
 fucose, 0.05 mmol of ATP, 0.5 mmol of GTP, 11 mmol PEP with 10 mM MgCl 2 in 100 mM
Tris-HCl buffer (pH 7.0) was added 200 U of L-fucokinase/GDP-fucose pyrophosphorylase
 (FKP), 200 U of PykF, 200 U of PPA and 200 U of a-1,2-fucosyltransferase (FutC) incubated
 at 25 'C until the reaction was complete, and the product was purified by C-18 gel
 chromatography as before and characterized.
Synthesis of allyl-SSEA4
        Another half of the allyl-Gb5 (4.5 mmol) reaction mixture was used for the synthesis of
allyl-SSEA4 by adding 5 mmol of N-acetylneuraminic acid (Neu5Ac), 0.05 mmol of ATP,
0.25 mmol of CTP, 11 mmol of PEP with 10 mM MgCl 2 in 100 mM Tris-HCl buffer (pH 8.0)
followed by 50 U of Cytidine monophosphate kinase (CMK), 120 U of CMP-sialic acid
synthetase (Css), 100 U of PykF, 100 U of PPA and 150 U of a-2,3-sialyltransferase (JT-FAJ
 16). The progress was monitored by TLC and the product was purified and characterized as
described above.
Purificationand Characterizationof oligosaccharides
         Proteins in reaction mixture were removed by heating to 90 'C for 30 minutes and
followed by centrifugation (5000 rpm, 20 min). The filtrate was then purified by C-18 gel
chromatography and eluted by a gradient from 100% H 2 0 to 10% methanol in H2 0. The
fractions were collected and monitored by TLC [butanol/ammonium hydroxide/water = 5 : 3
2 (v/v/v)] and the fractions with allyl-oligosaccharides were pooled and lyophilized. More
than 99% purity of product could be gathered by HPLC using Cosmosil 5SL-II column in
(H 2 0/ Acetonitrile = 19/81) in an isocratic mode. The structure of allyl-Lac, allyl-Gb3, allyl
Gb4, allyl-Gb5, allyl-Globo H and allyl-SSEA4 were analyzed by 1H NMR,           13C NMR, and
mass spectrometry (Avance 600 and APEX-ultra 9.4 T FTICR-MS, Bruker Daltonics).
                                                62

Cloning of genesfor nucleotide sugar synthesis, glycosyltransferasesand A TP regeneration
         All genes obtained via PCR from genomic DNA or cDNA library by respective
primer (Table 6), and PCR product were ligated into the modified pET47b vector. After
ATG, following are the His-tag, AcTEV protease cutting site and ccdB positive selection
gene flanked by special restriction recognition enzymes, or pET28a in C-teminal His-tag. In
order to increase the gene expression level, the four glycosyltransferases were synthesized by
codon optimization for E. coli. The plasmid with correct sequence was transformed into
ArcticExpress/RIL competent cell by chemical transformation method. Picked single colony
and inoculated into TB medium with kanamycin antibiotics overnight, and refresh the cell
culture into fresh TB medium, then inducing target protein expression by final concentration
0.1 mM IPTG when OD600 was reaching 0.5. After that, allowed grown at 16 'C for 24 h.
The E. coli cells were harvested and disrupted in a buffer containing 50mM sodium
phosphate buffer, pH8.0, 300mM sodium chloride, and 10mM imidazole by microfluidizer.
Centrifuge the cell in 10,000 rpm at 4 'C for 30 minutes. Then, poured the supernatant into
the equilibrated Ni-NTA agarose and discard the precipitate. The bound protein was eluted in
the same buffer but containing higher concentration imidazole (250mM). The protein
concentration was determined by Qubit Protein Quantitation (Invitrogen, CA), and purity was
confirmed by SDS-PAGE.
Table 6. Primers used for sialidase expressions in E. coli.
                         EO I   I                                           RetricGene                 sourlce
             Primer"                    Sequence (5'-3')                    est      si nentoee
                                                                           ____ _     it,          cDNA pool
                                                                                                i-or
  SEQ ID              CTGTATTTTCAGGGAGCGATCGCTATGAGTCTGAAAGAA
  NO: 1       gaK-F   AAAACA'                                                  AsiSI         E. coli MG1655
  SEQ ID     galK-R   GCCTCGAGTCATTACGTTTAAACTCAGCACTGTCCTGCT                   PmeI          ATCC 700926
  NO: 2               CCTTG
 SEQ ID        usp-F  CTGTATTTTCAGGGAGCGATCGCTATGGCTTCTACGGTT                  AsiSI          cDNA pool of
  NO: 3               GATTC                                                                     Arabidopsis
 SEQ ID        usp-R  GCCTCGAGTCATTACGTTTAAACTCAATCTTCAACAGAA                   PmeI               thaliana
  NO: 4               AATTTGC
 SEQ ID       /gtC-F  GATATACCATGGAAATGGACATCGTTTTCGCGGCG
                                                                                NcoI                 Gene
 SEQ D        gtC-R'  GTGGTGCTCGAGGTAGATTTTACGCAGGAAACG                         Xhol           optimization
 SEQ ID     galnacK-F CTGTATTTTCAGGGAGCGATCGCTATGAACAAGACTTATG                 AsiSI         Bifidobacterium
  NO: 7               ATTTTAAAAG                                                              longum ATCC
 SEQ ID     galnacK-R GCCTCGAGTCATTACGTTTAAACTTAAATGTATGAATATAC                 PmeI                15697
  NO: 8               TATCTTC
 SEQ ID               CTGTATTTTCAGGGAGCGATCGCTATGTTGAATAATGCTA                 AsiS              c
  NO: 9      g/m U-F  TGAGC                                                                  E. coli MG1655
 SEQ ID      glmU-R   GCCTCGAGTCATTACGTTTAAACTCACTTTTTCTTTACCG                  PmeI          ATCC 700926
  NO: 10              GACG
                                                63

                                SEQ 1)                                                      Rstiltion      Gene source
    SEOI        Primer"                               Sequence (5'-+3')                        strict     from genore
   SEQ I                                                                                    enzyme site
                                                                                                          or cDNA pool
  NO: ID         lgtD-Fb            GATATACCATGGAAAACTGCCCGCTGGTTTCT                           NoGene
  SEQ IDIGn
                                                                                                Xhol       optimization
    NO: 12       lgtD-R'           GTGGTGCTCGAGGAAGATAACGTTGATTTTACGG
  SEQ 12
  NO:   13        jkp-F          CAGGGAGCGATCGCTATGCAAAAACTACTATCTTTA                          AsiSI        Bacteroides
  SEQ   ID                                                                                                 fragilis 9343
  NO:   14        Jkp-R            CATTACGTTTAAACTTATGATCGTGATACTTGGAA                         PmeI        ATCC 25285
  SEQ   ID      fuaC-Fh        CTGTATTTTCAGGGAGCGATCGCTATGGCGTTCAAAGTT
  NO:   15                                               GTTCAG                                AsiSI           Gene
  SEQ   ID      futC-R'        GCCTCGAGTCATTACGTTTAAACTTACGCGTTGTATTTCT                        PmeI        optimization
  NO:   16                                                GAGAT
  SEQ   ID        cmk-F          CAGGGAGCGATCGCTATGACGGCAATTGCCCCGGTT                          AsiSI     E. coli MG1655
  NO:   17                                                                                               E oiM15
  SEQ   ID        cmk-R            CATTACGTTTAAACTTATGCGAGAGCCAATTTCTG                         PmeI       ATCC 700926
  NO:   18
                   css-F          GATATACCATGGAAACAAATATTGCGATCATTCCTG                         NcoI           aula
  NO: 19                                                                                                      utcd
  SEQ ID           css-R          GTGGTGCTCGAGTTTATTGGATAAAATTTCCGCGAG                         Xhol        ATCC BAA
  NO: 20                                                                                                       1113
  SEQ ID       jt-faj-]16
  NO: 21             Fa1          GATATACCATGGAAATGAACAACGACAACTCTACC                          Ncol            Gene
  SEQ ID       jt-faj-]16-                                                                                 otmzto
  NO: 22            R              GTGGTGCTCGAGGATGTCAGAGATCAGTTTGATG                          XhoI        optimization
  SEQ ID                      CTGTATTTTCAGGGAGCGATCGCTATGAAAAAGACCAAA                          AsiS         c
  NO: 23         pykF-F                                 ATTGTTTG                                         E. coli MG1655
  SEQ ID        pykF-R         GCCTCGAGTCATTACGTTTAAACTTACAGGACGTGAACA                         PmeI       ATCC 700926
  NO: 24                                                   GATG
  NO: 2           ppa-F          CAGGGAGCGATCGCTATGAGCTTACTCAACGTCCCT                          AsiSI      . co/i MG1655
                                   CATTACGTTTAAACTTATTTATTCTTTGCGCGCTC                         PmeI       ATCC 700926
    NO: 26       ppa-R
a a pair of primers for    forward (F) and reversed (R) PCR reactions to amplify the coding sequence of each gene.
b Underline with bold      means the site of restriction enzyme recognition.
' Codon optimization for E. coli. See, e.g., Puigbo et al., Nucleic Acids Research (2007) 35(S2):W126-W130.
Enzyme assay
           In order to maintain constant assay conditions, all activity was measured at 37 'C with
 10mM MgCl 2 , 100mM Tris, and at a pH of 7.5.
(i) Measurement of the Galactokinase (GaK), N-acetvlhexosamine kinase (GalNAcK),
Fucokinase (FKP) and Cytidine monophosphate kinase (CMK) activity
           The fluorometric assay method was based on monitor of ADP production (ATP
consumption) by using the pyruvate kinase/lactate dehydrogenase coupled enzymatic assay
for the NADH consumption. See, e.g., Murray et al., "Mechanism of Human a-1,3
Fucosyltransferase V: Glycosidic Cleavage Occurs Prior to Nucleophilic Attack"
Biochemistry (1997) 36:823-831; and Gosselin et al., "A Continuous Spectrophotometric
Assay for Glycosyltransferases" Analytical Biochemistry (1994) 220:92-97. Fluorescence
                                                              64

property of NADH has an excitation wavelength of 340 nm and an emission wavelength of
450 nm. A 1OuL of reaction mixture was prepared containing the coupling enzyme (5 units
of pyruvate kinase and 7 units of lactic dehydrogenase from rabbit muscle) and substrates and
cofactors (0.2 mM NADH, 0.8 mM PEP, 10 mM MgCl 2 ) in 100 mM Tris (pH 7.5). Reactions
were initiated by the addition of the respective sugar. The kinetic parameters, Kcat and Km
were calculated by curve fitting the experimental data with the theoretical equation, using
Grafit version 7 (Erithacus Software, Middlesex, UK). One unit of sugar kinase activity is
defined as 1 umol of sugar-1-P formation per minute at 25'C.
 (ii) Measurement of UDP-sugarpyrophosphorvlase (USP), N-acetvl glucosamine-]
phosphate uridyltransferase(Glm U), GDP-L-fucose pyrophosphorvlase (FKP)and CMP
sialic acid synthetases (Css) activity
         The production of pyrophosphate was measured using the EnzCheck Pyrophosphate
Assay Kit (Invitrogen, CA, USA). Assay components including: 200 uM 2-amino-6
mercapto-7-methylpurine ribonucleoside, 1 unit nucleoside phosphorylase, 0.03 unit
inorganic pyrophosphatase, 10 mM MgCl 2 , 50 mM Tris, pH 7.5 in 100uL scale in UV-Star
microplates (Greiner Bio One, Germany). All components except FKP were mixed in the
microplates and allowed to equilibrate until a flat baseline was achieved. Reactions were
initiated by the addition of enzyme. One unit of enzyme activity is defined as the producing 1
umol of nucleotide sugar from the respective sugar-I-Ps per minute at 25'C, except for CMP
sialic acid synthetase, which is defined as 1 umol of pyrophosphate formation per minute at
25 0 C.
(iii) Measurement ofglvcosyltransferase: a-, 4-galactosyltransferase(LgtC),a 1,3-N
acetylgalactosaminyltransferase(81,3GalNAcT, LtD). 13-],3-galactosvltransferase(L2tD),
a-1,2-fucosvltransferase (FutC)and a-2,3-sialyltransferase(JT-FAJ-16).
         The fluorometric assay method monitored UDP, GDP, or CDP production using the
pyruvate kinase/lactate dehydrogenase coupled enzymatic assay for the NADH consumption.
See, e.g., Murray et al., "Mechanism of Human a-1,3-Fucosyltransferase V: Glycosidic
Cleavage Occurs Prior to Nucleophilic Attack" Biochemistry (1997) 36:823-831; and
Gosselin et al., "A Continuous Spectrophotometric Assay for Glycosyltransferases"
Analytical Biochemistry (1994) 220:92-97. The assay components except nucleotide sugar
were simultaneously incubated in the multiple plate fluorometer (SpectraMax M2 Readers,
                                                65

    Molecular Devices) at 25'C. Reactions were initiated by the addition of corresponding
    nucleotide sugar. The kinetic parameters, Kat and Km were calculated by curve fitting the
    experimental data with the theoretical equation, using Grafit version 7 (Erithacus Software,
    Middlesex, UK). One unit of activity is defined as the amount of enzyme that catalyzes the
 5  transfer lumol sugar from respective nucleotide sugar to acceptor per minute at 25'C.
    (iv) Measurement ofPyruvate kinase (PvrK)
             Pyruvate kinase assay was slightly modified from sugar kinase measurement previous
    mentioned, also based on NADH consumption. A 1OuL of reaction mixture is prepared
 0  containing 0.8 mM ADP, 0.8 mM PEP, 0.2 mM NADH, 10 mM MgCl 2 , and 5 units of lactic
    dehydrogenase from rabbit muscle in 100 mM Tris (pH 7.5) in black multiplate. NADH has
    an excitation wavelength at 340 nm and an emission wavelength at 450 nm. Reaction is
    initiated by adding a suitable amount of recombinant E. coli pyruvate kinase. One unit of
    pyruvate kinase is defined as conversion of 1.0 mole of phospho(enol)pyruvate to pyruvate
 5  per minute at 25'C.
    (v) Measurement of Pyrophosphatase(PPA)
             Pyrophosphatase assay is slightly modified from pyrophorylase protocol from
    commercial kit EnzCheck Pyrophosphate Assay Kit (Invitrogen, CA, USA). Assay
 '0 components including: 1mM pyrophosphate, 200 uM 2-amino-6-mercapto-7-methylpurine
    ribonucleoside, 1 unit nucleoside phosphorylase, 10 mM MgCl 2 , 50 mM Tris, at a pH of 7.5
    in 1OuL scale in UV-Star microplates (Greiner Bio One, Germany ) with suitable amount of
    recombinant E. coli pyrophosphatase. One unit of pyrophosphatase activity is defined as
    liberation of 1.0 umole of inorganic pyrophosphate per minute at 25'C.
25
     (vi) Measurement of Optimum pH
            The optimum pH for enzyme activity was determined in the standard enzyme assay
    mentioned above in the pH range 4.0-10.0, including sodium acetate, MES, MOPS, HEPES,
    Tris-HCl, CHES buffer. The pH of the buffer was adjusted at the temperature of incubation.
30  All reactions were performed in triplicate for statistical evaluation.
    (vii) Measurementof Optimum DivalentMetal Ion
                                                  66

         The assay for metal requirement was conducted in standard assay condition. Enzymes
were mixed with metal ion (Mg2+, Mn2+, Mg2++Mn 2+, Ca2+, Zn2+, C02+, or Ni 2 +) in a final
concentration of 10mM, in the presence and absence of EDTA. All reactions were performed
in triplicate for statistical evaluation.
(viii) Measurement of Optimum Temperature
         The effect of temperature on the activity of enzymes were determined by incubating
an appropriate amount of purified enzyme in MOPS buffer (pH 7.0), 10 mM MgCl 2 and
respective substrates. In order to keep the assay consist, all components were mixed well and
preheated at assay temperature for 5 min, and the reaction was started by adding the enzyme
and recorded by multimode plate readers (SpectraMax M5, Molecular Devices) in constant
temperature. The temperature ranged from 20 to 60 'C. All reactions were performed in
triplicate for statistical evaluation.
Enzyme Composition
UDP-Gal regeneration/Galactosylation
     1. GalK: galactokinase, from E. coli
     2. USP: UDP-sugar pyrophosphorylase from Arabidopsis thaliana
     3. LgtC: cl,4galactsyltransferase, from Neisseria meningitidis, but codon optimization
         for E. coli
     4. PykF: pyruvate kinase, from E. coli
     5. PPA: pyrophosphatase, from E. coli
     The coding sequence of the coden-optimized LgtC enzyme is provided below (SEQ ID
     NO: 27):
     ATGGACATCGTTTTCGCGGCGGACGACAACTACGCGGCGTACCTGTGCGTTGCGGCGAAA
     TCTGTTGAAGCGGCGCACCCGGACACCGAAATCCGTTTCCACGTTCTGGACGCGGGTATC
     TCTGAAGCGAACCGTGCGGCGGTTGCGGCGAACCTGCGTGGTGGTGGTGGTAACATCCGT
     TTCATCGACGTTAACCCGGAAGACTTCGCGGGTTTCCCGCTGAACATCCGTCACATCTCT
     ATCACCACCTACGCGCGTCTGAAACTGGGTGAATACATCGCGGACTGCGACAAAGTTCTG
     TACCTGGACATCGACGTTCTGGTTCGTGACTCTCTGACCCCGCTGTGGGACACCGACCTG
     GGTGACAACTGGCTGGGTGCGTGCATCGACCTGTTCGTTGAACGTCAGGAAGGTTACAAA
     CAGAAAATCGGTATGGCGGACGGTGAATACTACTTCAACGCGGGTGTTCTGCTGATCAAC
     CTGAAAAAATGGCGTCGTCACGACATCTTCAAAATGTCTTGCGAATGGGTTGAACAGTAC
    AAAGACGTTATGCAGTACCAGGACCAGGACATCCTGAACGGTCTGTTCAAAGGTGGTGTT
     TGCTACGCGAACTCTCGTTTCAACTTCATGCCGACCAACTACGCGTTCATGGCGAACCGT
     TTCGCGTCTCGTCACACCGACCCGCTGTACCGTGACCGTACCAACACCGTTATGCCGGT
                                                67

        TTCGCGTCTCGTCACACCGACCCGCTGTACCGTGACCGTACCAACACCGTTATGCCGGTT
        GCGGTTTCTCACTACTGCGGTCCGGCGAAACCGTGGCACCGTGACTGCACCGCGTGGGGT
        GCGGAACGTTTCACCGAACTGGCGGGTTCTCTGACCACCGTTCCGGAAGAATGGCGTGGT
       AAACTGGCGGTTCCGCACCGTATGTTCTCTACCAAACGTATGCTGCAGCGTTGGCGTCGT
 5     AAACTGTCTGCGCGTTTCCTGCGTAAAATCTACTGA
    UDP-GalNAc regeneration/acetylgalactosamination
        1. GalNAcK: N-Acetylhexosamine         1-Kinases, from B. longum
       2. GlmU: N-acetylglucosamine 1-phosphate uridylyltransferase from E. coli
 0     3.  LgtD:  P 1,3galactosyltransferase, from Haemophilus influenza, but codon optimization
           for E. coli
       4. PykF: pyruvate kinase, from E. coli
       5.  PPA: pyrophosphatase, from E. coli
           The coding sequence of the coden-optimized LgtD enzyme is provided below (SEQ
 5  ID NO: 28):
    ATGGAAAACTGCCCGCTGGTTTCTGTTATCGTTTGCGCGTACAACGCGGAACAGTACATCGACGAATC
    TATCTCTTCTATCATCAACCAGACCTACGAAAACCTGGAAATCATCGTTATCAACGACGGTTCTACCG
    ACCTGACCCTGTCTCACCTGGAAGAAATCTCTAAACTGGACAAACGTATCAAAATCATCTCTAACAAA
    TACAACCTGGGTTTCATCAACTCTCTGAACATCGGTCTGGGTTGCTTCTCTGGTAAATACTTCGCGCG
 '0 TATGGACGCGGACGACATCGCGAAACCGTCTTGGATCGAAAAAATCGTTACCTACCTGGAAAAAAACG
    ACCACATCACCGCGATGGGTTCTTACCTGGAAATCATCGTTGAAAAAGAATGCGGTATCATCGGTTCT
    CAGTACAAAACCGGTGACATCTGGAAAAACCCGCTGCTGCACAACGACATCTGCGAAGCGATGCTGTT
    CTACAACCCGATCCACAACAACACCATGATCATGCGTGCGAACGTTTACCGTGAACACAAACTGATCT
    TCAACAAAGACTACCCGTACGCGGAAGACTACAAATTCTGGTCTGAAGTTTCTCGTCTGGGTTGCCTG
 .5 GCGAACTACCCGGAAGCGCTGGTTAAATACCGTCTGCACGGTAACCAGACCTCTTCTGTTTACAACCA
    CGAACAGAACGAAACCGCGAAAAAAATCAAACGTGAAAACATCACCTACTACCTGAACAAAATCGGTA
    TCGACATCAAAGTTATCAACTCTGTTTCTCTGCTGGAAATCTACCACGTTGACAAATCTAACAAAGTT
    CTGAAATCTATCCTGTACGAAATGTACATGTCTCTGGACAAATACACCATCACCTCTCTGCTGCACTT
    CATCAAATACCACCTGGAACTGTTCGACCTGAAACAGAACCTGAAAATCATCAAAAAATTCATCCGTA
30  AAATCAACGTTATCTTCTAG
    GDP-FKP regeneration/Fucosylation
        1. FKP: L-fucokinase/GDP-fucose pyrophosphorylase, from Bacteroidesfragilis
       2. FutC: al,2fucosyltransferase, from Helicobacterpylor,but codon optimization for E.
35         coli
       3.  PykF: pyruvate kinase, from E. coli
       4. PPA: pyrophosphatase, from E. coli
           The coding sequence of the coden-optimized FutC enzyme is provided below (SEQ
    ID NO: 29):
40
                                                   68

    ATGGCGTTCAAAGTTGTTCAGATCTGCGGTGGTCTGGGTAACCAGATGTTCCAGTACGCGTTCGCGAA
    ATCTCTGCAGAAACACTCTAACACCCCGGTTCTGCTGGACATCACCTCTTTCGACTGGTCTGACCGTA
    AAATGCAGCTGGAACTGTTCCCGATCGACCTGCCGTACGCGTCTGCGAAAGAAATCGCGATCGCGAAA
    ATGCAGCACCTGCCGAAACTGGTTCGTGACGCGCTGAAATGCATGGGTTTCGACCGTGTTTCTCAGGA
 5  AATCGTTTTCGAATACGAACCGAAACTGCTGAAACCGTCTCGTCTGACCTACTTCTTCGGTTACTTCC
    AGGACCCGCGTTACTTCGACGCGATCTCTCCGCTGATCAAACAGACCTTCACCCTGCCGCCGCCGCCG
    GAAAACAACAAAAACAACAACAAAAAAGAAGAAGAATACCAGTGCAAACTGTCTCTGATCCTGGCGGC
    GAAAAACTCTGTTTTCGTTCACATCCGTCGTGGTGACTACGTTGGTATCGGTTGCCAGCTGGGTATCG
    ACTACCAGAAAAAAGCGCTGGAATACATGGCGAAACGTGTTCCGAACATGGAACTGTTCGTTTTCTGC
 0  GAAGACCTGGAATTCACCCAGAACCTGGACCTGGGTTACCCGTTCATGGACATGACCACCCGTGACAA
    AGAAGAAGAAGCGTACTGGGACATGCTGCTGATGCAGTCTTGCCAGCACGGTATCATCGCGAACTCTA
    CCTACTCTTGGTGGGCGGCGTACCTGATCGAAAACCCGGAAAAAATCATCATCGGTCCGAAACACTGG
    CTGTTCGGTCACGAAAACATCCTGTGCAAAGAATGGGTTAAAATCGAATCTCACTTCGAAGTTAAATC
    TCAGAAATACAACGCGTAA
 5
    CMP-Neu5Ac regeneration/Sialylation
       1. CMK: Cytidine monophosphate kinase, from E. coli
       2. Css: CMP-sialic acid synthetase, from Pasteurella multocida
       3. JT-FAJ-16: a2,3sialyltransferase, from marine bacteria, but codon optimization for E.
  0       coli
       4. PykF: pyruvate kinase, from E. coli
       5. PPA: pyrophosphatase, from E. coli
          The coding sequence of the coden-optimized JT-FAJ-16 enzyme is provided below
    (SEQ ID NO: 30):
 '5
    ATGAACAACGACAACTCTACCACCACCAACAACAACGCGATCGAAATCTACGTTGACCGTGCGACCCT
    GCCGACCATCCAGCAGATGACCAAAATCGTTTCTCAGAAAACCTCTAACAAAAAACTGATCTCTTGGT
    CTCGTTACCCGATCACCGACAAATCTCTGCTGAAAAAAATCAACGCGGAATTCTTCAAAGAACAGTTC
    GAACTGACCGAATCTCTGAAAAACATCATCCTGTCTGAAAACATCGACAACCTGATCATCCACGGTAA
30  CACCCTGTGGTCTATCGACGTTGTTGACATCATCAAAGAAGTTAACCTGCTGGGTAAAAACATCCCGA
    TCGAACTGCACTTCTACGACGACGGTTCTGCGGAATACGTTCGTATCTACGAATTCTCTAAACTGCCG
    GAATCTGAACAGAAATACAAAACCTCTCTGTCTAAAAACAACATCAAATTCTCTATCGACGGTACCGA
    CTCTTTCAAAAACACCATCGAAAACATCTACGGTTTCTCTCAGCTGTACCCGACCACCTACCACATGC
    TGCGTGCGGACATCTTCGACACCACCCTGAAAATCAACCCGCTGCGTGAACTGCTGTCTAACAACATC
35  AAACAGATGAAATGGGACTACTTCAAAGACTTCAACTACAAACAGAAAGACATCTTCTACTCTCTGAC
    CAACTTCAACCCGAAAGAAATCCAGGAAGACTTCAACAAAAACTCTAACAAAAACTTCATCTTCATCG
    GTTCTAACTCTGCGACCGCGACCGCGGAAGAACAGATCAACATCATCTCTGAAGCGAAAAAAGAAAAC
    TCTTCTATCATCACCAACTCTATCTCTGACTACGACCTGTTCTTCAAAGGTCACCCGTCTGCGACCTT
    CAACGAACAGATCATCAACGCGCACGACATGATCGAAATCAACAACAAAATCCCGTTCGAAGCGCTGA
40  TCATGACCGGTATCCTGCCGGACGCGGTTGGTGGTATGGGTTCTTCTGTTTTCTTCTCTATCCCGAAA
    GAAGTTAAAAACAAATTCGTTTTCTACAAATCTGGTACCGACATCGAAAACAACTCTCTGATCCAGGT
    TATGCTGAAACTGAACCTGATCAACCGTGACAACATCAAACTGATCTCTGACATCTAA
                                               69

Materialsand Chemicals
        All nucleotide, sugar, nucleotide sugar and chemicals were purchased from Sigma
Aldrich (St. Louis, MO). Restriction enzyme and T4 DNA ligase acquired from NEB
(Beverly, MA). Primer ordered from Proligo Singapore Pte Ltd (Singapore). Ni-NTA
Agarose obtained from Qiagen (Santa Clarita, CA). Bio-Gel P2 gel was purchase from Bio
Rad (Hercules, CA). Plasmid pET28a, pET47b and precoated glass plates TLC covered in
Silica Gel 60, F254 with 0.25mm layer thickness was purchase from EMD Chemicals Inc
(Carlsbad, CA) were purchased from EMD Chemicals Inc (Carlsbad, CA).
ArcticExpress/RIL competent cell were obtained from Agilent Genomics (La Jolla, CA). All
other materials not mentioned above were purchased as high quality as possible.
        All reactions were monitored by thin-layer chromatography. (mobile phase:
Butanol:acetate:water=5:3:2). Staining the TLC by p-Anisaldehyde.
Synthesis of allyl-Lac
        The synthesis of different lactose with linker was followed by the literature reported
method [Carbohydrate Research 2004, 339, 2415-2424.]. 'H NMR (600 MHz, D20) 6 6.01
(m, 1H), 5.40-5.37 (dd, J= 17.3, 1.4 Hz, 1H), 5.30-5.28 (d, J = 10.3 Hz, 1H), 4.54 (d, J= 8.1
Hz, 1H), 4.46 (d, J= 7.8 Hz, 1H), 4.41-4.38 (m, 1H), 4.25-4.22 (m, 1H), 4.00-3.97 (dd, J=
12.3, 2,1 Hz, 1H), 3.93 (d, J= 3.3 Hz, 1H), 3.80-3.71 (m, 4 H), 3.67-3.53 (m, 5H), 3.35-3.33
(m, 1H);  1C  NMR (150 MHz, D20) 6 133.3, 118.7, 102.9, 101.0, 78.3, 75.3, 74.7, 74.4,
72.8, 72.5, 70.9, 70.6, 68.5, 60.9, 60.1; HRMS (ESI-TOF, MNa*) C15 H2 6 01Na* calcd for
405.1367, found 405.1346.
Large scale production of Gb3 with linker
        5 mmol lactose with linker, 5 mmol galactose, 12 mmol Phosphoenolpyruvic
acid(PEP), 0.25 mmol ATP, 0.25 mmol UTP and 10 mM MgCl 2 were added into 100 mM
Tris-HCl buffer (pH 7.5) solution. The reaction was initiated by addition suitable amount of
a- 1,4-galactosyltransferase (LgtC), galactokinase (GalK), UDP-sugar pyrophosphorylase
(USP), pyruvate kinase (PykF) and pyrophosphatase (PPA). The flask was placed into an
incubator at 16~50 C with gentle shaking. The reaction was monitored by TLC. More
enzymes are added if the reaction stops. The reaction is stopped when no more starting
material is observed by TLC. The Gb3 product was isolated by 18C reverse phase column in
99% yield.
                                                70

         Allyl-Gb3: 1H NMR (600 MHz, D2 0) 6 6.00 (m, 1H), 5.42 (d, J= 17.2 Hz, 1H), 5.32
(d, J= 10.4 Hz, 1H), 4.97 (d, J= 3.3 Hz, 1H), 4.56 (d, J= 7.9 Hz, 1H), 4.53 (d, J= 7.7 Hz,
 1H), 4.43-4.37 (m, 2H), 4.27-4.24 (m, 1H), 4.06-3.58 (m, 16H), 3.37-3.34 (t, J= 8.0 Hz,
 1H); "C NMR (150 MHz, D20) 6 133.3, 118.7, 103.3, 100.9, 100.3, 78.6, 77.3, 75.4, 74.8,
74.5, 72.9, 72.2, 70.9, 70.8, 70.6, 69.1, 68.9, 68.5, 60.5, 60.4, 60.0; HRMS (ESI-TOF, MNa*)
C2 1H3 601 6Na* calcd for 567.1896, found 567.1858.
                         HO    OH
                       HO       O
                               HO
                                  0    OH           OH
                                        HO            ON
                                      HO              OH
                                       5-Aminopentyl-Gb3
         'H NMR (600 MHz, D2 0) 6 4.97 (d, J= 3.3 Hz, 1H), 4.56 (d, J= 7.9 Hz, 1H), 4.54
4.50 (m, 2H), 4.37 (dd, J= 6.0 Hz, J= 0.6 Hz, 1H), 4.27-4.24 (m, 1H), 4.06-3.59 (m, 18H),
3.35 (t, J= 8.0 Hz, 1H), 3.03 (t, J= 7.4 Hz, 2H), 1.75-1.68 (m, 4H), 1.51-1.46 (m, 2H);     13 C
NMR (150 MHz, D20) 6 103.3, 101.9, 100.3, 78.7, 77.3, 75.4, 74.8, 74.5, 72.9, 72.2, 70.9,
70.8, 70.6, 69.1, 68.9, 68.5, 60.5, 60.4, 60.0, 39.3, 28.1, 26.4, 22.1.
Large scale production of Gb4 with linker
         5 mmol Gb3 with linker, 5 mmol N-acetylgalactosamine (GalNAc), 12 mmol
Phosphoenolpyruvic acid(PEP), 0.25 mmol ATP, 0.25 mmol UTP and 10 mM MgCl 2 were
added into 100 mM Tris-HCl buffer (pH 7.5) solution. The reaction was initiated by addition
suitable amount of -1,3-N-acetylgalactosaminyltransferase (LgtD), N-acetylhexosamine 1
kinase (GalNAcK), N-acetylglucosamine 1-phosphate uridylyltransferase (GlmU), pyruvate
kinase (PykF) and pyrophosphatase (PPA). The flask was placed into an incubator at 16-50
'C with gentle shaking. The reaction was monitored by TLC. More enzymes are added if the
reaction stops. The reaction is stopped when no more starting material is observed by TLC.
The Gb4 product was isolated by 18 C reverse phase column in 96% yield.
         Allyl-Gb4: 'H NMR (600 MHz, D2 0) 6 6.01 (m, 1H), 5.40-5.38 (dd, J= 17.3, 1.4 Hz,
1H), 5.30 (d, J= 10.5 Hz, 1H), 4.92 (d, J= 3.9 Hz, 1H), 4.64 (d, J= 8.5 Hz, 1H), 4.54 (d, J=
7.9 Hz, 1H), 4.53 (d, J= 7.8 Hz, 1H), 4.42-4.38 (m, 2H), 4.26-4.22 (m, 2H), 4.05 (d, J= 2.9
Hz, 1H), 4.01-3.99 (dd, J= 12.3, 1.8 Hz, 1H), 3.98-3.89 (m, 5H), 3.86-3.74(m, 7H), 3.72
3.57 (m, 7H), 3.37-3.34 (t, J= 8.6 Hz, 1H), 2.05 (s, 3H); "C NMR (150 MHz, D20) 6 133.2,
118.7, 103.3, 103.2, 100.9, 100.4, 78.7, 78.6, 77.2, 75.4, 74.9, 74.8, 74.5, 72.9, 72.1, 70.9,
                                                 71

70.8, 70.6, 70.2, 68.9, 67.7, 67.6, 60.9, 60.5, 60.3, 60.2, 60.0, 52.6, 22.2; HRMS (MALDI,
MNa*) C29H 4 9NO 2 1Na* calcd for 770.2689, found 770.2654.
Large scale production of Gb5 with linker
        5 mmol allyl-Gb4, 5 mmol galactose, 12 mmol Phosphoenolpyruvic acid(PEP), 0.25
mmol ATP, 0.25 mmol UTP with 10 mM MgCl 2 were added into 100 mM Tris-HCI buffer
(pH 7.5). The reaction was initiated by addition suitable amount of p-1,3
galactosyltransferase, galactokinase (GalK), UDP-sugar pyrophosphorylase (USP), pyruvate
kinase (PykF) and pyrophosphatase (PPA). The flask was placed into an incubator at 16~50
'C with gentle shaking. The reaction was monitored by TLC. More enzymes are added if the
reaction stops. The reaction is stopped when no more starting material is observed by TLC.
The Gb5 product was purified by     18 C reverse phase column in 95% yield.
        Allyl-Gb5: 'H NMR (600 MHz, D2 0) 6 6.01 (m, 1H), 5.41-5.38 (dd, J= 17.3, 1.4 Hz,
1H), 5.31 (d, J= 10.6 Hz, 1H), 4.93 (d, J= 4.0 Hz, 1H), 4.71 (d, J= 8.5 Hz, 1H), 4.55 (d, J=
8.1 Hz, 1H), 4.53 (d, J= 7.8 Hz, 1H), 4.47 (d, J= 7.7 Hz, 1H), 4.42-4.39 (m, 2H), 4.27-4.23
(m, 2H), 4.20 (d, J= 3.2 Hz, 1H), 4.09-3.90 (m, 8H), 3.87-3.59(m, 17H), 3.55-3.52 (m, 1H),
3.36-3.33 (t, J= 8.6 Hz, 1H), 2.04 (s, 3H); "3 C NMR (150 MHz, D20) 6 175.1, 133.2, 118.7,
104.8, 103.3, 102.9, 100.9, 100.4, 79.6, 78.7, 78.6, 77.2, 75.4, 74.9, 74.8, 74.6, 74.5, 72.9,
72.4, 72.1, 70.9, 70.6 (2C), 70.2, 68.9, 68.5, 67.9, 67.6, 60.9 (2C), 60.33, 60.28, 60.0, 51.5,
22.2; HRMS (ESI-TOF, MNa*) C35 H59NO 26 Na* calcd for 932.3218, found 932.3235.
           HO    OH     HO    OH      HO    OH
          HO           O                     0
                  OH            NHAc        HO
                                               0   OH            OH
                                            HO           OO                           NH2
                                                   HO             OH
                                        5-Aminopentyl-Gb5
        'H NMR (600 MHz, D2 0), 4.47 (d, 1H, J= 8.42 Hz), 4.30 (d, 1H, J= 7.9 Hz), 4.28
(d, 1H, J= 8.1 Hz), 4.24 (d, 1H, J= 7.7 Hz), 4.19 (t, 1H J= 7.0 Hz), 4.04 (d, 1H, J= 2.8 Hz),
3.97 (d, 1H, J= 2.98 Hz), 3.87-3.35 (m, 32H), 3.30 (t, 1H, J= 7.7 Hz), 3.09 (t, 1H, J= 8.5
Hz), 2.79 (t, 2H, J= 7.6 Hz), 1.82 (s, 3H), 1.51-1.43, (m, 4H), 1.28-1.21 (m, 2H)      13 C NMR
(150 MHz, D2 0), 6 175.0, 104.7, 103.1, 102.8, 101.8, 100.2, 79.4, 78.5, 78.4, 76.9, 75.3,
74.8, 74.7, 74.4, 74.3, 72.8, 72.2, 71.9, 70.6, 70.4, 70.0, 69.9, 68.7, 68.4, 67.8, 67.4, 60.82,
60.77, 60.13, 60.1, 59.8, 51.3, 39.1, 28.0, 26.3, 22.1, 21.9 MALDI-TOF: C3 7 H66 N2 0 26
[M+H]* calculated 955.3904; found 955.3972
                                                 72

Large scale production of Globo H with linker
        5 mmol Gb5 with linker, 5 mmol fucose, 12 mmol Phosphoenolpyruvic acid(PEP),
0.25 mmol ATP, 0.25 mmol GTP with 10 mM MgCl 2 were added into 100 mM Tris-HC1
buffer (pH 7.5). The reaction was initiated by addition suitable amount of a-1,2
fucosyltransferase, L-fucokinase/GDP-fucose pyrophosphorylase (FKP), pyruvate kinase
(PykF) and pyrophosphatase (PPA). The flask was placed into an incubator at 16-50 C with
gentle shaking. The reaction was monitored by TLC. More enzymes are added if the reaction
stops. The reaction is stopped when no more starting material is observed by TLC. The
Globo H product was purified by      18 C reverse phase column in 94% yield.
        Allyl-Globo H: 'H NMR (600 MHz, D2 0)          5 6.01 (in, 1H), 5.41-5.38 (dd, J= 17.3, 1.4
Hz, 1H), 5.31 (d, J= 10.7 Hz, 1H), 5.24 (d, J= 4.0 Hz, 1H), 4.91 (d, J= 3.9 Hz, 1H), 4.63 (d,
J= 7.7 Hz, 1H), 4.56-4.52 (in, 3H), 4.42-4.40 (in, 2H), 4.26-4.23 (in, 3H), 4.12 (d, J= 2.2
Hz, 1H), 4.05 (d, J= 3.0 Hz, 1H), 4.03-3.59 (in, 28 H), 3.36-3.33 (t, J= 8.2 Hz, 1H), 2.06 (s,
3H), 1.24 (d, J= 6.5 Hz, 3H);   13 C  NMR (150 MHz, D20) 8 174.3, 133.2, 118.7,103.9, 103.2,
102.0, 100.9, 100.4, 99.3, 78.7, 78.3, 77.1, 76.3, 76.1, 75.5, 75.0, 74.8, 74.6, 74.5, 73.5, 72.9,
72.1, 71.8, 70.8, 70.6, 70.1, 69.5, 69.2, 69.1, 68.5, 68.0, 67.8, 66.8, 60.95, 60.93, 60.3 (2C),
60.0, 51.6, 22.2, 15.3; HRMS (MALDI, MNa+) C41H7oNO 30Na* calcd for 1079.3875, found
1078.4145.
           HO    OH    HO     OH        HO    OH
         HO            O              O
                  0            NHAc           HO
                                                                    OH
                                                    0 H
                  H                              HO         O           ONH
        HO0                                                          OH
                                       5-Aminopentyl-Globo H
        'H NMR (600 MHz, D2 0) 6 5.12 (d, 1H, J= 3.9 Hz), 4.78 (d, 1H, J= 3.6 Hz), 4.50
(d, 1H, J= 7.7 Hz),4.43 (d, 1H, J= 7.5 Hz), 4.40 (d, 1H, J= 7.7 Hz), 4.37 (d, 1H, J= 8.0
Hz), 4.30 (t, 1H, J= 6.2 Hz), 4.15-4.10 (in, 2H), 3.99 (d, 1H, J= 1.8 Hz), 3.92 (d, 1H, J= 2.2
Hz), 3.90-3.47 (in, 33H), 3.19 (t, 1H, J= 8.3 Hz), 2.89 (t, 2H, J= 7.5 Hz), 1.94 (s, 3H), 1.60
1.55 (in, 4H), 1.38-1.31 (in, 2H), 1.11 (d, 3H, J= 6.4 Hz).     13 C NMR (150 MHz, D2 0) 6
176.1, 105.7, 105.0, 103.74, 103.65, 102.1, 100.97, 80.5, 79.9, 78.8, 78.0, 77.8, 77.2, 76.76,
76.5, 76.3, 76.2, 75.3, 74.6, 73.8, 73.5, 72.5, 71.81, 71.78, 71.2, 71.1, 70.9, 70.8, 70.2, 69.7,
                                                   73

69.5, 68.5, 62.66, 62.64, 62.0, 61.7, 53.3, 41.0, 29.9, 28.1, 23.9, 23.8, 17.0 MALDI-TOF:
C43 H 7 6N2 0 30 [M+Na]* calculated 1123.4381, found 1123.4385
Large scale production of SSEA4 with linker
          5 mmol Gb5 with linker, 5 mmol fucose, 12 mmol phosphoenolpyruvic acid (PEP),
0.25 mmol ATP, 0.25 mmol CTP with 10 mM MgCl 2 were added into 100 mM Tris-HC1
buffer (pH 7.5). The reaction was initiated by addition suitable amount of oa-2,3
sialyltransferase, cytidine monophosphate kinase (CMK), CMP-sialic acid synthetase (Css),
pyruvate kinase (PykF) and pyrophosphatase (PPA). The flask was placed into an incubator at
16-50 C with gentle shaking. The reaction was monitored by TLC. More enzymes are added
if the reaction stops. The reaction is stopped when no more starting material is observed by
TLC. The SSEA4 product was isolated by 18 C reverse phase column in 45% yield.
         Allyl-SSEA 4 : 'H NMR (600 MHz, D2 0)      8 6.00 (m, 1H), 5.40-5.37 (d, J= 17.3 Hz,
1H), 5.30-5.28 (d, J= 10.4 Hz, 1H), 4.92 (d, J= 3.9 Hz, 1H), 4.70 (d, J= 8.5 Hz, 1H), 4.54
4.51 (m, 3H), 4.40-4.38 (m, 2H), 4.25-4.18 (m, 3H), 4.10-3.52 (m, 34 H), 3.35-3.32 (t, J=
8.6 Hz, 1H), 2.77 (dd, J= 12.5, 4.6 Hz, 1H), 2.03 (s, 6H), 1.80 (t, J= 12.1 Hz, 1H); "C NMR
(150 MHz, D20) 6 175.2, 175.1, 174.1, 133.4, 121.6, 118.9, 104.7,103.4, 103.1, 101.1,
100.5, 99.8, 79.9, 78.9, 78.8, 77.3, 75.7, 75.5, 75.0, 74.7, 74.6, 73.0, 72.9,72.2, 72.1, 71.9,
71.0, 70.8, 70.4, 69.1, 69.0, 68.5, 68.2, 68.0, 67.7, 67.5, 62.6, 61.1, 60.5, 60.4, 60.1,
51.7,51.4, 39.8, 22.4, 22.1; HRMS (ESI-TOF, M-H) C46 H75 N2 0 34 calcd for 1199.4196,
found 1199.4208.
                       HO    OH  HO    OH   HO    OH
                HOOC   O        O k-        O       0
          HO
     HO        OH O           OH         NHAc     HOO    OH          OH
          AcHN    OH                              HO                                        NHO
                                                                        OH
                                      5-Aminopentyl-SSEA4
          1H NMR (600 MHz, D2 0) 6 4.94 (d, J= 3.8 Hz, 1H), 4.72 (d, J= 8.5 Hz, 1H), 4.54
4.50 (m, 3H), 4.40 (t, J= 6.4 Hz, 1H), 4.27 (d, J= 2.0 Hz, 1H), 4.20 (d, J= 2.8 Hz, 1H),
4.10-3.54 (m, 37 H), 3.34-3.31 (m, 1H), 3.02 (t, J= 7.6 Hz, 2H), 2.78 (dd, J= 12.4, 4.6 Hz,
1H), 2.05 (m, 6H), 1.80 (t, 12.2 Hz, 1H), 1.74-1.67 (m, 4H), 1.51-1.45 (m, 2H);       13 C NMR
(150 MHz, D2 0)     8 175.0, 174.9, 173.9, 104.5, 103.2, 102.9, 101.9, 100.3, 99.6, 79.7, 78.8,
78.7, 77.1, 75.5, 75.4, 74.8, 74.7, 74.6, 74.5, 72.9, 72.7, 72.1, 71.8, 70.8, 70.2, 70.0, 68.9,
                                                 74

68.9, 68.3, 68.0, 67.8, 67.5, 67.3, 62.4, 60.9, 60.3, 60.3, 60.0, 51.6, 51.3, 39.7, 39.3, 28.1,
26.5, 22.3, 22.0, 22.0; HRMS (ESI-TOF, MNa*) calcd for C4 8H83N3 0 34 Na 1268.4756, found
1268.4760.
Table 7. Basic composition of glycosphingolipids
                            Gal      Glc       GalNAc       GleNAc       Neu5Ac        Fue
Globoseries
      Globotetraose          2         1           1             0           0          0
      (Gb4)
      Globopentaose          3         1           1             0           0          0
      (Gb5)
      Globo           Il     3         1           1             0           0           1
      (Fucosyl-Gb5)
      SSEA4                  3         1           1             0           1          0
      (Sialyl-Gb5)
Isoglobotetraose             2         1           1             0           0          0
Neolactoseries               2         1          0              1           1          0
Lactoseries                  2         1          0              1           1          0
Ganglioseries                2         1           1             0           2          0
Table 8. Yields of Each step of glycosylation with regeneration
                      Enzyme involvement                     Product                  Yield
  Step 1.        GalK, USP, PykF, PPA, LgtC*                 allyl-Gb3                99%
  Step 2.     GalNAcK, GlmU, PykF, PPA, LgtD*                allyl-Gb4                96%
  Step 3.        GalK, USP, PykF, PPA, LgtD*                 alIyl-Gb5               95%**
  Step 4a.           FKP, PykF, PPA, FutC*                allyl-Globo H               94%
 Step 4b.      Css, CMK, PykF, PPA, JT-FAJ-16*             allyl-SSEA4                45%
*  DNA sequences were optimized for E. coli expression.
** When using pure allyl-Gb4 as an acceptor.
Examle 2: One-Step synthesis of Allyl-Gb5(SSEA3) from Allyl-lactose
                                                 75

        Allyl-Gb5 was synthesized from allyl-lac via a one-step chain reaction as illustrated in
Figure 6, without purifying any of the intermediates.
        5 mmol Allyl-lac, 5 mmol galactose, 12 mmol PEP, 0. 25 mmol ATP, 0. 25 mmol
UTP with 10 mM MgCl 2 in 100 mM Tris-HCl buffer (pH 7.5) were mixed in a flask.
Enzymatic reaction was initiated by adding into the flask a suitable al,1,4
galactosyltransferase (LgtC), GalK, USP, PykF and PPA to synthesize allyl-Gb3. The flask
containing the reaction mixture was placed in a 16~50 'C incubator with gentlely shaking.
TLC analysis was performed to monitor the synthesis process. If no further synthesis of
allyl-Gb3 is observed, additional enzymes were added.
       After synthesis of allyl-Gb3, another set of components, including 5 mmol of GaINAc,
12 mmol PEP, and a suitable amount of N-acetylhexosamine 1-kinase (GalNAcK), N
acetylglucosamine 1-phosphate uridylyltransferase (GlmU), PykF, PPA and      P 1,3-N
acetylgalactosaminyltransferase (LgtD), was added into the flask. The reaction mixtuer thus
formed was incubated under the same conditions under which allyl-Gb3 was sysnthesis. If
no further synthesis of allyl-Gb4 is observed, additional amounts of the enzymes can be
added.
        After synthesis of allyl-Gb4, 5 mmol galactose and 12 mmol PEP were added into the
flask without purifying the allyl-Gb4. The next galactosylation reaction was initiated by
adding suitable  P1,3-galactosyltransferase (LgtD), GalK, USP, PykF and PPA to synthesize
allyl-Gb5. The flask containing the reaction mixture was placed in a 16-50 C incubator with
gentlely shaking. TLC was perfomred to monitor the synthesis process. Additional amounts
of enzymes can be added if no further synthesis of allyl-Gb5 is observed. The yield of this
one-step synthesis of allyl-Gb5 from allyl-lac is about 40%.
                                               76

                                          References
   1.  Kannagi, R., et al., Stage-specific embryonic antigens (SSEA-3 and -4) are epitopes of
       a unique globo-series ganglioside isolatedfrom human teratocarcinomacells. EMBO
       J, 1983. 2(12): p. 2355-61.
 5 2.   Shengle, Z., et al., Selection of tumor antigens as targets for immune attack using
       immunohistochemistry: I. Focus on gangliosides. International Journal of Cancer,
        1997. 73(1): p. 42-49.
   3.   Shengle, Z., et al., Selection of tumor antigens as targets for immune attack using
       immunohistochemistry: II. Blood group-related antigens. International Journal of
 0     Cancer, 1997. 73(1): p. 50-56.
   4.  Chang, W.-W., et al., Expression of Globo H and SSEA3 in breast cancer stem cells
       and the involvement offucosyl transferases 1 and 2 in Globo H synthesis. Proceedings
       of the National Academy of Sciences, 2008. 105(33): p. 11667-11672.
   5.   Slamon, D.J., et al., Use of Chemotherapyplus a Monoclonal Antibody againstHER2
 5     for Metastatic Breast Cancer That Overexpresses HER2. New England Journal of
       Medicine, 2001. 344(11): p. 783-792.
   6.  Wang, Z.-G., et al., Polyclonal antibodiesfrom patients immunized with a globo H
       keyhole limpet hemocyanin vaccine: Isolation, quantification,and characterizationof
       immune responses by using totally synthetic immobilized tumor antigens. Proceedings
 0     of the National Academy of Sciences of the United States of America, 2000. 97(6): p.
       2719-2724.
   7.  Bilodeau, M.T., et al., Total Synthesis of a Human Breast Tumor Associated Antigen.
       Journal of the American Chemical Society, 1995. 117(29): p. 7840-7841.
   8.  Park, T.K., et al., Total Synthesis and Proof of Structure of a Human Breast Tumor
 5      (Globo-H) Antigen. Journal of the American Chemical Society, 1996. 118(46): p.
        11488-11500.
   9.   Slovin, S.F., et al., Carbohydrate vaccines in cancer: Immunogenicity of a fully
       synthetic globo H hexasaccharide conjugate in man. Proceedings of the National
       Academy of Sciences of the United States of America, 1999. 96(10): p. 5710-5715.
30 10. Bosse, F., L.A. Marcaurelle, and P.H. Seeberger, Linear Synthesis of the Tumor
       Associated Carbohydrate Antigens Globo-H, SSEA-3, and Gb3. The Journal of
       Organic Chemistry, 2002. 67(19): p. 6659-6670.
   11. Werz, D.B., B. Castagner, and P.H. Seeberger, Automated Synthesis of the Tumor
       Associated Carbohydrate Antigens Gb-3 and Globo-H: Incorporation of a
35      GalactosidicLinkages. Journal of the American Chemical Society, 2007. 129(10): p.
       2770-2771.
   12. Wang, Z., et al., Multi-Component One-Pot Synthesis of the Tumor-Associated
        CarbohydrateAntigen Globo-H Based on Preactivationof Thioglycosyl Donors. The
       Journal of Organic Chemistry, 2007. 72(17): p. 6409-6420.
40 13. Jeon, I., K. Iyer, and S.J. Danishefsky, A PracticalTotal Synthesis of Globo-Hfor Use
       in Anticancer Vaccines. The Journal of Organic Chemistry, 2009. 74(21): p. 8452
        8455.
                                              77

    14. Fred, B., et al., Synthesis of the Globo H Hexasaccharide Using the Programmable
        Reactivity-Based One-Pot Strategy. Angewandte Chemie International Edition, 2001.
        40(7): p. 1274-1277.
    15. Hsu, C.-H., et al., Highly Alpha-Selective Sialyl Phosphate Donors for Efficient
 5      Preparationof Natural Sialosides. Chemistry - A European Journal, 2010. 16(6): p.
        1754-1760.
    16. Zhen, W., et al., Chemoenzymatic Syntheses of Tumor-Associated Carbohydrate
        Antigen Globo-H and Stage-Specific Embryonic Antigen 4. Advanced Synthesis &
        Catalysis, 2008. 350(11-12): p. 1717-1728.
 0  17. Wong, C.H., S.L. Haynie, and G.M. Whitesides, Enzyme-catalyzed synthesis of N
        acetyllactosamine with in situ regeneration of uridine 5'-diphosphate glucose and
        uridine 5'-diphosphategalactose.The Journal of Organic Chemistry, 1982. 47(27): p.
        5416-5418.
    18. Wong, C.H., R. Wang, and Y. Ichikawa, Regeneration of sugar nucleotidefor enzymic
 5      oligosaccharide synthesis: use of Gal-i-phosphate uridyltransferase in the
        regeneration of UDP-galactose, UDP-2-deoxygalactose, and UDP-galactosamine.
        The Journal of Organic Chemistry, 1992. 57(16): p. 4343-4344.
    19. Kotake, T., et al., UDP-sugar Pyrophosphorylase with Broad Substrate Specificity
        Toward Various Monosaccharide 1-Phosphates from Pea Sprouts. Journal of
 10     Biological Chemistry, 2004. 279(44): p. 45728-45736.
    20. Litterer, L.A., et al., Characterization and expression ofArabidopsis UDP-sugar
        pyrophosphorylase.Plant Physiology and Biochemistry, 2006. 44(4): p. 171-180.
    21. Kotake, T., et al., Properties and Physiological Functions of UDP-Sugar
        Pyrophosphorylase in Arabidopsis. Bioscience, Biotechnology, and Biochemistry,
 5      2007. 71(3): p. 761-771.
    22. Damerow, S., et al., Leishmania UDP-sugar Pyrophosphorylase. Journal                  of
        Biological Chemistry, 2010. 285(2): p. 878-887.
    23. Yang, T. and M. Bar-Peled,Identification of a novel UDP-sugarpyrophosphorylase
        with a broad substrate specificity in Trypanosoma cruzi. Biochemical Journal, 2010.
30      429(3): p. 533-543.
    24. Persson, K., et al., Crystal structure of the retaining galactosyltransferaseLgtC from
        Neisseria meningitidis in complex with donor and acceptor sugar analogs. Nat Struct
        Mol Biol, 2001. 8(2): p. 166-175.
    25. Koto, S., et al., Simple preparationsof alkyl and cycloalkyl a-glycosides of maltose,
35      cellobiose, and lactose. Carbohydrate Research, 2004. 339(14): p. 2415-2424.
    26. Antoine, T., et al., Large scale in vivo synthesis of globotriose and globotetraose by
        high cell density culture of metabolically engineered Escherichia coli. Biochimie,
        2005. 87(2): p. 197-203.
    27. Zhang, J., et al., Efficient chemoenzymatic synthesis of globotriose and its derivatives
40      with a recombinant [alpha]-(1-->4)-galactosyltransferase.Carbohydrate Research,
        2002. 337(11): p. 969-976.
                                               78

   28.  Shao, J., et al., Efficient synthesis of globoside and isogloboside tetrasaccharidesby
        using     9(1 -3)N-acetylgalactosaminyltransferase/UDP-N-acetylglucosamine C4
        epimerasefusionprotein. Chemical Communications, 2003(12): p. 1422-1423.
   29.  Shao, J., et al., DonorSubstrate Regenerationfor Efficient Synthesis of Globotetraose
 5      and Isoglobotetraose.Apple. Environ. Microbiol., 2002. 68(11): p. 5634-5640.
   30.  Vanessa, B., et al., Efficient Enzymatic Glycosylation of Peptides                  and
        Oligosaccharidesfrom GaINAc and UTP ChemBioChem, 2007. 8(1): p. 37-40.
   31.  Nishimoto, M. and M. Kitaoka, Identification of N-Acetylhexosamine 1-Kinase in the
        Complete Lacto-N-Biose I/Galacto-N-Biose Metabolic Pathway in Bifidobacterium
 0      longum. Apple. Environ. Microbiol., 2007. 73(20): p. 6444-6449.
   32.  Fang, J., et al., Systematic study on the broad nucleotide triphosphatespecificity of the
       pyrophosphorylasedomain of the N-acetylglucosamine-1-phosphate uridyltransferase
       from Escherichia coli K12. Bioorganic & Medicinal Chemistry Letters, 2009. 19(22):
        p. 6429-6432.
 5 33.  Hood, D.W., et al., Genetic basisfor expression of the major globotetraose-containing
        lipopolysaccharide from H. influenzae strain Rd (RM118). Glycobiology, 2001.
        11(11): p. 957-967.
   34.  Shao, J., et al., Overexpression and biochemical characterization of [beta]-1,3-N
        acetylgalactosaminyltransferase LgtD from Haemophilus influenzae strain Rd.
 0      Biochemical and Biophysical Research Communications, 2002. 295(1): p. 1-8.
   35.  Randriantsoa, M., et al., Synthesis of globopentaose using a novel [beta]1,3
        galactosyltransferase activity of the Haemophilus influenzae [beta]1,3-N
        acetylgalactosaminyltransferaseLgtD. FEBS Letters, 2007. 581(14): p. 2652-2656.
   36.  Coyne, M.J., et al., Human Symbionts Use a Host-Like Pathway for Surface
 5      Fucosylation.Science, 2005. 307(5716): p. 1778-1781.
   37.  Wang, W., et al., Chemoenzymatic synthesis of GDP-l-fucose and the Lewis Xglycan
        derivatives. Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences, 2009. 106(38): p.
        16096-16101.
   38.  Koizumi, S., et al., Large-scaleproduction of GDP-fucose and Lewis X by bacterial
30      coupling. Journal of Industrial Microbiology and Biotechnology, 2000. 25(4): p. 213
        217.
   39.  Stein, Daniel B., Y.-N. Lin, and C.-H. Lin, Characterizationof Helicobacterpylori
        alpha],2-Fucosyltransferasefor Enzymatic Synthesis of Tumor-Associated Antigens.
        Advanced Synthesis & Catalysis, 2008. 350(14-15): p. 2313-2321.
35 40.  Tanner, M.E., The enzymes of sialic acid biosynthesis. Bioorganic Chemistry, 2005.
        33(3): p. 216-228.
   41.  Li, Y., et al., Pasteurella multocida CMP-sialic acid synthetase and mutants of
        Neisseria meningitidis CMP-sialic acid synthetase with improved substrate
       promiscuity.Applied Microbiology and Biotechnology, 2011: p. 1-13.
40 42.  Kushi, Y., et al., Sialyltransferases of marine bacteria efficiently              utilize
        glycosphingolipidsubstrates. Glycobiology, 2010. 20(2): p. 187-198.
   43.  Yamamoto, T., Marine Bacterial Sialyltransferases. Marine Drugs, 2010. 8(11): p.
        2781-2794.
                                                79

    44.      Takakura, Y., H. Tsukamoto, and T. Yamamoto, Molecular Cloning, Expression and
             Properties of an a//]-Galactoside a2,3-Sialyltransferasefrom Vibrio sp. JT-FAJ-16.
             Journal of Biochemistry, 2007. 142(3): p. 403-412.
 5                                          Other Embodiments
             In the claims articles such as "a," "an," and "the" may mean one or more than one
    unless indicated to the contrary or otherwise evident from the context. Claims or descriptions
    that include "or" between one or more members of a group are considered satisfied if one,
    more than one, or all of the group members are present in, employed in, or otherwise relevant
 0  to a given product or process unless indicated to the contrary or otherwise evident from the
    context. The invention includes embodiments in which exactly one member of the group is
    present in, employed in, or otherwise relevant to a given product or process. The invention
    includes embodiments in which more than one, or all of the group members are present in,
    employed in, or otherwise relevant to a given product or process.
 5           Furthermore, the invention encompasses all variations, combinations, and
    permutations in which one or more limitations, elements, clauses, and descriptive terms from
    one or more of the listed claims is introduced into another claim. For example, any claim that
    is dependent on another claim can be modified to include one or more limitations found in
    any other claim that is dependent on the same base claim. Where elements are presented as
 '0 lists, e.g., in Markush group format, each subgroup of the elements is also disclosed, and any
    element(s) can be removed from the group. It should it be understood that, in general, where
    the invention, or aspects of the invention, is/are referred to as comprising particular elements
    and/or features, certain embodiments of the invention or aspects of the invention consist, or
    consist essentially of, such elements and/or features. For purposes of simplicity, those
25  embodiments have not been specifically set forth in haec verba herein. It is also noted that
    the terms "comprising" and "containing" are intended to be open and permits the inclusion of
    additional elements or steps. Where ranges are given, endpoints are included. Furthermore,
    unless otherwise indicated or otherwise evident from the context and understanding of one of
    ordinary skill in the art, values that are expressed as ranges can assume any specific value or
30  sub-range within the stated ranges in different embodiments of the invention, to the tenth of
    the unit of the lower limit of the range, unless the context clearly dictates otherwise.
             This application refers to various issued patents, published patent applications, journal
    articles, and other publications, all of which are incorporated herein by reference. If there is a
                                                     80

conflict between any of the incorporated references and the instant specification, the
specification shall control. In addition, any particular embodiment of the present invention that
falls within the prior art may be explicitly excluded from any one or more of the claims.
Because such embodiments are deemed to be known to one of ordinary skill in the art, they may
be excluded even if the exclusion is not set forth explicitly herein. Any particular embodiment
of the invention can be excluded from any claim, for any reason, whether or not related to the
existence of prior art.
        Those skilled in the art will recognize or be able to ascertain using no more than routine
experimentation many equivalents to the specific embodiments described herein. The scope of
the present embodiments described herein is not intended to be limited to the above Description,
but rather is as set forth in the appended claims. Those of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate
that various changes and modifications to this description may be made without departing from
the spirit or scope of the present invention, as defined in the following claims.
        Any discussion of documents, acts, materials, devices, articles or the like which has been
included in the present specification is not to be taken as an admission that any or all of these
matters form part of the prior art base or were common general knowledge in the field relevant
to the present disclosure as it existed before the priority date of each claim of this application.
        Throughout this specification the word "comprise", or variations such as "comprises" or
"comprising", will be understood to imply the inclusion of a stated element, integer or step, or
group of elements, integers or steps, but not the exclusion of any other element, integer or step,
or group of elements, integers or steps.
                                                  81

                                             Claims
What Is Claimed Is:
1.      A method for enzymatically synthesizing an oligosaccharide, comprising:
                 (i)    producing UDP-Gal from galactose in the presence of a set of UDP
Gal regeneration enzymes, wherein the set of UDP-Gal regeneration enzymes comprises a
galactokinase, an UDP-sugar pyrophosphorylase, and a pyruvate kinase; and
                 (ii)   converting Lac-OR     into Gb3-OR1A in the presence of the UDP-Gal
and an alpha-1,4 galactosyltransferase, wherein R      is hydrogen, substituted or unsubstituted
alkyl, substituted or unsubstituted alkenyl, substituted or unsubstituted alkynyl, substituted or
unsubstituted carbocyclyl, substituted or unsubstituted heterocyclyl, substituted or
unsubstituted aryl, substituted or unsubstituted heteroaryl, or an oxygen protecting group.
2.      The method of claim 1, wherein the set of UDP-Gal regeneration enzymes further
comprises pyrophosphatase.
3.      The method of claim 1 or 2, wherein (i) and (ii) occur in a Gb3-synthesis reaction
mixture comprising galactose, PEP, ATP, UTP, the Lac-OR I, the alpha-1,4
galactosyltransferase, and the set of UDP-Gal regeneration enzymes.
4.      The method of claim 3, wherein, before occurrence of any enzymatic reactions, the
molar ratio of the Lac-OR1A and galactose in the Gb3-synthesis reaction mixture is 1:1.
5.      The method of any one of claims 1-4, wherein RiA is hydrogen, allyl, substituted
alkyl, biotin, or a ceramide.
6.      The method of any one of claims 1-5, wherein the alpha-1,4 galactosyltransferase is
LgtC from N. meningitides, the galactokinase is from E. coli, the UDP-sugar
pyrophosphorylase is from A. thaliana,the pyruvate kinase is from E. coli, or the
pyrophosphatase is from E. coli.
7.      The method of any one of claims 1-6, further comprising isolating the Gb3-ORA.
                                               82

8.      The method of any one of claims 1-6, further comprising:
                (iii)  converting the Gb3-ORIA into Gb4-ORIA in the presence of UDP
GalNAc and a betal ,3-N-acetylgalactosaminyltransferase.
9.      The method of claim 8, further comprising:
                (iv)   producing the UDP-GalNAc from GalNAc in the presence of a set of
UDP-GalNAc regeneration enzymes, wherein the set of UDP-GalNAc regeneration enzymes
comprises an N-acetylhexosamine 1-kinase, an N-acetylglucosamine 1-phosphate
uridyltransferase, a pyruvate kinase, and optionally, a pyrophosphatase.
10.     The method of claim 9, wherein (iii) and (iv) occur in a Gb4-synthesis reaction
mixture comprising GalNAc, PEP, ATP, UTP, the Gb3-ORIA, the betal,3-N
acetylgalactosaminyltransferase, and the set of UDP-GalNAc regeneration enzymes.
11.     The method of claim 10, wherein the Gb4-synthesis reaction mixture is prepared by
mixing the Gb3-synthesis reaction mixture with at least GaINAc, the betal,3-N
acetylgalactosaminyltransferase, the N-acetylhexosamine 1-kinase, and the N
acetylglucosamine 1-phosphate uridyltransferase.
12.     The method of any one of claims 8-11, wherein the betal,3-N
acetylgalactosaminyltransferase is LgtD from H. influenza, the N-acetylhexosamine 1-kinase
is from B. longum, or the N-acetylglucosamine 1-phosphate uridyltransferase is from E. coli.
13.     The method of any one of claims 8-12, further comprising isolating the Gb4-ORIA.
14.     The method of any one of claims 8-12, further comprising:
                (v)    converting the Gb4-ORA into Gb5-OR" in the presence of UDP-Gal
and a betal ,3-galactosyltransferase.
15.     The method of claim 14, further comprising:
                (vi)   producing the UDP-Gal from galactose in the presence of the set of
UDP-Gal regeneration enzymes.
                                              83

16.     The method of claim 15, wherein (v) and (vi) occur in a Gb5-synthesis reaction
mixture comprising galactose, PEP, ATP, UTP, the Gb4-OR1A, the betal,3
galactosyltransferase, and the set of UDP-Gal regeneration enzymes.
17.     The method of any one of claims 14-16, wherein the betal,3-galactosyltransferase is
LgtD from H. influenza.
18.     The method of any one of claims 14-17, further comprising isolating the Gb5-OR1A
19.     The method of any one of claims 14-18, further comprising:
               (vii)   converting the Gb5-OR1A into Fucosyl-Gb5-ORIA in the presence of
GDP-Fuc and an alpha1,2-fucosyltransferase.
20.     The method of claim 19, further comprising:
               (viii) producing the GDP-Fuc from fucose in the presence of a set of GDP
Fuc regeneration enzymes, wherein the set of GDP-Fuc regeneration enzymes comprises a L
fucokinase/GDP-fucose pyrophosphorylase, a pyruvate kinase, and optionally, a
pyrophosphatase.
21.     The method of claim 20, wherein (vii) and (viii) occur in a Fucosyl-Gb5-synthesis
reaction mixture comprising fucose, ATP, GTP, PEP, the Gb5-OR, the alphal,2
fucosyltransferase, and the set of GDP-Fuc regeneration enzymes.
22.     The method of claim 20, wherein the Fucosyl-Gb5-synthesis reaction mixture is
prepared by mixing the Gb5-synthesis reaction mixture with at least fucose, GTP, the
alpha 1,2-fucosyltransferase, and the L-fucokinase/GDP-fucose pyrophosphorylase.
23.     The method of any one of claims 19-22, wherein the L-fucokinase/GDP-fucose
pyrophosphorylase is from B. fragilis,or the alphal ,2-fucosyltransferase is from H.pylor.
24.     The method of any one of claims 19-22, further comprising isolating the Fucosyl
Gb5-ORIA
                                              84

 25.     The method of any one of claims 14-18, further comprising:
                 (ix)    converting the Gb5-ORA into Sialyl-Gb5-ORIA in the presence of
 CMP-Neu5Ac and an alpha2,3-sialyltransferase.
 26.     The method of claim 25, further comprising:
                 (x)     producing the CMP-Neu5Ac from Neu5Ac in the presence of a set of
CMP-Neu5Ac regeneration enzymes, wherein the set of CMP-Neu5Ac regeneration enzymes
comprises a cytidine monophosphate kinase, a CMP-sialic acid synthetase, a pyruvate kinase,
and optionally a pyrophosphatase.
 27.     The method of claim 26, wherein (ix) and (x) occur in a Sialyl-Gb5-synthesis reaction
 mixture comprising Neu5Ac, CTP, PEP, the Gb5-ORIA, the alpha2,3-sialyltransferase, and
 the set of CMP-Neu5Ac regeneration enzymes.
 28.     The method of claim 27, wherein the Sialyl-Gb5-synthesis reaction mixture is
 prepared by mixing the Gb5-synthesis reaction mixture with at least Neu5Ac, CTP, the
 alpha2,3-sialyltransferase, the cytidine monophosphate kinase, and the CMP-sialic acid
 synthetase.
 29.     The method of any one of claims 25-28, wherein the alpha2,3-sialyltransferase is from
 M. bacteria,the cytidine monophosphate kinase is from E. coli, or the CMP-sialic acid
 synthetase is from P. Multocida.
 30.     The method of any one of claims 25-29, further comprising isolating the Sialyl-Gb5
 OR.
 31.     The method of claim 3, further comprising:
                 (a)     mixing the Gb3-synthesis reaction mixture with at least GalNAc, the
 betal ,3-N-acetylgalactosaminyltransferase, the N-acetylhexosamine 1-kinase, and the N
 acetylglucosamine 1-phosphate uridyltransferase to form a Gb4-synthesis reaction mixture,
                 (b)     incubating the Gb4-synthesis reaction mixture under conditions
 allowing conversion of Gb3-OR1A to Gb4-ORA,
                                              85

                 (c)     further incubating the Gb4-synthesis reaction mixture in the presence
of a betal ,3-galactosyltransferase under conditions allowing conversion of the Gb4-OR1A to
          IA
Gb5-OR
                 (d)     mixing the Gb5-OR IA-containing reaction mixture produced in (c) with
at least fucose, GTP, the alphal ,2-fucosyltransferase, and the L-fucokinase/GDP-fucose
pyrophosphorylase to form a Fucosyl-Gb5-OR           reaction mixture; and
                 (e)     incubating the Fucosyl-Gb5-ORIA reaction mixture under conditions
allowing conversion of the Gb5-OR IA to Fucosyl-Gb5-ORAI
32.      The method of claim 3, further comprising:
                 (a)     mixing the Gb3-synthesis reaction mixture with at least GalNAc, the
betal ,3-N-acetylgalactosaminyltransferase, the N-acetylhexosamine 1-kinase, and the N
acetylglucosamine 1-phosphate uridyltransferase to form a Gb4-synthesis reaction mixture,
                 (b)     incubating the Gb4-synthesis reaction mixture under conditions
allowing conversion of Gb3-OR1A to Gb4-ORA.
                 (c) isolating the Gb4-OR1A;
                 (d)     mixing the Gb4-OR1A with a beta 1,3-galactosyltransferase and the set
of UDP-Gal regeneration enzymes to form a Gb5-synthesis reaction mixture;
                 (e)     incubating the Gb5-synthesis reaction mixture under conditions
allowing conversion of the Gb4-OR1A to Gb5-OR1A
                 (f)     mixing the Gb5- ORlA-containing reaction mixture produced in (e)
with at least at least fucose, GTP, the alphal ,2-fucosyltransferase, and the L
fucokinase/GDP-fucose pyrophosphorylase to form a Fucosyl-Gb5-ORIA reaction mixture;
and
                 (g)     incubating the Fucosyl-Gb5-OR IA reaction mixture under conditions
                                       LA                     1A
allowing conversion of the Gb5-OR         to Fucosyl-Gb5-OR
33.      The method of claim 3, further comprising:
                 (a)     mixing the Gb3-synthesis reaction mixture with at least GalNAc, the
betal ,3-N-acetylgalactosaminyltransferase, the N-acetylhexosamine 1-kinase, and the N
acetylglucosamine 1-phosphate uridyltransferase to form a Gb4-synthesis reaction mixture,
                 (b)     incubating the Gb4-synthesis reaction mixture under conditions
allowing conversion of Gb3-ORIA to Gb4-ORA
                                                86

                  (c)   further incubating the Gb4-synthesis reaction mixture in the presence
of a betal ,3-galactosyltranferase under conditions allowing conversion of the Gb4-OR1A to
          IA
Gb5-OR
                  (d)   mixing the Gb5-OR IA-containing reaction mixture produced in (c) with
at least at least Neu5Ac, CTP, the alpha2,3-sialyltransferase, the cytidine monophosphate
kinase, and the CMP-sialic acid synthetase to form a Sialyl-Gb5-OR1A reaction mixture; and
                  (e)   incubating the Sialyl-Gb5-ORIA reaction mixture under conditions
allowing conversion of the Gb5-ORIA to Sialyl-Gb5-OR LA
34.      The method of claim 3, further comprising:
                  (a)   mixing the Gb3-synthesis reaction mixture with at least GalNAc, the
betal ,3-N-acetylgalactosaminyltransferase, the N-acetylhexosamine 1-kinase, and the N
acetylglucosamine 1-phosphate uridyltransferase to form a Gb4-synthesis reaction mixture,
                  (a)   incubating the Gb4-synthesis reaction mixture under conditions
allowing conversion of Gb3-OR1A to Gb4-OR1A.
                  (b)   isolating the Gb4-OR1A;
                  (c)   mixing the Gb4-OR1A with a beta 1,3-galactosyltransferase and the set
of UDP-Gal regeneration enzymes to form a Gb5-synthesis reaction mixture;
                  (d)   incubating the Gb5-synthesis reaction mixture under conditions
allowing conversion of the Gb4-OR1A to Gb5 -OR1A
                  (e)   mixing the Gb5-OR1A with an alpha2,3sialyltransferase and a set of
CMP-Neu5Ac regeneration enzymes to form a Sialyl-Gb5-synthesis reaction mixture,
wherein the set of CMP-Neu5Ac regeneration enzymes comprises a cytidine monophosphate
kinase, a CMP-sialic acid synthetase, a pyruvate kinase, and optionally, a pyrophosphatase;
and
                  (f)   incubating the Sialyl-Gb5-synthesis reaction mixture under conditions
allowing conversion of the Gb4-ORIA to Sialyl-Gb5-ORIA.
35.      A method for enzymatically synthesizing an oligosaccharide, comprising:
                (i)     producing UDP-GalNAc from GaINAc in the presence of a set of
UDP-GalNAc regeneration enzymes, wherein the set of UDP-GalNAc regeneration enzymes
comprises an N-acetylhexosamine 1-kinase, an N-acetylglucosamine 1-phosphate
uridyltransferase, a pyruvate kinase, and optionally, a pyrophosphatase, and
                                               87

                 (ii)   converting Gb3-ORA into Gb4-OR1A in the presence of the UDP
GalNAc and a beta 1,3-N-acetylgalactosaminyltransferase, wherein RIA is hydrogen,
substituted or unsubstituted alkyl, substituted or unsubstituted alkenyl, substituted or
unsubstituted alkynyl, substituted or unsubstituted carbocyclyl, substituted or unsubstituted
heterocyclyl, substituted or unsubstituted aryl, substituted or unsubstituted heteroaryl, or an
oxygen protecting group.
36.     The method of claim 35, wherein (i) and (ii) occur in a Gb4-synthesis reaction
mixture comprising GalNAc, PEP, ATP, UTP, the Gb3-ORlA, the betal,3-N
acetylgalactosaminyltransferase, and the set of UDP-GalNAc regeneration enzymes.
37.     The method of claim 35 or 36, wherein the betal ,3-N-acetylgalactosaminyltransferase
is LgtD from H. influenza, the N-acetylhexosamine 1-kinase is from B. longum, the N
acetylglucosamine 1-phosphate uridyltransferase is from E. coli, the pyruvate kinase is from
E. coli, or the pyrophosphatase is from E. coli.
38.     The method of any one of claims 35-37, wherein the RIA is hydrogen, allyl,
substituted alkyl, biotin, or a ceramide.
39.     The method of any one of claims 35-38, further comprising isolating the Gb4-OR1A
40.     The method of any one of claims 35-39, further comprising:
                 (iii)  converting the Gb4-OR      into Gb5-ORIA in the presence of UDP-Gal
and a betal ,3-galactosyltransferase.
41.     The method of claim 40, further comprising:
                 (iv)   producing the UDP-Gal from galactose in the presence of a set of
UDP-Gal regeneration enzymes, wherein the set of UDP-Gal regeneration enzymes
comprises a galactokinase, an UDP pyrophosphoylase, a pyruvate kinase, and optionally, a
pyrophosphatase.
                                               88

42.     The method of claim 41, wherein (iii) and (iv) occur in a Gb5-synthesis reaction
mixture comprising galactose, PEP, ATP, UTP, the Gb4-OR        A, the betal,3
galactosyltransferase, and the set of UDP-Gal regeneration enzymes.
43.     The method of any one of claims 40-42, wherein the betal,3-galactosyltransferase is
LgtD from H. influenza; the galactokinase is from E. coli, the UDP-sugar pyrophosphorylase
is from A. thaliana,the pyruvate kinase is from E. coli, or the pyrophosphatase is from E.
coli.
44.     The method of any one of claims 40-43, further comprising isolating the Gb5-OR1A
45.     The method of any one of claims 40-44, further comprising:
               (v)     converting the Gb5-OR1A into Fucosyl-Gb5-OR1A in the presence of
GDP-Fuc and an alphal ,2-fucosyltransferase.
46.     The method of claim 45, further comprising:
               (vi)    producing the GDP-Fuc from fucose in the presence of a set of GDP
Fuc regeneration enzymes, wherein the set of GDP-Fuc regeneration enzymes comprises an
L-fucokinase/GDP-fucose pyrophosphorylase, a pyruvate kinase, and optionally, a
pyrophosphatase.
47.     The method of claim 46, wherein (v) and (vi) occur in a Fucosyl-Gb5-synthesis
reaction mixture comprising fucose, ATP, GTP, PEP, the Gb5-ORIA, the alphal,2
fucosyltransferase, and the set of GDP-Fuc regeneration enzymes.
48.     The method of claim 47, wherein the Fucosyl-Gb5-synthesis reaction mixture is
prepared by mixing the Gb5-synthesis reaction mixture with at least fucose, GTP, the
alpha l,2-fucosyltransferase, and the L-fucokinase/GDP-fucose pyrophosphorylase.
49.     The method of any one of claims 45-48, wherein the L-fucokinase/GDP-fucose
pyrophosphorylase is from B.fragilis, or the alpha1,2-fucosyltransferase is from H.pylor.
                                              89

 50.      The method of any one of claims 45-49, further comprising isolating the      Fucosyl
           IA
 Gb5-OR
 51.      The method of any one of claims 40-44, further comprising:
                 (vii)   converting the Gb5-ORIA into Sialyl-Gb5-ORIA in the presence of
 CMP-Neu5Ac and an alpha2,3-sialyltransferase.
 52.      The method of claim 51, further comprising:
                 (viii)  producing the CMP-Neu5Ac from Neu5Ac in the presence of a set of
CMP-Neu5Ac regeneration enzymes, wherein the set of CMP-Neu5Ac regeneration enzymes
comprises a cytidine monophosphate kinase, a CMP-sialic acid synthetase, a pyruvate kinase,
and optionally, a pyrophosphatase.
 53.      The method of claim 52, wherein (vii) and (viii) occur in a Sialyl-Gb5-synthesis
 reaction mixture comprising Neu5Ac, CTP, PEP, the Gb5-ORIA, the alpha2,3
 sialyltransferase, and the set of CMP-Neu5Ac regeneration enzymes.
 54.      The method of claim 53, wherein the Sialyl-Gb5-synthesis reaction mixture is
 prepared by mixing the Gb5-synthesis reaction mixture with at least Neu5Ac, CTP, the
 alpha2,3-sialyltransferase, the cytidine monophosphate kinase, and the CMP-sialic acid
 synthetase.
 55.      The method of any one of claims 51-54, wherein the alpha2,3-sialyltransferase is from
 M. bacteria,the cytidine monophosphate kinase is from E. coli, or the CMP-sialic acid
 synthetase is from P. Multocida.
 56.      The method of any one of claims 51-55, further comprising isolating the Sialyl-Gb5
 ORIA.
 57.      A method for enzymatically synthesizing an oligosaccharide, comprising:
                 (i)     producing UDP-Gal from galactose in the presence of a set of UDP
 Gal regeneration enzymes, wherein the set of UDP-Gal regeneration enzymes comprises a
                                              90

galactokinase, an UDP pyrophosphoylase, a pyruvate kinase, and optionally, a
pyrophosphatase; and
                (ii)    converting Gb4-OR" into Gb5-ORA in the presence of UDP-Gal and
a beta 1,3-galactosyltransferase, wherein R'A is hydrogen, substituted or unsubstituted alkyl,
substituted or unsubstituted alkenyl, substituted or unsubstituted alkynyl, substituted or
unsubstituted carbocyclyl, substituted or unsubstituted heterocyclyl, substituted or
unsubstituted aryl, substituted or unsubstituted heteroaryl, or an oxygen protecting group.
58.     The method of claim 57, wherein (i) and (ii) occur in a Gb5-synthesis reaction
mixture comprising galactose, PEP, ATP, UTP, the Gb4-ORA, the betal,3
galactosyltransferase, and the set of UDP-Gal regeneration enzymes.
59.     The method of claim 57 or 58, wherein the betal,3-galactosyltransferase is LgtD from
H. influenza; the galactokinase is from E. coli, the UDP-sugar pyrophosphorylase is from A.
thaliana,the pyruvate kinase is from E. coli, or the pyrophosphatase is from E. coli.
60.     The method of any one of claims 57-59, wherein the RIA is hydrogen, allyl,
substituted alkyl, biotin, or a ceramide.
61.     The method of any one of claims 57-60, further comprising isolating the Gb5-OR1A
62.     The method of any one of claims 57-61, further comprising:
                (iii)   converting the Gb5-OR      into Fucosyl-Gb5-OR      in the presence of
GDP-Fuc and an alphal ,2-fucosyltransferase.
63.     The method of claim 62, further comprising:
                (iv)    producing the GDP-Fuc from fucose in the presence of a set of GDP
Fuc regeneration enzymes, wherein the set of GDP-Fuc regeneration enzymes comprises a L
fucokinase/GDP-fucose pyrophosphorylase, a pyruvate kinase, and optionally, a
pyrophosphatase.
                                               91

64.     The method of claim 63, wherein (iii) and (iv) occur in a Fucosyl-Gb5-synthesis
reaction mixture comprising fucose, ATP, GTP, PEP, the Gb5-OR1A, the alphal,2
fucosyltransferase, and the set of GDP-Fuc regeneration enzymes.
65.     The method of claim 64, wherein the Fucosyl-Gb5-synthesis reaction mixture is
prepared by mixing the Gb5-synthesis reaction mixture with at least fucose, GTP, the
alpha 1,2-fucosyltransferase, and the L-fucokinase/GDP-fucose pyrophosphorylase.
66.     The method of any one of claims 62-65, wherein the L-fucokinase/GDP-fucose
pyrophosphorylase is from B. fragilis,or the alphal ,2-fucosyltransferase is from H.pylor.
67.     The method of any one of claims 62-66, further comprising isolating the      Fucosyl
Gb5-OR IA
68.     The method of any one of claims 57-61, further comprising:
                (v)     converting the Gb5-OR1A into Sialyl-Gb5-ORIA in the presence of
CMP-Neu5Ac and an alpha2,3-sialyltransferase.
69.     The method of claim 68, further comprising:
                (vi)    producing the CMP-Neu5Ac from Neu5Ac in the presence of a set of
CMP-Neu5Ac regeneration enzymes, wherein the set of CMP-Neu5Ac regeneration enzymes
comprises an cytidine monophosphate kinase, a CMP-sialic acid synthetase, a pyruvate
kinase, and optionally, a pyrophosphatase.
70.     The method of claim 69, wherein (v) and (vi) occur in a Sialyl-Gb5-synthesis reaction
mixture comprising Neu5Ac, CTP, PEP, the Gb5-ORIA, the alpha2,3-sialyltransferase, and
the set of CMP-Neu5Ac regeneration enzymes.
71.     The method of claim 70, wherein the Sialyl-Gb5 -synthesis reaction mixture is
prepared by mixing the Gb5-synthesis reaction mixture with at least Neu5Ac, CTP, the
alpha2,3-sialyltransferase, the cytidine monophosphate kinase, and the CMP-sialic acid
synthetase.
                                              92

72.     The method of any one of claims 68-71, wherein the alpha2,3-sialyltransferase is from
M. bacteria,the cytidine monophosphate kinase is from E. coli, or the CMP-sialic acid
synthetase is from P. Multocida.
73.     The method of any one of claims 68-71, further comprising isolating the Sialyl-Gb5
  RlA
74.     A method for enzymatically synthesizing a Fucosyl-Gb5 oligosaccharide, comprising:
                (i)    producing GDP-Fuc from fucose in the presence of a set of GDP-Fuc
regeneration enzymes, wherein the set of GDP-Fuc regeneration enzymes comprises a L
fucokinase/GDP-fucose pyrophosphorylase, a pyruvate kinase, and optionally, a
pyrophosphatase; and
                (ii)   converting Gb5-OR1A into Fucosyl-Gb5-ORIA in the presence of the
GDP-Fuc and an alphal ,2-fucosyltransferase.
75.     The method of claim 74, wherein (i) and (ii) occur in a Fucosyl-Gb5-synthesis
reaction mixture comprising fucose, ATP, GTP, PEP, the Gb5-ORIA, the alphal,2
fucosyltransferase, and the set of GDP-Fuc regeneration enzymes.
76.     The method of claim 74 or 75, wherein the  RiA  is hydrogen, allyl, substituted alkyl,
biotin, or a ceramide.
77.     The method of any one of claims 74-76, wherein the L-fucokinase/GDP-fucose
pyrophosphorylase is from B. fragilis,the alpha 1,2-fucosyltransferase is from H. pylor, the
pyruvate kinase is from E. coli, or the pyrophosphatase is from E. coli.
78.     The method of any one of claims 74-77, further comprising isolating the        Fucosyl
          IA
Gb5-OR
79.     A method for enzymatically synthesizing a Sialyl-Gb5 oligosaccharide, comprising:
                (i)    producing CMP-Neu5Ac from Neu5Ac in the presence of a set of
CMP-Neu5Ac regeneration enzymes, wherein the set of CMP-Neu5Ac regeneration enzymes
                                              93

comprises a cytidine monophosphate kinase, a CMP-sialic acid synthetase, a pyruvate kinase,
and optionally, a pyrophosphatase; and
                (ii)    converting Gb5-OR" into Sialyl-Gb5-ORIA in the presence of CMP
Neu5Ac and an alpha2,3-sialyltransferase, wherein RIA is hydrogen, substituted or
unsubstituted alkyl, substituted or unsubstituted alkenyl, substituted or unsubstituted alkynyl,
substituted or unsubstituted carbocyclyl, substituted or unsubstituted heterocyclyl, substituted
or unsubstituted aryl, substituted or unsubstituted heteroaryl, or an oxygen protecting group.
80.     The method of claim 79, wherein (i) and (ii) occur in a Sialyl-Gb5-synthesis reaction
mixture comprising Neu5Ac, CTP, PEP, the Gb5-OR, the alpha2,3-sialyltransferase, and the
set of CMP-Neu5Ac regeneration enzymes.
81.     The method of claim 79 or 80, wherein the RIA is hydrogen, allyl, substituted alkyl,
biotin, or a ceramide.
82.     The method of any one of claims 79-8 1, wherein the alpha2,3-sialyltransferase is from
M. bacteria,the cytidine monophosphate kinase is from E. coli, the CMP-sialic acid
synthetase is from P. Multocida, the pyruvate kinase is from E. coli, or the pyrophosphatase
is from E. coli.
83.     The method of any one of claims 79-82, further comprising isolating the Sialyl-Gb5
  RIA
84.     The method of any one of claims 1-83, wherein at least one enzyme is immobilized on
a support member.
85.     The method of any one of claims 1-83, wherein the Lac-OR1A, Gb3-OR^, Gb4-ORA,
or Gb5-ORIA is immobilized on a support member.
86.     An enzymatic reactor, comprising:
                (a) a reaction chamber for synthesizing Gb3-OR^, wherein the chamber
comprises an alpha 1,4-galactosyltransferase, and a set of UDP-Gal regeneration enzymes,
                                               94

which comprises a galactokinase, a UDP-sugar pyrophosphorylase, a pyruvate kinase, and
optionally a pyrophosphatase;
               (b) a reaction chamber for synthesizing Gb4-ORA, wherein the chamber
comprises a beta 1,3 -N-acetylgalactosaminyltransferase and a set of UDP-GalNAc
regeneration enzymes, which comprises an N-acetylhexosamine 1-kinase, an N
acetylglucosamine 1-phosphate uridylyltransferase, a pyruvate kinase, and optionally, a
pyrophosphatase;
               (c) a reaction chamber for synthesizing Gb5-ORA, wherein the chamber
comprises a betal ,3-galactosyltransferase, and the set of UDP-Gal regeneration enzymes;
               (d) a reaction chamber for synthesizing Fucosyl-Gb5-ORiA, wherein the
chamber comprises an alphal ,2-fucosyltransferase and a set of GDP-Fuc regeneration
enzymes, which comprises an L-fucokinase/GDP-fucose pyrophosphorylase, a pyruvate
kinase, and optionally, a pyrophosphatase;
               (e) a reaction chamber for synthesizing Sialyl-Gb5-OR1A, wherein the
chamber comprises an alpha2,3-sialyltransferase and a set of CMP-Neu5Ac regeneration
enzymes, which comprises a cytidine monophosphate kinase, a CMP-sialic acid synthetase, a
pyruvate kinase, and optionally, a pyrophosphatase; or
               (f) a combination thereof.
87.     The enzymatic reactor of claim 86, wherein at least one enzyme in at least one of the
reaction chambers is immobilized on a support member.
88.     The enzymatic reactor of claim 86 or 87, wherein the reactor comprises:
        (i)     reaction chambers (a) and (b);
        (ii)   reaction chambers (a), (b), and (c);
        (iii)  reaction chambers (a), (b), (c), and (d);
        (iv)   reaction chambers (a), (b), (c), and (e);
        (v)    reaction chambers (b) and (c);
        (vi)   reaction chambers (b), (c), and (d);
        (vii)  reaction chambers (b), (c), and (e);
        (viii) reaction chambers (c) and (d); or
        (ix)   reaction chambers (c) and (e).
                                               95

 89.      The enzymatic reactor of claim 88, wherein one or more of the set of UDP-Gal
 regeneration enzymes, the set of UDP-GalNAc regeneration enzymes, the set of GDP-Fuc
 regeneration enzymes, and the set of CMP-Neu5Ac regeneration enzymes each are
 immobilized on a support members.
 90.      The enzymatic reactor of any one of claims 86-89, wherein in each reaction chamber,
 all of the enzymes are immobilized on a support member.
 91.      A method for adding a galactose residue to a substrate molecule, comprising:
                 (i)    producing UDP-Gal from galactose in the presence of a set of UDP
 Gal regeneration enzymes, wherein the set of UDP-Gal regeneration enzymes comprises a
 galactokinase, an UDP-sugar pyrophosphorylase, and a pyruvate kinase; and
                 (ii)   reacting the UDP-Gal with a substrate molecule via action of a
galactosyltransferase to add a galactose residue to the substrate molecule.
 92.      The method of claim 91, wherein the set of UDP-Gal regeneration enzymes further
 comprises a pyrophosphatase.
 93.      The method of 91 or 92, wherein (i) and (ii) occur in a reaction mixture comprising
 the set of UDP-Gal regeneration enzymes, the galactosyltransferase, the substrate molecule,
 galactose, ATP, and UTP.
 94.      The method of any one of claims 91-93, wherein the substrate molecule is a
 polysaccharide, an oligosaccharide, a glycoprotein, a glycolipid, or an aglycone.
 95.      The method of any one of claims 91-93, wherein the substrate molecule is a ceramide
 or a glycosphingolipid.
 96.      The method of any one of claims 91-94, wherein the galactosyltransferase is an
 alpha 1,4-galactosyltransferase, a beta 1,4-galactosyltransferase, an alphal,3
 galactosyltransferase, or a beta 1,3-galactosyltransferase.
                                                 96

97.     An enzymatic reactor, comprising a reaction chamber that comprises a
galactosyltransferase and a set of UDP-Gal regeneration enzymes, which comprises a
galactokinase, an UDP pyrophosphoylase, a pyruvate kinase, and optionally, a
pyrophosphatase.
98.     The enzymatic reactor of claim 97, wherein the galactosyltransferase is an alphal,4
galactosyltransferase, a betal ,4-galactosyltransferase, an alpha 1,3-galactosyltransferase, or a
beta 1,3-galactosyltransferase.
99.     The enzymatic reactor of claim 97 or 98, wherein at least one of the enzymes are
immobilized on a support member.
                                               97

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
                                                      A098870035WO00- SEQ- YJ C. TXT
<removed-date>
                                                    SEQUENCE LI STI NG
              <110>     Ac ademi a Si ni c a
                        Wong, Chi - Huey
                        Ts ai , Ts ung- I
                        Wu, Chung- Yi
              <120>     Lar ge Sc al e Enz y mat i c Sy nt hes i s of Ol i gos ac c har i des
              <130>     A0988. 70035WO00
              <140>     N/ A
<removed-apn>
              <141>     2013- 08- 20
              <150>     US 61/ 684, 974
              <151>     2012- 08- 20
              <160>     30
              <170>     Pat ent I n v er s i on 3. 5
              <210>     1
              <211>     46
              <212>     DNA
              <213>     Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223>     Sy nt het i c ol i gonuc l eot i de
              <400> 1
              c t gt at t t t c agggagc gat c gc t at gagt c t gaaagaaa aaac ab                 46
              <210>     2
              <211>     44
              <212>     DNA
              <213>     Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223>     Sy nt het i c ol i gonuc l eot i de
              <400> 2
              gc c t c gagt c at t ac gt t t a aac t c agc ac t gt c c t gc t c c t t g         44
              <210>     3
              <211>     44
              <212>     DNA
              <213>     Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223>     Sy nt het i c ol i gonuc l eot i de
              <400> 3
              c t gt at t t t c agggagc gat c gc t at ggc t t c t ac ggt t g at t c             44
              <210>     4
              <211>     46
              <212>     DNA
              <213>     Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223>     Sy nt het i c ol i gonuc l eot i de
              <400> 4
              gc c t c gagt c at t ac gt t t a aac t c aat c t t c aac agaaa at t t gc          46
                                                                      Page 1

                                                      A098870035WO00- SEQ- YJ C. TXT
<removed-date>
              <210>     5
              <211>     35
              <212>     DNA
              <213>     Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223>     Sy nt het i c ol i gonuc l eot i de
              <400> 5
              gat at ac c at ggaaat ggac at c gt t t t c g c ggc g                            35
<removed-apn>
              <210>     6
              <211>     33
              <212>     DNA
              <213>     Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223>     Sy nt het i c ol i gonuc l eot i de
              <400> 6
              gt ggt gc t c g aggt agat t t t ac gc aggaa ac g                                33
              <210>     7
              <211>     50
              <212>     DNA
              <213>     Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223>     Sy nt het i c ol i gonuc l eot i de
              <400> 7
              c t gt at t t t c agggagc gat c gc t at gaac aagac t t at g at t t t aaaag      50
              <210>     8
              <211>     48
              <212>     DNA
              <213>     Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223>     Sy nt het i c ol i gonuc l eot i de
              <400> 8
              gc c t c gagt c at t ac gt t t a aac t t aaat g t at gaat at a c t at c t t c   48
              <210>     9
              <211>     45
              <212>     DNA
              <213>     Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223>     Sy nt het i c ol i gonuc l eot i de
              <400> 9
              c t gt at t t t c agggagc gat c gc t at gt t g aat aat gc t a t gagc            45
              <210>     10
              <211>     44
              <212>     DNA
              <213>     Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223>     Sy nt het i c ol i gonuc l eot i de
                                                                     Page 2

                                                       A098870035WO00- SEQ- YJ C. TXT
<removed-date>
              <400> 10
              gc c t c gagt c at t ac gt t t a aac t c ac t t t t t c t t t ac c g gac g   44
              <210>     11
              <211>     32
              <212>     DNA
              <213>     Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223>     Sy nt het i c ol i gonuc l eot i de
<removed-apn>
              <400> 11
              gat at ac c at ggaaaac t gc c c gc t ggt t t c t                             32
              <210>     12
              <211>     34
              <212>     DNA
              <213>     Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223>     Sy nt het i c ol i gonuc l eot i de
              <400> 12
              gt ggt gc t c g aggaagat aa c gt t gat t t t ac gg                           34
              <210>     13
              <211>     36
              <212>     DNA
              <213>     Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223>     Sy nt het i c ol i gonuc l eot i de
              <400> 13
              c agggagc ga t c gc t at gc a aaaac t ac t a t c t t t a                     36
              <210>     14
              <211>     35
              <212>     DNA
              <213>     Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223>     Sy nt het i c ol i gonuc l eot i de
              <400> 14
              c at t ac gt t t aaac t t at ga t c gt gat ac t t ggaa                       35
              <210>     15
              <211>     45
              <212>     DNA
              <213>     Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223>     Sy nt het i c ol i gonuc l eot i de
              <400> 15
              c t gt at t t t c agggagc gat c gc t at ggc g t t c aaagt t g t t c ag       45
              <210>     16
              <211>     45
              <212>     DNA
                                                                       Page 3

                                                      A098870035WO00- SEQ- YJ C. TXT
<removed-date>
              <213>     Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223>     Sy nt het i c ol i gonuc l eot i de
              <400> 16
              gc c t c gagt c at t ac gt t t a aac t t ac gc g t t gt at t t c t gagat   45
              <210>     17
              <211>     36
              <212>     DNA
<removed-apn>
              <213>     Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223>     Sy nt het i c ol i gonuc l eot i de
              <400> 17
              c agggagc ga t c gc t at gac ggc aat t gc c c c ggt t                      36
              <210>     18
              <211>     35
              <212>     DNA
              <213>     Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223>     Sy nt het i c ol i gonuc l eot i de
              <400> 18
              c at t ac gt t t aaac t t at gc gagagc c aat t t c t g                     35
              <210>     19
              <211>     36
              <212>     DNA
              <213>     Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223>     Sy nt het i c ol i gonuc l eot i de
              <400> 19
              gat at ac c at ggaaac aaat at t gc gat c a t t c c t g                     36
              <210>     20
              <211>     36
              <212>     DNA
              <213>     Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223>     Sy nt het i c ol i gonuc l eot i de
              <400> 20
              gt ggt gc t c g agt t t at t gg at aaaat t t c c gc gag                    36
              <210>     21
              <211>     35
              <212>     DNA
              <213>     Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223>     Sy nt het i c ol i gonuc l eot i de
              <400> 21
              gat at ac c at ggaaat gaac aac gac aac t c t ac c                          35
                                                                     Page 4

                                                        A098870035WO00- SEQ- YJ C. TXT
<removed-date>
              <210>     22
              <211>     34
              <212>     DNA
              <213>     Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223>     Sy nt het i c ol i gonuc l eot i de
              <400> 22
              gt ggt gc t c g aggat gt c ag agat c agt t t gat g                                          34
<removed-apn>
              <210>     23
              <211>     47
              <212>     DNA
              <213>     Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223>     Sy nt het i c ol i gonuc l eot i de
              <400> 23
              c t gt at t t t c agggagc gat c gc t at gaaa aagac c aaaa t t gt t t g                      47
              <210>     24
              <211>     43
              <212>     DNA
              <213>     Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223>     Sy nt het i c ol i gonuc l eot i de
              <400> 24
              gc c t c gagt c at t ac gt t t a aac t t ac agg ac gt gaac ag at g                          43
              <210>     25
              <211>     36
              <212>     DNA
              <213>     Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223>     Sy nt het i c ol i gonuc l eot i de
              <400> 25
              c agggagc ga t c gc t at gag c t t ac t c aac gt c c c t                                    36
              <210>     26
              <211>     35
              <212>     DNA
              <213>     Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223>     Sy nt het i c ol i gonuc l eot i de
              <400> 26
              c at t ac gt t t aaac t t at t t at t c t t t gc g c gc t c                                 35
              <210>     27
              <211>     936
              <212>     DNA
              <213>     Es c her i c hi a c ol i
              <400> 27
              at ggac at c g t t t t c gc ggc ggac gac aac t ac gc ggc gt ac c t gt gc gt t gc ggc gaaa   60
                                                                 Page 5

                                                       A098870035WO00- SEQ- YJ C. TXT
<removed-date>
              t c t gt t gaag c ggc gc ac c c ggac ac c gaa at c c gt t t c c ac gt t c t gga c gc gggt at c        120
              t c t gaagc ga ac c gt gc ggc ggt t gc ggc g aac c t gc gt g gt ggt ggt gg t aac at c c gt            180
              t t c at c gac g t t aac c c gga agac t t c gc g ggt t t c c c gc t gaac at c c g t c ac at c t c t   240
              at c ac c ac c t ac gc gc gt c t gaaac t gggt gaat ac at c g c ggac t gc ga c aaagt t c t g           300
              t ac c t ggac a t c gac gt t c t ggt t c gt gac t c t c t gac c c c gc t gt ggga c ac c gac c t g     360
              ggt gac aac t ggc t gggt gc gt gc at c gac c t gt t c gt t g aac gt c agga aggt t ac aaa              420
<removed-apn>
              c agaaaat c g gt at ggc gga c ggt gaat ac t ac t t c aac g c gggt gt t c t gc t gat c aac             480
              c t gaaaaaat ggc gt c gt c a c gac at c t t c aaaat gt c t t gc gaat gggt t gaac agt ac               540
              aaagac gt t a t gc agt ac c a ggac c aggac at c c t gaac g gt c t gt t c aa aggt ggt gt t             600
              t gc t ac gc ga ac t c t c gt t t c aac t t c at g c c gac c aac t ac gc gt t c at ggc gaac c gt      660
              t t c gc gt c t c gt c ac ac c ga c c c gc t gt ac c gt gac c gt a c c aac ac c gt t at gc c ggt t    720
              gc ggt t t c t c ac t ac t gc gg t c c ggc gaaa c c gt ggc ac c gt gac t gc ac c gc gt ggggt          780
              gc ggaac gt t t c ac c gaac t ggc gggt t c t c t gac c ac c g t t c c ggaaga at ggc gt ggt            840
              aaac t ggc gg t t c c gc ac c g t at gt t c t c t ac c aaac gt a t gc t gc agc g t t ggc gt c gt      900
              aaac t gt c t g c gc gt t t c c t gc gt aaaat c t ac t ga                                             936
              <210>     28
              <211>     972
              <212>     DNA
              <213>     Es c her i c hi a c ol i
              <400> 28
              at ggaaaac t gc c c gc t ggt t t c t gt t at c gt t t gc gc gt ac aac gc gga ac agt ac at c            60
              gac gaat c t a t c t c t t c t at c at c aac c ag ac c t ac gaaa ac c t ggaaat c at c gt t at c       120
              aac gac ggt t c t ac c gac c t gac c c t gt c t c ac c t ggaag aaat c t c t aa ac t ggac aaa          180
              c gt at c aaaa t c at c t c t aa c aaat ac aac c t gggt t t c a t c aac t c t c t gaac at c ggt       240
              c t gggt t gc t t c t c t ggt aa at ac t t c gc g c gt at ggac g c ggac gac at c gc gaaac c g         300
              t c t t ggat c g aaaaaat c gt t ac c t ac c t g gaaaaaaac g ac c ac at c ac c gc gat gggt             360
              t c t t ac c t gg aaat c at c gt t gaaaaagaa t gc ggt at c a t c ggt t c t c a gt ac aaaac c          420
              ggt gac at c t ggaaaaac c c gc t gc t gc ac aac gac at c t gc gaagc gat gc t gt t c t ac              480
              aac c c gat c c ac aac aac ac c at gat c at g c gt gc gaac g t t t ac c gt ga ac ac aaac t g          540
              at c t t c aac a aagac t ac c c gt ac gc ggaa gac t ac aaat t c t ggt c t ga agt t t c t c gt         600
              c t gggt t gc c t ggc gaac t a c c c ggaagc g c t ggt t aaat ac c gt c t gc a c ggt aac c ag          660
              ac c t c t t c t g t t t ac aac c a c gaac agaac gaaac c gc ga aaaaaat c aa ac gt gaaaac              720
              at c ac c t ac t ac c t gaac aa aat c ggt at c gac at c aaag t t at c aac t c t gt t t c t c t g      780
              c t ggaaat c t ac c ac gt t ga c aaat c t aac aaagt t c t ga aat c t at c c t gt ac gaaat g           840
              t ac at gt c t c t ggac aaat a c ac c at c ac c t c t c t gc t gc ac t t c at c aa at ac c ac c t g   900
                                                                       Page 6

                                                    A098870035WO00- SEQ- YJ C. TXT
<removed-date>
              gaac t gt t c g ac c t gaaac a gaac c t gaaa at c at c aaaa aat t c at c c g t aaaat c aac            960
              gt t at c t t c t ag                                                                                  972
              <210>     29
              <211>     903
              <212>     DNA
              <213>     Es c her i c hi a c ol i
              <400> 29
              at ggc gt t c a aagt t gt t c a gat c t gc ggt ggt c t gggt a ac c agat gt t c c agt ac gc g           60
<removed-apn>
              t t c gc gaaat c t c t gc agaa ac ac t c t aac ac c c c ggt t c t gc t ggac at c ac c t c t t t c     120
              gac t ggt c t g ac c gt aaaat gc agc t ggaa c t gt t c c c ga t c gac c t gc c gt ac gc gt c t        180
              gc gaaagaaa t c gc gat c gc gaaaat gc ag c ac c t gc c ga aac t ggt t c g t gac gc gc t g             240
              aaat gc at gg gt t t c gac c g t gt t t c t c ag gaaat c gt t t t c gaat ac ga ac c gaaac t g         300
              c t gaaac c gt c t c gt c t gac c t ac t t c t t c ggt t ac t t c c aggac c c gc g t t ac t t c gac   360
              gc gat c t c t c c gc t gat c aa ac agac c t t c ac c c t gc c gc c gc c gc c gga aaac aac aaa        420
              aac aac aac a aaaaagaaga agaat ac c ag t gc aaac t gt c t c t gat c c t ggc ggc gaaa                  480
              aac t c t gt t t t c gt t c ac at c c gt c gt ggt gac t ac gt t g gt at c ggt t g c c agc t gggt      540
              at c gac t ac c agaaaaaagc gc t ggaat ac at ggc gaaac gt gt t c c gaa c at ggaac t g                  600
              t t c gt t t t c t gc gaagac c t ggaat t c ac c c agaac c t gg ac c t gggt t a c c c gt t c at g      660
              gac at gac c a c c c gt gac aa agaagaagaa gc gt ac t ggg ac at gc t gc t gat gc agt c t               720
              t gc c agc ac g gt at c at c gc gaac t c t ac c t ac t c t t ggt gggc ggc gt a c c t gat c gaa        780
              aac c c ggaaa aaat c at c at c ggt c c gaaa c ac t ggc t gt t c ggt c ac ga aaac at c c t g           840
              t gc aaagaat gggt t aaaat c gaat c t c ac t t c gaagt t a aat c t c agaa at ac aac gc g               900
              t aa                                                                                                  903
              <210>     30
              <211>     1146
              <212>     DNA
              <213>     Es c her i c hi a c ol i
              <400> 30
              at gaac aac g ac aac t c t ac c ac c ac c aac aac aac gc ga t c gaaat c t a c gt t gac c gt            60
              gc gac c c t gc c gac c at c c a gc agat gac c aaaat c gt t t c t c agaaaac c t c t aac aaa           120
              aaac t gat c t c t t ggt c t c g t t ac c c gat c ac c gac aaat c t c t gc t gaa aaaaat c aac         180
              gc ggaat t c t t c aaagaac a gt t c gaac t g ac c gaat c t c t gaaaaac at c at c c t gt c t           240
              gaaaac at c g ac aac c t gat c at c c ac ggt aac ac c c t gt ggt c t at c ga c gt t gt t gac          300
              at c at c aaag aagt t aac c t gc t gggt aaa aac at c c c ga t c gaac t gc a c t t c t ac gac          360
              gac ggt t c t g c ggaat ac gt t c gt at c t ac gaat t c t c t a aac t gc c gga at c t gaac ag         420
              aaat ac aaaa c c t c t c t gt c t aaaaac aac at c aaat t c t c t at c gac gg t ac c gac t c t         480
              t t c aaaaac a c c at c gaaaa c at c t ac ggt t t c t c t c agc t gt ac c c gac c ac c t ac c ac      540
                                                                      Page 7

                                                     A098870035WO00- SEQ- YJ C. TXT
<removed-date>
              at gc t gc gt g c ggac at c t t c gac ac c ac c c t gaaaat c a ac c c gc t gc g t gaac t gc t g       600
              t c t aac aac a t c aaac agat gaaat gggac t ac t t c aaag ac t t c aac t a c aaac agaaa               660
              gac at c t t c t ac t c t c t gac c aac t t c aac c c gaaagaaa t c c aggaaga c t t c aac aaa          720
              aac t c t aac a aaaac t t c at c t t c at c ggt t c t aac t c t g c gac c gc gac c gc ggaagaa         780
              c agat c aac a t c at c t c t ga agc gaaaaaa gaaaac t c t t c t at c at c ac c aac t c t at c         840
              t c t gac t ac g ac c t gt t c t t c aaaggt c ac c c gt c t gc ga c c t t c aac ga ac agat c at c     900
<removed-apn>
              aac gc gc ac g ac at gat c ga aat c aac aac aaaat c c c gt t c gaagc gc t gat c at gac c              960
              ggt at c c t gc c ggac gc ggt t ggt ggt at g ggt t c t t c t g t t t t c t t c t c t at c c c gaaa   1020
              gaagt t aaaa ac aaat t c gt t t t c t ac aaa t c t ggt ac c g ac at c gaaaa c aac t c t c t g        1080
              at c c aggt t a t gc t gaaac t gaac c t gat c aac c gt gac a ac at c aaac t gat c t c t gac          1140
              at c t aa                                                                                            1146
                                                                      Page 8

