ABSTRACT
Provided are compounds and pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof, and
combinations of compounds, their pharmaceutical compositions, their methods of
preparation, and methods for their use in treating or preventing infectious disease.

         PHARMACEUTICAL COMPOSITIONS COMPRISING DANIRIXIN FOR TREATING
                                         INFECTIOUS DISEASES
          CROSS REFERENCE TO RELATED PATENTS AND PATENT APPLICATIONS
 5 [0001]           This application is a divisional application of Australian Application No.
   2015260841, filed on May 8, 2015, the contents of which are to be taken as incorporated
   herein by reference. Australian Application No. 2015260841 is a Patent Cooperation
   Treaty Application and claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application No.
   61/991,754, filed on May 12, 2014; US Provisional Patent Application No. 62/149,893, filed
10 on April 20, 2015; and US Provisional Patent Application No. 62/151,013, filed on April 22,
   2015; which are all also hereby incorporated by reference in their entirety.
                                         FIELD OF THE INVENTION
   [0002]           The present invention relates to certain compounds, methods and
15 pharmaceutical compositions for treating infectious diseases, such as viral and bacterial
   infections. Methods for preparing such compounds and methods of using the compounds are
   also disclosed. In particular, the treatment of viral infections such as those caused by
   Paramyxoviridae, Orthomyxoviridae, Flaviviridae, Picornaviridae, and Coronaviridae are
   disclosed.
20
                                    BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
   [0003]           CXCR2 is a chemokine receptor that is highly expressed on neutrophils, and
   signaling through this receptor causes inflammatory cell recruitment to the injured tissue (1
   2). For example, it has been noted that RSV-infected infants have increased neutrophils in
25 the lungs (3-6). In addition, genetic single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNP's) that increase
   production of the CXCR2 ligand, IL-8, are associated with RSV bronchiolitis and wheezing
   (7,8). Neutrophils are also a prominent cell type that is recruited to the lung during influenza
   infection, and ablation of CXCR2 during influenza infection in mice significantly reduced
   neutrophil infiltration into the lung (9,10).
30 [0004]           Mucus overproduction during RSV infection is known to be detrimental to
   infants because it blocks the small airways of the lungs and prevents proper oxygen
   exchange. In a mouse model of RSV infection, signaling via CXCR2 contributes to mucus
   overproduction and airway hyperresponsiveness. Immunoneutralization with an anti-CXCR2
   antibody and CXCR2         mice showed a significant reduction of mucus in the lungs after RSV
35 infection (11). It was also reported that influenza infected mice treated with a CXCR2 ligand
   antibody (MIP-2), demonstrated reduced lung neutrophil counts along with an improvement in
   lung pathology
                                                      1

    WO 2015/173701                                                             PCT/IB2015/053373
without affecting viral replication and clearance (12). In summary, CXCR2 and some of its
ligands (e.g., IL-8), have been shown to be significantly upregulated during respiratory infections
in humans.
[0005]           Therefore, compounds which are capable of binding to the CXCR2 receptor and
inhibit CXCR2 ligand (e.g., IL-8) binding could help treat conditions associated with an increase
in CXCR2 ligand production. Such compounds could, therefore, treat inflammatory conditions
associated with CXCR2 ligand induced chemotaxis of neutrophils. Acute viral and bacterial lung
infections cause significant immune inflammation and mucus production, which often leads to
clogged airways, difficulty breathing, and hospitalization. Current antiviral treatments and
antibiotics work with varying degrees of success when administered shortly after symptom
onset. While the infectious agent plays a role in disease and pathogenesis, the overzealous
immune response to the infection also significantly contributes to the etiology of severe
respiratory illnesses.
[0006]           Influenza viruses are a global health concern, having been responsible for three
major pandemics that have killed over fifty million people worldwide since the year 1900.
Recently, The World Health Organization has estimated that there are three to five million cases
of severe influenza each year, and as many as five hundred thousand of these individuals die
annually from complications. See WHO, Fact sheet N1211, (2009). Influenza is characterized
by a sudden onset of high fever, cough, headache, muscle and joint pain, severe malaise, sore
throat and runny nose. These symptoms are believed to be the result of an over or unspecific
reaction of the immune system. Most people recover from fever and other symptoms within a
week without requiring medical attention. However, influenza can cause severe illness or death
in people at high risk. Id. Indeed, the highest risk of complications occur among children
younger than age two, adults age 65 or older, and people of any age with certain medical
conditions, such as chronic heart, lung (i.e., COPD and asthma), kidney, liver, blood or
metabolic diseases (i.e., diabetes), or those with weakened immune systems.
[0007]           Current therapeutic agents against infections with various influenza viruses focus
on disrupting the action of neuraminidase. Before the transmission of the influenza viruses to
other cells can occur, the sialic acid on the cell surface needs to be cleaved with the viral protein
neuraminidase. Tamiflu@ (oseltamivir phosphate) is a neuraminidase inhibitor that is
administered orally, and Relenza@ (zanamivir) is a neuraminidase inhibitor that is inhaled by
mouth. Other approved therapeutics, like amantadine and rimantadine, target the viral ion
channel (M2 protein) and inhibit virus uncoating. Unfortunately, Tamiflu@ has been reported to
have serious side effects, including nausea, vomiting, and abnormalities of the nervous or
                                                   2

   mental system. Also, outbreaks of Tamiflu@-resistant viruses and amantadine-resistant
   viruses have been reported, including the occurrence of human-to-human transmission of
   resistant virus. In fact, the U.S. CDC has recommended that amandatine and rimantadine no
   longer be prescribed to treat influenza since such a high percentage of recent seasonal
 5 strains have shown resistance to its action. Another drawback is that many of these
   therapeutics are much less effective if treatment is not started within forty-eight hours of the
   onset of symptoms. While vaccines against certain strains of influenza can be taken
   prophylactically, the U.S. CDC and vaccine manufacturers must accurately predict the
   specific strains that will be spread in the upcoming season, a prediction that can be difficult to
10 make.
   [0008]          As such, additional medical therapies are needed which could be beneficial
   that target multiple aspects of a respiratory infection, including, for example, mucus
   overproduction, airway hyperresponsiveness, and that could also inhibit replication of the
   underlying infectious agent.
15 [0008a]         The discussion of documents, acts, materials, devices, articles and the like is
   included in this specification solely for the purpose of providing a context for the present
   invention. It is not suggested or represented that any or all of these matters formed part of
   the prior art base or were common general knowledge in the field relevant to the present
   invention as it existed before the priority date of each claim of this application.
20 [0008b]         Where the terms "comprise", "comprises", "comprised" or "comprising" are
   used in this specification (including the claims) they are to be interpreted as specifying the
   presence of the stated features, integers, steps or components, but not precluding the
   presence of one or more other features, integers, steps or components, or group thereof.
25                                   SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
   [0009]           In accordance with one embodiment of the present invention, there is provided
   a novel method of treating a respiratory infection in a subject suffering from the respiratory
   infection comprising administering to the subject the compound of Formula (1),
                                                     3

                                            Formula (I)
                 NH
                   0
                 N
           0
     ci             OH
               0     N)KN                 F
                     H     H
                                            , or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof,
  alone or in combination with an antimicrobial agent, or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt
5 thereof. Such "combinations" of the compound of Formula (1)and an antimicrobial agent, such
  as, for example, any neuraminidase inhibitor, can be administered to a subject suffering
                                                 3a

    WO 2015/173701                                                          PCT/IB2015/053373
from a respiratory infection as a fixed dose combination in the same dose, or such combinations
can be administered in multiple separate doses.
[0010]         Also provided is a composition comprising the compound of Formula (1):
                                       Formula (1)
                       NH
            o     s=o
        C1                 OH
                            N)       N                F
                            H        H
        in combination with a neuraminidase inhibitor compound.\
[0011]         Also provided is a composition comprising the compound of Formula (1):
                                       Formula (1)
                       NH
            o~s=o
        C1                 OH
                            N)       N                F
                            H        H
        in combination with ribavirin.
[0012]         Also provided are pharmaceutical compositions comprising a pharmaceutically
acceptable carrier or excipient and the compound of Formula (1),or a pharmaceutically
acceptable salt thereof, in combination with an antimicrobial agent, or a pharmaceutically
acceptable salt thereof.
                                                 4

   [0013]          Also provided are methods of preventing a respiratory infection in a subject
   comprising administering to a subject at risk of, or predisposed to, acquiring a respiratory
   infection, the compound of Formula (1), or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, alone or
   in combination with antimicrobial agent, or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof.
 5 [0014]          Also provided are pharmaceutical compositions comprising a pharmaceutically
   acceptable carrier or excipient and the compound of Formula (1), or a pharmaceutically
   acceptable salt thereof, alone or in combination with an antimicrobial agent, or a
   pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof.
   [0015]          Also provided are methods for preparing combinations of the compound of
10  Formula (1),or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt, and an antimicrobial agent, and
   compositions thereof and for therapeutic uses of the combination.
   [001 5a]        Also provided is a combination comprising a compound according to Formula
   (1):
                                                 Formula (I)
                                           NH
                                 o     s   O
                              CI               OH
                                                N)        N             F
                                                H         H
15 or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, and oseltamivir.
   [001 5b]        Also provided is a pharmaceutical composition comprising a compound of
    Formula (1):
                                                 Formula (I)
                                           NH
                                              0
                                           N
                                    o
                              CI               OH
                                                N)        N             F
                                                H         H
                                                    5

   or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, in combination with oseltamivir and a
   pharmaceutically acceptable excipient.
   [001 5c]        Also provided is a method for treating a respiratory infectious disease in a
   subject, the method comprising administering to a subject suffering from a respiratory
 5 infectious disease a combination comprising a compound of Formula (1):
                                                  Formula (I)
                                            NH
                                            SN
                                     0
                                                OH
                                                 N)        N             F
                                                 H         H
   or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, in combination with oseltamivir.
   [001 5d]        Also provided is a pharmaceutical composition for intravenous administration
   comprising a hydrobromide salt of N-(4-chloro-2-hydroxy-3-((3S)-3-piperidinylsulfonyl]phenyl)
10 N'-(3-fluoro-2-methylphenyl)urea and a pharmaceutically acceptable excipient in aqueous
   solution.
   [001 5e]        Also provided is a method for treating a respiratory infectious disease in a
   subject, the method comprising administering a pharmaceutical composition for intravenous
   administration comprising a hydrobromide salt of N-(4-chloro-2-hydroxy-3-((3S)-3
15 piperidinylsulfonyl]phenyl)-N'-(3-fluoro-2-methylphenyl)urea and a pharmaceutically
   acceptable excipient in aqueous solution to a subject suffering from a respiratory infectious
   disease.
                DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF REPRESENTATIVE EMBODIMENTS
20 [0016]          Throughout this application, references are made to various embodiments
   relating to compounds, compositions, and methods. The various embodiments described are
   meant to provide a variety of illustrative examples and should not be construed as
   descriptions of alternative species. Rather it should be noted that the descriptions of various
   embodiments provided herein may be of overlapping scope. The embodiments discussed
25 herein are merely illustrative and are not meant to limit the scope of the present invention.
   [0017]          It is to be understood that the terminology used herein is for the purpose of
   describing particular embodiments only and is not intended to limit the scope of the present
                                                    5a

   invention. In this specification and in the claims that follow, reference will be made to a
   number of terms that shall be defined to have the following meanings.
   [0018]          An "antimicrobial agent(s)", as used herein, refers to an agent, either a
   chemical compound or biological entity that kills microorganisms or inhibits their growth or
 5 prevents or counteracts their pathogenic action. Antimicrobial agents can be grouped
   according to the microorganisms they act primarily against, such as antivirals or
   antibacterials.
   [0019]          "Compound", "compounds", "chemical", and "chemical compounds" as used
   herein refers to a compound encompassed by the generic formulae disclosed herein, any
10 subgenus of those generic formulae, and any forms of the compounds within the generic and
   subgeneric formulae, including the racemates, stereoisomers, and tautomers of the
   compound or compounds.
   [0020]          "Racemates" refers to a mixture of enantiomers. In an embodiment of the
   invention, the compound of Formula (1), or pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof, are
15
                                                    5b

    WO 2015/173701                                                             PCT/IB2015/053373
enantiomerically enriched with one enantiomer wherein all of the chiral carbons referred to are
in one configuration. In general, reference to an enantiomerically enriched compound or salt, is
meant to indicate that the specified enantiomer will comprise more than 50% by weight of the
total weight of all enantiomers of the compound or salt.
[0021]          "Solvate" or "solvates" of a compound refer to those compounds, as defined
above, which are bound to a stoichiometric or non-stoichiometric amount of a solvent. Solvates
of a compound includes solvates of all forms of the compound. In certain embodiments,
solvents are volatile, non-toxic, and/or acceptable for administration to humans in trace
amounts. Suitable solvates include water wherein the solvate is a hydrate.
[0022]           "Stereoisomer" or "stereoisomers" refer to compounds that differ in the chirality
of one or more stereocenters. Stereoisomers include enantiomers and diastereomers.
[0023]           "Tautomer" refer to alternate forms of a compound that differ in the position of a
proton, such as enol-keto and imine-enamine tautomers, or the tautomeric forms of heteroaryl
groups containing a ring atom attached to both a ring -NH- moiety and a ring =N- moiety such
as pyrazoles, imidazoles, benzimidazoles, triazoles, and tetrazoles.
[0024]          "Pharmaceutically acceptable salt" refers to pharmaceutically acceptable salts
derived from a variety of organic and inorganic counter ions well known in the art and include,
by way of example only, sodium, potassium, calcium, magnesium, ammonium, and
tetraalkylammonium, and when the molecule contains a basic functionality, salts of organic or
inorganic acids, such as hydrochloride, hydrobromide, tartrate, mesylate, acetate, maleate, and
oxalate. Suitable salts include those described in P. Heinrich Stahl, Camille G. Wermuth (Eds.),
Handbook of Pharmaceutical Salts Properties, Selection, and Use; 2002.
[0025]          In one embodiment, the pharmaceutically acceptable salt is a hydrobromide salt
of the compound of Formula (1).
[0026]          "Patient" or "subject" refers to mammals and includes humans and non-human
mammals.
[0027]          "Treating" or "treatment" of a disease in a patient refers to 1) preventing the
disease from occurring in a patient that is predisposed or does not yet display symptoms of the
disease; 2) inhibiting the disease or arresting its development; or 3) ameliorating or causing
regression of the disease.
[0028]          In accordance with one embodiment of the present invention, there is provided a
medical therapy and treatment for infectious diseases of the respiratory system. In one
embodiment, the present invention is useful for the treatment of symptoms caused by an
infection with viruses including, but not limited to, influenza virus, human rhinovirus, other
                                                   6

    WO 2015/173701                                                              PCT/IB2015/053373
enterovirus, respiratory syncytial virus, parainfluenza virus, metapneumovirus, coronavirus,
herpesviruses, or adenovirus. It should also be noted that the respiratory viral infection treated
herein may also be associated with a subsequent secondary bacterial infection.
[0029]          CXCR2 is a chemokine receptor that is highly expressed on neutrophils, and
signaling through this receptor causes inflammatory cell recruitment to the injured tissue.
Chemical antagonism of cytokine signaling to reduce neutrophil chemotaxis is expected to
benefit a subject suffering from a respiratory infection by controlling, reducing, and alleviating
many of the resultant symptoms by decreasing the infiltration of neutrophils. As a result, the
present invention provides a novel treatment comprising the compound of Formula (1)that
antagonizes the CXCR2 receptor, alone or in combination with an antimicrobial agent. For
example, the inventions are expected to reduce pathogen titers and prevent repeated
inflammatory cell signaling and infiltration into the lung of infected patients, which could alleviate
disease symptoms and lung pathology. The present invention also provides therapeutic
compositions and methods to reduce both the excessive inflammatory immune response and
the replication of the virus or bacteria.
[0030]          In one embodiment, the combination treatment of a CXCR2 antagonist
compound (e.g., the compound of Formula I) with an antimicrobial agent is expected to target
both viral/bacterial and immune aspects of disease, thereby accelerating recovery and
resolution of disease, potentially faster than either treatment alone.
[0031]          In other embodiments, additional agents could be added to the therapy of the
CXCR2 antagonist compound of Formula I in combination with the antimicrobial. Such
additional agents could comprise any other respiratory infection therapies which are efficacious
to reduce one or more symptoms, including, for example, high fever, cough, headache, muscle
and joint pain, malaise, sore throat, and runny nose.
[0032]          The compound of Formula I is also useful in combination with antimicrobial
agents for treating symptoms of an infection in a human caused by bacteria, in particular
respiratory infections. Specific bacteria include, but are not limited to, the causative agents of
bacterial pneumonia such as Streptococcus pneumoniae, Staphylococcus aureus, Haemophilus
influenza, Klebsiella pneumoniae, Legionella pneumophila, Porphyromonas gingivalis, and
Acinetobacterbaumanii. In addition, the present invention is directed to respiratory infections
which exacerbate underlying chronic conditions such as asthma, chronic bronchitis, chronic
obstructive pulmonary disease, otitis media and sinusitis. In such a case, an infection may act
as the trigger for exacerbation, and control of symptoms with the present invention would
reduce the likelihood of an exacerbation occurring.
                                                    7

    WO 2015/173701                                                           PCT/IB2015/053373
[0033]          In accordance with the present invention, it has been discovered that infectious
diseases and infectious disease-related complications may be treated and prevented in a
subject by administering to the subject the compound of Formula (1)alone or in combination with
one or more antimicrobial agents. For purposes of the present invention, the novel combination
therapy comprising the compound of Formula (1)in combination with at least one antimicrobial
agent is also useful for the purpose of preventing and treating infectious diseases and infectious
disease-related complications in a subject that is in need of such prevention or treatment. Thus,
the combination therapy of the present invention would be useful, for example, to reduce such
infectious disease symptoms as, for example, coughing, rhinorrhea, breathing difficulty,
shortness of breath, pain, inflammation, itchy and/or watery eyes, nasal discharge, nasal
congestion, facial pressure, sneezing, sore throat, cough, headache, fever, malaise, fatigue,
weakness, and/or muscle pain, in a subject suffering from such symptoms. The combination
therapy of the present invention would also be useful to prevent the occurrence of such
symptoms.
[0034]          The methods and compositions of the present invention are also useful to reduce
the number of hospitalizations of subjects suffering from an infectious disease, or to prevent or
retard, in subjects, the development of complications associated with infectious diseases, which
may eventually arise from having a chronic or recurring infectious disease. The combination
therapy of the compound of Formula (1)and an antimicrobial agent is also useful for decreasing
the required number of separate dosages, thus, potentially improving patient compliance. The
administration of the compound of Formula (1)for the prevention and treatment of infectious
diseases and infectious disease-related complications is an unexpectedly effective treatment
and preventative therapy. Such administration is effective for improving the symptoms of
infectious diseases and infectious disease-related complications while avoiding or reducing
certain disadvantages of current treatments. Furthermore, the administration of the compound
of Formula (1)in combination with an antimicrobial agent is an effective treatment for infectious
diseases or infectious disease-related complications or symptoms, and in some embodiments,
may be superior to the use of either agent alone. For example, the combination therapy could
be effective for lowering the dosages of antimicrobial agents that are normally prescribed as a
monotherapy. The administration of lower dosages of conventional treatment agents could
provide a reduction in side effects corresponding to such conventional agents. Combination
therapies comprising the compound of Formula (1)and an antimicrobial agent could be useful
not only for improving infectious disease symptoms and shortening recovery times, but perhaps
also for reducing the dosages of antimicrobial agents that are normally required.
                                                 8

    WO 2015/173701                                                              PCT/IB2015/053373
[0035]          As used herein, the phrases "combination therapy", "co- administration", "co
administering", "administration with", "administering", "combination", or "co-therapy", when
referring to use of the compound of Formula (1) in combination with an antimicrobial agent, are
intended to embrace administration of each agent in a sequential manner in a regimen that will
provide beneficial effects of the drug combination, and is intended as well to embrace co
administration of these agents in a substantially simultaneous manner. Thus, the compound of
Formula (1)and antimicrobial agent may be administered in one therapeutic dosage form, such
as in a single capsule, tablet, injection or infusion, or in two separate therapeutic dosage forms,
such as in separate capsules, tablets, injections, or infusions. In other embodiments, where the
compound of Formula (1)is administered in a separate dosage form relative to the antimicrobial
agent, such separate dosing may be performed over similar or different time frames depending
upon the therapeutic needs in a patient. One of skill in the art will understand how to
appropriately time such separate dosing periods.
[0036]          Sequential administration of such treatments encompasses both relatively short
and relatively long periods between the administration of each of the drugs of the present
method. However, in some embodiments of the present invention, the second drug is
administered while the first drug is still having an efficacious effect on the subject. Thus, the
present invention, in one embodiment, takes advantage of the fact that the simultaneous
presence of the combination of the compound of Formula (1)and an antimicrobial agent in a
subject has a greater clinical efficacy than the administration of either agent alone. Alternatively,
in some embodiments of the present invention, the second drug is administered while the first
drug has stopped having an efficacious effect on the subject.
[0037]          In one embodiment, the second of the two drugs is to be given to the subject
within the therapeutic response time of the first drug to be administered. For example, the
present invention encompasses administration of the compound of Formula (1)to the subject
and the later administration of an antimicrobial agent, as long as the antimicrobial agent is
administered to the subject while the compound of Formula (1)is still present in the subject at a
level, which in combination with the level of the antimicrobial agent is therapeutically effective,
and vice versa.
[0038]          As used herein, the terms "therapeutic response time" mean the duration of time
that a compound is present or detectable within a subject's body at therapeutic concentrations.
[0039]          As used herein, the term "monotherapy" is intended to embrace administration of
the compound of Formula (1)to a subject suffering from an infectious disease or infectious
disease-related complication as a single therapeutic treatment without an additional therapeutic
                                                    9

    WO 2015/173701                                                              PCT/IB2015/053373
treatment comprising an antimicrobial agent. However, the compound of Formula (1)may still be
administered in multiple dosage forms. Thus, the compound of Formula (1) may be administered
in one therapeutic dosage form, such as in a single capsule, tablet, injection or infusion, or in
two separate therapeutic dosage forms, such as in separate capsules, tablets, injections, or
infusions.
[0040]           The amounts of the compound of Formula (1),or salts thereof, and the other
pharmaceutically active agent(s) described herein and the relative timings of administration will
be selected in order to achieve the desired combined therapeutic effect.
[0041]           In other embodiments, the compounds of the present invention may be used in
combination with one or more antimicrobial agents useful in the prevention or treatment of viral
diseases or associated pathophysiology. Thus, the compounds of the present invention and
their salts, solvates, or other pharmaceutically acceptable derivatives thereof, may be employed
alone or in combination with other antimicrobial agents. The compounds of the present
invention and any other pharmaceutically active agent(s) may be administered together or
separately and, when administered separately, administration may occur simultaneously or
sequentially, in any order. The amounts of the compounds of the present invention and the
other pharmaceutically active agent(s) and the relative timings of administration will be selected
in order to achieve the desired combined therapeutic effect. The administration in combination
of a compound of the present invention and salts, solvates, or other pharmaceutically
acceptable derivatives thereof with other treatment agents may be in combination by
administration concomitantly in: (1) a unitary pharmaceutical composition including both
compounds; or (2) separate pharmaceutical compositions each including one of the
compounds. Alternatively, the combination may be administered separately in a sequential
manner wherein one treatment agent is administered first and the other second or vice versa.
Such sequential administration may be close in time or remote in time.
[0042]            In one embodiment, the present invention encompasses a method for preventing
an infectious disease in a subject, the method comprising administering to the subject the
compound of Formula (1)alone or in combination with an antimicrobial agent.
[0043]           As used herein, the terms "to prevent", "preventing", or "prevention" refer to any
reduction, no matter how slight, of a subject's predisposition or risk for developing an infectious
disease or an infectious disease-related complication. For purposes of prevention, the subject is
any subject, and preferably is a subject that is at risk for, or is predisposed to, developing an
infectious disease or an infectious disease-related complication. The term "prevention" includes
                                                  10

    WO 2015/173701                                                              PCT/IB2015/053373
either preventing the onset of a clinically evident infectious disease altogether or preventing the
onset of a preclinically evident infectious disease in individuals at risk.
[0044]           In another embodiment, the present invention encompasses a method for
treating an infectious disease or an infectious disease-related complication in a subject, the
method comprising administering to the subject the compound of Formula (1)alone or in
combination with an antimicrobial agent.
[0045]          As used herein, the terms "treating", "treatment", "treated", or "to treat," mean to
alleviate symptoms, eliminate the causation either on a temporary or permanent basis, or to
alter or slow the appearance of symptoms or symptom worsening. These terms also include
alleviation or elimination of causation of symptoms associated with, but not limited to, any of the
infectious diseases or infectious disease related-complications described herein. Such terms
also include reducing the duration of an infectious disease or infectious disease related
complication in a subject.
[0046]          Without being bound by this or any other theory, it is believed that a therapy
comprising the compound of Formula (1) is efficacious for impairing processes of inflammation
within the lungs during a respiratory infection, thus preventing or treating infectious disease
symptoms and thereby infectious disease-related complications. Moreover, in preferred
embodiments, the combination of the compound of Formula (1)and an antimicrobial agent may
provide synergistic effects, which would reduce the symptoms associated with infectious
diseases and infectious disease-related complications to a greater extent than would be
expected on the basis of the use of either one alone.
[0047]          The term "synergistic" refers to the combination of the compound of Formula (1)
and an antimicrobial agent as a combined therapy having an efficacy for the prevention and
treatment of infectious diseases that could be greater than the sum of their individual effects.
The synergistic effects of certain embodiments of the present invention's combination therapy
could encompass additional unexpected advantages for the treatment and prevention of
infectious diseases. Such additional advantages could include, but are not limited to, lowering
the required dose of antimicrobial agents, reducing the side-effects of antimicrobial agents, and
rendering those agents more tolerable to subjects undergoing infectious disease therapy.
[0048]          Also, the monotherapy and combination therapy of the present invention could
provide for the treatment or prevention of infectious disease-related complications, which may
arise indirectly from having a respiratory infectious disease, by treating the underlying
respiratory infectious disease itself. For example, if a subject is suffering from a viral respiratory
disease-related complication, such as a secondary respiratory bacterial infection (e.g.,
                                                  11

    WO 2015/173701                                                          PCT/IB2015/053373
pneumonia), the treatment of the underlying viral infectious disease, such as viral influenza, by
the methods and compositions of the present invention can prevent the occurrence of the
associated bacterial infection complication and it's symptoms. The present invention is directed
to a novel method of preventing or treating infectious diseases and infectious disease-related
complications in a subject that is in need of such prevention or treatment comprising
administering to the subject the compound of Formula (1). The present invention is also directed
to a novel method of preventing or treating infectious diseases and infectious disease-related
complications in a subject that is in need of such prevention or treatment comprising
administering to the subject the compound of Formula (1)and one or more antimicrobial agents.
[0049]         In accordance with one embodiment of the present invention, there is provided a
compound having the structure of Formula 1:
                                            Formula (1)
                                         NH
                                         N0
                                 0
                          c1                OH
                                                  N   N                 F
                                             H        H
[0050]         In other embodiments, the compound of Formula (1)can also be depicted with its
stereochemistry shown. Thus, the compound of Formula (1)is also a chiral compound having
the structure:
                                                 12

     WO 2015/173701                                                          PCT/IB2015/053373
                                                             Chiral
                               NH
                     O     S=O
                 CI               OH
                                                           F
                                  H      H
[0051]           The compound of Formula (1)is a CXCR2 inhibitor currently in Phase 2 clinical
trials in the United States for Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease (COPD) and referred to
as "Danirixin" and by the chemical name: N-[4-chIloro-2-hydroxy-3-(3-piperidinysulfonyl)
phenyl]-N'-(3-fluoro-2-methylphenyl)urea all of which can be referred to interchangeably herein.
The compound of Formula (1)is described in United States Patent No. 7,893,089, which patent
is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.
[0052]           In an alternate embodiment, there is also provided the compound of Formula I in
the form of a hydrobromide salt as a standalone novel compound. In addition, such
hydrobromide salt of the compound of Formula I may be used with the novel therapies and
combinations of the present invention.
[0053]           In another embodiment of the present invention, there is provided a combination
treatment or preventative therapy comprising the compound of Formula (1)in combination with
an antimicrobial agent. In one embodiment of the present invention, the antimicrobial agent is a
neuraminidase inhibitor. In another embodiment of the present invention, the antimicrobial agent
is selected from the group consisting of zanamivir, oseltamivir, laninamivir and peramivir. In yet
another embodiment of the present invention, the antimicrobial agent is zanamivir. In a further
embodiment of the present invention, the antimicrobial agent is oseltamivir. In one embodiment
of the present invention, the antimicrobial agent is ribavirin.
[0054]           Zanamivir is a marketed influenza virus neuraminidase inhibitor, known as
Relenza@, and is approved by the United States FDA for the treatment and prophylaxis of
influenza. See Ryan, D. M. et al., Antimicrob. Agents Chemother. 1994, 38, 2270. Zanamivir is
dosed to a patient as a powder for inhalation at a 5 mg strength for use in a DiskhalerTM device.
Zanamivir subsequently binds to the active site of the influenza neuraminidase enzyme, thus
rendering the influenza virus unable to escape its host cell and infect others. Nevertheless,
                                                  13

    WO 2015/173701                                                            PCT/IB2015/053373
alternate modes of administration and alternate dosages of zanamivir are contemplated by the
present invention, such as, for example, intravenous dosing.
[0055]          Zanamivir has the following chemical structure:
HO               OH            O
     HO     HOH
           00
           HN
          O         HN YNH2
                          NH
[0056]          In other embodiments, zanamivir can also be depicted with its actual
stereochemistry shown. Such stereochemistry indicates that zanamivir is a chiral compound
having the structure:
                HO          OH      O
                    Hd H-- O        A'OH
                           HN~      N
                          O H4      :NH2
                                 NH
[0057]          Zanamivir is described in U.S. Patent No. 5,360,817 to von Izstein, et al.; U.S.
Patent No. 5,597,933; U.S. Patent No. 5,495,027; and U.S. Patent No. 6,156,544, which patents
are hereby incorporated by reference in their entirety. In addition to the disclosure in these
patents, another synthesis route to make zanamivir has been reported. See Zhu, et al,
Tetrahedron, 68(8), 2041-2044 (2012).
[0058]          Oseltamivir is a marketed influenza virus neuraminidase inhibitor, known as
Tamiflu@, and is approved by the United States FDA for the treatment and prophylaxis of
influenza. See Lew, et al., Curr. Med. Chemt, 7(6): 663-72 (2000).
[0059]          Oseltamivir is dosed to a patient as capsules (containing oseltarnivir phosphate
98.5 mg equivalent to oseltarnivir 75 mg) and as a powder for oral suspension (oseltarnivir
                                                 14

    WO 2015/173701                                                           PCT/IB2015/053373
phosphate equivalent to oseltamivir 6 mg/ml). Oseltarnivir subsequently binds to the active site
of the influenza neuraminidase enzyme, rendering the influenza virus unable to escape its host
cell and infect others. Tamiflu@ also is available in capsules containing 30 mg or 45 mg of
Oseltamivir.
[0060]          Oseltamivir has the following chemical structure:
                                      0
               HN
               O            NH2
[0061]          In other embodiments, oseltamivir can also be depicted with its actual
stereochemistry shown. Such stereochemistry indicates that oseltamivir is a chiral compound
having the structure:
                                            0
                         SH  N
                            ,       NH2
[0062]          Oseltamivir is described in U.S. Patent Nos. 5,763,483; 5,866,601; and
5,952,375; which patents are hereby incorporated by reference in their entirety. In addition to
the disclosure in these patents, another synthesis route to make oseltamivir has been reported.
See Ishikawa, et al., Angew. Chem. Int. Ed., 48: 1304-1307 (2009).
[0063]          Therefore, in accordance with one embodiment of the present invention, there is
provided a novel combination treatment therapy for a respiratory infection.
[0064]          The present invention also provides a novel composition comprising the
compound of Formula (1)in combination with zanamivir. In another embodiment, the present
invention provides a novel composition comprising the compound of Formula (1)in combination
with oseltamivir. In yet another embodiment, the present invention provides a novel
composition comprising the compound of Formula (1)in combination with laninamivir. In yet
                                                  15

    WO 2015/173701                                                             PCT/IB2015/053373
another embodiment, the present invention provides a novel composition comprising the
compound of Formula (1)in combination with peramivir. In yet another embodiment, the present
invention provides a novel composition comprising the compound of Formula (1)in combination
with favipiravir (T-705).
[0065]           Further provided is a novel method of treating a respiratory infection in a subject
suffering from the respiratory infection comprising administering to the subject the compound of
Formula (I), or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, in combination with zanamivir, or a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof. Such "combinations" of the compound of Formula (1)
and zanamivir can administered to a subject suffering from a respiratory infection as a fixed
dose combination in the same dose, or such combinations can be administered in two separate
doses.
[0066]           Also provided are pharmaceutical compositions comprising a pharmaceutically
acceptable carrier or excipient and the compound of Formula (I), or a pharmaceutically
acceptable salt thereof, in combination with zanamivir, or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt
thereof.
[0067]           Also provided are methods of preventing a respiratory infection in a subject
comprising administering to a subject at risk of, or predisposed to, acquiring a respiratory
infection, the compound of Formula (I), or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, in
combination with zanamivir, or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof.
[0068]           Further provided is a novel method of treating a viral respiratory infection in a
subject suffering from the viral respiratory infection comprising administering to the subject the
compound of Formula (I), or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, in combination with
zanamivir, or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof.
[0069]           Further provided is a novel method of treating an influenza infection in a subject
suffering from the influenza infection comprising administering to the subject the compound of
Formula (I), or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, in combination with zanamivir, or a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof.
[0070]           Further provided is a novel composition and/or method for treating an RSV
infection in a subject suffering from the RSV infection comprising administering to the subject
the compound of Formula (I), or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, in combination with
Ribavirin, or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof.
[0071]           Such compounds of the present invention can exist in particular geometric or
stereoisomeric forms. The invention contemplates all such compounds, including cis- and
trans-isomers, (-)- and (+)-enantiomers, (R)- and (S)-enantiomers, diastereomers, (D)-isomers,
                                                  16

    WO 2015/173701                                                            PCT/IB2015/053373
(L)-isomers, the racemic mixtures thereof, and other mixtures thereof, such as enantiomerically
or diastereomerically enriched mixtures, as falling within the scope of the invention. Additional
asymmetric carbon atoms can be present in a substituent such as an alkyl group. All such
isomers, as well as mixtures thereof, are intended to be included in this invention.
[0072]          Optically active (R)- and (S)-isomers and d and I isomers can be prepared using
chiral synthons or chiral reagents, or resolved using conventional techniques. If, for instance, a
particular enantiomer of a compound of the present invention is desired, it can be prepared by
asymmetric synthesis, or by derivatization with a chiral auxiliary, where the resulting
diastereomeric mixture is separated and the auxiliary group cleaved to provide the pure desired
enantiomers. Alternatively, where the molecule contains a basic functional group, such as an
amino group, or an acidic functional group, such as a carboxyl group, diastereomeric salts can
be formed with an appropriate optically active acid or base, followed by resolution of the
diastereomers thus formed by fractional crystallization or chromatographic means known in the
art, and subsequent recovery of the pure enantiomers. In addition, separation of enantiomers
and diastereomers is frequently accomplished using chromatography employing chiral,
stationary phases, optionally in combination with chemical derivatization (e.g., formation of
carbamates from amines).
[0073]          In another embodiment of the invention, there is provided the compound of
Formula (1)in combination with an antimicrobial agent, wherein the compound and antimicrobial
agent is used in the manufacture of a medicament for use in the treatment of a viral infection in
a human.
[0074]          In another embodiment of the invention, there is provided a pharmaceutical
composition comprising a pharmaceutically acceptable diluent and a therapeutically effective
amount of a compound as defined in Formula (1)in combination with an antimicrobial agent.
[0075]          In one embodiment, the present invention is directed to compounds,
compositions and pharmaceutical compositions that have utility as novel treatments and/or
preventative therapies for virus infections. In another embodiment, the present invention is
directed to compounds, compositions and pharmaceutical compositions that have utility as
novel treatments and/or preventative therapies for respiratory viral infections. In another
embodiment, the present invention is directed to compounds, compositions and pharmaceutical
compositions that have utility as novel treatments and/or preventative therapies for bacterial
respiratory infections.
[0076]          Viruses are classified by evaluating several characteristics, including the type of
viral genome. Viral genomes can be comprised of DNA or RNA, can be double-stranded or
                                                  17

    WO 2015/173701                                                                  PCT/IB2015/053373
single-stranded (which can further be positive-sense or negative-sense), and can vary greatly
by size and genomic organization.
[0077]           An RNA virus is a virus that has RNA (ribonucleic acid) as its genetic material.
This nucleic acid is usually single-stranded RNA (ssRNA). RNA viruses can be further
classified according to the sense or polarity of their RNA into negative-sense and positive
sense. Positive-sense viral RNA is similar to mRNA and thus can be immediately translated by
the host cell. Negative-sense viral RNA is complementary to mRNA and thus must be converted
to positive-sense RNA by an RNA polymerase before translation. As such, purified RNA of a
positive-sense virus can directly cause infection though it may be less infectious than the whole
virus particle. Purified RNA of a negative-sense virus is not infectious by itself as it needs to be
transcribed into positive-sense RNA; each virion can be transcribed to several positive-sense
RNAs.
[0078]           Positive-sense, single-stranded RNA viruses ("positive-strand RNA viruses")
make up a large superfamily of viruses from many distinct subfamilies. These viruses span both
the plant and animal kingdoms causing pathologies ranging from mild phenotypes to severe
debilitating disease. The composition of the positive strand RNA virus polymerase supergroup
includes, at least, the following families: levi-, narna-, picorna-, dicistro-, marna-, sequi-, como-,
poty-, calici-, astro-, noda-, tetra-, luteo-, tombus-, corona-, arteri-, roni-, flavi-, toga-, bromo-,
tymo-, clostero-, flexi-, seco-, barna, ifla-, sadwa-, chera-, hepe-, sobemo-, umbra-, tobamo-,
tobra-, hordei-, furo-, pomo-, peclu-, beny-, ourmia-, and idaeovirus.
[0079]           Negative-sense, single-stranded RNA viruses ("negative-strand RNA viruses")
must have their genome copied by an RNA-dependent RNA polymerase to form positive-sense
RNA. This means that the virus must bring along with it the RNA replicase enzyme. The positive
sense RNA molecule then acts as viral mRNA, which is translated into proteins by the
host ribosomes. The resultant protein goes on to direct the synthesis of new virions, such
as capsid proteins and RNA replicase, which is used to produce new negative-sense RNA
moleculesL
[0080]           There are eight families recognized in negative-sense single stranded RNA virus
group and some unassigned to a particular family.
     Order Mononegavirales
     0    Family Bornaviridae-Borna disease virus
     e    Family Filoviridae-includes Ebola virus, Marburg virus
     a    Family Pararnyxoviridae-includes Measles virus, Mumps virus, Nipah virus, Hendra virus
                                                    18

    WO 2015/173701                                                             PCT/IB2015/053373
    0   Family Rhabdoviridae-includes Rabies virus
*   Unassigned families:
    *   Family Arenaviridae-includes Lassa virus
    *   Family Bunyaviridae-includes Hantavirus, Crimean-Congo hemorrhagic fever
    *   Family Ophioviridae
    e   Family Orthomyxoviridae-includes Influenza viruses
*   Unassigned genera:
        Genus Deltavirus-includes Hepatitis D virus
        Genus Dichorhavirus
        Genus Emaravirus
        Genus Nyalvirus-includes Nyamanini and Midway viruses
        Genus Tenuivirus
        Genus Varicosavirus
*   Unassigned species:
    a   Taastrup virus
[0081]          Therefore, it is intended that the present invention can encompass the treatment
or prevention of any of the viruses or families or genus of viruses recited herein and also
additional viruses that are not recited herein, but yet would be known to one of skill in the art.
[0082]          In one embodiment of the present invention, the compounds described herein
are useful for preventing or treating viral infections in a subject caused by a single-stranded
RNA virus.
[0083]          In one embodiment of the present invention, the compounds described herein
are useful for preventing or treating viral infections in a subject caused by a positive-sense,
single-stranded RNA virus.
[0084]          In one embodiment of the present invention, the compounds described herein
are useful for preventing or treating viral infections in a subject caused by a negative-sense,
single-stranded RNA virus.
[0085]          In some embodiments, provided is a method for treating a viral infection in a
subject mediated at least in part by a virus in the nidovirales, picornavirales, tymovirales,
                                                   19

     WO 2015/173701                                                               PCT/IB2015/053373
mononegavirales, reoviridae, pycobirnaviridae, parvoviridae, adenoviridae, poxviridae,
polyomaviridae, herpesviridae, paramyxoviridae family of viruses, comprising administering to
the subject a composition comprising a compound of any of Formula (1)in combination with an
antimicrobial agent.
[0086]           A method of treating a virus infection in a subject suffering from the virus
infection comprising administering to the subject the compound of Formula (1)in combination
with an antimicrobial agent.
[0087]           A method of preventing a virus infection in a subject comprising administering to
the subject a compound of any of Formula (1)in combination with an antimicrobial agent.
[0088]           In other embodiments, the compounds described herein are useful for preventing
or treating viral infections in a subject where the infection is caused by a virus belonging to the
following families: levi-, narna-, picorna-, dicistro-, marna-, sequi-, como-, poty-, calici-, astro-,
noda-, tetra-, luteo-, tombus-, corona-, arteri-, roni-, flavi-, toga-, bromo-, tymo-, clostero-, flexi-,
seco-, barna, ifla-, sadwa-, chera-, hepe-, sobemo-, umbra-, tobamo-, tobra-, hordei-, furo-,
pomo-, peclu-, beny-, ourmia-, and idaeovirus.
[0089]           Compounds, methods and pharmaceutical compositions for treating respiratory
viral infections, by administering to a subject having said viral infection the compound of
Formula (I), alone or in combination with an antimicrobial agent, described herein, are
disclosed. Methods for preparing such compounds and methods of using the compounds and
pharmaceutical compositions thereof are also disclosed. In particular, the treatment and
prophylaxis of viral infections such as those caused by RNA or DNA viruses are disclosed.
[0090]           In other embodiments, the compounds described herein are useful for treating
viral infections in a subject where the infection is caused by a virus belonging to the
picornaviridae family, filoviridae family, paramyxoviridae family, or coronaviridae family. In other
embodiments, the compounds described herein are useful for treating viral infections in a
subject where the infection is caused by a virus belonging to the picornaviridae family. In other
embodiments, the compounds described herein are useful for treating viral infections in a
subject where the infection is caused by a virus belonging to the coronaviridae family.
[0091]           In other embodiments, the compounds described herein are useful for preventing
or treating viral infections in a subject where the infection is caused by any one or more viruses
selected from the group consisting of poliovirus, rhinovirus, coxsackievirus, influenza A virus,
influenza B virus, adenovirus, coronavirus, hepatitis A virus, hepatitis B virus, hepatitis C virus,
hepatitis E virus, ebola virus, Marburg virus, Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome (SARS) virus,
arenavirus, Rift Valley Fever virus, yellow fever virus, respiratory syncytial virus (RSV),
                                                    20

    WO 2015/173701                                                            PCT/IB2015/053373
hepacivirus, west nile virus, Dengue fever virus, Aichi virus, enterovirus, rubella virus, murine
encephalomyelitis virus, parainfluenza, metapneumovirus, foot-and-mouth virus, avian influenza
virus and Middle East Respiratory Syndrome (MERS).
[0092]          In yet other embodiments, the compounds described herein are useful for
preventing or treating viral infections from any phylogenetic order, genus, family or particular
species listed in Table 1 below.
                                                Table 1
                               Positive-sense single stranded RNA viruses
            .   Order Nidovirales
                    o   Family Arteriviridae
                    o   Family Coronaviridae - includes Coronavirus, SARS
                    o   Family Roniviridae
            .   Order Picornavirales
                    o   Family Bacillariornaviridae
                    o   Family Caliciviridae - includes Norwalk virus
                    o   Family Dicistroviridae
                    o   Family flaviridae
                    o   Family Labyrnaviridae
                    o   Family Marnaviridae
                    o   Family Picornaviridae - includes Poliovirus, the "common cold" virus
                        (Rhinovirus), Hepatitis A virus, Coxsackievirus
                    o   Family Potyviridae
                    o   Family Secoviridae includes subfamily Comovirinae
                    o   Family Sequiviridae
                                                   21

WO 2015/173701                                                        PCT/IB2015/053373
      .   Order Tymovirales
              o  Family Alphaflexiviridae
              o  Family Betaflexiviridae
              o  Family Gammaflexiviridae
              o  Family Tymoviridae
      .   Unassigned
              o  Family Alvernaviridae
              o  Family Astroviridae
              o  Family Barnaviridae
              o  Family Bromoviridae
              o  Family Closteroviridae
              o  Family Flaviviridae - includes Yellow fever virus, West Nile virus, Hepatitis
                 C virus, Dengue fever virus
              o  Family Leviviridae
              o  Family Luteoviridae
              o  Family Narnaviridae
              o  Family Nodaviridae
              o  Family Retroviridae - includes human immunodeficiency virus 1 and 2
              o  Family Tetraviridae
              o  Family Togaviridae - includes Rubella virus, Ross River virus, Sindbis
                 virus, Chikungunya virus
              o  Family Tombusviridae
              o  Family Virgaviridae
                                           22

WO 2015/173701                                                         PCT/IB2015/053373
                       Negative-sense single stranded RNA viruses
      .   Order Mononegavirales
              o  Family Bornaviridae - Borna disease virus
              o  Family Filoviridae - includes Ebola virus, Marburg virus
              o  Family Paramyxoviridae - includes Measles virus, Mumps virus, Nipah
                virus, Hendra virus, respiratory syncytial virus (RSV), human
                parainfluenza viruses (PIVs), human metapneumovirus (hMPV)
              o  Family Rhabdoviridae - includes Rabies virus
      .   Unassigned families:
              o  Family Arenaviridae - includes Lassa virus, Junin virus
              o  Family Bunyaviridae - includes Hantavirus, Crimean-Congo hemorrhagic
                fever
              o  Family Ophioviridae
              o  Family Orthomyxoviridae - includes Influenza viruses
      .   Unassigned genera:
              o Genus Deltavirus
              o Genus Emaravirus
              o Genus Nyavirus - includes Nyamanini and Midway viruses
                                Double stranded RNA viruses
              o  Family Reoviridae - includes Rotavirus
              o  Family Pycobirnaviridae - includes human pycobirnavirus
                                          DNA viruses
                                           23

    WO 2015/173701                                                             PCT/IB2015/053373
                     o   Family Parvoviridae - includes Parvovirus B19
                     o   Family Adenoviridae- includes adenovirus
                     o   Family Poxviridae - includes monkey pox
                     o   Family Polyomaviridae - includes BK virus
                     o   Family Herpesviridae - includes herpes simplex virus
[0093]           In other embodiments, the compounds described herein are useful for treating
viral infections in a subject where the infection is caused by a virus belonging to the
paramyxoviridae family, picornaviridae family, or flaviviridae family. In other embodiments, the
compounds described herein are useful for treating viral infections in a subject where the
infection is caused by a virus belonging to the paramyxoviridae family. In other embodiments,
the compounds described herein are useful for treating viral infections in a subject where the
infection is caused by a virus belonging to the flaviviridae family.
[0094]           In other embodiments, the compounds described herein are useful for treating
viral infections in a subject where the infection is caused by a virus belonging to the
picornaviridae family.
[0095]           In other embodiments, the compounds described herein are useful for treating
viral infections in a subject where the infection is caused by any one or more viruses selected
from the group consisting of poliovirus, rhinovirus, coxsackievirus, influenza A virus, influenza B
virus, influenza C virus, adenovirus, coronavirus, hepatitis A virus, hepatitis B virus, hepatitis C
virus, hepatitis E virus, ebola virus, Marburg virus, Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome (SARS)
virus, arenavirus, Rift Valley Fever virus, yellow fever virus, respiratory syncytial virus (RSV),
west nile virus, Dengue fever virus, Aichi virus, enterovirus, rubella virus, Theiler's murine
encephalomyelitis virus (TMEV), foot-and-mouth virus (FMDV), human immunodeficiency virus
(HIV), respiratory syncytial virus (RSV), parainfluenza virus (PIV), human PIVs, human
metapneumovirus (hMPV), avian influenza virus, and Middle East Respiratory Syndrome
(MERS).
[0096]           In other embodiments, the compounds described herein are useful for treating
viral infections in a subject where the infection is caused by any of the human enteroviruses A
D.
                                                  24

    WO 2015/173701                                                              PCT/IB2015/053373
[0097]           In other embodiments, the compounds described herein are useful for treating
viral infections in a subject where the infection is caused by enterovirus A71.
[0098]           In other embodiments, the compounds described herein are useful for treating
viral infections in a subject where the infection is caused by any of the human rhinoviruses A-C.
[0099]           In other embodiments, the compounds described herein are useful for treating
viral infections in a subject where the infection is caused by human rhinovirus A.
[00100]          In other embodiments, the compounds described herein are useful for treating
viral infections in a subject where the infection is caused by human rhinovirus B.
[00101]          In other embodiments, the compounds described herein are useful for treating
viral infections in a subject where the infection is caused by human rhinovirus C.
[00102]          In other embodiments, the compounds described herein are useful for treating
viral infections in a subject where the infection is caused by human respiratory syncytial virus.
[00103]           In other embodiments, the compounds described herein are useful for treating
viral infections in a subject where the infection is caused by human respiratory syncytial virus A.
[00104]          In other embodiments, the compounds described herein are useful for treating
viral infections in a subject where the infection is caused by human respiratory syncytial virus B.
[00105]          In other embodiments, the compounds described herein are useful for treating
viral infections in a subject where the infection is caused by the Aichi virus.
[00106]          In other embodiments, the compounds described herein are useful for treating
viral infections in a subject where the infection is caused by the poliovirus.
[00107]          In other embodiments, the compounds described herein are useful for treating
viral infections in a subject where the infection is caused by the coxackievirus.
[00108]          In other embodiments, the compounds described herein are useful for treating
viral infections in a subject where the infection is caused by the echovirus.
[00109]          In other embodiments, the compounds described herein are useful for treating
viral infections in a subject where the infection is caused by the hepatitis A virus.
[00110]          In other embodiments, the compounds described herein are useful for treating
viral infections in a subject where the infection is caused by the severe acute respiratory
syndrome virus.
[00111]          In other embodiments, the compounds described herein are useful for treating
viral infections in a subject where the infection is caused by the Juninvirus.
[00112]          In other embodiments, the compounds described herein are useful for treating
viral infections in a subject where the infection is caused by the monkey pox virus.
                                                  25

    WO 2015/173701                                                               PCT/IB2015/053373
[00113]          In other embodiments, the compounds described herein are useful for treating
viral infections in a subject where the infection is caused by the rift valley fever virus.
[00114]          In other embodiments, the compounds described herein are useful for treating
viral infections in a subject where the infection is caused by the hepatitis B virus.
[00115]          In other embodiments, the compounds described herein are useful for treating
viral infections in a subject where the infection is caused by the hepatitis C virus.
[00116]          In other embodiments, the compounds described herein are useful for treating
viral infections in a subject where the infection is caused by the human immunodeficiency virus
(HIV).
[00117]          In other embodiments, the compounds described herein are useful for treating
viral infections in a subject where the infection is caused by the influenza virus.
[00118]          In other embodiments, the compounds described herein are useful for treating
viral infections in a subject where the infection is caused by the influenza A virus.
[00119]          In other embodiments, the compounds described herein are useful for treating
viral infections in a subject where the infection is caused by the influenza B virus.
[00120]          In other embodiments, the compounds described herein are useful for treating
viral infections in a subject where the infection is caused by the influenza C virus.
[00121]          In other embodiments, the compounds described herein are useful for treating
viral infections in a subject where the infection is caused by a coronavirus.
[00122]          In other embodiments, the compounds described herein are useful for treating
viral infections in a subject where the infection is caused by a virus belonging to the filoviridae
family.
[00123]          In other embodiments, the compounds described herein are useful for treating
viral infections in a subject where the infection is caused by a virus belonging to the
arenaviriade family.
[00124]          In other embodiments, the compounds described herein are useful for treating
viral infections in a subject where the infection is caused by a virus belonging to the
bunyaviridae family.
[00125]          In other embodiments, the compounds described herein are useful for treating
viral infections in a subject where the infection is caused by human immunodeficiency virus 1
and/or human immunodeficiency virus 2.
                                                  26

     WO 2015/173701                                                              PCT/IB2015/053373
                             Synthesis of the Compound of Formula (I)
[00126]          The following example serves to more fully describe the manner of making the
compound of Formula (1).      One of skill in the art will appreciate how to synthesize the compound
of Formula (1)after reading United States Patent No. 7,893,089, which is fully incorporated
herein by reference.
[00127]          It is understood that this example in no way serves to limit the true scope of the
invention, but rather are presented for illustrative purposes.
[00128]          Isolation and purification of the chemical entities and intermediates described
herein can be effected, if desired, by any suitable separation or purification procedure such as,
for example, filtration, extraction, crystallization, column chromatography, thin-layer
chromatography or thick-layer chromatography, or a combination of these procedures. Specific
illustrations of suitable separation and isolation procedures can be had by reference to the
examples herein below. However, other equivalent separation or isolation procedures can also
be used.
[00129]          When desired, the (R)- and (S)-isomers may be resolved by methods known to
those skilled in the art, for example by formation of diastereoisomeric salts or complexes which
may be separated, for example, by crystallization; via formation of diastereoisomeric derivatives
which may be separated, for example, by crystallization, gas-liquid or liquid chromatography;
selective reaction of one enantiomer with an enantiomer-specific reagent, for example
enzymatic oxidation or reduction, followed by separation of the modified and unmodified
enantiomers; or gas-liquid or liquid chromatography in a chiral environment, for example on a
chiral support, such as silica with a bound chiral ligand or in the presence of a chiral solvent.
Alternatively, a specific enantiomer may be synthesized by asymmetric synthesis using optically
active reagents, substrates, catalysts or solvents, or by converting one enantiomer to the other
by asymmetric transformation.
[00130]          These examples are not intended to limit the scope of the present invention, but
rather to provide guidance to the skilled artisan to prepare and use the compounds,
compositions, and methods of the present invention. While particular embodiments of the
present invention are described, the skilled artisan will appreciate that various changes and
modifications can be made without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention.
[00131]          All references to ether are to diethyl ether; brine refers to a saturated aqueous
solution of NaCl, DCM refers to dichloromethane, THF refers to tetrahydrofuran, EtOAc refers to
ethyl acetate, Hex and Hx refers to hexane, IMS refers to industrial methylated spirit, TBME
refers to tert-butylmethyl ether, DMF refers to dimethylformamide, BOC and Boc refers to tert
                                                    27

    WO 2015/173701                                                              PCT/IB2015/053373
butyloxycarbonyl. Unless otherwise indicated, all temperatures are expressed in OC (degrees
Centigrade). All reactions are conducted under an inert atmosphere at room temperature
unless otherwise noted.
[00132]         1H NMR    spectra were recorded on a Jeol Delta2 (300 MHz) spectrometer.
Chemical shifts are expressed in parts per million (ppm, 6 units). Splitting patterns describe
apparent multiplicities and are designated as s (singlet), d (doublet), t (triplet), q (quartet), quint
(quintet), m (multiplet), br (broad).
[00133]         Unless otherwise stated, "flash" and "column chromatography" refers to flash
column chromatography on silica using the stated solvent systems. LC-MS data were obtained
on either a PE Sciex Single Quadrupole LC/MS API-150 combined with a Shimadzu LC system
(SCL-1 OA Controller and dual UV detector) or on a Waters micromass ZQ combined with a
Waters 2695 separation module.
                                        Starting Material 1:
                        N-(3,4-dichlorophenyl)-2,2-dimethylpropanamide:
[00134]        3,4-dichloroaniline (150 g) was dissolved in 1.0 L TBME and the solution was
cooled to 10 0C. Sodium hydroxide (140.7 g of a 30% aqueous solution) was added under
mechanical stirring. Pivaloyl chloride (125.9 mL) was added dropwise while keeping the internal
temperature under 35 0C. After the addition, the temperature of the reaction was maintained at
30-35 0C for a further 30 min. The reaction mixture was then allowed to cool to room
temperature and subsequently kept at 0-5 0C for 1 h. The resulting precipitate was filtered of
and washed with 600 mL water/MeOH (90/10) and then with 900 mL water. The resulting solid
was the dried in a vacuum oven at 55 0C for 4 days. Yield: 162 g. 1H-NMR (DMSO-d 6 ) 6 9.46(s,
1H), 8.04 (d, J= 2.4 Hz, 1H), 7.65 (dd, J= 9.0. 2.4 Hz, 1H), 7.54 (d, J= 9.0 Hz, 1H), 1.22 (9H, s).
                                           Starting Material 2:
             6-chloro-2-(1,1-dimethylethyl)-1,3-benzoxazole-7-sulfonyl chloride:
[00135]         N-(3,4-dichlorophenyl)-2,2-dimethylpropanamide (121 g) was dissolved in 720
mL THF and the solution was cooled to -50 0C. Butyllithium (433 mL, 2.5N in hex) was added
while keeping the internal temperature between -45 0C and -35 0C. (final temp.: -35 0C). Held at
-25 0C for 40 min. An HPLC check of the reaction mixture revealed that 5-10 % of the starting
material remained. An additional 35 mL of butyllithium was added at -30 0C and the reaction
was at -30 to -25 0C for a further 30 min (HPLC: no significant change). The reaction mixture
                                                 28

    WO 2015/173701                                                           PCT/IB2015/053373
was cooled to -45 OC and SO 2 was bubbled though the solution until saturation appeared to
have been reached. Subsequently, the reaction mixture was stirred at -10 to 0OC for 45 min.
Argon (2 double-balloon volumes) was bubbled through the solution following which the reaction
mixture was cooled to -5   0C. Sulfuryl chloride (58.8 mL) was added while keeping the
temperature below 22    0C. Subsequently, the reaction mixture was kept at 10-15 OC for 1 h
(HPLC: complete). EtOAc was added and the mixture was concentrated, washed with water,
saturated aqueous sodium bicarbonate and brine, dried over MgSO 4 and the solvent was
evaporated in vacuo. The crude material crystallized and was triturated with hot hexane. Yield:
87.2 g 'H-NMR (DMSO-d 6 ) 6 7.60(d, J= 8.4Hz, 1H), 7.34(d, J= 8.4Hz, 1H), 1.43(9H, s).
                                           Intermediate 1:
                                               SH
                                            C/            t-Bu
                                                     N
[00136]        Starting Material 1, N-(3,4-dichlorophenyl)-2,2-dimethylpropanamide (prepared
according to WOO1/68033A2, incorporated herein by reference, to the extent that it teaches the
synthesis of Starting Material 1, also described above) was dissolved in dry THF (400 mL), then
cooled to -75 C ) under an argon atmosphere. n-BuLi (160 mL, 2.5M in hexane, 5 eq.) was
added dropwise while keeping the temperature below -60 OC. Once all the n-BuLi was added,
the reaction was stirred at -5 OC for 1.5h, then cooled to -70 C and sulfur ("sulfur flowers") (13g)
was added followed by stirring at -70    0C to room temperature overnight. After stirring the
reaction mixture at -10 C, the solution changed color from yellow to brown/orange. The reaction
mixture was cooled to 0 OC, then quenched with 2N HCI solution (200 mL) and stirred for 10
min. The organic layer was separated and basified with 2N NaOH solution to pH 12-13, then
washed with EtOAc. The aqueous layer was reacidified with 2M HCI solution to about pH 1 and
extracted with dichloromethane (2X) which was washed with water, dried over Na2 SO 4 and
concentrated. The crude product was purified by column chromatography using 1:5
(EtOAc/Hex). Yield: 6 g (30%, orange oil). 1H-NMR (CDC13 ) 6 7.39-7.30 (m, 2H), 4.08 (s, 1H),
1.50 (9H, s).
[00137]        Alternatively, Intermediate 1 is prepared in the following way:
Triphenylphosphine (89g) was dissolved in DCM (200ml) and DMF (2.2ml). The solution was
cooled in an ice/methanol bath to -12C. To this was added a solution of the 6-chloro-2-(1,1
dimethylethyl)-1,3-benzoxazole-7-sulfonyl chloride, Starting Material 2, (prepared according to
                                                  29

     WO 2015/173701                                                        PCT/IB2015/053373
W001/68033A2, incorporated herein by reference, to the extent that it teaches the synthesis of
Starting Material 2, also described above) (35g) in DCM (100ml) over 30 minutes maintaining
the temperature below 152C. The reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature under
nitrogen for 18 hours. The reaction mixture was quenched using 2N hydrochloric acid (200ml).
The phases were separated and the organic phase was evaporated in vacuo. The residue was
suspended in 2N sodium hydroxide (400ml) and stirred rapidly for 3 hours. The solid was
removed by filtration and washed with water. The combined filtrate and washings were cooled in
an ice/water bath and acidified using 5N hydrochloric acid to ~pH 1. This was extracted using
TBME (400ml). The organic phase was dried over magnesium sulfate and evaporated in vacuo
to give Intermediate 1 (22.85g) as a brown solid.
                            Intermediate 2: (General procedure A)
                                                     OH
                                               N
                                               Boc
[00138]         To a suspension of (R)-(+)-3-hydroyxpiperidine hydrochloride (1 g) in DCM (20
mL) was added Et3 N (3.04 mL) followed by BOC20 (1.75 g) at 00C which was left over the
weekend. Water (50 mL) was added and extracted with DCM (100 mL). Combined organics
were washed with water (2 x 50 mL) then brine (50 mL), dried (Na2SO 4) and concentrated. The
residue was columned (flash, eluted with a gradient of 0 - 10% MeOH/DCM). Yield: 1.55 g. 1
NMR (CDC13 ) 6 3.74-3.69 (2H, m), 3.56-3.48 (1H, m), 3.18-3.03 (2H, m), 1.92-1.83 (1H, m),
1.79-1.71(2H, m), 1.55-1.45 (1H, m), 1.43 (9H, s).
                            Intermediate 3: (General procedure B)
                                                  OSO 2 Me
                                             N
                                             I
                                             Boo
[00139]         To a solution of Intermediate 2 (1 g) in DCM (10 mL) was added Et3 N (1.38 mL)
followed by MsCI (0.46 mL) dropwise at 00C. After stirring at 00C for 1 hour the reaction was
warmed to room temperature, quenched with water (10 mL) and separated. The aqueous layer
was extracted with DCM (2 x 20 mL). Combined organics were washed with water (40 mL), a
spatula of silica added, dried (NaSO 4) and concentrated. Yield: 1.4148 g. 1H-NMR (CDC13 ) 6
                                                 30

    WO 2015/173701                                                             PCT/IB2015/053373
4.71 (1H, br s), 3.62 (2H, br d), 3.49-3.27 (2H, m), 3.04 (3H, s), 2.01-1.76 (3H, m), 1.79
1.71(2H, m), 1.55-1.45 (1H, m), 1.45 (9H, s).
                              Intermediate 4: (General procedure C)
                                              S        N Boc
                                        C/                 t-Bu
                                                    N
[00140]         To a suspension of NaH (0.30 g) in THF (20 mL) was added Intermediate 1
(using Starting Material 1) (1.22 g) dropwise. After stirring for 1 hour, Intermediate 3 (1.41 g) in
THF was added and the reaction heated to 800C and left overnight. The reaction mixture was
cooled to room temperature then quenched with aqueous saturated NaHCO 3 (50 mL). Reaction
mixture was extracted with DCM (2 x 50 mL). Combined organics were washed with water (100
mL), dried (NaSO 4) and concentrated. Residue columned (flash, 20% EtOAC/Hx, silica). Yield:
946.9 mg. 1H-NMR (CDC13 ) 6 7.50 (d, J= 7.9Hz, 1H), 7.38 (d, J= 7.9Hz, 1H), 3.82 (d, J= 13.4Hz,
1H), 3.55-3.45 (m, 1H), 3.00-2.80 (m, 2H).
                              Intermediate 5: (General procedure D)
                                              S           Boc
                                         C I         /    t-Bu
                                                    N
[00141]         To a solution of intermediate 4 (946.9 mg) in DCM (1OmL) was added mCPBA
(2.31 g) in DCM (10 mL) at -10 C. The reaction was stirred at -10 'C for 1h, then warmed to
room temperature. The reaction mixture was quenched with aqueous saturated NaHCO 3
(50mL) then extracted with DCM (2 x 70 mL). Combined organics were washed with water
(50mL), dried (Na2SO 4) and concentrated. Residue columned (flash, 30% EtOAc/Hx, silica).
Yield 353.6 mg (35%, yellow oil). MS (m/z, ES*, M+H): 457.08.
                                                 31

    WO 2015/173701                                                          PCT/IB2015/053373
                            Intermediate 6: (General procedure E)
                                                           Boc
                                         CI   0      OH
                                                t    NH2
[00142]          To a solution of Intermediate 5 (353 mg) in IMS (5 mL) was added aqueous
concentrated HCI (5 mL). The reaction was then heated to 800C and left overnight. Reaction
mixture was cooled to room temperature and was concentrated to remove IMS. Residue was
basified to pH 12 with aqueous saturated NaOH, EtOAc (30 mL), BOC20 (1 eq., 0.17 g) added
at 00C and left overnight. Reaction mixture was separated, and aqueous layer extracted with
EtOAc (2 x 30 mL). Combined organics were dried (with Na2 SO 4 ) and concentrated. Residue
was columned (flash, eluted with a gradient of 10% - 30% EA/Hx). Yield: Two product
containing fractions were isolated: 58.0 mg and 180.9 mg. MS (m/z, ES*, M+H): 291.01.
                             Intermediate 7: (General procedure F)
                                                N        IF
[00143]          3-fluoro-2-methylaniline (7.4g) was dissolved in DCM (220 mL) at room
temperature under an argon atmosphere. After cooling to 0 'C, aqueous saturated NaHCO3
(220 mL) was added followed by triphosgene (5.85g). The reaction was left to stir at 0 'C for 1h.
After this time, the product was extracted with DCM (2 x 50 mL). The organic fractions were
combined, dried over MgSO 4 and the solvent removed in vacuo to yield a yellow oil. Addition of
hexane allowed precipitation of a white salt which was filtered off. Removal of the hexane in
vacuo yielded a yellow oil (7.69g, 86%). 1H-NMR (CDC13) 6 7.09 (dd, 1H), 6.92-6.85 (m, 2H),
2.24 (s, 3H).
                                                  32

    WO 2015/173701                                                          PCT/IB2015/053373
                            Intermediate 8: (General procedure G)
                                                     Boc
                                     010O     OH 0
                                               N
                                               N-    N        F
                                               H      HF
[00144]         To a solution of Intermediate 6 (60 mg) in DCM (3 mL) was added Intermediate 7
(70 mg) and the reaction was left over the weekend. Reaction mixture was concentrated and
the residue columned (flash, eluted with a gradient of 20% - 30% EtOAc/Hx). Yield: 56.2 mg.
MS (m/z, ES*, M+H): 542.01.
                                             Example 1
          N-{4-chloro-2-hydroxy-3-[(3S)-3-piperidinylsulfonyl]phenyl}-N'-(3-fluoro-2
                           methylphenyl)urea. (General procedure H)
                                          O       NH
                                   010 C      OH 0
                                               HlH              F
Intermediate 8 (56.2 mg) and 4N HCI/dioxane (3 mL) were stirred together at room temperature
and left overnight. Intermediates 6, 5, 4, 3 and 2 were made as described above. Intermediate
1 was made using Starting Material 1 for synthesizing Example 1. The reaction mixture was
concentrated and residue dissolved in minimum amount of MeOH and Et2O was added. Solid
crashed out which was filtered and dried. Crude yield: 28.4 mg. The crude product was
dissolved in a minimum amount of MeOH and Et2O added. Solid crashed out, the solvent was
decanted and solid dried. Yield: 18.8 mg. MS (m/z, ES*, M+H): 441.98. NMR (MeOD) 6 8.40
(1H, d,ArH), 7.46 (1H, d, ArH), 7.19-7.15 (2H, m, ArH), 6.85 (1H, t, ArH), 4.14 (1H, dt, CH),
3.66 (1H, dd, CH), 3.37 (2H, d, CH2), 3.04 (1H, dt, CH), 2.19 (3H, S, ArCH 3), 2.14-1.69 (4H, m,
2xCH2).
[00145]         One embodiment of the invention encompasses combinations comprising the
compound of Formula (1)alone and/or in combination with one or more additional therapeutic
agents. For example, in one embodiment, the invention encompasses a combination
                                                  33

    WO 2015/173701                                                           PCT/IB2015/053373
comprising the compound of Formula (1) in combination with one or more antimicrobial agents
selected from those agents in Table 2, Table 3, and/or Table 4. In one embodiment, the
antimicrobial agent is chosen from those antiviral agents found in Table 2.
                                            Table 2
  Compound
                                                                            Chemical
      Name                        Structure                                   Name
                           HO-,       OH       a
                              HO H                 OH         (2R,3R,4S)-4-guanidino-3-(prop-1
    Relenza@                                                    en-2-ylamino)-2-((1 R,2R)-1,2,3
   (zanamivir)                    HN                           trihydroxypropyl)-3,4-dihydro-2H
                                        HN,    NH2                    pyran-6-carboxylic acid
                                            NH
    Tamiflu@                                                       ethyl (3R,4R,5S)-5-amino-4
  (oseltamivir)                                                  acetamido-3-(pentan-3-yloxy)
                                                                  cyclohex-1 -ene-1 -carboxylate
                                       NH2
  Symmetrel@                                                           adamantan-1 -amine
 (amantadine)
  Flumad ine                                                  (RS)-1 -(1 -adamantyl)ethanamine
 (rimantadine)
                                                34

 WO 2015/173701                                            PCT/IB2015/053373
                                NH2
                             HN                    (1S,2S,3S,4R)-3-[(1S)-1
 Peramivir                 H H                    acetamido-2-ethyl-butyl]-4
                           N            H       (diaminomethylideneamino)-2
                    HN                             hydroxy-cyclopentane- 1
                                                        carboxylic acid
                         NH2            OH
                                  0
                    HO-\,           o
                      HO HH                       (4S,5R,6R)-5-acetamido-4
                                               carbamimidamido-6-[(1 R,2R)-3
Laninamivir               HN                    hydroxy-2-methoxypropyl]-5,6
                              HN    NH2         dihydro-4H-pyran-2-carboxylic
                        O                                    acid
                                 NH
                     CH
                 %C           V               1-methyl-2-((phenylthio)methyl)-3
 Arbidol TM        C                                     carbethoxy-4
(umifenovir)    H'                                ((dimethylamino)methyl)-5
                                  \        .\        hydroxy-6-bromindole
                                     35

    WO 2015/173701                                                              PCT/IB2015/053373
                                  FN
    Favipiravir                                                          6-fluoro-3-hydroxy-2
                                              H                          pyrazinecarboxamide
     Ribavirin                                                   1-[(2R,3R,4S,5R)-3,4-dihydroxy-5
                                            N                      (hydroxymethyl)oxolan-2-yl]-1 H
                                                                     1,2,4-triazole-3-carboxamide
                                           HN
                                           NN
                                       T    HN,                   1-[(2R,3R,4S,5S)- 3,4-dihydroxy
    Taribavirin                          N                          5- (hydroxymethyl)oxolan-2-yl]
    Viramidine                            N                       1,2,4-triazole-3-carboximidamide
                                  H(    OH
[00146]         In other embodiments of the present invention, the antiviral agent is chosen from
acyclovir, gancyclovir, interferons, thimerasol, idoxuridine, vidarabine, trifluridine, famciclovir,
valacyclovir, penciclovir, ganciclovir, dipyridamole, impulsin, pleconaril, foscarnet, cidofovir, ICI
130,685, valganciclovir, acyclovir, idoxuridine, vidarabine, or valacyclovir.
[00147]         In one embodiment of the present invention, the antimicrobial agent is zanamivir.
[00148]         Zanamivir is a marketed potent influenza virus neuraminidase inhibitor, known as
Relenza@, and approved by the United States FDA for the treatment and prophylaxis of
influenza.
[00149]         The synthesis of zanamivir is described in Example 3 of U.S. Patent No.
5,360,817 to von Izstein, et al., which patent is herein incorporated by reference in its entirety.
                                                  36

    WO 2015/173701                                                                    PCT/IB2015/053373
For instance, the process for preparation of zanamivir was described therein as a selective
deacetylation of 5-acetamido-4-acetoxy-6-(1,2,3- triacetoxypropyl)-5,6-dihydro-4H-pyran-2
carboxylate of Formula (II) with boron trifluoride ethearate which gave 5-acetamido-4-hydroxy-6
(1,2,3-triacetoxypropyl)-5,6- dihydro-4H-pyran-2-carboxylate of Formula (III), which on further
treatment with trifluoromethanesulfonic anhydride and sodium azide gave 5-acetamido-4-azido
6-(1,2,3-triacetoxypropyl)-5,6-dihydro-4H-pyran-2-carboxylate of Formula (IV). The reduction of
intermediate compound of Formula (IV) with hydrogen sulphide in pyridine afforded the
corresponding 5-acetamido-4-amino-6-(1,2,3-triacetoxypropyl)-5,6-dihydro-4H-pyran- 2
carboxylate intermediate of Formula (V), which was finally condensed with S- methylisothiourea
in water and saponified through Dowex 50W in aqueous ammonium hydroxide to yield
zanamivir.
[00150]          In still further embodiments of the present invention, the antimicrobial agent is an
antibiotic. For purposes of the present invention, combinations of the compound of Formula (1)
and an antimicrobial agent, such as an antibiotic, provides an effective treatment therapy
subjects suffering from a respiratory bacterial infectious disease. The term "antibacterial" or
"antibiotic" used interchangeably herein, means any chemical of natural or synthetic origin
which has the effect to kill or inhibit or suppress the growth of biological cells. Examples of
antibacterial agents encompassed by the combination methods and compositions of the present
invention include those antibiotics and antibiotic classes set forth in table 3 below. See, Todar,
K., Todar's Textbook of Bacteriology, University of Wisconsin-Madison, Department of
Bacteriology (2002) and The Merck Manual, Sec. 13. Chap. 153., "Antibacterial Drugs,"
17th Edition (1999).
                                                   Table 3
               Table 3: Classes and Examples of Antibiotic Antimicrobial agents
     Antibiotic Class                                              Examples
  Beta-lactams-penicillins             Penicillin G, Penicillin V, Procaine, Benzathine, Cloxacillin,
                                   Dicloxacillin, Methicillin, Nafcillin, Oxacillin, Azlocillin, Carbenicillin,
                                   Piperacillin, Piperacillin plus Tazobactam, Ticarcillin and Mezlocillin
       Beta-lactams -                                           First-generation
      Cephalosporins                Cefadroxil, Cefazolin, Cephalexin, Cephalothin, Cephapirin and
                                                                  Cephradine
                                                              Second-generation
                                                      37

   WO 2015/173701                                                        PCT/IB2015/053373
                              Cefaclor, Cefamandole, Cefmetazole Cefonicid, Cefotetan,
                                   Cefoxitin, Cefprozil, Cefuroxime and Loracarbef
                                                     Third-generation
                           Cefepime, Cefixime, Cefoperazone, Cefotaxime, Cefpodoxime,
                                 Ceftazidime, Cefibuten, Ceftizoxime and Ceftriaxone
   Other Beta-lactams                    Meropenem, Sulbactam, Tazobactam
 Semisynthetic penicillin   Ampicillin, Ampicillin plus Sulbactam, Amoxycillin, Amoxicillin,
                                     Amoxicillin plus clavulanate and Bacampicillin
     Clavulanic acid                  Clavamox (clavulanic acid plus amoxicillin)
      Monobactams                                       Aztreonam
    Aminoglycosides        Streptomycin, Kanamycin, Neomycin, Gentamycin, Tobramycin,
                                                 Amikacin and Netilmicin
                                                        Gentamicin
      Glycopeptides                                    Vancomycin
       Lincomycins                                     Clindamycin
 Macrolides and Azalides      Azithromycin, Clarithromycin, Clindamycin, Erythromycin,
                              Lincomycin, Roxithromycin, Dirithromycin, Spiramycin and
                                                        Josamycin
      Polypeptides                          Bacitracin, Colistin, Polymyxin B
                                                        Bacitracin
        Rifamycins                                      Rifampicin
      Tetracyclines        Tetracycline, Chlortetracycline, Oxytetracycline, Demeclocycline
                                                     and Minocycline
      Semisynthetic                                    Doxycycline
      Tetracyclines
    Chloramphenicol                                  Chloramphenicol
  Fluoroquinolones and     Ciprofloxacin (Cipro@), Enoxacin, Grepafloxacin, Levofloxacin,
       Quinolones         Lomefloxacin, Norfloxacin, Ofloxacin, Sparfloxacin, Trovafloxacin,
                                              Cinoxacin and Nalidixic acid
      Lincosamides                               Clindamycin (Cleocin@)
     Antibiotic Class                                   Examples
     Oxazolidinones                                 Linezolid (Zybox@)
     Aminocyclitols                            Spectinomycin (Trobicin@)
      Cycloserines
        Mupirocin
     Streptogramins                     Quinupristin and dalfopristin (Synercid@)
   Urea hydroxamates
Heteroaromatic polycycles
   Folic Acid Analogs      Trimethoprim and Trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole (TMP-SMX)
       Sulfa Drugs          Sulfanilamide, Sulfadiazine, sulfamethoxazole, Sulfisoxazole,
     (sulfonamides)                Sulfamethizole, Silver sulfadiazine and Mafenide
                                         Table 4
                                            38

     WO 2015/173701                                                            PCT/IB2015/053373
      Name                  Structure/Description        Company/Univ      Dosage          Citation
Virazole                                                 US4211771        20          US4211771
(Ribavirin)                                              assigned 1980    mg/mL in    (process of
                                                         to ICN Pharma;   small      treating w/drug).
1-beta-D-                 kN                             1983 to Viratek, particle
ribofuranosyl-                                           Inc. Currently   aersol
1H-1,2,4-                                                sold by Valeant  generato
triazole-3-                                              Pharma.          r (SPAG
cart)oxamide                                                              2) for 12
                                         H                                18
                                                                          hrs/day
                                                                          for 3-7
                                                                          days,
                                                                          deliverin
                                                                          g
                                                                          190ug/L
                                                                          air in 12
                                                                          hrs.
ALN-RSV01       siRNA comprised of 2 unpaired thymidine  Alnylam          0.6         PNAS. 2010
                overhangs + 19 nucleotides               Pharma           mg/kg       May;107(19):8800
                complimentary to nucleotides 3-21 of the Completed        once/day   -8805.
                mRNA encoding RSV nucleocapsid N         phase Ilb,       for 3       US8410073,
                protein.                                 missed primary   days in     US20090238772
                                                         endpoint.        Phase
                                                                          IIb study.
ALN-RSV02       siRNA                                    Alnylam                      No references
                                                                                     identified.
Benzimidazoles                                           US8865705                    US8865705
                                                         assigned to
                                                         Janssen R&D
                                                         Ireland
BTA-9881        Structure not reported                   Biota Holdings;             See Emerging
                                                         MedImmune/                   Drugs Reviews
                                                         Astra Zeneca                2010, 2012.
BTA-C286                                                 Biota
TMC353121                                                Tibotec                     J. Med. Chem.
(derivative of                                                                       2008,51,875
JNJ-2408068)                                                                         896. Several apps
                                                                                     list TMC353121
                                                                                     as a combination
                                                                                     or as a substitute,
                                                                                     such as
                                                                                      US20110293521,
                                                                                      US20110295365,
                                                                                      US20110293686,
                                                                                      US20110290821.
                                                     39

    WO 2015/173701                                    PCT/IB2015/053373
JNJ-2408068                             Johnson &           J. Med. Chem.
(formerly R-              HO            Johnson             2007, 50, 4572
170591)                          N                          4584.
                          H  N
YM-53403                                Yamanouchi          Antiviral Research
                                        Pharma              65 (2005) 125
                             NH                             131.
BMS-433771                              Bristol-Myers       Combrink et al.
(benzimidazole)                         Squibb              Bioorg. Med.
                                                            Chem. Lett. 17
                                                            (2007) 4784-90.
VX-497             CHS         o        Vertex              Anti microb Agents
                   I   NN    N   O4o                        Chemother., Apr.
                        0                                   2000, p. 859-866.
                  I                                         WO 97/41211 and
                                                            WO 01/00622
                                                            (assigned to
                                                            Vertex). See
                                                            US20050187170
VP-14637; aka                           ViroPharma          Anti microb Agents
MDT-637                                                     Chemother., June
                                                            2005, p.2460
                                                            2466.
RFI-641                                 Wyeth               Anti microb Agents
                                                            Chemother., Mar.
                                                            2002, p. 841-847.
                                     40

    WO 2015/173701                                                      PCT/IB2015/053373
MBX-300                                               Microbiotix             Antiviral Research
                                                                              61(2004)165
                                                                              171.
                                                                              Alios Biopharma
EICAR                                                 Asahi Kasei             Antimicrob Agents
                                                      Pharma                  Chemother., Feb.
                                                                              1992, p. 435-439.
                     o-n
LY-253963                                             Eli Lilly               Antiviral Research
                                                                              14(1990)237
                                                                              248.
RSV-604                                               Arrow                   Anti microb Agents
                                                      Therapeutics            Chemother., Sept.
                                                      (Novartis)              2007, p. 3346
                                                      Phase II clinical       3353.
                                                      trials (see US
                                  ..                  20130090328)
RD3-0028                                              Rational Drug
                                                      Design
                                                      Laboratories,
                                                      JP
V590           Antisense RNA
BTA-C585       Small molecule F-protein inhibitor.
                                                   41

    WO 2015/173701                                             PCT/IB2015/053373
ALS-8176                            NH         Alios                 J. Med. Chem.
                                               Biopharma             2015, 58,
                                                                      1862-1878
GS-5806                          N             Gilead;               J. Med. Chem.
                                                                     2015, 58,
                                    N  NN^\                           1630-1643
                                 0/
                       OH->__rNH
STP-902        siRNA                           Sirnaomics,            Listed as STO-92
                                               Inc.                  in 14/462937,
                                                                     claim 143 and
                                                                     also in Emerging
                                                                      Drugs - Treatment
                                                                     of Respiratory
                                                                     Syncytial Virus
                                                                      Infection Past
                                                                      Present and
                                                                      Future 2011,
                                                                     Table 3.
CL387626                                       Wyeth
iKT-041                                        Inhibikase             Listed in
                                                                      14/462937, claim
                                                                      143 and also in
                                                                      Emerging Drugs
                                                                     Treatment of
                                                                      Respiratory
                                                                     Syncytial Virus
                                                                      Infection Past
                                                                      Present and
                                                                      Future 2011,
                                                                     Table 3.
AZ-27                                          Astra-Zeneca          Antimicrobial
                                                                     Agents and
                                                                     Chemotherapy,
                    et                                               2014, 58(7):
                                                                     3867-3873.
CG-100                                         Clarassance,
                                               now called
                                               Therabron
                                               Therapeutics.
                                               Phase II trials
                                            42

    WO 2015/173701                                                           PCT/IB2015/053373
JMN3-003                                                  Emory                      PLOS ONE
                                                          University                 6(5):e20069.
GPAR-371 0                                                Georgia State              PNAS 2014
                             GPAR-371 0                   University                 E3441-49
Peptide                                                   Trimeris
analogues T67,
T1 18
                                                          Medimmune
Palivizumab
(Synagis@)
[00151]         In other embodiments, the invention encompasses a combination comprising the
compound of Formula (1)in combination with one or more antimicrobial agents selected from
those agents in Table 2, Table 3, and/or Table 4, and also, optionally in combination with one or
more additional conventional respiratory treatment agents.
[00152]         As used herein, the term "conventional respiratory treatment agents" includes
any such respiratory infectious disease treatments which treat or alleviate, no matter how
slightly, any symptoms arising having a respiratory infectious disease, and are not the
compound of Formula (1)or an antimicrobial agent.
[00153]         For purposes of the present invention, suitable conventional respiratory treatment
agents can comprise one or more agents selected from anti-inflammatory agents (e.g., Cox-2
inhibitors, Cox-2/Cox-1 inhibitors, NSAIDs), antihistamines, anticholinergic agents (particularly
an M1/M 2/M3 receptor antagonist), p 2-adrenoreceptor agonists, steroids (e.g., corticosteroids),
PDE4 inhibitor (e.g., Roflumilast), decongestants,
[00154]         The terms "cyclooxygenase-2 inhibitor", or "Cox-2 inhibitor", which can be used
interchangeably herein, embrace compounds which inhibit the Cox-2 enzyme regardless of the
degree of inhibition of the Cox- 1 enzyme, and include pharmaceutically acceptable salts of
those compounds. Thus, for purposes of the present invention, a compound is considered a
Cox-2 inhibitor irrespective of whether the compound inhibits the Cox-2 enzyme to an equal,
greater, or lesser degree than the Cox-1 enzyme. In one embodiment of the present invention,
                                                43

     WO 2015/173701                                                                 PCT/IB2015/053373
it is preferred that the Cox-2 inhibitor is a non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID).
Therefore, preferred materials that can serve as Cox-2 inhibitors of the present invention include
non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug compounds, a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, or
a pure (-) or (+) optical isomeric form thereof.
[00155]          Examples of anti-inflammatory agents include non-steroidal anti-inflammatory
drugs (NSAID's). Suitable NSAID compounds that are useful in the present invention include
acemetacin, acetyl salicylic acid, alclofenac, alminoprofen, azapropazone, benorylate,
benoxaprofen, bucloxic acid, carprofen, choline magnesium trisalicylate, clidanac, clopinac,
dapsone, diclofenac, diflunisal, droxicam, etodolac, fenoprofen, fenbufen, fenclofenec,
fentiazac, floctafenine, flufenisal, flurbiprofen, (r)-flurbiprofen, (s)-flurbiprofen, furofenac,
feprazone, flufenamic acid, fluprofen, ibufenac, ibuprofen, indometacin, indomethacin,
indoprofen, isoxepac, isoxicam, ketoprofen, ketorolac, miroprofen, piroxicam, meloxicam,
mefenamic, mefenamic acid, meclofenamic acid, meclofen, nabumetone, naproxen, niflumic
acid, oxaprozin, oxipinac, oxyphenbutazone, phenylbutazone, podophyllotoxin derivatives,
proglumetacin, piprofen, pirprofen, prapoprofen, salicylic acid, salicylate, sudoxicam, suprofen,
sulindac, tenoxicam, tiaprofenic acid, tiopinac, tioxaprofen, tolfenamic acid, tolmetin,
zidometacin, zomepirac, and 2-fluoro-a-methyl[1 ,1 '-biphenyl]-4-acetic acid, 4-(nitrooxy)butyl
ester.
[00156]          Further suitable NSAID compounds include ibuprofen, naproxen, sulindac,
ketoporfen, fenoprofen, tiaprofenic acid, suprofen, etodolac, carprofen, ketrolac, piprofen,
indoprofen, salicylic acid, and flurbiprofen.
[00157]          In one embodiment, the invention encompasses a combination comprising a
compound of Formula I, with a p2 -adrenoreceptor agonist.
[00158]          Examples of P 2-adrenoreceptor agonists include vilanterol, salmeterol (which
may be a racemate or a single enantiomer such as the R-enantiomer), salbutamol (which may
be a racemate or a single enantiomer such as the R-enantiomer), formoterol (which may be a
racemate or a single diastereomer such as the RR-diastereomer), salmefamol, fenoterol,
carmoterol, etanterol, naminterol, clenbuterol, pirbuterol, flerbuterol, reproterol, bambuterol,
indacaterol, terbutaline and salts thereof, for example the xinafoate (1-hydroxy-2
naphthalenecarboxylate) salt of salmeterol, the sulphate salt or free base of salbutamol or the
fumarate salt of formoterol. In one embodiment the P 2-adrenoreceptor agonists are long-acting
p-adrenoreceptor agonists, for example, compounds which provide effective bronchodilation for
about 12 hours or longer.
                                                    44

     WO 2015/173701                                                            PCT/IB2015/053373
[00159]          Other P 2-adrenoreceptor agonists include those described in W02002/066422,
W02002/070490, W02002/076933, W02003/024439, W02003/072539, W02003/091204,
W02004/016578, W02004/022547, W02004/037807, W02004/037773, W02004/037768,
W02004/039762, W02004/039766, W02001/42193 and W02003/042160.
[00160]          Further examples of p2-adrenoreceptor agonists include:
[00161]          3-(4-{[6-({(2R)-2-hydroxy-2-[4-hydroxy-3
(hydroxymethyl) phenyl]ethyl}amino) hexyl] oxy} butyl) benzenesulfonamide;
[00162]          3-(3-{[7-({(2R)-2-hydroxy-2-[4-hydroxy-3-hydroxymethyl) phenyl] ethyl}-amino)
heptyl] oxy} propyl) benzenesulfonamide;
[00163]          4-{(1R)-2-[(6-{2-[(2, 6-dichlorobenzyl) oxy] ethoxy} hexyl) amino]-1-hydroxyethyl}
2-(hydroxymethyl) phenol;
[00164]          4-{(1 R)-2-[(6-{4-[3-(cyclopentylsulfonyl)phenyl]butoxy}hexyl)amino]-1
hydroxyethyl}-2-(hydroxymethyl)phenol;
[00165]          N-[2-hydroxyl-5-[(1 R)-1 -hydroxy-2-[[2-4-[[(2R)-2-hydroxy-2
phenylethyl]amino]phenyl]ethyl]amino]ethyl]phenyl]formamide;
[00166]          N-2{2-[4-(3-phenyl-4-methoxyphenyl)aminophenyl]ethyl}-2-hydroxy-2-(8-hydroxy
2(1 H)-quinolinon-5-yl)ethylamine; and
[00167]          5-[(R)-2-(2-{4-[4-(2-amino-2-methyl-propoxy)-phenylamino]-phenyl}-ethylamino)
1-hydroxy-ethyl]-8-hydroxy-1 H-quinolin-2-one.
[00168]          The p2-adrenoreceptor agonist may be in the form of a salt formed with a
pharmaceutically acceptable acid selected from sulphuric, hydrochloric, fumaric,
hydroxynaphthoic (for example 1- or 3-hydroxy-2-naphthoic), cinnamic, substituted cinnamic,
triphenylacetic, sulphamic, sulphanilic, naphthaleneacrylic, benzoic, 4-methoxybenzoic, 2- or 4
hydroxybenzoic, 4-chlorobenzoic and 4-phenylbenzoic acid.
[00169]          Suitable anti-inflammatory agents include corticosteroids. Examples of
corticosteroids which may be used in combination with the compound Formula I of the invention
are those oral and inhaled corticosteroids and their pro-drugs which have anti-inflammatory
activity. Examples include methyl prednisolone, prednisolone, dexamethasone, fluticasone
propionate, 6a,9a-difluoro-1 1p-hydroxy-1 6a-methyl-1 7a-[(4-methyl-1,3-thiazole-5
carbonyl)oxy]-3-oxo-androsta-1,4-diene-17p-carbothioic acid S-fluoromethyl ester, 6a,9a
difluoro-1 7a-[(2-furanylcarbonyl)oxy]-11 p-hydroxy-1 6a-methyl-3-oxo-androsta-1,4-diene-1 7p
carbothioic acid S-fluoromethyl ester (fluticasone furoate), 6a,9a-difluoro-1 1p-hydroxy-1 6a
methyl-3-oxo-1 7a-propionyloxy- androsta-1,4-diene-1 7p-carbothioic acid S-(2-oxo-tetrahydro
                                                   45

   furan-3S-yl) ester, 6a,9a-difluoro-1 1p-hydroxy-1 6a-methyl-3-oxo-1 7a-(2,2,3,3
   tetramethycyclopropylcarbonyl)oxy-androsta-1,4-diene-17p-carboxylic acid cyanomethyl ester
   and 6a,9a-difluoro-11 p-hydroxy-16a-methyl-17a-(1-methycyclopropylcarbonyl)oxy-3-oxo
   androsta-1,4-diene-1 7p-carbothioic acid S-fluoromethyl ester, beclomethasone esters (for
 5 example the 17-propionate ester or the 17,21 -dipropionate ester), budesonide, flunisolide,
   mometasone esters (for example mometasone furoate), triamcinolone acetonide, rofleponide,
   ciclesonide (16a, 17-[[(R)-cyclohexylmethylene]bis(oxy)]-1 11p,21-dihydroxy-pregna-1,4-diene
   3,20-dione), butixocort propionate, RPR-1 06541, and ST-126. In one embodiment
   corticosteroids include fluticasone propionate, 6a,9a-difluoro-1 1p-hydroxy-16a-methyl-17a
10 [(4-methyl-1,3-thiazole-5-carbonyl)oxy]-3-oxo-androsta-1,4-diene-1 7p-carbothioic acid S
   fluoromethyl ester, 6a,9a-difluoro-1 7a-[(2-furanylcarbony)oxy]-1 1p-hydroxy-1 6a-methyl-3
   oxo-androsta-1,4-diene-1 7p-carbothioic acid S-fluoromethyl ester, 6a,9a-difluoro-1 1p
   hydroxy-1 6a-methyl-3-oxo-1 7a-(2,2,3,3-tetramethycyclopropylcarbonyl)oxy-androsta- 1,4
   diene-1 7p-carboxylic acid cyanomethyl ester and 6a,9a-difluoro-1 1p-hydroxy-1 6a-methyl
15 17a-(1 -methycyclopropylcarbonyl)oxy-3-oxo-androsta-1,4-diene-1 7p-carbothioic acid S
   fluoromethyl ester. In one embodiment the corticosteroid is 6a,9a-difluoro-17a-[(2
   furanylcarbonyl)oxy]-1 1p-hydroxy-1 6a-methyl-3-oxo-androsta-1,4-diene-1 7p-carbothioic acid
   S-fluoromethyl ester.
   [00170]           Examples of corticosteroids may include those described in W02002/088167,
20 W02002/100879, W02002/12265, W02002/12266, W02005/005451, W02005/005452,
   W02006/072599 and W02006/072600.
   [00171]           Non-steroidal compounds having glucocorticoid agonism that may possess
   selectivity for transrepression over transactivation and that may be useful in combination
   therapy include those covered in the following published patent applications and patents:
25 W01998/54159, W02000/66590, W02001/16128, W02002/02565,
   [00172]           W02003/059899, W02003/061651, W02003/082280, W02003/082787,
   W02003/082827, W02003/086294, W02003/101932, W02003/104195,
   [00173]           W02004/005229, W02004/009017, W02004/018429, W02004/026248,
   W02006/000398, W02006/000401, W02006/015870, W02006/108699, W02007/000334,
30 W02007/054294, W02007/122165, W02007/144327 and W02008/000777.
   [00174]           In one embodiment the invention provides the use of the compounds of
   formula (1)in combination with a phosphodiesterase 4 (PDE4) inhibitor, for example in the
   case of a formulation adapted for inhalation. The PDE4 inhibitor useful in this aspect of the
   invention may be any compound that is previously described or which is discovered to act as
35 a PDE4 inhibitor, e.g.
                                                   46

     WO 2015/173701                                                           PCT/IB2015/053373
as an inhibitor of PDE4B and/or PDE4D.
[00175]           PDE4 inhibitory compounds include cis-4-cyano-4-(3-cyclopentyloxy-4
methoxyphenyl)cyclohexan-1-carboxylic acid, 2-carbomethoxy-4-cyano-4-(3
cyclopropylmethoxy-4-difluoromethoxyphenyl)cyclohexan-1 -one and cis-[4-cyano-4-(3
cyclopropylmethoxy-4-difluoromethoxyphenyl)cyclohexan-1 -ol]. Also, cis-4-cyano-4-[3
(cyclopentyloxy)-4-methoxyphenyl]cyclohexane-1 -carboxylic acid (also known as cilomilast) and
its salts, esters, pro-drugs or physical forms, which is described in U.S. patent 5,552,438 issued
03 September, 1996; this patent and the compounds it discloses are incorporated herein in full
by reference.
[00176]          Other PDE4 inhibitory compounds include AWD-12-281 (N-(3,5-dichloro-4
pyridinyl)-1 -[4-fluorophenyl)methyl]-5-hydroxy-a-oxo-1 H-indol-3-acetamide) from Elbion
(Hofgen, N. et al. 15th EFMC Int Symp Med Chem (Sept 6-10, Edinburgh) 1998, Abst P.98;
CAS reference No. 247584020-9); a 9-benzyladenine derivative nominated NCS-613
(INSERM); D-4418 from Chiroscience and Schering-Plough; a benzodiazepine PDE4 inhibitor
identified as CI-1018 (PD-1 68787) and attributed to Pfizer; a benzodioxole derivative disclosed
by Kyowa Hakko in W099/16766; K-34 from Kyowa Hakko; V-11294A from Napp (Landells, L.J.
et al. Eur Resp J [Annu Cong Eur Resp Soc (Sept 19-23, Geneva) 1998] 1998, 12 (Suppl. 28):
Abst P2393); roflumilast (3-(cyclopropylmethoxy)-N-(3,5-dichloro-4-pyridinyl)-4
(difluoromethoxy)benzamide) (see EP 0 706 513 B1 to Byk Gulden Lomberg, e.g. see Example
5 thereof); a phthalazinone (WO1999/47505) from Byk-Gulden; Pumafentrine, (-)-p
[(4aR*,1 0bS*)-9-ethoxy-1,2,3,4,4a,10b-hexahydro-8-methoxy-2
methylbenzo[c][1,6]naphthyridin-6-yl]-N,N-diisopropylbenzamide which is a mixed PDE3/PDE4
inhibitor which has been prepared and published on by Byk-Gulden, now Altana; arofylline
under development by Almirall-Prodesfarma; VM554/UM565 from Vernalis; or T-440 (Tanabe
Seiyaku; Fuji, K. et al. J Pharmacol Exp Ther,1998, 284(1): 162), and T2585.
[00177]           Further PDE4 inhibitory compounds are disclosed in the published international
patent applications W02004/024728, W02004/056823, W02004/103998 (e.g. Example 399 or
544 disclosed therein), W02005/058892, W02005/090348, W02005/090353, and
W02005/090354, all in the name of Glaxo Group Limited.
[00178]           Examples of anticholinergic agents are those compounds that act as antagonists
at the muscarinic receptors, in particular those compounds which are antagonists of the M1 or
M3 receptors, dual antagonists of the M1/M3 or M2/M3 , receptors or pan-antagonists of the
M1/M2/M3 receptors. Exemplary compounds for administration via inhalation include ipratropium
(for example, as the bromide, CAS 22254-24-6, sold under the name Atrovent), oxitropium (for
                                                 47

    WO 2015/173701                                                               PCT/IB2015/053373
example, as the bromide, CAS 30286-75-0) and tiotropium (for example, as the bromide, CAS
136310-93-5, sold under the name Spiriva). Also of interest are revatropate (for example, as
the hydrobromide, CAS 262586-79-8) and LAS-34273 which is disclosed in W02001/04118.
Exemplary compounds for oral administration include pirenzepine (CAS 28797-61-7),
darifenacin (CAS 133099-04-4, or CAS 133099-07-7 for the hydrobromide sold under the name
Enablex), oxybutynin (CAS 5633-20-5, sold under the name Ditropan), terodiline (CAS 15793
40-5), tolterodine (CAS 124937-51-5, or CAS 124937-52-6 for the tartrate, sold under the name
Detrol), otilonium (for example, as the bromide, CAS 26095-59-0, sold under the name
Spasmomen), trospium chloride (CAS 10405-02-4) and solifenacin (CAS 242478-37-1, or CAS
242478-38-2 for the succinate also known as YM-905 and sold under the name Vesicare).
[00179]          Additional compounds are disclosed in WO 2005/037280, WO 2005/046586 and
WO 2005/104745, incorporated herein by reference. The present combinations include, but are
not limited to:
[00180]           (3-endo)-3-(2,2-di-2-thienylethenyl)-8,8-dimethyl-8-azoniabicyclo[3.2.1 ]octane
iodide;
[00181]           (3-endo)-3-(2-cyano-2,2-diphenylethyl)-8,8-dimethyl-8
azoniabicyclo[3.2.1 ]octane bromide;
[00182]           4-[hydroxy(diphenyl)methyl]-1 -{2-[(phenylmethy)oxy]ethyl}-1
azoniabicyclo[2.2.2]octane bromide; and
[00183]           (1R,5S)-3-(2-cyano-2,2-diphenylethyl)-8-methyl-8-{2-[(phenylmethyl)oxy]ethyl}
8-azoniabicyclo[3.2.1 ]octane bromide.
[00184]          In one embodiment the invention provides a combination comprising the
compound of Formula (1)or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof together with an
antihistamine, such as an H1 antagonist. Examples of suitable H1 antagonists include, without
limitation, diphenhydramine, amelexanox, astemizole, azatadine, azelastine, acrivastine,
brompheniramine, cetirizine, levocetirizine, efletirizine, chlorpheniramine, clemastine, cyclizine,
carebastine, cyproheptadine, carbinoxamine, descarboethoxyloratadine, doxylamine,
dimethindene, ebastine, epinastine, efletirizine, fexofenadine, hydroxyzine, ketotifen, loratadine,
levocabastine, mizolastine, mequitazine, mianserin, noberastine, meclizine, norastemizole,
olopatadine, picumast, pyrilamine, promethazine, terfenadine, tripelennamine, temelastine,
trimeprazine and triprolidine, particularly azelastine, cetirizine, levocetirizine, efletirizine and
fexofenadine.
[00185]          In a another embodiment the invention provides a combination comprising the
compound of Formula (1),or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof together with an H3
                                                  48

    WO 2015/173701                                                               PCT/IB2015/053373
antagonist (and/or inverse agonist). Examples of H3 antagonists include, for example, those
compounds disclosed in W02004/035556, W02006/045416, W02006/090142,
W02006/125665, W02007/009739 and W02007/009741. In a another embodiment the
invention provides a combination comprising the compound of Formula (1), or a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof together with an H1/H3 dual antagonist (and/or inverse
agonist). Examples of H1/H3 dual antagonists include, for example, those compounds disclosed
in W02004/035556, W02007/071691, W02007/122156 and W02007/135081. In a further
embodiment the invention provides a combination comprising the compound of Formula (1), or a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof together with an H1/H3 dual antagonist selected from
3-(4-{[4-(4-{[3-(3,3-dimethyl-1 -piperidinyl)propyl]oxy}phenyl)-1 -piperidinyl] carbonyl}-1
naphthalenyl) propanoic acid and 4-[(4-chlorophenyl) methyl]-2-({(2R)- 1-[4-(4-{[3-(hexahydro-1 H
azepin-1 -yl)propyl]oxy}phenyl)butyl]-2-pyrrolidinyl}methyl)-1 (2H)-phthalazinone. Other histamine
receptor antagonists which may be used in combination with the compounds of the present
invention include antagonists (and/or inverse agonists) of the H4 receptor, for example, the
compounds disclosed in Jablonowski et al., J. Med. Chem. 46:3957-3960 (2003).
[00186]          Additional suitable conventional respiratory treatment agents include sodium
cromoglycate, nedocromil sodium, phosphodiesterase (PDE) inhibitors (for example,
theophylline, PDE4 inhibitors or mixed PDE3/PDE4 inhibitors), leukotriene antagonists,
inhibitors of leukotriene synthesis (for example montelukast), iNOS inhibitors, tryptase and
elastase inhibitors, beta-2 integrin antagonists and adenosine receptor agonists or antagonists
(e.g. adenosine 2a agonists), cytokine antagonists (for example chemokine antagonists, such
as a CCR3 antagonist) or inhibitors of cytokine synthesis, or 5-lipoxygenase inhibitors. In one
embodiment, the invention encompasses iNOS (inducible nitric oxide synthase) inhibitors for
oral administration. Examples of iNOS inhibitors include those disclosed in WO1 993/13055,
WO1 998/30537, W02002/50021, WO1 995/34534 and WO1 999/62875. Examples of CCR3
inhibitors include those disclosed in W02002/26722.
[00187]          In other embodiments of the present invention, the conventional respiratory
treatment agents may be selected from the group consisting of fenamates, pyrrolealkanoic
acids, pyrazolone derivatives, oxicams, pramoxine, azatadine, meclizine, promethazine
bromodiphenhydramine, brompheniramine, brompheniramine maleate, carbinoxamine,
chlorpheniramine, dexchlorpheniramine, diphenhydramine, doxylamine, phenindamine,
pheniramine, phenyltoloxamine, pyrilamine, triprolidine, clemastine, dimenhydrinate, cetirizine,
terfenadine, astemizole, loratadine, acrivastine, hydroxyzine, meclozine, compazine,
imipramine, doxopin, amitryptoline, tripelennamine, fexofenadine, azatadine, ephedrine,
                                                   49

    WO 2015/173701                                                              PCT/IB2015/053373
ephinephrine, levodesoxyephedrine, oxymetazoline, naphazoline, phenylephrine,
phenylpropanolamine, propylhexedrine, pseudoephedrine, xylometazoline, chlorhexidine,
mercurochrome, povidone iodine, polyhyroxine iodine, cresylate, hydrocortisone, prednisone,
fluprednisolone, dexamethasone, betamethasone, betamethasone valerate,
methylprednisolone, fluocinolone acetonide, flurandrenolone acetonide, fluorometholone,
cortisone, prednisolone, alclometasone, amcinonide, betamethasone, clobetasol, clocortolone,
desonide, desoximetasone, diflorasone, fluocinonide, flurandrenolide, fluticasone, halcinonide,
halobetasol, mometasone, flumethasone, prednicarbate, triamcinolone, clotrimazole,
griseofulvin, undecylenic, econazole, miconazole, ketaconazole, sulconazole, oxiconazole,
fluconazole, itraconazole, nystatin, naftifine, terbinafine, ciclopirox, butenafine, haloprogin,
tolnaftate, tobramycin plus dexamethasone, m-cresyl acetate, bis-(2-pyridyl-1 -oxide) disulfide,
acetaminophen, mafenide, and mixtures thereof.
[00188]         Thus, in one embodiment of the present invention, there is provided a
composition comprising danirixin in combination with a neuraminidase inhibitor compound.
[00189]          In another embodiment of the present invention, there is provided a composition
comprising danirixin in combination with zanamivir.
[00190]          In another embodiment of the present invention, there is provided a composition
comprising danirixin in combination with oseltamivir.
[00191]          In another embodiment of the present invention, there is provided a composition
comprising danirixin in combination with ribavirin.
[00192]          In another embodiment of the present invention, there is provided a composition
comprising danirixin in combination with favipiravir.
[00193]          In another embodiment of the present invention, there is provided a composition
comprising danirixin in combination with one or more antimicrobial agents selected from Table
4.
[00194]          In another embodiment of the present invention, there is provided a
pharmaceutical composition comprising danirixin in combination with a neuraminidase inhibitor
compound and a pharmaceutically acceptable excipient.
[00195]          In another embodiment of the present invention, there is provided a
pharmaceutical composition comprising danirixin in combination with zanamivir and a
pharmaceutically acceptable excipient.
[00196]          In another embodiment of the present invention, there is provided a
pharmaceutical composition comprising danirixin in combination with oseltamivir and a
pharmaceutically acceptable excipient.
                                                   50

    WO 2015/173701                                                           PCT/IB2015/053373
[00197]         In another embodiment of the present invention, there is provided a
pharmaceutical composition comprising danirixin in combination with ribavirin and a
pharmaceutically acceptable excipient.
[00198]         In another embodiment of the present invention, there is provided a
pharmaceutical composition comprising danirixin in combination with one or more antimicrobial
agents selected from Table 4 and a pharmaceutically acceptable excipient.
[00199]         In another embodiment of the present invention, there is provided a method for
treating a respiratory infectious disease in a subject, the method comprising administering to a
subject suffering from a respiratory infectious disease danirixin in combination with a
neuraminidase inhibitor compound.
[00200]         In another embodiment of the present invention, there is provided a method for
treating a respiratory infectious disease in a subject, the method comprising administering to a
subject suffering from a respiratory infectious disease danirixin in combination with zanamivir.
[00201]         In another embodiment of the present invention, there is provided a method for
treating a respiratory infectious disease in a subject, the method comprising administering to a
subject suffering from a respiratory infectious disease danirixin in combination with oseltamivir.
[00202]         In another embodiment of the present invention, there is provided a method for
treating a respiratory infectious disease in a subject, the method comprising administering to a
subject suffering from a respiratory infectious disease danirixin in combination with ribavirin.
[00203]         In another embodiment of the present invention, there is provided a method for
treating a respiratory infectious disease in a subject, the method comprising administering to a
subject suffering from a respiratory infectious disease danirixin in combination with favipiravir.
[00204]         In another embodiment of the present invention, there is provided a method for
treating a respiratory infectious disease in a subject, the method comprising administering to a
subject suffering from a respiratory infectious disease danirixin in combination with one or more
antimicrobial agents selected from Table 4.
[00205]         In another embodiment of the present invention, there is provided a method for
treating a respiratory infectious disease in a subject, the method comprising administering to a
subject suffering from a respiratory infectious disease danirixin in combination with a
neuraminidase inhibitor compound, wherein the respiratory infectious disease is influenza.
[00206]         In another embodiment of the present invention, there is provided a method for
treating a respiratory infectious disease in a subject, the method comprising administering to a
subject suffering from a respiratory infectious disease danirixin in combination with a
neuraminidase inhibitor compound, wherein the combination of danirixin and neuraminidase
                                                 51

    WO 2015/173701                                                           PCT/IB2015/053373
inhibitor compound are administered in the same dosage form.
[00207]         In another embodiment of the present invention, there is provided a method for
treating a respiratory infectious disease in a subject, the method comprising administering to a
subject suffering from a respiratory infectious disease danirixin in combination with a
neuraminidase inhibitor compound, wherein the combination of danirixin and neuraminidase
inhibitor compound are administered simultaneously.
[00208]         In another embodiment of the present invention, there is provided a method for
treating a respiratory infectious disease in a subject, the method comprising administering to a
subject suffering from a respiratory infectious disease danirixin in combination with a
neuraminidase inhibitor compound, wherein the combination of danirixin and neuraminidase
inhibitor compound are administered separately.
[00209]         In another embodiment of the present invention, there is provided a method for
treating a respiratory infectious disease in a subject, the method comprising administering to a
subject suffering from a respiratory infectious disease danirixin in combination with a
neuraminidase inhibitor compound, wherein the combination of danirixin and neuraminidase
inhibitor compound are administered in the same dosage form.
[00210]         In another embodiment of the present invention, there is provided a method for
treating a respiratory infectious disease in a subject, the method comprising administering to a
subject suffering from a respiratory infectious disease danirixin in combination with a
neuraminidase inhibitor compound, wherein the combination of the compound of danirixin and
neuraminidase inhibitor compound are administered simultaneously.
[00211]         In another embodiment of the present invention, there is provided a method for
treating a respiratory infectious disease in a subject, the method comprising administering to a
subject suffering from a respiratory infectious disease danirixin in combination with a ribavirin.
[00212]         In another embodiment of the present invention, there is provided a method for
treating a respiratory infectious disease in a subject, the method comprising administering to a
subject suffering from a respiratory infectious disease danirixin in combination with a ribavirin,
wherein the combination of the compound of danirixin and ribavirin are administered
simultaneously.
[00213]         In another embodiment of the present invention, there is provided a method for
treating a respiratory infectious disease in a subject, the method comprising administering to a
subject suffering from a respiratory infectious disease danirixin in combination with a ribavirin,
wherein the combination of danirixin and ribavirin are administered in the same dosage form.
[00214]         In another embodiment of the present invention, there is provided a method for
                                                 52

    WO 2015/173701                                                           PCT/IB2015/053373
treating a respiratory infectious disease in a subject, the method comprising administering to a
subject suffering from a respiratory infectious disease danirixin in combination with a ribavirin,
wherein the combination of the compound of danirixin and ribavirin are administered
simultaneously.
[00215]         In another embodiment of the present invention, there is provided a method for
treating a respiratory infectious disease in a subject, the method comprising administering to a
subject suffering from a respiratory infectious disease danirixin in combination with a ribavirin,
wherein the combination of danirixin and ribavirin are administered separately.
[00216]         A method for treating influenza in a subject, the method comprising administering
danirixin to a subject suffering from influenza.
[00217]         A method for treating RSV in a subject, the method comprising administering
danirixin to a subject suffering from RSV.
[00218]         A pharmaceutical composition for intravenous administration comprising:
danirixin as a hydrobromide salt in aqueous solution.
[00219]         A pharmaceutical composition for intravenous administration comprising:
danirixin as a hydrobromide salt and a pharmaceutically acceptable excipient in aqueous
solution.
[00220]         A pharmaceutical composition for intravenous administration comprising:
danirixin as a hydrobromide salt and a pharmaceutically acceptable excipient in aqueous
solution, wherein the pharmaceutically acceptable excipient comprises cyclodextrin.
[00221]         A pharmaceutical composition for intravenous administration comprising:
danirixin as a hydrobromide salt and a pharmaceutically acceptable excipient in aqueous
solution, wherein the pharmaceutically acceptable excipient comprises p-cyclodextrin.
[00222]         A pharmaceutical composition for intravenous administration comprising:
danirixin as a hydrobromide salt and a pharmaceutically acceptable excipient in aqueous
solution, wherein the pharmaceutically acceptable excipient comprises sulfobutylether.
[00223]         A pharmaceutical composition for intravenous administration comprising:
danirixin as a hydrobromide salt and a pharmaceutically acceptable excipient in aqueous
solution, wherein the pharmaceutically acceptable excipient comprises p-cyclodextrin and
sulfobutylether.
[00224]         A pharmaceutical composition for intravenous administration comprising:
danirixin as a hydrobromide salt and a pharmaceutically acceptable excipient in aqueous
solution, wherein the pharmaceutically acceptable excipient comprises Captisol@.
[00225]         A method for treating a respiratory infectious disease in a subject, the method
                                                 53

    WO 2015/173701                                                            PCT/IB2015/053373
comprising administering a pharmaceutical composition for intravenous administration
comprising: danirixin as a hydrobromide salt and a pharmaceutically acceptable excipient in
aqueous solution, to a subject suffering from a respiratory infectious disease.
[00226]          A method for treating a respiratory infectious disease in a subject, the method
comprising administering a pharmaceutical composition for intravenous administration
comprising: danirixin as a hydrobromide salt and a pharmaceutically acceptable excipient in
aqueous solution, to a subject suffering from a respiratory infectious disease, wherein the
pharmaceutically acceptable excipient comprises cyclodextrin.
[00227]          A method for treating a respiratory infectious disease in a subject, the method
comprising administering a pharmaceutical composition for intravenous administration
comprising: danirixin as a hydrobromide salt and a pharmaceutically acceptable excipient in
aqueous solution, to a subject suffering from a respiratory infectious disease, wherein the
pharmaceutically acceptable excipient comprises p-cyclodextrin.
                                   Administration and Formulation
[00228]           In another embodiment, there is provided a pharmaceutical composition
comprising a pharmaceutically acceptable diluent and a therapeutically effective amount of the
compound of Formula (I), or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, alone or in combination
with an antimicrobial agent, and/or a conventional respiratory treatment agent.
[00229]          The compounds of the present invention can be supplied in the form of a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt. The terms "pharmaceutically acceptable salt" refer to salts
prepared from pharmaceutically acceptable inorganic and organic acids and bases. Accordingly,
the word "or" in the context of "a compound or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof' is
understood to refer to either a compound or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof
(alternative), or a compound and a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof (in combination).
[00230]          As used herein, the term "pharmaceutically acceptable" refers to those
compounds, materials, compositions, and dosage forms which are, within the scope of sound
medical judgment, suitable for use in contact with the tissues of human beings and animals
without excessive toxicity, irritation, or other problem or complication. The skilled artisan will
appreciate that pharmaceutically acceptable salts of compounds according to Formulas 1,11, or
III may be prepared. These pharmaceutically acceptable salts may be prepared in situ during
the final isolation and purification of the compound, or by separately reacting the purified
compound in its free acid or free base form with a suitable base or acid, respectively.
                                                    54

    WO 2015/173701                                                              PCT/IB2015/053373
[00231]          Illustrative pharmaceutically acceptable acid salts of the compounds of the
present invention can be prepared from the following acids, including, without limitation formic,
acetic, propionic, benzoic, succinic, glycolic, gluconic, lactic, maleic, malic, tartaric, citric, nitic,
ascorbic, glucuronic, maleic, fumaric, pyruvic, aspartic, glutamic, benzoic, hydrochloric,
hydrobromic, hydroiodic, isocitric, trifluoroacetic, pamoic, propionic, anthranilic, mesylic,
oxalacetic, oleic, stearic, salicylic, p-hydroxybenzoic, nicotinic, phenylacetic, mandelic, embonic
(pamoic), methanesulfonic, phosphoric, phosphonic, ethanesulfonic, benzenesulfonic,
pantothenic, toluenesulfonic, 2-hydroxyethanesulfonic, sulfanilic, sulfuric, salicylic,
cyclohexylaminosulfonic, algenic, p-hydroxybutyric, galactaric and galacturonic acids. Preferred
pharmaceutically acceptable salts include the salts of hydrochloric acid and trifluoroacetic acid.
[00232]          Illustrative pharmaceutically acceptable inorganic base salts of the compounds of
the present invention include metallic ions. More preferred metallic ions include, but are not
limited to, appropriate alkali metal salts, alkaline earth metal salts and other physiological
acceptable metal ions. Salts derived from inorganic bases include aluminum, ammonium,
calcium, copper, ferric, ferrous, lithium, magnesium, manganic salts, manganous, potassium,
sodium, zinc, and the like and in their usual valences. Exemplary base salts include aluminum,
calcium, lithium, magnesium, potassium, sodium and zinc. Other exemplary base salts include
the ammonium, calcium, magnesium, potassium, and sodium salts. Still other exemplary base
salts include, for example, hydroxides, carbonates, hydrides, and alkoxides including NaOH,
KOH, Na2 CO3 , K2 CO3 , NaH, and potassium-t-butoxide.
[00233]         Salts derived from pharmaceutically acceptable organic non-toxic bases include
salts of primary, secondary, and tertiary amines, including in part, trimethylamine, diethylamine,
N, N'-dibenzylethylenediamine, chloroprocaine, choline, diethanolamine, ethylenediamine,
meglumine (N-methylglucamine) and procaine; substituted amines including naturally occurring
substituted amines; cyclic amines; quaternary ammonium cations; and basic ion exchange
resins, such as arginine, betaine, caffeine, choline, N,N-dibenzylethylenediamine, diethylamine,
2-diethylaminoethanol, 2-dimethylaminoethanol, ethanolamine, ethylenediamine, N
ethylmorpholine, N-ethylpiperidine, glucamine, glucosamine, histidine, hydrabamine,
isopropylamine, lysine, methylglucamine, morpholine, piperazine, piperidine, polyamine resins,
procaine, purines, theobromine, triethylamine, trimethylamine, tripropylamine, tromethamine and
the like.
[00234]         All of the above salts can be prepared by those skilled in the art by conventional
means from the corresponding compound of the present invention. For example, the
pharmaceutically acceptable salts of the present invention can be synthesized from the parent
                                                   55

    WO 2015/173701                                                            PCT/IB2015/053373
compound which contains a basic or acidic moiety by conventional chemical methods.
Generally, such salts can be prepared by reacting the free acid or base forms of these
compounds with a stoichiometric amount of the appropriate base or acid in water or in an
organic solvent, or in a mixture of the two; generally, nonaqueous media like ether, ethyl
acetate, ethanol, isopropanol, or acetonitrile are preferred. The salt may precipitate from
solution and be collected by filtration or may be recovered by evaporation of the solvent. The
degree of ionisation in the salt may vary from completely ionised to almost non-ionised. Lists of
suitable salts are found in Remington's Pharmaceutical Sciences, 17th ed., Mack Publishing
Company, Easton, Pa., 1985, p.1418, the disclosure of which is hereby incorporated by
reference only with regards to the lists of suitable salts.
[00235]         The compounds of the invention may exist in both unsolvated and solvated
forms. The term 'solvate' is used herein to describe a molecular complex comprising the
compound of the invention and one or more pharmaceutically acceptable solvent molecules, for
example, ethanol. The term 'hydrate' is employed when said solvent is water. Pharmaceutically
acceptable solvates include hydrates and other solvates wherein the solvent of crystallization
may be isotopically substituted, e.g. D20, d6-acetone, d6-DMSO.
[00236]         The compound of Formula (1)containing one or more asymmetric carbon atoms
can exist as two or more stereoisomers. Where the compound of Formula (1)(or antimicrobial
agentand/or conventional respiratory treatment agent) contains an alkenyl or alkenylene group
or a cycloalkyl group, geometric cis/trans (or Z/E) isomers are possible. Where the compound
contains, for example, a keto or oxime group or an aromatic moiety, tautomeric isomerism
('tautomerism') can occur. It follows that a single compound may exhibit more than one type of
isomerism.
[00237]         Included within the scope of the present invention are all stereoisomers,
geometric isomers and tautomeric forms of the compounds of Formula (1)(or antimicrobial
agentand/or conventional respiratory treatment agent), including compounds exhibiting more
than one type of isomerism, and mixtures of one or more thereof. Also included are acid
addition or base salts wherein the counterion is optically active, for example, D-lactate or L
lysine, or racemic, for example, DL-tartrate or DL-arginine.
[00238]         Cis/trans isomers may be separated by conventional techniques well known to
those skilled in the art, for example, chromatography and fractional crystallization.
[00239]         Conventional techniques for the preparation/isolation of individual enantiomers
include chiral synthesis from a suitable optically pure precursor or resolution of the racemate (or
                                                  56

    WO 2015/173701                                                                PCT/IB2015/053373
the racemate of a salt or derivative) using, for example, chiral high pressure liquid
chromatography (HPLC).
[00240]          Chiral compounds of the invention (and chiral precursors thereof) may be
obtained in enantiomerically-enriched form using chromatography, typically HPLC, on a resin
with an asymmetric stationary phase and with a mobile phase consisting of a hydrocarbon,
typically heptane or hexane, containing from 0 to 50% isopropanol, typically from 2 to 20%, and
from 0 to 5% of an alkylamine, typically 0.1% diethylamine. Concentration of the eluate affords
the enriched mixture.
[00241]          Mixtures of stereoisomers may be separated by conventional techniques known
to those skilled in the art. [see, for example, "Stereochemistry of Organic Compounds" by E L
Eliel (Wiley, New York, 1994).
[00242]          The present invention includes all pharmaceutically acceptable isotopically
labelled compounds, wherein one or more atoms are replaced by atoms having the same
atomic number, but an atomic mass or mass number different from the atomic mass or mass
number usually found in nature.
[00243]          Examples of isotopes suitable for inclusion in the compounds of the invention
include isotopes of hydrogen, such as 2 H and 3H, carbon, such as 11C,        13C and 14C,  chlorine,
                                  18                                                    13        15
such as 36CI, fluorine, such as     F, iodine, such as 1231 and 1251, nitrogen, such as    N and    N,
oxygen, such as    150, 170  and  180, phosphorus, such as 32P, and sulphur, such as     35S.
[00244]          Certain isotopically-labelled compounds of the present invention are embraced,
including, for example, those incorporating a radioactive isotope, are useful in drug and/or
substrate tissue distribution studies. The radioactive isotopes tritium, iLe. 3 H, and carbon-14, i.e.
 "C, are particularly useful for this purpose in view of their ease of incorporation and ready
means of detection.
[00245]          Substitution with heavier isotopes such as deuterium, i.e. 2H, may afford certain
therapeutic advantages resulting from greater metabolic stability, for example, increased in vivo
half-life or reduced dosage requirements, and hence may be preferred in some circumstances.
[00246]          Isotopically-labelled compounds can generally be prepared by conventional
techniques known to those skilled in the art or by processes analogous to those described
herein using an appropriate isotopically-labelled reagents in place of the non-labelled reagent
previously employed.
[00247]          The compounds of the present invention may be administered as prodrugs.
Thus, certain derivatives of the compounds of the present invention, which may have little or no
pharmacological activity themselves can, when administered into or onto the body, be converted
                                                   57

    WO 2015/173701                                                               PCT/IB2015/053373
into compounds having the desired activity, for example, by hydrolytic cleavage. Such
derivatives are referred to as 'prodrugs'.
[00248]          The compositions of the present invention are comprised of, in general, at least
one chemical entity described herein in combination with at least one pharmaceutically
acceptable excipient. Acceptable excipients are non-toxic, aid administration, and do not
adversely affect the therapeutic benefit of the at least one chemical entity described herein.
Such excipient may be any solid, liquid, semi-solid or, in the case of an aerosol composition,
gaseous excipient that is generally available to one of skill in the art.
[00249]          Compounds herein, pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof and
pharmaceutical compositions incorporating such may conveniently be administered by any of
the routes conventionally used for drug administration. The compounds of herein may be
administered in conventional dosage forms prepared by combining the compound of Formula (1)
with standard pharmaceutical carriers according to conventional procedures. The compounds
herein may also be administered in conventional dosages in combination with a known, second
therapeutically active compound.
[00250]          Administration of the chemical entities described herein can be via any of the
accepted modes of administration for agents that serve similar utilities including, but not limited
to, orally, systemic (e.g., transdermal, intranasal or by suppository), or parenteral (e.g.,
intramuscular, intravenous or subcutaneous), sublingually, topically, intraperitoneally,
intrapulmonarilly, vaginally, rectally, or intraocularly. In some embodiments, the compound of
Formula (1)is orally parenteral administered. In other embodiments, the compound of Formula
(1)is administered by an intrapulmonary route. In still other embodiments, the antimicrobial
agent is administered by an intrapulmonary route.
[00251]          In still further embodiments, the compound of Formula (1)is administered
intravenously. In one embodiment, the compound of Formula (1)is administered intravenously
as a solution containing from 0.1 to 10 mg/mL of the compound of Formula (1)as a free base in
water for injection and comprising p-cyclodextrin and sulfobutylether. In another embodiment,
the compound of Formula (1)is administered intravenously as a solution containing 2 mg/mL of
the compound of Formula (1)as a free base in water for injection and comprising        P -cyclodextrin
and sulfobutylether. In other embodiments, the compound of Formula (1)is administered
intravenously as a solution containing 2 mg/mL of the compound of Formula (1)as a free base in
water for injection and comprising    p -cyclodextrin and   sulfobutylether, and wherein each vial of
the intravenous solution of the compound of Formula (1)contains 13 mL of 2 mg/mL of the
compound of Formula (1).
                                                   58

    WO 2015/173701                                                            PCT/IB2015/053373
[00252]          Pharmaceutical compositions or formulations include solid, semi-solid, liquid and
aerosol dosage forms, such as, e.g., tablets, capsules, powders, liquids, suspensions,
suppositories, aerosols or the like. The chemical entities can also be administered in sustained
or controlled release dosage forms, including depot injections, osmotic active pumps, pills,
transdermal (including electrotransport) patches, and the like, for prolonged and/or timed,
pulsed administration at a predetermined rate. In certain embodiments, the compositions are
provided in unit dosage forms suitable for single administration of a precise dose.
[00253]         The chemical entities described herein can be administered either alone or more
typically in combination with a conventional pharmaceutical carrier, excipient or the like (e.g.,
mannitol, lactose, starch, magnesium stearate, sodium saccharine, talcum, cellulose, sodium
crosscarmellose, glucose, gelatin, sucrose, magnesium carbonate, and the like). If desired, the
pharmaceutical composition can also contain minor amounts of nontoxic auxiliary substances
such as wetting agents, emulsifying agents, solubilizing agents, pH buffering agents and the like
(e.g., sodium acetate, sodium citrate, cyclodextrin, cyclodextrine, cyclodextrin derivatives and
cyclodextrine derivatives, sorbitan monolaurate, triethanolamine acetate, triethanolamine
oleate). Generally, depending on the intended mode of administration, the pharmaceutical
composition will contain about 0.005% to 95%; in certain embodiments, about 0.5% to 50% by
weight of a chemical entity. Actual methods of preparing such dosage forms are known, or will
be apparent, to those skilled in this art; for example, see Remington's Pharmaceutical Sciences,
Mack Publishing Company, Easton, Pennsylvania.
[00254]          In certain embodiments, the compositions will take the form of a pill or tablet and
thus the composition will contain, along with the active ingredient, a diluent such as lactose,
sucrose, dicalcium phosphate, or the like; a lubricant such as magnesium stearate or the like;
and a binder such as starch, gum acacia, polyvinylpyrrolidine, gelatin, cellulose, cellulose
derivatives or the like. In another solid dosage form, a powder, marume, solution or suspension
(e.g., in propylene carbonate, vegetable oils or triglycerides) is encapsulated in a gelatin
capsule.
[00255]          Liquid pharmaceutically administrable compositions can, for example, be
prepared by dissolving, dispersing, etc. at least one chemical entity and optional pharmaceutical
adjuvants in a carrier (e.g., water, saline, aqueous dextrose, glycerol, glycols, ethanol or the
like) to form a solution or suspension. Injectables can be prepared in conventional forms, either
as liquid solutions or suspensions, as emulsions, or in solid forms suitable for dissolution or
suspension in liquid prior to injection. The percentage of chemical entities contained in such
parenteral compositions is highly dependent on the specific nature thereof, as well as the
                                                  59

     WO 2015/173701                                                              PCT/IB2015/053373
activity of the chemical entities and the needs of the subject. However, percentages of active
ingredient of 0.01% to 10% in solution are employable, and will be higher if the composition is a
solid which will be subsequently diluted to the above percentages. In certain embodiments, the
composition will comprise from about 0.2 to 2% of the active agent in solution.
[00256]          Pharmaceutical compositions of the chemical entities described herein may also
be administered to the respiratory tract as an aerosol or solution for a nebulizer, or as a
microfine powder for insufflation, alone or in combination with an inert carrier such as lactose. In
such a case, the particles of the pharmaceutical composition have diameters of less than 50
microns, in certain embodiments, less than 10 microns.
[00257]          These procedures may involve mixing, granulating and compressing or
dissolving the ingredients as appropriate to the desired preparation. It will be appreciated that
the form and character of the pharmaceutically acceptable character or diluent is dictated by the
amount of active ingredient with which it is to be combined, the route of administration and other
well-known variables. The carrier(s) must be "acceptable" in the sense of being compatible with
the other ingredients of the formulation and not deleterious to the recipient thereof.
[00258]          The pharmaceutical carrier employed may be, for example, either a solid or
liquid. Exemplary of solid carriers are lactose, terra alba, sucrose, talc, gelatin, agar, pectin,
acacia, magnesium stearate, stearic acid and the like. Exemplary of liquid carriers are syrup,
peanut oil, olive oil, water and the like. Similarly, the carrier or diluent may include time delay
material well known to the art, such as glyceryl monostearate or glyceryl distearate alone or with
a wax. A wide variety of pharmaceutical forms can be employed. Thus, if a solid carrier is used,
the preparation can be tableted, placed in a hard gelatin capsule in powder or pellet form or in
the form of a troche or lozenge. The amount of solid carrier will vary widely but preferably will be
from about 25 mg. to about 1 g. When a liquid carrier is used, the preparation will be in the form
of a syrup, emulsion, soft gelatin capsule, sterile injectable liquid such as an ampoule or non
aqueous liquid suspension.
[00259]          In general, the chemical entities provided will be administered in a therapeutically
effective amount by any of the accepted modes of administration for agents that serve similar
utilities. The actual amount of the chemical entity, i.e., the active ingredient, will depend upon
numerous factors such as the severity of the disease to be treated, the age and relative health
of the subject, the potency of the chemical entity used, the route and form of administration, and
other factors. The drug can be administered more than once a day, such as once or twice a day.
[00260]          Therapeutically effective amounts of the chemical entities described herein may
range from approximately 0.01 to 200 mg per kilogram body weight of the recipient per day;
                                                    60

    WO 2015/173701                                                             PCT/IB2015/053373
such as about 0.01-100 mg/kg/day, for example, from about 0.1 to 50 mg/kg/day. Thus, for
administration to a 70 kg person, the dosage range may be about 1-2000 mg per day.
[00261]         Another manner for administering the provided chemical entities is inhalation.
The choice of formulation depends on various factors such as the mode of drug administration
and bioavailability of the drug substance. For delivery via inhalation the chemical entity can be
formulated as liquid solution, suspensions, aerosol propellants or dry powder and loaded into a
suitable dispenser for administration. There are several types of pharmaceutical inhalation
devices-nebulizer inhalers, metered dose inhalers (MDI) and dry powder inhalers (DPI).
Nebulizer devices produce a stream of high velocity air that causes the therapeutic agents
(which are formulated in a liquid form) to spray as a mist that is carried into the patient's
respiratory tract. MDIs typically are formulation packaged with a compressed gas. Upon
actuation, the device discharges a measured amount of therapeutic agent by compressed gas,
thus affording a reliable method of administering a set amount of agent. DPI dispenses
therapeutic agents in the form of a free flowing powder that can be dispersed in the patient's
inspiratory air-stream during breathing by the device. In order to achieve a free flowing powder,
the therapeutic agent is formulated with an excipient such as lactose. A measured amount of
the therapeutic agent is stored in a capsule form and is dispensed with each actuation.
[00262]         Compounds herein may be administered topically, that is by non-systemic
administration. This includes the application of the compound of Formula (1)externally to the
epidermis or the buccal cavity and the instillation of such a compound into the ear, eye and
nose, such that the compound does not significantly enter the blood stream. In contrast,
systemic administration refers to oral, intravenous, intraperitoneal and intramuscular
administration. Formulations suitable for topical administration include liquid or semi-liquid
preparations suitable for penetration through the skin to the site of inflammation such as
liniments, lotions, creams, ointments or pastes, and drops suitable for administration to the eye,
ear or nose. The active ingredient may comprise, for topical administration, from 0.001% to 10%
w/w, for instance from 1% to 2% by weight of the formulation. It may however comprise as much
as 10% w/w but preferably will comprise less than 5% w/w, more preferably from 0.1% to 1%
w/w of the formulation.
[00263]          Lotions according to the present invention include those suitable for application
to the skin or eye. An eye lotion may comprise a sterile aqueous solution optionally containing a
bactericide and may be prepared by methods similar to those for the preparation of drops.
Lotions or liniments for application to the skin may also include an agent to hasten drying and to
cool the skin, such as an alcohol or acetone, and/or a moisturizer such as glycerol or an oil such
                                                  61

      WO 2015/173701                                                              PCT/IB2015/053373
as castor oil or arachis oil.
[00264]           Creams, ointments or pastes according to the present invention are semi-solid
formulations of the active ingredient for external application. They may be made by mixing the
active ingredient in finely divided or powdered form, alone or in solution or suspension in an
aqueous or non-aqueous fluid, with the aid of suitable machinery, with a greasy or non-greasy
base. The base may comprise hydrocarbons such as hard, soft or liquid paraffin, glycerol,
beeswax, a metallic soap; a mucilage; an oil of natural origin such as almond, corn, arachis,
castor or olive oil; wool fat or its derivatives or a fatty acid such as stearic or oleic acid together
with an alcohol such as propylene glycol or a macro gel. The formulation may incorporate any
suitable surface active agent such as an anionic, cationic or non-ionic surfactant such as a
sorbitan ester or a polyoxyethylene derivative thereof. Suspending agents such as natural
gums, cellulose derivatives or inorganic materials such as silicaceous silicas, 15 and other
ingredients such as lanolin, may also be included.
[00265]           Drops according to the present invention may comprise sterile aqueous or oily
solutions or suspensions and may be prepared by dissolving the active ingredient in a suitable
aqueous solution of a bactericidal and/or fungicidal agent and/or any other suitable preservative,
and preferably including a surface active agent. The resulting solution may then be clarified by
filtration, transferred to a suitable container which is then sealed and sterilized by autoclaving or
maintaining at 98-100OC for half an hour. Alternatively, the solution may be sterilized by
filtration and transferred to the container by an aseptic technique. Examples of bactericidal and
fungicidal agents suitable for inclusion in the drops are phenylmercuric nitrate or acetate
(0.002%), benzalkonium chloride (0.01 %) and chlorhexidine acetate (0.01 %). Suitable solvents
for the preparation of an oily solution include glycerol, diluted alcohol and propylene glycol.
[00266]           The compounds described herein may also be administered by inhalation, that is
by intranasal and oral inhalation administration. Appropriate dosage forms for such
administration, such as an aerosol formulation or a metered dose inhaler, may be prepared by
conventional techniques. In one embodiment of the present invention, the agents of the present
invention are delivered via oral inhalation or intranasal administration. Appropriate dosage forms
for such administration, such as an aerosol formulation or a metered dose inhaler, may be
prepared by conventional techniques.
[00267]           For administration by inhalation the compounds may be delivered in the form of
an aerosol spray presentation from pressurized packs or a nebulizer, with the use of a suitable
propellant, e.g. dichlorodifluoromethane, trichlorofluoromethane, dichlorotetrafluoroethane, a
hydrofluoroalkane such as tetrafluoroethane or heptafluoropropane, carbon dioxide or other
                                                     62

    WO 2015/173701                                                           PCT/IB2015/053373
suitable gas. In the case of a pressurized aerosol the dosage unit may be determined by
providing a valve to deliver a metered amount. Capsules and cartridges of e.g. gelatin for use in
an inhaler or insufflator may be formulated containing a powder mix of a compound of the
invention and a suitable powder base such as lactose or starch.
[00268]         Dry powder compositions for topical delivery to the lung by inhalation may, for
example, be presented in capsules and cartridges of for example gelatin or blisters of for
example laminated aluminum foil, for use in an inhaler or insufflator. Powder blend formulations
generally contain a powder mix for inhalation of the compound of the invention and a suitable
powder base (carrier/diluent/excipient substance) such as mono-, di or poly-saccharides (e.g.
lactose or starch). Use of lactose is preferred.
[00269]         Each capsule or cartridge may generally contain between 20pg-1 000mg of the
compound of Formula (1)optionally in combination with another therapeutically active ingredient,
such as an antimicrobial agent. Alternatively, the compound of the invention may be presented
without excipients. Suitably, the packing/medicament dispenser is of a type selected from the
group consisting of a reservoir dry powder inhaler (RDPI), a multi-dose dry powder inhaler
(MDPI), and a metered dose inhaler (MDI). By reservoir dry powder inhaler (RDPI) it is meant
an inhaler having a reservoir form pack suitable for comprising multiple (un-metered doses) of
medicament in dry powder form and including means for metering medicament dose from the
reservoir to a delivery position. The metering means may for example comprise a metering cup,
which is movable from a first position where the cup may be filled with medicament from the
reservoir to a second position where the metered medicament dose is made available to the
patient for inhalation. By multi-dose dry powder inhaler (MDPI) is meant an inhaler suitable for
dispensing medicament in dry powder form, wherein the medicament is comprised within a
multi-dose pack containing (or otherwise carrying) multiple, define doses (or parts thereof) of
medicament. In a preferred aspect, the carrier has a blister pack form, but it could also, for
example, comprise a capsule-based pack form or a carrier onto which medicament has been
applied by any suitable process including printing, painting and vacuum occlusion.
[00270]         In the case of multi-dose delivery, the formulation can be pre-metered (e.g. as in
Diskus, see US Patent Nos. 6,632,666, 5,860,419, 5,873,360 5,622,166 and 5,590,645 or
Diskhaler, see, US Patent Nos. 4,627,432, 4,778,054, 4,811,731, 5,035,237, the disclosures of
which are hereby incorporated by reference) or metered in use (e. g. as in Turbuhaler, see US
4,524,769 or in the devices described in US Patents No. 6,321,747 the disclosures of which are
hereby incorporated by reference). An example of a unit-dose device is Rotahaler (see US
Patent Nos. 4,353,656 and 5,724,959, the disclosures of which are hereby incorporated by
                                                 63

     WO 2015/173701                                                               PCT/IB2015/053373
reference).
[00271]         The Diskus inhalation device comprises an elongate strip formed from a base
sheet having a plurality of recesses spaced along its length and a lid sheet hermetically but
peel ably sealed thereto to define a plurality of containers, each container having therein an
inhalable formulation containing the compound of Formula (1)preferably combined with lactose.
Preferably, the strip is sufficiently flexible to be wound into a roll. The lid sheet and base sheet
will preferably have leading end portions which are not sealed to one another and at least one of
the said leading end portions is constructed to be attached to a winding means. Also, preferably
the hermetic seal between the base and lid sheets extends over their whole width. The lid sheet
may preferably be peeled from the base sheet in a longitudinal direction from a first end of the
said base sheet. In one aspect, the multi-dose pack is a blister pack comprising multiple blisters
for containment of medicament in dry powder form. The blisters are typically arranged in regular
fashion for ease of release of medicament there from. In one aspect, the multi-dose blister pack
comprises plural blisters arranged in generally circular fashion on a disc-form blister pack. In
another aspect, the multidose blister pack is elongate in form, for example comprising a strip or
a tape. In one aspect, the multi-dose blister pack is defined between two members peelably
secured to one another. US Patents Nos. 5,860,419, 5,873,360 and 5,590,645 describe
medicament packs of this general type. In this aspect, the device is usually provided with an
opening station comprising peeling means for peeling the members apart to access each
medicament dose. Suitably, the device is adapted for use where the peelable members are
elongate sheets which define a plurality of medicament containers spaced along the length
thereof, the device being provided with indexing means for indexing each container in turn.
More preferably, the device is adapted for use where one of the sheets is a base sheet having a
plurality of pockets therein, and the other of the sheets is a lid sheet, each pocket and the
adjacent part of the lid sheet defining a respective one of the containers, the device comprising
driving means for pulling the lid sheet and base sheet apart at the opening station.
[00272]         By metered dose inhaler (MDI) it is meant a medicament dispenser suitable for
dispensing medicament in aerosol form, wherein the medicament is comprised in an aerosol
container suitable for containing a propellant-based aerosol medicament formulation. The
aerosol container is typically provided with a metering valve, for example a slide valve, for
release of the aerosol form medicament formulation to the patient. The aerosol container is
generally designed to deliver a predetermined dose of medicament upon each actuation by
means of the valve, which can be opened either by depressing the valve while the container is
held stationary or by depressing the container while the valve is held stationary. Where the
                                                     64

    WO 2015/173701                                                              PCT/IB2015/053373
medicament container is an aerosol container, the valve typically comprises a valve body having
an inlet port through which a medicament aerosol formulation may enter said valve body, an
outlet port through which the aerosol may exit the valve body and an open/close mechanism by
means of which flow through said outlet port is controllable. The valve may be a slide valve
wherein the open/close mechanism comprises a sealing ring and receivable by the sealing ring
a valve stem having a dispensing passage, the valve stem being slidably movable within the
ring from a valve-closed to a valve-open position in which the interior of the valve body is in
communication with the exterior of the valve body via the dispensing passage.
[00273]          Typically, the valve is a metering valve. The metering volumes are typically from
10 to 100 pl, such as 25 pl, 50 pl or 63 pl. Suitably, the valve body defines a metering chamber
for metering an amount of medicament formulation and an open/close mechanism by means of
which the flow through the inlet port to the metering chamber is controllable. Preferably, the
valve body has a sampling chamber in communication with the metering chamber via a second
inlet port, said inlet port being controllable by means of an open/close mechanism thereby
regulating the flow of medicament formulation into the metering chamber.
[00274]          The valve may also comprise a'free flow aerosol valve' having a chamber and a
valve stem extending into the chamber and movable relative to the chamber between
dispensing and non-dispensing positions. The valve stem has a configuration and the chamber
has an internal configuration such that a metered volume is defined there between and such
that during movement between is nondispensing and dispensing positions the valve stem
sequentially: (i) allows free flow of aerosol formulation into the chamber, (ii) defines a closed
metered volume for pressurized aerosol formulation between the external surface of the valve
stem and internal surface of the chamber, and (iii) moves with the closed metered volume within
the chamber without decreasing the volume of the closed metered volume until the metered
volume communicates with an outlet passage thereby allowing dispensing of the metered
volume of pressurized aerosol formulation. A valve of this type is described in U.S. Patent No.
5,772,085. Additionally, intra-nasal delivery of the present compounds is effective.
[00275]          To formulate an effective pharmaceutical nasal composition, the medicament
must be delivered readily to all portions of the nasal cavities (the target tissues) where it
performs its pharmacological function. Additionally, the medicament should remain in contact
with the target tissues for relatively long periods of time. The longer the medicament remains in
contact with the target tissues, the medicament must be capable of resisting those forces in the
nasal passages that function to remove particles from the nose. Such forces, referred to as
'mucociliary clearance', are recognized as being extremely effective in removing particles from
                                                   65

    WO 2015/173701                                                               PCT/IB2015/053373
the nose in a rapid manner, for example, within 10-30 minutes from the time the particles enter
the nose.
[00276]          Other desired characteristics of a nasal composition are that it must not contain
ingredients which cause the user discomfort, that it has satisfactory stability and shelf-life
properties, and that it does not include constituents that are considered to be detrimental to the
environment, for example ozone depletors. A suitable dosing regime for the formulation of the
present invention when administered to the nose would be for the patient to inhale deeply
subsequent to the nasal cavity being cleared. During inhalation, the formulation would be
applied to one nostril while the other is manually compressed. This procedure would then be
repeated for the other nostril. One means for applying the formulation of the present invention
to the nasal passages is by use of a pre-compression pump. Most preferably, the pre
compression pump will be a VP7 model manufactured by Valois SA. Such a pump is beneficial
as it will ensure that the formulation is not released until a sufficient force has been applied,
otherwise smaller doses may be applied. Another advantage of the precompression pump is
that atomization of the spray is ensured as it will not release the formulation until the threshold
pressure for effectively atomizing the spray has been achieved. Typically, the VP7 model may
be used with a bottle capable of holding 1 0-50ml of a formulation. Each spray will typically
deliver 50-1 00pl of such a formulation; therefore, the VP7 model is capable of providing at least
100 metered doses.
[00277]          Spray compositions for topical delivery to the lung by inhalation may for example
be formulated as aqueous solutions or suspensions or as aerosols delivered from pressurized
packs, such as a metered dose inhaler, with the use of a suitable liquefied propellant. Aerosol
compositions suitable for inhalation can be either a suspension or a solution and generally
contain the compound of Formula I, optionally in combination with another therapeutically active
ingredient and a suitable propellant such as a fluorocarbon or hydrogen-containing
chlorofluorocarbon or mixtures thereof, particularly hydrofluoroalkanes, e.g.
dichlorodifluoromethane, trichlorofluoromethane, dichlorotetra-fluoroethane, especially 1, 1, 1,
2-tetrafluoroethane, 1,1,1, 2, 3, 3, 3-heptafluoro-n-propane or a mixture thereof. Carbon dioxide
or other suitable gas may also be used as propellant. The aerosol composition may be excipient
free or may optionally contain additional formulation excipients well known in the art such as
surfactants, e.g., oleic acid or lecithin and cosolvents, e.g. ethanol. Pressurized formulations will
generally be retained in a canister (e.g. an aluminum canister) closed with a valve (e.g. a
metering valve) and fitted into an actuator provided with a mouthpiece. Medicaments for
administration by inhalation desirably have a controlled particle size. The optimum particle size
                                                   66

    WO 2015/173701                                                               PCT/IB2015/053373
for inhalation into the bronchial system is usually 1-1 Opm, preferably 2-5 pm. Particles having a
size above 20 pm are generally too large when inhaled to reach the small airways. To achieve
these particle sizes the particles of the active ingredient as produced may be size reduced by
conventional means e.g., by micronization. The desired fraction may be separated out by air
classification or sieving. Suitably, the particles will be crystalline in form. When an excipient
such as lactose is employed, generally, the particle size of the excipient will be much greater
than the inhaled medicament within the present invention. When the excipient is lactose it will
typically be present as milled lactose, wherein not more than 85% of lactose particles will have a
MMD of 60-90 pm and not less than 15% will have a MMD of less than 15 pm. Intranasal
sprays may be formulated with aqueous or non-aqueous vehicles with the addition of agents
such as thickening agents, buffer salts or acid or alkali to adjust the pH, isotonicity adjusting
agents or anti-oxidants.
[00278]         Solutions for inhalation by nebulization may be formulated with an aqueous
vehicle with the addition of agents such as acid or alkali, buffer salts, isotonicity adjusting agents
or antimicrobials. They may be sterilized by filtration or heating in an autoclave, or presented as
a non-sterile product. Suitably, administration by inhalation may preferably target the organ of
interest for respiratory diseases, i.e. the lung, and in doing so may reduce the efficacious dose
needed to be delivered to the patient. In addition, administration by inhalation may reduce the
systemic exposure of the compound thus avoiding effects of the compound outside the lung.
[00279]          Recently, pharmaceutical compositions have been developed for drugs that show
poor bioavailability based upon the principle that bioavailability can be increased by increasing
the surface area i.e., decreasing particle size. For example, U.S. Patent No. 4,107,288
describes a pharmaceutical formulation having particles in the size range from 10 to 1,000 nm in
which the active material is supported on a cross-linked matrix of macromolecules. U.S. Patent
No. 5,145,684 describes the production of a pharmaceutical formulation in which the drug
substance is pulverized to nanoparticles (average particle size of 400 nm) in the presence of a
surface modifier and then dispersed in a liquid medium to give a pharmaceutical formulation that
exhibits remarkably high bioavailability.
                                                   67

WO 2015/173701                                                       PCT/IB2015/053373
                                        References
1) Morohashi,, Mukaida. J. Leukocyte Biol, 1995. 57:180.
2) McColl, Clark-Lewis. J. Immunology, 1999, 163:2829.
3) Jones, Everard. Eur Respir J 2002; 20: 651-657.
4) Everard, Milner. Archives of Disease in Childhood. 1994; 71: 428-432.
5) Smith, Forsyth.. 2001, J. Paediatr. Child Health 37:146.
6) McNamara, Smyth. The Journal of Infectious Diseases 2005; 191:1225-32.
7) Hull, Kwiatkowski. Thorax 2000;55:1023-1027.
8) Goetghebuer, Hull. Clin Exp Allergy 2004; 34:801-803.
9) Waering. Sarawar. Viral Immunology, Volume 20, Number 3, 2007.
10) Tate, Reading. Plos One. March 2011, Volume 6, Issue 3.
11) Miller, Lukacs. The Journal of Immunology, 2003, 170: 3348-3356.
12) Sakai, Ochiai. Journal of Virology. Mar. 2000, p. 2472-2476.
                                             68

             THE CLAIMS DEFINING THE INVENTION ARE AS FOLLOWS:
   1.     A combination comprising a compound according to Formula (1):
                                              Formula (I)
                                       NH
                            o--s=o
                                 0 s~0
                             C1           OH
                                            N    kN                    F
                                            H          H
 5    or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof,
      and oseltamivir.
   2.     The combination according to claim 1, wherein the compound of Formula (1)is N
          (4-chloro-2-hydroxy-3-((3S)-3-piperidinylsulfonyl]phenyl)-N'-(3-fluoro-2
10        methylphenyl)urea, or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof.
   3.     The combination according to claim 1, wherein the compound of Formula (1)is a
          hydrobromide salt of N-(4-chloro-2-hydroxy-3-((3S)-3-piperidinylsulfonyl]phenyl)
          N'-(3-fluoro-2-methylphenyl)urea.
15
   4.     A pharmaceutical composition comprising a compound of Formula (1):
                                                   Formula (I)
                                            NH
                                                 OH
                                                  N)        N            F
                                                  H         H
          or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof,
                                               69

       in combination with oseltamivir and
       a pharmaceutically acceptable excipient.
   5.  The composition according to claim 4, wherein the compound of Formula (1) is N
 5     (4-chloro-2-hydroxy-3-((3S)-3-piperidinylsulfonyl]phenyl)-N'-(3-fluoro-2
       methylphenyl)urea, or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof.
   6.  The composition according to claim 4, wherein the compound of Formula (1) is a
       hydrobromide salt of N-(4-chloro-2-hydroxy-3-((3S)-3-piperidinylsulfonyl]phenyl)
10     N'-(3-fluoro-2-methylphenyl)urea.
   7.  A method for treating a respiratory infectious disease in a subject, the method
       comprising administering to a subject suffering from a respiratory infectious
       disease a combination comprising a compound of Formula (1):
                                               Formula (I)
                                         NH
                                             OH
                                              N         N             F
                                              H         H
15
       or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof,
        in combination with oseltamivir.
   8.  The method according to claim 7, wherein the respiratory infectious disease is
20     influenza.
   9.  The method according to claim 7 or claim 8, wherein the combination is
       administered in the same dosage form.
25 10. The method according to claim 7 or claim 8, wherein the combination is
       administered simultaneously.
   11. The method according to claim 7 or claim 8, wherein the combination is
       administered separately.
                                           70

   12. A pharmaceutical composition for intravenous administration comprising a
       hydrobromide salt of N-(4-chloro-2-hydroxy-3-((3S)-3-piperidinylsulfonyl]phenyl)
       N'-(3-fluoro-2-methylphenyl)urea and a pharmaceutically acceptable excipient in
 5     aqueous solution.
   13. The composition according to claim 12, wherein the pharmaceutically acceptable
       excipient comprises cyclodextrin.
10 14. The composition according to claim 12, wherein the pharmaceutically acceptable
       excipient comprises sulfobutylether.
   15. The composition according to claim 12, wherein the pharmaceutically acceptable
       excipient comprises Captisol@.
15
   16. A method for treating a respiratory infectious disease in a subject, the method
       comprising administering a pharmaceutical composition for intravenous
       administration comprising a hydrobromide salt of N-(4-chloro-2-hydroxy-3-((3S)-3
       piperidinylsulfonyl]phenyl)-N'-(3-fluoro-2-methylphenyl)urea and a
20     pharmaceutically acceptable excipient in aqueous solution to a subject suffering
       from a respiratory infectious disease.
   17. The method according to claim 16, wherein the respiratory infectious disease is
       influenza.
25
   18. The method according to claim 16 or claim 17, wherein the pharmaceutically
       acceptable excipient comprises Captisol@.
                                            71

