                                        Abstract
A device for integrated phototherapy treatment for jaundice within a transportable
infant incubator. The phototherapy device is designed to operate from the same power
supply as the infant incubator itself (AC, DC or batteries), meaning no additional
power connections are required during operation. The device can be retro-fitted to an
existing incubator. The phototherapy treatment utilizes two high power LEDs behind
two Perspex covers positioned slightly off centre at the top of the incubator. The
Perspex of the covers has been specially selected to filter out any possible Ultraviolet
(UV) light that could be emitted from the LED; therefore no UV light is present on
the patient.

    Editorial Note
      <removed-apn>
There is one page of description only

                                                      2
                           Phototherapy Patent Application - Description
[0001] The Phototherapy device integrated within the Neocot allows jaundice treatment for a patient
during transport within a road ambulance or aircraft. The Neocot phototherapy is designed to
operate from the same power supply as the Neocot itself (AC, DC or batteries), meaning no
additional power connections are required during operation.
[0002] The device can be retro-fitted to an existing Neocot given a set of company specific drawings.
[0003] The Neocot phototherapy utilizes 5700K colour temperature white light LED's, with an
intensity spike at approximately 455nm which is located in the blue spectrum close to the 465nm
bilirubin breakdown wavelength, rather than a light that only covers the blue spectrum. The use of
the white light prevents the user from possibly feeling nauseous while the phototherapy unit is in
operation, while still effectively treating jaundice in the patient.
Figure has been intentionally deleted.
[0004] The Neocot phototherapy utilizes two high power LED's positioned slightly off centre at the
top of the Neocot. The two LED's shine through two Perspex covers situated inside the roof of the
Neocot. This Perspex has been specially selected to filter out any possible Ultraviolet (UV) light that
could be emitted from the LED; therefore no UV light is present on the patient.

      Editorial Note
         <removed-apn>
There is one page of claims only

Phototherapy Patent Application - Claim
We are claiming protection against the reproduction of integrated phototherapy treatment for
Jaundice within a transportable infant incubator.

        Editorial Note
          <removed-apn>
There is one page of drawings only

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
