                                          Abstract
A liquid dispensing device comprising a range of sprayer heads and sprayer/foamer systems
incorporating such heads. Spring loaded, spring loaded combination, elastomeric or gas
buffers in fluid communication with the piston chamber can be included such that a user
does not need to continually pump the device. A volume of the piston chamber, a volume of
the buffer, a pressure response of the buffer, the throughput of the nozzle, and the minimum
opening pressure of the outlet valve can be arranged to restrict the outlet pressures of liquid
droplets exiting the nozzle within a defined range. Exemplary gas-filled buffer bags with inner
tubes are made from flexible material including plastics. They are manufactured by one or
more of: co-extrusion, folding and welding a foil, or blow molding.

WO 20 14/074654             6198                                    PCT/US2013/068825
                                                                                 Gi.
                                                                                            C 0
                                                                             0
                                                                                              0
                "N'                                          N
                                                                   -0
                                                                       0
                                                                          co
                                                                        0.
                                                             0
                                                           ~~~Ca               a N 0 Q)X
                                 a4
                                                       -10   0          )'
                                                                             (D
                                                       0
                          -                            V   ~     00
                                                                       0~
                    affid                                                   A 0               0
                                            S      E 0                 1    4
                                            o~~'-~~    00                  a,           H
                                      a,                     0J        "0
                                                  0          0L              L)         0.!    a
                                   asou w     ~        0,a
                                          m
                                                   U))
                                                       a         0=j-'                ~       a
                                                 -C
                                         XCIL          as    0                           00
                                             'T,             0   0
                                                       a
                                  H
                                   cu
                                  VI                          D  a)
                                                                       R2
                                                                       0)               CD.

WO 2014/074654                                                          PCT/US2013/068825
  SYSTEMS AND METHODS TO PRECISELY CONTROL OUTPUT PRESSURE IN
                           BUFFERED SPRAYERS ("DuOl")
CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS:
This application claims the benefit of United States Provisional Patent Application
 Nos. (i) 61/723,045, entitled NEW GENERATION SPRAY/FOAM DISPENSERS,
WITH AND WITHOUT BUFFERING SYSTEMS ("NGOP"), filed on November 6,
2012, (ii) 61/805,044, entitled IMPROVEMENTS TO FLAIROSOL TECHNOLOGY,
filed on March 25, 2013, and (iii) 61/810,697, entitled BUFFER SPRAYER WITH
 DIRECT ACTION RELEASE (DUO1 PUMP"), filed on April 13, 2013, the disclosure
of each of which is hereby fully incorporated herein by reference.
TECHNICAL FIELD:
The present invention relates to dispensing technologies, and in particular to
 improved sprayers/foam dispensers of various types, wherein output pressure, and
thus droplet size, can be precisely controlled.
 BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION:
 Liquid dispensing devices such as spray bottles are well known. Some offer pre
compression so as to insure a strong spray when the trigger is pulled and prevent
 leakage. Sprayers and foamers can be easily manufactured and filled, and are often
 used to dispense cleaners of all types, for example. However, in many
circumstances it is preferred not to have to continually pump a dispensing device to
 push out the dispensed liquid. Rather, it would be much more convenient to be able
to continue the spray or foam substantially past the user pulling a trigger or
otherwise actuating the sprayer head. For example, if by actuating a sprayer head a
                                           -1-

 WO 2014/074654                                                        PCT/US2013/068825
certain reasonable number of times per minute a continuous spray could be
obtained, many users would find that optimal.
One set of dispensing devices that provide a continuous spray are aerosol
dispensers, such as are used for cooking spray (e.g., Pam@), insect spray (e.g.,
Raid@), lubricants (e.g., WD-40@), and a host of other uses. Aerosols hold a liquid
or other dispensate under pressure such that when a user activates the device (e.g.,
by pressing a button) the pressurized contents are allowed to escape. However,
aerosols present both significant environmental hazards as well as packaging
drawbacks, which result from the necessity of using an aerosol propellant in them,
and the further necessity of pressurizing them. This requires filling such devices
under pressure, using packaging strong enough to withstand the pressure, and
taking steps to insure that the propellant maintains a uniform pressure over the life of
the can or container. Such conditions often require use of non-environmentally
friendly materials and ingredients.
Additionally, conventional aerosols do not continue spraying unless the user keeps
their finger on the button. Inasmuch as people generally push on the aerosol can
with the index finger of their dominant hand, this requirement precludes their ability
to do anything with the spray or the surface/object on which the spray is directed with
that hand making it difficult to clean, etc. Thus, users are forced to spray, for
example, a cleaner on a surface, then stop spraying, then wipe or scrub, etc.
Recently floor cleaning products have emerged to replace mops. Many try to spray
a cleaning fluid or floor care product from one or more nozzles while a user is
pushing the device along the floor or surface. Some of these devices utilize a
motorized pump, run by a power cord or battery. However, such devices are often
not robust, and do not last long. Or, for example, in the case of battery powered
                                             -2-

 WO 2014/074654                                                         PCT/US2013/068825
floor cleaners, any serious current draw requires large batteries, and frequent
changing of same, which is both environmentally unfriendly, cumbersome and
expensive.
Finally, although conventional pre-compression sprayers control the minimum output
pressure, they do not control in any way the maximum output pressure. A
conventional sprayer starts dispensing at a low pressure. During a trigger stroke, the
pressure rises up to a peak pressure. The liquid is forced through an orifice, but only
a part of the liquid can pass the nozzle, so the pressure will build up within the
sprayer. Towards the end of the stroke, the liquid pressure drops to zero. The low
pressure at the beginning and end of the stroke thus creates larger, non-uniform
droplets at the right and left sides of the conventional sprayer pressure time curve.
A pre-compression sprayer starts spraying when the liquid pressure is at a pre
determined pressure. This pre-determined pressure is known as the "cracking
pressure" of the outlet valve. During the trigger stroke the pressure rises up to a
peak pressure. When the pressure drops to a predetermined pressure (closing
pressure of the outlet valve) dispensing stops immediately. The droplet size at the
beginning and end of a dispensing stroke in a pre-compression sprayer are smaller
because the pressure is higher. The peak pressure, creating even smaller droplets
is also higher than that of a conventional sprayer, because the same amount of liquid
is dispensed in a shorter time. Therefore more pressure builds up. Thus, relative to
a conventional sprayer the pressure difference across the pressure time curve will
still be there and even be greater. It is only shifted to a higher pressure range.
Thus, difficulties with standard pre-compression sprayers include, for example, (1)
wider spreading droplet sizes, and (2) too small droplet sizes.
                                             -3-

 WO 2014/074654                                                       PCT/US2013/068825
To overcome these drawbacks, what is needed in the art is a sprayer/foamer device
that can provide elongated spray or continuous spray, where a user does not need to
continually pump or actuate, thus leaving the user's hands free to work between
strokes (continuous spray), or following a stroke (elongated spray), but where output
pressure is controlled to be within a specific pressure range.
What is further needed in the art is the adaptation of such functionality to floor
cleaning systems, large surface cleaning systems, bathroom and toilet cleaning
systems, and the like.
SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION:
In exemplary embodiments of the present invention, various novel dispensing
devices can be provided. Such devices can involve a range of sprayer heads and
sprayer/foamer systems incorporating such heads. Novel sprayer/foamer heads can
include buffers of various types. By using a buffer, a user need not continually be
pumping the device in order for the device to be spraying or foaming. In exemplary
embodiments of the present invention, such a buffer can be spring loaded, spring
loaded combination, elastomeric or gas. In exemplary embodiments of the present
invention, the buffer can be in line or adjacent to a piston chamber. If adjacent, it
can be connected to the piston chamber with a one way valve, to provide for spray
after a downstroke of the piston has been completed, or without, to allow spraying to
cease once a user releases the trigger or other actuator. In exemplary embodiments
of the present invention, such novel sprayers and foamers can be mounted upside
down, in various "Flairomop" devices, used to clean floors or the like. When using a
buffer, a piston chamber can be designed to deliver greater amount of liquid per unit
time than can be possibly dispensed through the nozzle or nozzles. The fraction of
                                            -4-

 WO 2014/074654                                                          PCT/US2013/068825
liquid that cannot be sent through the nozzle(s), due to their inherent restriction, can
thus be sent to the buffer for dispensing after the piston downstroke has been
completed. A volume of the piston chamber, a volume of the buffer, a pressure
response of the buffer, the throughput of the nozzle, and the minimum
opening pressure of the outlet valve can be arranged to restrict the outlet
pressures of liquid droplets exiting the nozzle within a defined range.
BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF DRAWINGS
It is noted that the U.S. patent or application file contains at least one drawing
executed in color (not applicable for PCT application). Copies of this patent or
patent application publication with color drawings will be provided by the U.S. Patent
Office upon request and payment of the necessary fee.
Figs. 1-3 illustrate pre-compression and the problems with conventional pre
compression sprayers;
Figs. 4-5 illustrate a novel combination of pre-compression and control of maximum
pressure according to exemplary embodiments of the present invention;
Fig. 6 illustrates correlation of various sprayer elements to control output pressure in
a defined band according to exemplary embodiments of the present invention;
Figs. 7-8 illustrate high and low output pressure bands, respectively;
Fig. 9 provides various exemplary combinations of sprayer parameters used to
control output pressure according to exemplary embodiments of the present
invention;
Figs. 10-11 depict various pre-compression technologies that can be used in
exemplary embodiments of the present invention;
                                             -5-

 WO 2014/074654                                                      PCT/US2013/068825
Figs. 12-15 describe various buffers that can be used in exemplary embodiments of
the present invention;
Figs. 16-17 depict the various functionalities sprayer engines can have in exemplary
embodiments of the present invention;
Figs. 18-20 depict various lock out systems according to exemplary embodiments of
the present invention;
Fig. 18A illustrates exemplary key parameters that can be varied to create user
specific lock out keys;
Figs. 21-33 illustrate an exemplary "Flairosol D'Lite" sprayer according to exemplary
embodiments of the present invention;
Figs. 34-40, next described, illustrate various technological advances of the
exemplary Flairosol D'Lite type sprayer;
Fig. 40 illustrates the use of a novel all plastic binary dome valve according to
exemplary embodiments of the present invention;
Figs. 41-47 present details of the novel dome valve of Fig. 40;
Figs. 48-52 illustrate exemplary gas buffers that can be used in exemplary
embodiments of the present invention;
Figs. 53-65 illustrate exemplary manufacturing techniques for gas buffers;
Figs. 66-67 illustrate an alternate manufacturing technique for gas buffers;
Fig. 68 shows how multiple pumps can be used with common inlet line and a
common outlet or output line to increase output, according to exemplary
embodiments of the present invention;
Fig. 69 presents an exemplary "Flairomop" device and exemplary nozzle positions
thereof according to exemplary embodiments of the present invention;
                                           -6-

 WO 2014/074654                                                      PCT/US2013/068825
Fig. 70 presents the general properties of a Flairomop device according to
exemplary embodiments of the present invention;
Figs. 71 through 74 illustrate details of producing a high pressure continuous spray
for a Flairomop device according to exemplary embodiments of the present
invention;
Fig. 75 illustrates an exemplary Flairomop device operating under high pressure with
direct action according to exemplary embodiments of the present invention;
Fig. 76 provides operational details of the exemplary Flairomop high pressure direct
action device presented in Fig. 75;
Fig. 77 presents an exemplary Flairomop operative at low pressure device according
to exemplary embodiments of the present invention;
Fig. 78 illustrates further operational details of the Flairomop low pressure device
presented in Fig. 77; and
Figs. 79-85 depict an exemplary continuous stop engine;
Figs. 86-90 depict an improvement thereto;
Figs. 91-92 depict a further improvement thereto; and
Figs. 93-97 depict exemplary DuOl sprayers with buffers not in-line with the piston
bore, of various types.
DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION:
In exemplary embodiments of the present invention, various novel sprayers and
related dispensing devices are presented. The sprayer heads shown can, in
general, work with both standard bottles or reservoirs as well as the "bag within a
bag" or "container within a container" Flair@ technology developed and provided by
Dispensing Technologies B.V. of Helmond, The Netherlands. The "bag within a bag"
Flair@ technology, which causes the inner container to shrink around the product,
                                            -7-

 WO 2014/074654                                                       PCT/US2013/068825
thus obviates headspace or air bubbles in the inner container. Because in Flair@
technology the pressure applied to the inner bag results from a pressurizing medium,
often atmospheric pressure vented between said inner and outer containers, venting
of the liquid container is not required. Of course, whenever a product is dispensed
from an inner bag in a Flair system, which shrinks to the remaining volume of the
product as it dispenses, then the pressure has to be equalized in the gap between
the outer container and the inner container. This can be done, for example, using a
medium, such as, for example, air, whether at atmospheric pressure or higher. This
can easily be done by venting the gap to ambient air somewhere between the inner
container and the outer container. This can be done, for example, by providing a
vent, such as, for example, on the bottom of the Flair container, or at any other
convenient position of the outer container. In some exemplary embodiments such a
vent is moved to the sprayer head itself, via a novel outlet valve.
Figs. 1 through 4, next described, illustrate the relationship between output pressure
and time of the outflow of various types of sprayers. With reference to Figure 1, the
left-most image shows the pressure time curve of a conventional sprayer. There is a
distribution of pressures, essentially a Gaussian curve, and with greater pressure
there is a smaller droplet size. Thus, in the pressure curve of conventional sprayer
there is a distribution of droplet sizes. A conventional sprayer has no closed valves.
When the piston is actuated the sprayer immediately starts dispensing. Thus, slow
actuation of the pump by a user results in large droplets or drips and the liquid
pressure is low. On the other hand, fast actuating of the piston can decrease the
amount of large droplets because the pressure then rises more quickly towards the
peak pressure. Thus, in a conventional sprayer performance is highly dependent
upon the user operating or the behavior of the user operating the sprayer.
                                            -8-

 WO 2014/074654                                                      PCT/US2013/068825
The middle image of Fig. 1 is the pressure curve of a pre-compression sprayer.
Notably there is a larger range of pressures that are output from a pre-compression
sprayer. A pre-compression sprayer has normally closed valves. The outlet valve
therefore only opens at a pre-determined pressure. The displacement volume
between inlet and outlet valve of the pump is to become zero during a compression
stroke. If it does not, the pump cannot prime. When the piston is actuated by a user
the sprayer only starts dispensing when the liquid pressure is above the cracking
pressure of the outlet valve. Therefore slow actuation of the pump will give no drips
because the pump starts dispensing at a higher pressure. Here in a pre
compression sprayer performance is less dependent upon the user's operating
behavior than in the case of a conventional sprayer.
The right-most image of Fig. 1 illustrates the pressure time curve of a sprayer
according to exemplary embodiments of the present invention. It is noted that on
occasion the inventive sprayers described herein will be referred to as "DuOl"
sprayers. A DuOl dispenser has normally closed valves just as in the case of a pre
compression sprayer. Therefore the outlet valve only opens at a pre-determined
pressure. There is also a buffer, however. The buffer immediately stores the
overflow of liquid, thus preventing peak pressures. The DuOl synchronized
components determine the output performance. Fast or slow triggering by a user
has little effect on the output, because the pressures are equalized through buffering.
The performance of a DuOl dispenser is very little dependent upon the operating
behavior of the user. As noted in the right-most image of Fig. 1 there is a much
narrower range of output pressures because peak pressures are topped off by
buffering the overflow and thus the pressures at the top of the pre-compression
sprayer pressure curve are cut off at the maximum pressure which is the uppermost
                                            -9-

 WO 2014/074654                                                          PCT/US2013/068825
line in Figure 1, right-most image. By buffering the overflow this reduces the
pressure range/droplet size spread. And thus for a DuOl sprayer, output pressure
runs in a narrow band between the minimum pressure, that of the pre-compression
valve, and the maximum pressure, which is a function of the pressure generated by
the buffer during continuous strokes or during one single stroke in case of a direct
stop embodiment (as described below).
Fig. 2, next described, provides further details of a pre-compression sprayer. As
noted with reference to Fig. 1 a conventional sprayer starts dispensing at a low
pressure. During a trigger stroke, the pressure rises up to a peak pressure. The
liquid is forced through an orifice, but only a part of the liquid can pass the nozzle, so
the pressure will build up within the sprayer. Towards the end of the stroke, the
liquid pressure drops to zero. The low pressure at the beginning and end of the
stroke thus creates larger, non-uniform droplets as shown at the right and left sides
of the conventional sprayer pressure time curve shown in Fig. 2.
A pre-compression sprayer starts spraying when the liquid pressure is at a pre
determined pressure. This pre-determined pressure is known as the "cracking
pressure" of the outlet valve. During the trigger stroke the pressure rises up to a
peak pressure. When the pressure drops to a predetermined pressure (closing
pressure of the outlet valve) dispensing stops immediately. The droplet size at the
beginning and end of a dispensing stroke in a pre-compression sprayer are smaller
because the pressure is higher. The peak pressure, creating even smaller droplets
is also higher than that of a conventional sprayer as shown in Figure 2, because the
same amount of liquid is dispensed in a shorter time. Therefore more pressure
builds up. Thus, relative to a conventional sprayer the pressure difference across
                                            -10-

 WO 2014/074654                                                         PCT/US2013/068825
the pressure time curve will still be there and even be greater. It is only shifted to a
higher pressure range.
Fig. 3 illustrates the difficulties with standard pre-compression sprayers. These
include, for example, (1) wider spreading droplet sizes, and (2) too small droplet
sizes. For many liquids a wider spread of droplet sizes is not a problem.
Sometimes, however, the range of droplet sizes is required to be smaller in order to
have better performance of the liquid, such as, for example to create a foam. Too
small droplet sizes (less than or equal to 10 microns) can cause a health hazard
when they are of such a size that can be inhaled and wherein the liquid can be
dangerous, such as, for example when using bleach contained liquids. Also, too
small droplet sizes can stray off when dispensed and not hit the target. Rather they
can land on a non-intended surface which they can damage. For example a hard
surface cleaner which causes stains when it lands on a fabric. These processes are
illustrated at the bottom of Fig. 3. Additionally, as shown, in a foamer context,
screen is sized for a particular droplet size which would hit its grid and thus become
foam. Too small droplets do not hit the foaming screen, and thus pass through
without making foam, can stray off, be inhaled, and fail to land on an intended target.
On the other hand, too large droplets are held back by the foamer screen, and drop
down, also not reaching the target. Figs. 4 and 5, as do the rightmost image of Fig.
1, illustrate a solution to the above-described problems with standard pre
compression sprayers.
It is desired to avoid the issues which come about when using a standard pre
compression sprayer. In order to do so it is necessary to avoid the pressure peaks
at the top of a down stroke cycle which cause the droplet sizes to be too small.
Therefore we need to make the range of droplet sizes smaller. In other words, the
                                              -11-

 WO 2014/074654                                                        PCT/US2013/068825
pressure range in which the dispenser operates needs to be narrowed. In exemplary
embodiments of the present invention this is done as follows. The amount of liquid
displaced by the pump which cannot leave the nozzle within the given dispense time,
causes the pressure peaks. This overflow of liquid needs to be temporarily stored.
This liquid can be stored within a buffer in exemplary embodiments of the present
invention. The pressure peak can then be avoided and this makes the pressure
range smaller. When no more liquid is displaced by the pump the buffer releases the
stored liquid. The buffer releases the liquid either through the nozzle (continuous or
prolonged output) or returns the liquid to the piston chamber or container direct
stop). The difference between continuous or prolonged output and direct stop is
whether or not a one-way valve is provided between the buffer and the piston
chamber or not. If the valve is provided then liquid cannot leave the buffer in a
backwards direction running back to the piston chamber and therefore the sprayer
exhibits continuous prolonged output. If there is no such one way valve any liquid
remaining in the buffer can return to the piston chamber and be used in the next
downspout.
By synchronizing, or coordinating, the components of an exemplary DuOl sprayer a
dispenser can be created that is tailor-made to fit the performance requirements of
any user or customer. The narrow output range and concomitant droplet size range
that is possible with an inventive DuOl sprayer is illustrated in Fig. 4.
Therefore in exemplary embodiments of the present invention, a DuOl equipped
dispenser includes at least a pump engine (stroke volume/absolute flow at a certain
stroke rate), a pre-compression outlet valve (opening/closing pressure), an
orifice/nozzle (performance at a certain flow) and a buffer (overflow storage capacity,
overflow storage pressure).
                                           -12-

 WO 2014/074654                                                        PCT/US2013/068825
Figure 5 illustrates further details of the correlations between elements of an
exemplary DuOl sprayer. The opening pressure of the outlet, responsible for the
larger droplet sizes and the maximum dispensing pressure, responsible for the
smaller droplet sizes, are the controls which can be used to set the limits of the
pressure range/droplet size spread. The right side of Figure 5 illustrates a desired
pressure level/droplet size which can be provided by a specification or by a user or
by a customer. Given the desired pressure level/droplet size in exemplary
embodiments of the present invention a DuOl sprayer can be created which outputs
a range of pressures or droplet sizes centered on the desired pressure size and
running from p minus delta p and p plus delta p. The minus delta p is the opening
pressure of the outlet valve and the p plus delta p is the maximum dispensing
pressure at a certain stroke rate.
When a desired pressure level/droplet size and a range is given in exemplary
embodiments of the present invention DuOl technology and it allows this to be
achieved by setting the controls mentioned above. [We need to say exactly what
determines the pMax.]
Fig. 6 illustrates the various elements of a DuOl sprayer which need to be correlated
to provide the desired pressure range illustrated in Fig. 5. With reference to Fig. 6
there is a pump, a dome valve, a buffer, and an outlet orifice. The maximum
dispensing pressure is a function of the flow of the pump at a certain stroke rate, the
flow at which the orifice /nozzle performs, and the capacity and pressure of the
buffer. The opening and closing pressure of the pre-compression outlet valve, is, an
exemplary embodiment of the present invention, always set lower than the default
buffer pressure. The default buffer pressure of the buffer gives all liquid stored in the
flow needed for the orifice/nozzle to perform. The flow of the pump at a certain
                                             -13-

 WO 2014/074654                                                          PCT/US2013/068825
stroke rate will always be greater than the flow at which the orifice nozzle performs.
This ensures that there will be an overage of liquid in every down stroke which
cannot possibly be handled by the throughput of the office or nozzle. The difference
between the flow of the pump at a certain stroke rate and the flow at which the
orifice/nozzle performs is the overflow and the overflow and the overflow is the
excess liquid that can be delivered between strokes. Therefore the capacity of the
buffer should be greater than or equal to the overflow such that the buffer can always
take up the overflow and then allow it to be released later. If the buffer could not
take up the entire overflow in its capacity pressure would rise and the situation seen
in the standard pre-compression valve would occur in that higher pressures and
smaller droplet sizes at the peak of a down stroke would ensue. The maximum
dispensing pressure multiplied by the surface area of the piston or diameter
multiplied by the trigger torque equals the operating force. When peak pressures
exist in a system (unlike the DuOl system described herein) the trigger force
required to be supplied by a user is thus higher when such peak pressures prevail in
a sprayer. Thus, it takes more force to continue the spraying operation in such
sprayers. This is in contrast to the DuOl systems described herein, where buffering
eliminates the peak pressures, and the system operates most of the time at an
essentially constant lower pressure (i.e., the upper horizontal line in Fig. 5
maximum dispensing pressure).
Figs. 7-9 illustrate further details of correlation of various elements within an
exemplary DuOl sprayer. With reference to Fig. 7, superimposed on a standard
pressure time curve is a white band which is a narrow range of pressures between
Pmin and Pmax which shows a consistent output pressure of a DuOl sprayer. If
smaller droplets are desired this pressure bandwidth is high as shown in Figure 7.
                                             -14-

 WO 2014/074654                                                        PCT/US2013/068825
Fig. 7 thus depicts a high pressure bandwidth to create an output range with smaller
droplets. With high pressures a small piston diameter is needed to maintain an
ergonomic operating force. A maximum possible piston stroke is set to maintain an
ergonomic actuation of the trigger. The (small piston diameter) x (the max. piston
stroke) = a small displacement volume. The small displacement volume, having a
large flow caused by the high pressure, requires a nozzle/ orifice with a lower flow.
So the large flow, small liquid volume is partially blocked by the low flow orifice. This
overflow is stored in the buffer.
Fig. 8 illustrates a lower bandwidth of output pressure which is a low pressure
bandwidth to create an output range with larger droplets. Here to achieve this result
a low pressure dome and buffer are used. Fig. 8 thus depicts a low pressure
bandwidth to create an output range with larger droplets. This uses a low pressure
dome and buffer. With low pressures a larger piston diameter can be used to
maintain an ergonomic operating force. A maximum possible piston stroke is set to
maintain an ergonomic actuation of the trigger. The (larger piston diameter) x (the
max. piston stroke) = a large displacement volume. The large displacement volume
having a low flow caused by the low pressure, can use a nozzle/ orifice with a larger
flow to generate large droplets. So here the large liquid volume needs to have
overflow with a larger flow nozzle. This overflow is stored in the buffer. This is
essentially the opposite of the situation illustrated in Figure 7.
Generalizing from Figs. 7 and 8 one can easily see that by manipulating the various
parameters of an exemplary DuOl sprayer any desired output pressure band
whether low, medium or high can be achieved. Figure 9 is the table of possible
correlation values for such a range of pressure bands and providing example uses
for such pressure bands and example liquids It is noted that the frequency for
                                            -15-

 WO 2014/074654                                                        PCT/US2013/068825
continuous spray is the number of strokes per minute to have an output in between
strokes. And the spray duration single stroke is the time between the start and
stopping of dispensing when a user makes one stroke and holds the trigger for
prolonged spray.
Fig. 10 illustrates various pre-compression technologies which can be used for the
dome valve, or pre-compression valve. Pre-compression technology can be used in
all kind of dispensing applications.      For example Floor mops, Window washers,
Sprayers, etc. Pre-compression technology can be used in a wide pressure-range of
dispensing applications, from low to high pressures. Pre-compression valves can be
made in all kind of types, configurations and combinations of configurations and
materials, for example, as shown in Fig. 10: (1) All plastic elastic dome valve with
integrated inlet valve; (2) All plastic elastic dome valve; (3) All plastic Binary dome
valve; (4) Spring loaded membrane valve; and (5) Membrane valve.
Pre-compression Valves
Fig. 11 illustrates various types of pre-compression valves. With reference thereto,
there is an all plastic elastic dome valve (with and without integrated inlet valve).
Here the closing force of the valve and therefore the force needed to open the valve
is determined by the elasticity of the material and the pre-tension in assembly.
Additionally, there is a spring loaded membrane valve. Here the closing force of the
valve and therefore the force needed to open the valve is determined by the force of
the metal or plastic spring placed behind the membrane. The membrane is the seal
between spring and liquid.     Finally, there is a membrane valve.      Here the closing
force of the valve, and therefore the force needed to open the valve, is determined
                                           -16-

 WO 2014/074654                                                       PCT/US2013/068825
by gas pressure behind the membrane. The gas pressure acts like a spring. The
membrane is the seal between gas and liquid.
Buffers
Fig.  12 illustrates various types of buffers that can be used in exemplary
embodiments of the present invention.         With reference thereto, there is a spring
loaded buffer, where the buffer pressure is set by the properties of the metal spring
behind the buffer piston. The buffering volume is set by the maximum travel of the
buffer piston.    Additionally, there is an elastic material buffer, where the buffer
pressure is set by the properties of the buffer; material, thickness.     The buffering
volume is set by size of the elastic part and the buffer housing volume which limits
the stretch of the elastic part.      There is a gas loaded buffer, where the buffer
pressure is set by the size of the buffer bag and the pressure of the gas inside the
bag. The buffering volume is set by the size of the buffer bag. There is a spring
loaded membrane buffer, where the buffer pressure is set by the properties of the
metal spring behind the membrane.         The buffering volume is set by the maximum
travel of the membrane.        Finally, there is a membrane buffer, where the buffer
pressure is set by gas pressure put behind the membrane. The gas pressure acts
like a spring. The membrane is the seal between gas and liquid. The buffering
volume is set by the maximum travel of the membrane.
Fig. 13 illustrates assembly and operation of an exemplary elastic material buffer,
and Figs. 14 and 15 illustrate operation of a spring loaded membrane buffer, and a
membrane buffer, respectively. It is here noted that the buffers are not in line with the
piston chamber.
                                            -17-

 WO 2014/074654                                                       PCT/US2013/068825
DuOl Engines
Fig. 16 illustrates how in exemplary embodiments of the present invention, various
DuO1 engines may be used, including a continuous stop engine, a continuous spray
engine, and one with direct stop functionality. Cross sections of these engines, and
further details, are provided in Fig. 17.
Lock Out
Figs. 18-20 illustrate exemplary lock-out systems that can be used in exemplary
embodiments of the present invention.        A lock out system prevents a different
supplier's bottle from being used with a given sprayer head. It also prevents users
from refilling a container supplied with a sprayer with competitor's or imitator's
liquids.    Such a lock out system can be controlled and owned by a sprayer
manufacturer, who provides and controls the various "keys" to open each bottle. In
exemplary embodiments of the present invention, a sprayer manufacturer, provides,
owns and controls the lock-out system.       A unique key is given to a customer to
protect against competitors within his own field of use during a licensing period. The
lock out prevents competitors from selling products compatible with the dispenser,
preventing consumers to refill the bottle with competitor products. The lock out thus
acts as an interface between a bottle and the dispenser.
As noted, the lock out incorporates the inlet valve of the pump system; this means
that the dispenser cannot operate without being connected to the lock out. The lock
out has unique 'key' features, dedicated to a customer. The geometry of the lock-out
can be changed to create these unique features. For example: the diameter, depth
and added geometries. Thus, in general, the lock out geometry has to match the
interfacing geometry of the dispenser in order to be connected.
                                          -18-

 WO 2014/074654                                                        PCT/US2013/068825
It is noted that to have a dispensing system which is a 100% lock out of competitors,
a Flair bottle is to be used. In this case the dispenser does not have to vent a Flair
system, or a closed bag within a bag, or container within a container, system needs
no venting (and no headspace in the inner container), and the bottle cannot be
refilled by drilling a hole in the bottle wall. Any tampering disables the dispensing
system.
Fig. 18 illustrates lock out systems for underpressure sprayers.        In a lock out for
under pressure, the inlet valve can be normally open in the output direction of the
bottle. The passage way to the bottle is closed during a compression stroke or when
refilling is attempted. Removing the valve disables the use of the bottle, since the
valve also acts like the inlet valve of the pump.   The passage way to the dispenser
is open when the valve rests against the upper valve seat when liquid enters the
pump by under pressure. The upper valve seat has openings, providing the passage
of liquid. There is a 'Key' interface, a set compatible interface features between lock
out and dispensing head, which is customer dedicated.
Fig. 18A illustrates exemplary key parameters that can be varied to create user
specific lock out keys. For example, working with various heights and diameters,
and rib geometries, as shown in Fig. 18A, heights h3 and h4 can be used to lock a
custom bottle to a custom lock out key. Moreover, diameter dl, heights hi, h2, and
rib feature geometry can be used to lock a dispense head to a custom lock system.
The dispenser has to be fitted with matching geometries. For example, when the rib
features of the lock out and contra rib features on the dispenser do not correspond,
the combination of bottle and dispensing head cannot be made. Thus, a dispenser
                                           -19-

 WO 2014/074654                                                         PCT/US2013/068825
geometry matching height hi of example lock out key B cannot fit to height hi of
example lock out key A. As well, a dispenser geometry matching diameter dl of
example lock out key A cannot fit to diameter dl of example lock out key B.               In
exemplary embodiments of the present invention, the sprayer manufacturer can own
all such keys and variations, and assign/license to a set of customers or distributors
a particular field of use specific to one lock out key. Thus the manufacturer can
control which bottles can interoperate with which sprayer heads.
Similarly, Fig. 19 illustrates a lock out that can be used with an exemplary sprayer
according to the present invention. As shown, there is a 'Key' interface, i.e., a set of
compatible interface features between lock out interface on bottle and dispensing
head, which is customer dedicated.           As noted, these can include a blocking
geometry, a certain diameter, and a certain depth.
Fig. 20 illustrates a lock out system for an overpressure system, where the Flair
bottle (bag within a bag, or bottle within a bottle system) is actively pressurized
between the layers to squeeze out the liquid or product in the inner layer. Such an
overpressure system is disclosed, for example, in U.S. Patent Application No.
13/467,971, filed on May 9, 2012.. As shown, In a lock out for over pressure, the
inlet valve is normally closes in inlet and outlet direction. There is a 'Key' interface, a
set compatible interface features between lock out and dispensing head, which is
customer dedicated.
The passage way to the bottle is closed during a compression stroke or when
refilling is attempted. Removing the valve disables the use of the bottle, since the
valve also acts like the inlet valve of the pump. When the bottle is disconnected from
the dispenser, the valve is pushed to close by the liquid pressure in the bottle.
                                            -20-

 WO 2014/074654                                                         PCT/US2013/068825
Liquid will not leave the bottle. When bottle and dispenser are connected, a
protrusion part of the dispenser needs to hold the valve in intermediate position it not
touching both seat valves. When the pump performs a compression stroke, the valve
is pushed on the lower valve seat, closing the passage way to the bottle.
During the recovery stroke of the pump, liquid can enter the pump, because the
protrusion prevents the valve to close on the upper valve seat.
Flairosol D'Lite
Figs. 21-33 illustrate an exemplary "Flairosol D'Lite" sprayer according to exemplary
embodiments of the present invention. Fig. 21 provides exemplary materials for the
sprayer, and Figs. 22-32 highlight each of these in detail.             Fig. 33 provides
exemplary dimentsions of such a sprayer.
Features/Objectives
Flairosol D'Lite has certain features, with defined objectives, as follows:
1. Buffer
No metal, all plastic. Store and release the overshoot of liquid in order to get a
continuous and constant output. This technology gives more possibilities to adjust
the Flairosol to the customer application, when necessary.
2. Prime/over pressure Valve
Remove air out of the pump during priming, to avoid no or to late priming, due to the
normally closed valve. When the internal pressure increases too much, the valve will
release this pressure.
3. Dome valve configuration
Obtain greater control of the dome valve mechanical behavior and hysteresis.
Flairosol D'Lite Technological Features
                                           -21-

 WO 2014/074654                                                          PCT/US2013/068825
Figs. 34-40, next described, illustrate various technological advances of a Flairosol
D'Lite type sprayer. With reference to Fig. 34, a gas loaded buffer can be used. The
buffer pressure is set by the size of the buffer bag and the pressure of the gas inside
the bag. As shown in Fig. 35, the buffer is placed inside the piston. This improves
compactness, the liquid travels in a straight upwards direction which helps to prevent
entrapment of air, and one or more bypass channels are made to ensure the flow of
liquid around the buffer. The buffering volume is set by the size of the buffer bag.
As shown in Fig. 36, when the piston moves down: liquid is pushed to the nozzle.
The overshoot of liquid not leaving the nozzle is stored by compression of the gas
loaded buffer. When the piston moves up: the gas loaded buffer pressure pushes
out the stored liquid
Figs. 37-39 illustrate a novel Prime-Overpressure valve. When priming, the valve is
mechanically opened by the piston. When the piston reaches the end of the stroke,
it mechanically forces the normally closed Prime-Overpressure Valve to open. Air
escapes into the bottle and the engine primes. Fig. 38 shows the sealing surfaces of
the valve. Finally, Fig, 39 illustrates in detail its operation. Prime issue with DuOl
Engine: When the piston (B) moves down it compresses air within the system and
the air wants to get passed the normally closed outlet valve (A). When the air
pressure created is not high enough, the outlet valve is not opened and the engine
does not work. The Prime -Overpressure Valve (C) makes sure the engine primes.
Pressure build up issue (DuO1 Engine Continuous): When trigger frequency and
speed is high, the internal pressure could be build up to a critical level. If this level is
reached, the pressure needs to be released. The Prime-Overpressure Valve (C) acts
as an over pressure valve as well.
Novel Dome Valve
                                            -22-

 WO 2014/074654                                                         PCT/US2013/068825
Fig. 40 illustrates the use of a novel all plastic binary dome valve. This pre
compression valve was developed to get a more "snappy" response on changes in
pressure. I.e., digital opening and closing of this valve, without drips or bigger
droplets in the spray, which improves the nozzle performance. Fig. 40 shows where
the exemplary dome valve is placed within an exemplary DuOl engine or
application.
Figs. 41-47 present details of the novel dome valve. As noted in Fig. 41, the main
inventive goal was to create a dome valve having a more binary behaviour. I.e., a
more instantaneous opening and closing of the dome with as little as possible
differences in these pressures (small hysteresis). For this purpose a dome valve
was created which interacts with a flexible seal. Figs. 41 and 42 show six snapshots
of the dome valve in operation. These are as follows:
       A. Dome valve and dome seat at default. The dome seat seal rests against
       the dome valve with pre-tension;
        B. Pressure deforms the dome valve. The seal of the dome seat flexes and
        still rests against the dome valve;
        C. The dome valve deforms even more. The seal valve has flexed to default
        position and no longer rests against the dome valve. An opening between
        seal and dome valve is created;
        D. When the pressure decreases, the dome valve swiftly deforms back again
       touching the seal. Dispensing stops instantaneously;
        E. Dome valve and dome seat at default. The dome seat seal rest s against
       the dome valve with pre-tension; and
                                            -23-

WO 2014/074654                                                           PCT/US2013/068825
        F. The dome valve diameter is equal or larger than the seal diameter. A larger
        the difference increases the hysteresis, the opening pressure will be higher
        than the closing pressure of the dome valve.
As shown in Fig. 43, the dome and seal can be changed in order to adapt or modify
properties such as the opening and closing pressure and flow. Changes made can
be for example the wall thickness, diameter, material, height, curviness (convex, flat,
concave). The material of the dome valve is ideally a semi-crystalline plastic such
as a PP or PE grade. This suitable for a wider range of liquids. If the dome needs
specific properties such as a higher flexible modulus, other materials can be used
such as POM grades. This limits compatibility with liquids, bleach for instance is not
compatible with POM. Various shapes, sizes and executions of the dome valve can
exist, such as are shown in Fig. 43, for example. In these examples, dimensions are
merely exemplary.
Fig. 44 depicts a graph and two load cases for an exemplary dome valve. The graph
shows the displacement of the point of the dome which is in contact with the seal.
There are two possible load cases:
Case 1 - Closed situation where only part of the dome is pressurized and there is a
pressure difference over the seal (solid blue line (initially upper line) in graph)
Case 2 - Open situation where the complete dome is pressurized and there is no
pressure difference over the seal (solid green line (initially lower line that crosses
upper line at 0.4 Mpa) in graph). The dashed blue line (horizontal line at
displacement = 0.2 mm) is the position of the seal in the "open" situation. Fig. 45
shows the graph of Fig. 44 more magnified.
With reference to the graph of Fig. 45, there are various operational states of the
valve:
                                          -24-

 WO 2014/074654                                                     PCT/US2013/068825
A-A' The seal is pre-tensioned by moving the seal 0.2mm relative to the dome;
A'-B Pressure buildup gives a displacement of the dome accompanied with the seal
up to the point B. At this point the contact force between the dome and the seal
becomes zero and the valve opens;
B-C When the valve is open the behaviour of the dome changes due to the fact that
the seal is no longer pushing against the dome and the pressurized section on the
dome has become larger. The seal which is no longer pressurized will go back to its
neutral position at 0.2mm while the dome jumps to 0.62mm. This gives a sudden
opening of 0.42mm over a theoretic infinitesimal small pressure step. This binary
behaviour is necessary to make sure that the pressure drop over the valve is small
enough to have a negligible effect on the flow through the nozzle; C-D When the
pressure increases further the displacement of the dome will increase. (this can be
limited by establishing a contact between the dome and another part);
D-E When the pressure decreases the dome will become instable at point E. At this
point the distance between the seal and the dome is still 0.35-0.2=0.15mm. This
opening is necessary to make sure that the pressure drop over the valve is small
enough to have a negligible effect on the flow through the nozzle;
E-F Due to the instability the displacement of the dome will decrease instantaneously
and the seal (in neutral position) comes into contact with the dome at point "F". The
neutral position of the seal has to be between point "E" and "X" to ensure the
functionality of the seal;
F-G When the seal is in contact with the dome the "closed" situation is established
and the seal will accompany the dome to point G. This will happen instantaneously
as well; and
G-H Further decrease in pressure will result in gradual decrease in displacement.
                                         -25-

 WO 2014/074654                                                         PCT/US2013/068825
Fig. 46 illustrates the dome shape and configuration during some of the above
identified operational states.
Finally, Fig. 47 illustrates how in time the pre-stresses in the seal and dome will
relax. This will particularly change the "closed" behaviour. In the graph presented in
Fig. 47 the effect of a 50% relaxation is presented. It shows that the valve will
continue to function as described in the previous slides.
Gas Buffer Technology
Figs. 48-65 illustrate exemplary gas buffers that can be used in exemplary
embodiments of the present invention, as well as exemplary methods of
manufacturing them. Figs. 66-67 illustrate alternate manufacturing methods. With
reference to Fig. 48, the buffer can be made from a multi-layer tube containing for
example; PE, EVOH, or Yparex. It is pressurized by filling with a gas such as, for
example, air, nitrogen or other gasses. The multi-layer is needed to provide the
desired properties like; The ability to be welded, Maintaining flexibility so all energy is
stored and released by the enclosed compressed gas, Blocking the gas from leaving
the buffer and therefore maintaining the pressure over time, and Chemical resistance
to the liquid dispensed.
A gas buffer can have, for example, an inner tube. The difference between the inner
tube outer diameter and the buffer tube inner diameter is related to the buffer
capacity. The greater the difference, the more the capacity. In theory, the external
pressure applied to the could increase to a level in which the buffer would collapse to
an extend it fails. A tube with open ends can be placed in the buffer to prevent the
collapse which leads to failure. This will limit the extend to which the buffer can
collapse when a external pressure is applied
                                           -26-

 WO 2014/074654                                                        PCT/US2013/068825
As shown in Fig. 49, the buffer is an accumulator to store energy. In a gas buffer, the
gas temporarily stores the energy delivered by the liquid pressure. The pressures
are equalized. This energy is returned when the external liquid pressure is less than
the internal pressure of the gas buffer. As shown in the schematics of Fig. 49, in a
default buffer position: The buffer tube is filled with a gas having a pressure of e.g. 4
bar. The gas buffer housing retains the gas buffer tube from gradually expanding by
the internal gas pressure. In a stored energy state: by pressure an amount of liquid
has entered the gas buffer housing. The liquid pressure compresses the gas in the
gas buffer tube and therefore storing energy and equalizing the pressure. The
external liquid pressure is equal to the internal gas pressure. In a releasing energy
state: When the external pressure applied by the liquid is decreases, the gas
pressure returns the energy. The liquid is displaced by the expanding gas. As long
as the external liquid pressure is less than the internal gas pressure, the gas keeps
expanding until the buffer has returned to its default position and therefore default
pressure.
As shown in Fig. 50, besides the gas buffer being made with an multi-layer extruded
tube, it can also be made in alternative ways, such as, for example: buffers made
from single or multi-layer foil, welded to become a buffer bag which can be filled by a
gas. The foil can, for example, be a laminate comprising various layers, each layer
being a specific material with specific properties. For example, to have better
chemical resistance, better barrier properties. With laminates, almost all materials
can be used. Buffers can, for example, be made with blow molding techniques like
extrusion blow molding, one stage blow mold processes, and in mold stretch blow
molding. Fig. 51 illustrates alternate techniques by which gas buffers can be made,
for example, and Fig. 52 illustrates use of a dispenser using gas buffer technology.
                                            -27-

WO 2014/074654                                                        PCT/US2013/068825
Figs. 53-65 illustrate exemplary manufacturing techniques for gas buffers. In
particular, Fig. 53 lays out a sequence that can be implemented on an automated or
semi-automated machine. With reference thereto, this sequence includes 12 steps:
(1) Feed the tube to the manufacturing line; (2) Press to close one end of the tube;
(3) Weld one end of the tube (= Weld 1); (4)Cool down weld; (5) Place injection
needle; (6) Press to seal needle and inject air pressure; (7) Press to close tube; (8)
Remove the needle; (9) Weld to seal the tube (= Weld 2); (10) Cool down weld; (11)
Check pressure; and (12) Check dimensions.
Fig. 54 depicts an exemplary machine for manufacturing a gas buffer using
essentially the sequence of Fig. 54, and Fig. 55 presents an overview and key part
list for the exemplary machine. There is, for example, an Upper welding head 01, a
Lower welding head 02, a Lower clamp left 03, an Upper clamp left 04, an Upper
clamp right 05, a Lower clamp right 06, a Needle 07, Cooling clamps 08 and a
pressurized gas 09.
Figs, 56-65 set forth exemplary steps in creating a gas buffer using the exemplary
apparatus of Fig. 54, as follows:
Fig. 56 shows Step 1, enter the tube to weld the first end. Fig. 57 shows Step 2,
after the upper and lower clamp left closes, the upper and lower welding heads
close, welding is in progress. Fig. 58 shows Step 3, where after the upper and lower
welding heads open, welding stops, and cooling clamps comes in and squeezes
around the weld. Fig. 59 shows Step 4, where after cooling the tube, the cooling
clamps open, and the buffer tube with one side welded can be removed. Fig. 60
shows Step 5, where after the buffer with one side welded is placed with the
opposite open side towards the needle, the open side of the buffer tube is pushed
over the needle. Fig. 61 shows Step 6, where after the upper and lower clamp on
                                         -28-

 WO 2014/074654                                                        PCT/US2013/068825
the right closes, the buffer tube around the needle is sealed, and gas enters the
buffer through the needle. Fig. 62 depicts Step 7, where after the upper and lower
clamp on the left closes, the buffer tube is at pressure when the needle retracts, and
the right clamps open again. Fig. 63 shows Step 8, where the 2nd side is thermally
welded and the upper and lower welding heads close, welding is in progress and the
2nd weld is made. Fig. 64 shows Step 9 where the upper and lower welding heads
open, the welding stops and the cooling clamps comes in and squeezes around the
weld. Finally, Fig. 65 shows Step 10, where after cooling the tube, the cooling
clamps open, and the welded buffer can be removed
Alternate Gas Buffer Fabrication
As noted, Figs. 66-67 illustrate an exemplary alternate gas buffer manufacturing
technique. With reference to Fig. 66(a), one can create the gas buffer by beginning
with a co-extruded tube on a reel. The pressure in the tube can be, for example, 3.5
barg. The tube can be made of, for example, polyethylene, polypropylene,
polyamides, silicone, AVOH, a sandwich of layers of aluminum, polyester and
polyethylene, to name a few possibilities, depending upon the gas buffer properties
needed, and the types of chemical resistance needed, in various sprayer devices.
The end of the tube can be pinched or welded and cut, and the sealed bag can be
quickly placed into the buffer chamber, as shown in Fig. 66(e). Next, as shown at
Fig. 66(b), the sealed bag is a bit smaller that the buffer chamber, but the bag will
expand, as shown in Fig. 66(c). This will cause the material in the bag to creep until
it hits the buffer chamber wall. As a result of this expansion, the pressure inside the
bag is now dropped to the pressure needed, for example, approximately 2.5 barg.
                                           -29-

 WO 2014/074654                                                         PCT/US2013/068825
Finally, the buffer chamber can be capped to hold the buffer in place and otherwise
seal the chamber as shown in Fig. 66(d).
Fig. 67 shows yet another method for assembling a gas bag-type buffer chamber.
With reference to Fig. 67, at stage 1 there can be provided a co-extruded tube
inserted into a pressure chamber. The pressure in the chamber can be, for example,
3.5 barg. It is within the pressure chamber that the co-extruded tube is welded on
both ends at stage 2, and then, at stage 3, transported, still under pressure, to a
second pressure chamber whose internal pressure is approximately 5 barg, for
example, (or some value greater than the pressure in the first chamber). Due to the
higher pressure in this second pressure chamber the bag shrinks at stage 4. At
stage 5, the bag is pushed from the second pressure chamber into the buffer
chamber, and at stage 6 the bag expands until it hits the wall of the buffer chamber,
thereby losing internal pressure and dropping from 5 barg to 3.5 barg which is the
desired final pressure. At this point the buffer chamber can be capped as shown at
stage 7. This results in a 3.5 barg gas buffer, for example, matching the initial
pressure of the first pressure chamber.
Returning now to Fig. 52, this shows how a gas buffer can operates in practice. With
reference thereto, there is a gas buffer with an exemplary 2.5 barg in its bag, as
shown as the end result of the process depicted in Fig. 66, i.e., Fig. 66(d). In Fig. 54
left panel, liquid is pumped into the buffer, in particular in between the buffer housing
and the buffer bag. The air in the bag is thus further compressed due to the
pressure of the liquid, creating a higher pressure than the original 2.5 barg. With
reference to Fig. 52 right panel, when the additional liquid under pressure ceases to
be pumped into the buffer (i.e., the downstroke of the piston has completed), the
liquid in the buffer is now pushed out of the buffer because the buffer bag naturally
                                           -30-

 WO 2014/074654                                                          PCT/US2013/068825
expands until it once again hits the wall of the buffer housing. In this manner the
energy stored in compressing the bag to continue the outflow of liquid through the
sprayer head in between strokes, thus offering continuous spray.
Duol Pump Engine For Various Applications:
In exemplary embodiments of the present invention, the DuO1 Pump engine can be
used in all kind of dispensing applications, such as, for example, floormops, window
washers, sprayers, and applicators. The DuO1 Pump engine can be used in a wide
pressure-range of dispensing applications, from low to high pressures. The DuO1
Pump engine can be made in all kind of types, configurations and combinations of
configurations and materials, adjusted to specific needs of each application.
For example, such as multiple pumps, dimensions of the pump or pumps, length of
the stroke, nozzle or multiple nozzles, position of the nozzles, direct stop,
continuous, continuous-stop, low pressure, and high pressure.
Multiple Pumps In Parallel To Increase Output
Fig. 68 shows how multiple pumps can be used with common inlet line and a
common outlet or output line to increase output using a DuO1 type system. This is
especially useful in contexts such as a "Flairomop" device, described below, and
shown in Fig. 68(a). As shown in Fig. 68(b) and (d), there can be a liquid container 1
with container venting 2. Container venting 2 is not needed, of course, if a Flair
bottle is used, because the venting in a Flair bottle is integrated in the
container/bottle, and no head space is necessary to be maintained above the liquid
in the liquid container 1. There can also be a spring 3, a pusher 4, pistons 5, piston
housing 6, non-return valve inlet piston 7, a separate inlet valve 7a, which is
optional, a non-return valve inlet to the nozzle or buffer 8, and a separate valve inlet
                                           -31-

 WO 2014/074654                                                         PCT/US2013/068825
to the nozzle buffer 8a. It is noted that inlet valve 7a, when used, is connected to the
container bottle and outlet line 8a is connected to the buffer, and from there to the
nozzle. As can be seen in Fig. 68, one can use one, two, three, four or more pistons
and piston chambers in parallel, all of which may be, for example, simultaneously
actuated by pusher 4. Although to achieve similar results one could simply increase
the size of the piston chamber, using multiple chambers in parallel allows for a
standard unit to be manufactured, and increase of size simply achieved by adding
units.
Flairomop - Floor Cleaner Using DuOl Sprayer Technology
Finally, a novel device for cleaning floors and the like is next described. This device
utilizes the novel new generation sprayer technologies described above, where the
sprayer is essentially mounted upside down so as to spray on a floor. These
devices are known as a "Flairomop" or a "FlairoWasher", for example. They operate
in similar fashion to the upright buffered sprayers described above,
Fig. 69 illustrates details of nozzle placement an exemplary Flairomop. As shown in
Fig. 69, the nozzles can be provided above the floor plate at 1, or at the bottom of
the floor plate at 2. If provided on the floor plate, for example, they can have either a
single nozzle configuration as shown in 2, a double nozzle configuration as shown in
2a, or multiple nozzles, such as is shown in 2b. A Flairomop can use a sprayer, of
the various types described above, with various buffer types.
Thus, in exemplary embodiments of the present invention, a Flairomop can have
three basic types: (i) small fanspray-nozzle, high pressure, useable with all buffers;
(ii) small fanspray-nozzle, high pressure, useable with all buffers, direct action; and
(iii) low pressure useable with all buffers.
                                             -32-

 WO 2014/074654                                                         PCT/US2013/068825
General Features
General features of an exemplary Flairomop can include, for example, an output
greater than 3cc, the ability to produce a fan spray, the ability to produce all types of
spray and foam functions, the use of pre-compression with a normally closed front or
outlet valve, the use of a Flair container holding between 250 and 1000cc's, no
blockage of opening due to drying in of liquid, broad chemical resistance to
detergents solvents, olive oil etc., a low trigger force required to actuate. Optionally,
for example, the Flair bottle can also be used with a lock-out mechanism, as
described above.
Flairosol Based Flairomop
Fig. 70 illustrates an exemplary Flairomop using a standard Flairosol sprayer
mechanism. This is essentially a spring buffered non-inline sprayer system built onto
an existing Flairomop prototype. As shown in Fig. 70(a), there can be a fanspray
nozzle, and liquid can be pushed into the integrated buffer. After triggering, the
spring will push back the buffer piston to dispense the contents of the buffer, as
described above. Thus, there is a connector, a piston closure, a standard Flairosol
sprayer head, a Flairosol integrated buffer and a Flair bottle. As shown in Fig. 70(b),
by triggering the handle at the shaft, the piston can be pushed downwards and the
spring biasing the piston will push it back upwards, making it available once again for
a user. In this particular example, using a 16 mm boring and a 21 mm stroke length
for the piston chamber, about 4 cc of liquid can be moved per stroke. Of this, a
certain amount is pushed through the nozzle, but the remaining portion goes into the
integrated buffer.
High Pressure Continuous Spray Single Nozzle
                                            -33-

 WO 2014/074654                                                           PCT/US2013/068825
Figs. 71 and 72, show an exemplary embodiment of a Flairomop designed to
produce a high pressure continuous spray. As shown in Fig. 71, when a user
triggers, the complete volume of the piston chamber will be dispensed. Because the
output of the piston chamber is bigger than that which the nozzles can handle, the
remainder of the liquid from the piston chamber will be stored in the buffer for later
dispensing. There is no direct stop, however, as in the case of a direct action
sprayer ("direct stop" and "direct action" are used inter-changeably in this disclosure,
for a sprayer that ceases spraying immediately upon a user letting go of the trigger),
and dispensing will stop as the buffer is emptied and the liquid falls below the set
pressure of pre-compression valve 8, which can be, for example, between 2-6 barg,
such as, for example, say 2.2 barg in some embodiments.
Fig. 72 is a schematic diagram of the system of Fig. 71. With reference thereto,
there is shown a liquid container 1, optional container venting 2 for use with non-Flair
bottles, piston 3, piston housing 4, and non-return inlet valve for the piston 5, non
return inlet valve for the buffer 6, buffer 7, pre-compression valve 8 and nozzle 9. It
is noted that this embodiment uses a standard separate piston, but, as noted above,
a novel stretched piston could also be used. As shown in Fig. 72, this is a high
pressure system with a liquid buffer. As the piston moves upwards, liquid is drawn
from the liquid container due to the under-pressure which is created. The container
either needs to have air venting 2, or needs to use a Flair type bottle, as described
above, which requires no venting.
Next, by a user pushing the piston downwards the liquid is forced to go to the nozzle,
or multiple nozzles, as shown in Fig. 69 above. Because of the restriction of the
nozzles as far as handling volumes of liquid per unit of time, a certain portion of the
liquid will go into the buffer, such as, for example, 2/3 of the liquid, and generally
                                             -34-

 WO 2014/074654                                                           PCT/US2013/068825
always more than half of the liquid in the piston chamber, the exact fraction
depending upon the piston chamber volume and diameter, and the restriction in the
nozzle(s). The buffer will then be filled with liquid and the pressure in the buffer will
increase. As the piston reaches the end of its downstroke, the liquid collected in the
buffer will then be dispensed through the nozzle(s) as there is no longer any liquid
being pushed out of the piston chamber. As shown on the bottom right of Fig. 72,
the buffer can be any of the various types described above such as, for example,
spring loaded, spring loaded in-line, elasticity material, or gas loaded. In preferred
exemplary embodiments, a gas loaded buffer can be used. Additionally, gas buffers
can be used that hold the liquid on the outside of a central gas filled bag, or for
example, a liquid can be pumped in the interior of a surrounding gas shell, in the
nature, shape wise, of the elasticity material buffer shown in Fig. 71.
High Pressure Continuous Spray Multiple Nozzle
In a manner wholly analogous to Figs. 71 and 72, Figs. 73 and 74 show an
exemplary high pressure continuous spray Flairomop embodiment with two nozzles
on the floor plate, as opposed to one nozzle provided on the handle, under the
buffer, as shown in Fig. 71.  In all other respects it is identical to the exemplary
embodiment of Figs. 71 and 72. The continuous spray is achieved by use of the
buffer, as described above. As shown in Fig. 1, as long as the buffer volume v2 is at
least as large as the volume of liquid sent to it in each stroke v1, the buffer can then
dispense such excess v1 between strokes. The number of strokes per minute
necessary to maintain continuous spray is thus a function of the fraction of the liquid
in the piston chamber sent to the buffer each stroke, the type of nozzle, and the
opening pressure in the pre-compression outlet valve, and can be adjusted using
those parameters, for various systems as desired.
                                            -35-

 WO 2014/074654                                                          PCT/US2013/068825
High Pressure Direct Action
Figs. 75 and 76 illustrate an exemplary high pressure direct action Flairomop device
with one nozzle. In all other respects it is identical to that shown in Figs. 71 and 72
except that, being a "direct action" type, there is no non-return inlet valve for the
buffer keeping liquid form escaping the buffer back to the piston chamber. Thus,
when a user releases the trigger, there is a direct stop: liquid will flow back into the
piston chamber, thus stopping the spray.
Low Pressure Flairomop
Finally, Figs. 77 and 78 illustrate an alternate exemplary embodiment of a Flairomop,
one that operates at low pressure. In this exemplary embodiment there are two
nozzles on the floor plate, as described above. There is also added a restrictor 8 to
control the amount of output that can be sent through the nozzle path each stroke.
As noted in Fig. 77, the main differences between the lower pressure Flairomop and
the high pressure version is the opening pressure of pre-compression valve 9.
Because the size of the piston, as well as the piston boring, are increased in this
exemplary embodiment, the operating pressure must be lowered in order to reduce
the necessary triggering force. This results in greater output with a lower force
required for each stroke, which is useful for people, such as, for example, older
persons, who wish to clean a floor or other surface and do not have the strength to
really push hard many strokes per minute. Once a user has triggered, the complete
volume of the piston will be dispensed. However, because the output of the piston
chamber is by design larger than that which the nozzle can handle, the rest of the
liquid will be stored in the buffer for later dispensing. In contrast to some of the
embodiments described above, such as that shown in Figs.75-76, there is no direct
                                              -36-

 WO 2014/074654                                                         PCT/US2013/068825
stop as the trigger is released. Thus, there is a non-return inlet valve for the buffer,
which causes the buffer to dispense its contents until the pressure in the buffer drops
below that of the opening pressure of pre-compression valve 9, even after the user
releases the trigger. Alternatively, a direct action embodiment of this version could
also be made, which allows a user to stop the dispensing form the buffer
immediately upon releasing the trigger. Although this gives greater control, it
requires holding the trigger down (against the force of the spring) at all times
dispensing is desired, which is often less convenient. Fig. 78, analogous to the other
schematics described above, is a schematic for the exemplary embodiment of Fig.
77.
Continuous Stop Engine
Figs. 79-85, next described, illustrate a continuous stop engine. Following that, Figs.
86-90 illustrate an improved stopping feature. Finally, Figs. 91-92 illustrate a further
improvement to the stopping feature.
A continuous stop engine allows for continuous spray, as described above, but then
immediate cessation of spray when desired by a user. This combines the benefits of
a continuous spray engine with direct action. With reference to Fig. 79, for a
high/low pressure system with liquid buffer:
Continuous:
When the piston moves up, liquid is taken from the container and enters the piston
chamber. For this the container needs an air vent or Flair bottle. When pushing the
piston downwards the liquid is forced to go to the (multiple) nozzle(s) and all liquid
which cannot leave the nozzles is stored into the buffer. The buffer applies pressure
to the liquid stored. When all of the liquid in the piston chamber is dispensed, the
                                            -37-

 WO 2014/074654                                                         PCT/US2013/068825
liquid stored in the buffer is dispensed through the nozzle(s), even when the piston
moves up again to take in liquid from the container.
Stop:
When the release valve is activated, liquid stored in the buffer flows back into the
container. This action immediately stops dispensing.
Fig. 80 illustrates exemplary parts: a piston 01, an inlet valve 02, a one way valve 03,
a buffer 04, a pre-compression valve 05, a release valve 06 and a release valve
actuator 07. Figs. 81-85 illustrate five steps in operation of the exemplary
continuous stop engine, as follows:
1. Take in liquid from container
The piston moved up all the way. Liquid from the container is taken into the piston
chamber past the inlet valve (02). The one way valve (03) closed off the passage
between the piston chamber and the buffer. The release valve (06) is open
2. *Piston moves down
The inlet valve (02) closes. Liquid from piston chamber is pushed past the one way
valve (03). Liquid travels via the buffer (04) and past the pre- compression valve
(05) towards the nozzle(s). The overflow of liquid which can not leave the nozzles is
stored in the buffer. The release valve activator (07) can move down and the
release valve (06) is closed.
3. Piston moves up
The piston moves up, but not all the way. The release valve activator (07) is not
touched. Liquid from the container is taken into the piston chamber past the inlet
valve (02). The one way valve (03) closes of the passage between the piston
chamber and the buffer. The overflow of liquid stored in the buffer passes the outlet
valve.
                                           -38-

 WO 2014/074654                                                        PCT/US2013/068825
4. Continuous output
When the piston moves up and down in given area, without touching the release
valve activator (07), a continuous output is generated.
5. Stop
The piston moved up all the way. The release valve activator (07) is pushed upwards
The release valve opens (06). The liquid stored in the buffer flows back to the
container and the pre-compression valve (05) closes, and dispensing stops
immediately.
Figs. 86-90 illustrate a method to improve the stopping feature, based on relocating
the valves. In the 2 mm for releasing the accumulator, another valve can also be
actuated. This also improves vertical assembly. As shown in Fig. 86, there can be a
home or Omm position, a 2mm position, and a 17mm position. Once the trigger
moves to the 2mm position, there is a temporary stop, via a trigger blocking feature.
If it is engaged, the trigger cannot return to the home position, as the trigger is now
blocked, but the trigger is free to travel from the 2mm to the 17mm position
repeatedly. However, once the blocking is disabled or released, the trigger can
return to zero (home position) and activate the valve to redirect the flow out of the
buffer, thus immediately stopping the spray.
Such a system is implemented in the exemplary embodiment shown in Fig. 87.
Thus, with reference to Fig. 87, the pump is actuated by a handle and trigger. The
push rod is connected to the pump piston. The full stroke of the trigger equals a
push rod travel of 15 + 2mm. When the trigger is pulled from Omm to 2mm, at 2 mm
a feature automatically blocks the trigger from returning to Omm. The return valve is
now closed. However, the trigger is able to travel from 2mm to 17mm. Within this
                                             -39-

 WO 2014/074654                                                            PCT/US2013/068825
zone actuating will give spray performance, prolonged or continuous depending on
the actuation rate of the user. When disabling the blockage of the trigger, so it can
and will return to Omm, the return valve can be opened and the liquid within the
buffer can flow back to the bottle. Dispensing thus stops immediately.
Figs. 88-90 show how this is implemented within the device:
Between 0 and 2mm position:
Within this area the liquid return valve is operated.
In position '0' the spring of the piston lifts up the liquid return valve (A) opening the
passage towards the bottle. By means of a tumbler the same force opening the liquid
return valve, closes the outlet valve (B). As soon as the piston is pushed in 2mm,
the spring of the return valve (A) closes of the passage to the liquid. The pre
compressed outlet valve (B) is released.
Between 2 and 17 mm position:
Within this area the output is generated. Since the opening towards the bottle is
closed in position 2mm, liquid which is displaced by the piston no longer travel to the
bottle but is pushed to the released outlet valve (B). The liquid displaced pushes
open the outlet valve. The overflow of liquid is stored in the buffer (C). As long as
the piston moves between position 2mm and position 17mm, a continuous output is
created. When the piston moves beyond position 2mm towards position '0', the outlet
valve is forced to close and the liquid return valve is opened. The liquid passes to the
bottle and output is stopped immediately.
A further improvement to the stopping feature is illustrated in Figs. 91-92. Here, as
shown in Fig. 91, the operation of the pump was separated from the operation of the
                                              -40-

 WO 2014/074654                                                        PCT/US2013/068825
liquid return valve/ pre-compression outlet valve. A cable (A) operates the valve
system (B), and a push rod activates the pump (C ). The cable is activated by a
feature (D) located at the handle. The push rod (E) operating the pump is activated
by pulling the trigger (F). This can be implemented, for example, as shown in Fig.
92, where: (a) upon pulling the cable, the liquid return valve is force to close, and
the pre-compression outlet valve is released. Upon (b) releasing the cable:
The liquid return valve opens by spring force. Liquid pressure is let off, because the
liquid can return towards the bottle. The same spring force opening the liquid return
valve flips the tumbler and forces the pre compression outlet valve to close.
Standard DuOl Sprayers With Buffering
Figs. 93-96 illustrate applying the buffering and dome valve principles described
above to standard sprayers, making "DuOl Sprayers." Fig. 93 illustrates an
exemplary direct stop sprayer. As shown in Fig. 93, the features of the direct stop
sprayer include a classic sprayer like configuration of parts where no extra part is
needed for venting, the piston moves when the user pumps and there is a static
nozzle. A large buffer is needed and there is a larger travel distance of the trigger
compared to standard sprayers. The long trigger is needed to compensate for the
higher forces required to push liquid a larger piston volume, and therefore the direct
stop sprayer is larger than a standard conventional sprayer. It is noted in Fig. 93(c)
that no umbrella valve is used in the direct stop sprayer, and thus, when a user
releases the trigger, liquid can flow from the buffer back into the piston chamber.
This effectively stops all flow as soon as a user releases the trigger. Thus, a direct
stop sprayer allows for prolonged spraying/foaming even after the downstroke is
                                           -41-

 WO 2014/074654                                                         PCT/US2013/068825
over, as long as a user holds the trigger down, and thus holds the piston chamber
closed.
Fig. 94 presents details of an exemplary continuous sprayer according to exemplary
embodiments of the present invention. As shown in Fig. 94, this sprayer also has a
classic sprayer-like configuration of parts, with no extra part needed for venting. The
piston moves when pumping and there is a static nozzle. The travel of the trigger is
similar to other sprayers and this is visually similar to a standard sprayer. However,
there is included in the buffer sprayer the umbrella valve as shown in Fig. 94(b).
This operates as a one-way valve between the piston chamber and the buffer, such
that even when a user releases the trigger, no liquid can flow from the buffer into the
piston chamber. Thus the liquid continues to flow from the buffer out through the
nozzle as long as the buffer pressure exceeds the opening pressure of the dome
valve.
Other DuOl Sprayers
Fig. 95 illustrates various features of a DuOl dispenser with non-inline buffer
according to exemplary embodiments of the present invention. This improves upon
Dispensing Technologies' previous Flairosol technology, as described in U.S. Patent
Application Nos. 13/068,267 and 13/623,860, now pending, the disclosures of each
of which are hereby incorporated by reference herein (these describe what may be
called "first generation" Flairosol). With reference to Fig. 95, which presents a
perspective view in 95(a) and a cutaway cross-sectional view in 95(b), there can be
seen a configuration of parts of an exemplary DuOl device. Although similar to that
of the first generation Flairosol, an extra part is needed for venting. There is also a
static piston where a nozzle moves up and down while spraying, and there is a larger
                                            -42-

 WO 2014/074654                                                         PCT/US2013/068825
travel distance of the trigger compared to a standard sprayer. Finally, the device is
visually different from a standard sprayer. Fig. 96 shows various operational states
of the DuOl device of Fig. 95. With reference to Fig. 96(a), when the trigger is
released liquid is sucked into the liquid chamber through the inlet valve. With
reference to Fig. 96(b), when the trigger is pulled liquid is pushed past the outlet
valve to the nozzle and whatever liquid cannot be handled by the nozzle (due to the
restriction of the nozzle) such excess liquid is stored in the buffer, as shown. With
reference to Fig. 97(a), when the trigger is released by a user the excess liquid
stored in the buffer is then released to the nozzle, as shown by the white arrow in
Fig. 97(a). At the same time the liquid chamber (piston chamber) is filled again in
preparation for a further downstroke as shown in Fig. 96(b). This allows for a
continuous spray.
Fig. 97(b) shows detail of the umbrella valve and the dome valve with reinforcing
spring. To make sure that the DuOl device always primes, the valve is mechanically
opened when the piston reaches the end of the stroke; by this means air can be
evacuated. So generally the end of a stroke looks like the configuration of Fig. 97(a)
which is right before the release by a user of the trigger, and there is some liquid
remaining in the piston chamber. However, on the first stroke which primes the
sprayer there is no liquid in the chamber, and the piston can move all the way up to
completely close the piston chamber, thereby touching the umbrella valve which
thereby pushes upwards and deforms the red dome valve, allowing the air to
escape. By this means the outlet valve is forced open and the sprayer can be
primed.
                                           -43-

 WO 2014/074654                                                         PCT/US2013/068825
The above-presented description and figures are intended by way of example only
and are not intended to limit the present invention in any way except as set forth in
the following claims. It is particularly noted that the persons skilled in the art can
readily combine the various technical aspects of the various exemplary embodiments
described.
                                            -44-

   WHAT IS CLAIMED IS:
   1.       A liquid dispensing device, comprising:
            a dispensing head, comprising:
 5                   an inlet valve,
                     a piston and a piston chamber,
                     an actuator for controlling the piston,
                     a buffer in fluid communication with the piston chamber,
                     an outlet valve having a defined minimum opening pressure in fluid
10                   communication with one of (i) the buffer and (ii) the buffer and the piston
                     chamber;
                     and
                     a nozzle with a defined throughput in fluid communication with the outlet valve,
            wherein a volume of the piston chamber, a volume of the buffer, a pressure response of the
15 buffer, the throughput of the nozzle, and the minimum opening pressure of the outlet valve are
   arranged to restrict the outlet pressures of liquid droplets exiting the nozzle within a defined range;
   and:
            wherein the buffer is a gas buffer comprising a gas-filled buffer bag made from a flexible
   material and arranged in a buffer housing.
20
   2.       The liquid dispensing device of claim 1, wherein the buffer bag and the buffer housing are
   each made of a plastics material.
   3.       The liquid dispensing device of claim 2, wherein the buffer bag comprises at least one
25 layer of a plastics material selected from the group consisting of polyethylene, polypropylene,
   polyamide, EVOH, polyester and silicone.
   4.       The liquid dispensing device of any one of the preceding claims, wherein the buffer bag
   comprises a tube which is sealed by welds on opposite ends.
30
   5.       The liquid dispensing device of claim 4, further comprising an inner tube arranged in the
   buffer bag, the inner tube having open ends and an outer diameter which is smaller than an inner
   diameter of the buffer bag.
                                                      -45-

   6.       The liquid dispensing device of any one of the preceding claims, wherein the buffer bag is
   manufactured by one or more of: i) (co-)extrusion, ii) folding and welding a foil, or iii) blow
   molding.
 5 7.       The liquid dispensing device of any one of the preceding claims, wherein the piston forms
   the buffer housing.
   8.       The liquid dispensing device of any one of the preceding claims, wherein the piston has a
   first opening in fluid communication with the piston chamber and a second opening in fluid
10 communication with the outlet valve, as well as one or more bypass channels to ensure fluid flow
   between the first and second openings around the buffer bag.
   9.       Gas buffer for use in the liquid dispensing device of any one of the preceding claims.
15 10.      A method of manufacturing the gas buffer of claim 9, comprising the steps of:
            a) providing a tube that is sealed on a first end;
            b) introducing a pressurizing gas into an open second end of the tube opposite the sealed
   first end;
            c) pressing to close the open second end of the tube; and
20          d) welding to seal the closed second end of the tube.
   11.      The method of claim 10, wherein step a) comprises the substeps of:
            al) providing a tube having opposite first and second ends which are open;
            a2) pressing to close the first open end; and
25          a3) welding to seal the closed first end.
   12.      The method of claim 10, wherein step a) comprises the substeps of:
            al) providing a foil;
            a2) folding the foil; and
30          a3) welding the folded foil along at least part of its edge(s).
   13.      The method of claim 10, wherein the partially sealed tube is heated before step b).
   14.      The method of claim 10, wherein a substantial length of tube sealed on its first end is
35 provided on a reel, the pressurizing gas is introduced into the length of tube while on the reel, and
                                                      -46-

   the buffer bag is formed by cutting an end segment from the length of tube and welding it to form a
   seal.
   15.     A method of manufacturing the gas buffer of claim 9, comprising the steps of:
 5          a) providing a pressure chamber filled with pressurized gas;
           b) introducing a tube having at least one open end into the pressure chamber;
            c) filling the tube with pressurized gas;
            d) welding to seal the at least one open end of the tube; and
            e) removing the sealed and pressurized tube from the pressure chamber.
10
   16.     The method of claim 15, wherein both ends of the tube are open when it is introduced into
   the pressure chamber and wherein both open ends are sealed by welding.
   17.     The method of any of claims 10, 14 or 15, further comprising the step of arranging the
15 buffer bag in a buffer housing and allowing the buffer bag to expand to lower the gas pressure in
   the buffer bag to a desired value.
   18.     A machine for manufacturing a gas buffer using the method of claim 10, comprising:
            - a support for a tube;
20          - upper and lower welding heads which are movable between an open position and a closed
   position;
            - at least one pair of upper and lower clamps;
            - a source of pressurized gas; and
            - a needle for introducing the pressurized gas into the tube.
25
   19.     The machine of claim 18, wherein the at least one pair of upper and lower clamps includes
   left upper and lower clamps arranged on one side of the upper and lower welding heads and right
   upper and lower clamps arranged on an opposite side of the welding heads, wherein the right upper
   and lower clamps include a recess for accommodating the needle.
30
   20.     The machine of claim 18 or 19, further including cooling clamps which are movable
   towards a welding area after the welding heads have moved from their closed to their open position
   and away from the welding area before the welding heads move from their open to their closed
   position.
                                                      -47-

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
