ABSTRACT
        Systems and methods are described for radio frequency (RF) calibration in a
multiple antenna system (MAS) with multi-user (MU) transmissions ("MU-MAS")
exploiting uplink/downlink channel reciprocity. The RF calibration is used to compute
open-loop downlink precoder based on uplink channel estimates, thereby avoiding
feedback overhead for channel state information as in closed-loop schemes. For
example, a MU-MAS of one embodiment comprises a wireless cellular network with
one or multiple beacon stations, multiple client devices and multiple distributed
antennas operating cooperatively via precoding methods to eliminate inter-client
interference and increase network capacity.
                                          59

                <   00
                      <                                    -D
              *                                                                                 UI<C.
4t  ::  C               I   L   I.O
                                    UU
   IZD            X       x                                                                  co
                                                                                    C0:
                               -          -          -                    -
         Lc'j
                                            -                                                                    (.0
                              C      -<                                               -- -- --        -------
                              Co                   cy')
                                                                C.0D
                                                                                           C.0)
                                                 C)~
                                        *               -i
       CD CD                                                                                                  C
                                                           --    -    - -   -----
                                              -~                                                              LI
                                                             L-------             -       --           D

        SYSTEMS AND METHODS FOR RADIO FREQUENCY CALIBRATION
  EXPLOITING CHANNEL RECIPROCITY IN DISTRIBUTED INPUT DISTRIBUTED
                      OUTPUT WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS
RELATED APPLICATIONS
[0001]      This application may be related to the following co-pending U.S. Patent
Applications:
[0002]      U.S. Application Serial No. 13/797,984, entitled "Systems and Methods for
exploiting inter-cell multiplexing gain in wireless systems via distributed input
distributed output technology"
[0003]      U.S. Application Serial No. 13/797,971, entitled "Systems and Methods for
exploiting inter-cell multiplexing gain in wireless systems via distributed input
distributed output technology"
[0004]      U.S. Application Serial No. 13/797,950, entitled "Systems and Methods for
exploiting inter-cell multiplexing gain in wireless systems via distributed input
distributed output technology"
[0005]      U.S. Application Serial No. 13/633,702, entitled "Systems and Methods for
wireless backhaul in distributed-input distributed-output wireless systems"
[0006]      U.S. Application Serial No. 13/475,598, entitled "Systems and Methods to
enhance spatial diversity in distributed-input distributed-output wireless systems"
[0007]      U.S. Application Serial No. 13/233,006, entitled "System and Methods for
planned evolution and obsolescence of multiuser spectrum"
[0008]      U.S. Application Serial No. 13/232,996, entitled "Systems and Methods to
Exploit Areas of Coherence in Wireless Systems"
[0009]      U.S. Application Serial No. 13/464,648, entitled "System and Methods to
Compensate for Doppler Effects in Distributed-Input Distributed Output Systems"
[0010]      U.S. Application Serial No. 12/917,257, entitled "Systems And Methods
To Coordinate Transmissions In Distributed Wireless Systems Via User Clustering"
[0011]      U.S.    Application    Serial   No.    12/802,988,    entitled  "Interference
Management, Handoff, Power Control And Link Adaptation In Distributed-Input
Distributed-Output (DIDO) Communication Systems"
[0012]      U.S. Application Serial No. 12/802,974, entitled "System And Method For
Managing Inter-Cluster Handoff Of Clients Which Traverse Multiple DIDO Clusters"
[0013]      U.S. Application Serial No. 12/802,989, entitled "System And Method For
                                             1

Managing Handoff Of A Client Between Different Distributed-Input-Distributed-Output
(DIDO) Networks Based On Detected Velocity Of The Client"
[0014]      U.S. Application Serial No. 12/802,958, entitled "System And Method For
Power Control And Antenna Grouping In A Distributed-Input-Distributed-Output
(DIDO) Network"
[0015]      U.S. Application Serial No. 12/802,975, entitled "System And Method For
Link adaptation In DIDO Multicarrier Systems"
[0016]      U.S. Application Serial No. 12/802,938, entitled "System And Method For
DIDO Precoding Interpolation In Multicarrier Systems"
[0017]      U.S. Application Serial No. 12/630,627, entitled "System and Method For
Distributed Antenna Wireless Communications"
[0018]      U.S. Patent No. 8,170,081, issued May 1, 2012, entitled "System And
Method For Adjusting DIDO Interference Cancellation Based On Signal Strength
Measurements"
[0019]      U.S. Patent No. 8,160,121, issued Apr. 17, 2012, entitled, "System and
Method For Distributed Input-Distributed Output Wireless Communications";
[0020]      U.S. Patent No. 7,885,354, issued Feb. 8, 2011, entitled "System and
Method For Enhancing Near Vertical Incidence Skywave ("NVIS") Communication
Using Space-Time Coding."
[0021]      U.S. Patent No. 7,711,030, issued May 4, 2010, entitled "System and
Method For Spatial-Multiplexed Tropospheric Scatter Communications";
[0022]      U.S. Patent No. 7,636,381, issued Dec. 22, 2009, entitled "System and
Method for Distributed Input Distributed Output Wireless Communication";
[0023]      U.S. Patent No. 7,633,994, issued Dec. 15, 2009, entitled "System and
Method for Distributed Input Distributed Output Wireless Communication";
[0024]      U.S. Patent No. 7,599,420, issued Oct. 6, 2009, entitled "System and
Method for Distributed Input Distributed Output Wireless Communication";
[0025]      U.S. Patent No. 7,418,053, issued Aug. 26, 2008, entitled "System and
Method for Distributed Input Distributed Output Wireless Communication";
BACKGROUND
[0026]      In the last three decades, the wireless cellular market has experienced
increasing number of subscribers worldwide as well as demand for better services
shifting from voice to web-browsing and real-time HD video streaming. This
                                           2

increasing demand for services that requires higher data rate, lower latency and
improved reliability has driven a radical evolution of wireless technologies through
different standards. Beginning from the first generation analog AMPS and TACS (for
voice service) in the early 1980s, to 2G and 2.5G digital GSM, IS-95 and GPRS (for
voice and data services) in the 1990s, to 3G with UMTS and CDMA2000 (for web
browsing) in the early 2000s, and finally LTE (for high-speed internet connectivity)
currently under deployment in different countries worldwide.
[0027]       Long-term evolution (LTE) is the standard developed by the 3 rd generation
partnership project (3GPP) for fourth generation (4G) wireless cellular systems. LTE
can achieve theoretically up to 4x improvement in downlink spectral efficiency over
previous 3G and HSPA+ standards by exploiting the spatial components of wireless
channels via multiple-input multiple-output (MIMO) technology. LTE-Advanced is the
evolution of LTE, currently under standardization, that will enable theoretically up to
8x increase in spectral efficiency over 3G standard systems.
[0028]       Despite this technology evolution, it is very likely that in the next three
years wireless carriers will not be able to satisfy the growing demand for data rate
due to raising market penetration of smartphones and tables, offering more data
hungry applications like real-time HD video streaming, video conferencing and
gaming. It has been estimated that capacity of wireless networks will grow 5x in
Europe from 2011 to 2015 due to improved technologies such as LTE as well as
more spectrum made available by the government [25]. For example, the FCC is
planning to free 500MHz of spectrum by 2020 (of which 300MHz will be available by
2015) to promote wireless Internet connectivity throughout the US as part of the
National Broadband Plan [24]. Unfortunately, the forecast for capacity usage by 2015
is 23x over 2011 in Europe [25] and similar spectrum deficit is expected to happen in
the US by 2014 [26-27]. As a result of this data crunch, revenues for wireless carriers
may drop below their CAPEX and OPEX with potentially devastating impact on the
wireless market [28].
[0029]       As capacity gains offered by LTE deployment and increased spectrum
availability are insufficient, the only foreseeable solution to prevent this upcoming
spectrum crisis is to promote new wireless technologies [29]. LTE-Advanced (the
evolution of LTE standard) promises additional gains over LTE through more
sophisticated MIMO techniques and by increasing the density of "small cells" [30].
However, there are limits to the number of cells that can fit a certain area without
                                             3

incurring interference issues or increasing the complexity of the backhaul to allow
coordination across cells.
[0030]       One promising technology that will provide orders of magnitude increase
in spectral efficiency over wireless links without the limitations of conventional cellular
systems is distributed-input distributed-output (DIDO) technology (see Related
Patents and Applications referenced in [0002-0020] above. The present invention
describes DIDO technology employed in the context of cellular systems (such as LTE
or LTE-Advanced), both within and without the constraints of cellular standards, to
provide significant performance benefits over conventional wireless systems. We
begin with an overview on MIMO and review different spatial processing techniques
employed by LTE and LTE-Advanced. Then we show how the present invention
provides significant capacity gains for next generation wireless communications
systems compared to prior art approaches.
[0031]       MIMO employs multiple antennas at the transmitter and receiver sides of
the wireless link and uses spatial processing to improve link reliability via diversity
techniques (i.e., diversity gain) or provide higher data rate via multiplexing schemes
(i.e., multiplexing gain) [1-2]. Diversity gain is a measure of enhanced robustness to
signal fading, resulting in higher signal-to-noise ratio (SNR) for fixed data rate.
Multiplexing gain is obtained by exploiting additional spatial degrees of freedom of
the wireless channel to increase data rate for fixed probability of error. Fundamental
tradeoffs between diversity and multiplexing in MIMO systems were described in [3
4].
[0032]       In practical MIMO systems, link adaptation techniques can be used to
switch    dynamically between       diversity and    multiplexing   schemes    based    on
propagation conditions [20-23]. For example, link adaptation schemes described in
[22-23] showed that beamforming or Orthogonal Space-Time Block Codes (OSTBC)
are preferred schemes in low SNR regime or channels characterized by low spatial
selectivity. By contrast, spatial multiplexing can provide significant gain in data rate
for channels with high SNR and high spatial selectivity. For example, Figure 1 shows
that cells can be divided in two regions: i) multiplexing region 101, characterized by
high SNR (due to proximity to the cell tower or base station) where the spatial
degrees of freedom of the channel can be exploited via spatial multiplexing to
increase data rate; ii) diversity region 102 or cell-edge, where spatial multiplexing
techniques are not as effective and diversity methods can be used to improve SNR
                                              4

and coverage (yielding only marginal increase in data rate). Note that the circle of the
macrocell 103 in Figure 1 labels the shaded center of the circle as the "multiplexing
region" and the unshaded outer region of the circle as the "diversity region". This
same region designation is used throughout Figures 1,3-5, where the shaded region
is the "multiplexing region" and the unshaded region is the "diversity region", even if
they are not labeled. For example, the same designation is used for the small-cell
104 in Figure 1.
[0033]       The LTE (Release 8) and LTE-Advanced (Release 10) standards define a
set of ten transmission modes (TM) including either diversity or multiplexing schemes
[35,85-86]:
     *  Mode 1: Single antenna port, port 0
     *  Mode 2: Transmit diversity
     *  Mode 3: Large-delay cyclic delay diversity (CDD), extension of open-loop
        spatial multiplexing for single-user MIMO (SU-MIMO)
     *  Mode 4: Closed-loop spatial multiplexing for SU-MIMO
     e  Mode 5: Multi-user MIMO (MU-MIMO)
     e  Mode 6: Closed-loop spatial multiplexing, using a single transmission layer[
     e  Mode 7: Single antenna port, UE-specific RS (port 5)[
     *  Mode 8: Single or dual-layer transmission with UE-specific RS (ports 7 and/or
        8)
     e  Mode 9: Single or up to eight layers closed-loop SU-MIMO (added in Release
        10)
     e  Mode 10: Multi-layer closed-loop SU-MIMO, up to eight layers (added in
        Release 10)
[0034]       Hereafter we describe diversity and multiplexing schemes commonly used
in cellular systems as well as specific methods employed in LTE as outlined above,
and compare them against techniques that are unique for DIDO communications. We
first identify two types of transmission methods: i) intra-cell methods (exploiting
micro-diversity in cellular systems), using multiple antennas to improve link reliability
or data rate within one cell; ii) inter-cell methods (exploiting macro-diversity), allowing
cooperation between cells to provide additional diversity or multiplexing gains. Then
we describe how the present invention provides significant advantages (including
spectral capacity gain) over prior art.
                                               5

1. Intra-cell Diversity Methods
[0035]      Intra-cell diversity methods operate within one cell and are designed to
increase SNR in scenarios with poor link quality (e.g., users at the cell-edge subject
to high pathloss from the central tower or base station). Typical diversity schemes
employed in MIMO communications are beamforming [5-11] and orthogonal space
time block codes (OSTBC) [12-15].
[0036]      Diversity techniques supported by the LTE standard are transmit diversity,
closed-loop rank-1 precoding and dedicated beamforming [31-35]. Transmit diversity
scheme supports two or four transmit antennas over the downlink (DL) and only two
antennas for the uplink (UL). In the DL channel, it is implemented via space
frequency block codes (SFBC) combined with frequency-switched transmit diversity
(FSTD) to exploit space as well as frequency selectivity [31]. Rank-1 precoding
creates a dedicated beam to one user based on quantized weights selected from a
codebook (pre-designed using limited feedback techniques [36-42]) to reduce the
feedback overhead from the user equipment (UE) to the base transceiver station
(BTS 105 in Figure 1, or eNodeB using LTE terminology). Alternatively, dedicated
beamforming weights can be computed based on UE-specific reference signal.
2. Intra-cell Multiplexing Methods
[0037]      MIMO multiplexing schemes [1,19] provide gain in data rate in high SNR
regime and in scenarios with enough spatial degrees of freedom in the channel (e.g.,
rich multipath environments with high spatial selectivity [16-18]) to support multiple
parallel data streams over wireless links.
[0038]      The LTE standard supports different multiplexing techniques for single
user MIMO (SU-MIMO) and multi-user MIMO (MU-MIMO) [31]. SU-MIMO schemes
have two modes of operation: i) closed-loop, exploiting feedback information from the
UE to select the DL precoding weights; ii) open-loop, used when feedback from the
UE is unavailable or the UE is moving too fast to support closed-loop schemes.
Closed-loop schemes use a set of pre-computed weights selected from a codebook.
These weights can support two or four transmit antennas as well as one to four
parallel data streams (identified by number of layers of the precoding matrix),
depending on the UE request and decision of the scheduler at the BTS. LTE
Advanced will include new transmission modes up to MIMO 8x8 to provide up to 8x
increase in spectral efficiency via spatial processing [62].
                                             6

[0039]      MU-MIMO schemes are defined for both UL and DL channels [31,50]. In
the UL, every UE sends a reference signal to the BTS (consisting of cyclically shifted
version of the Zadoff-Chu sequence [33]). Those reference signals are orthogonal,
such that the BTS can estimate the channel from all UEs and demodulate data
streams from multiple UEs simultaneously via spatial processing. In the DL,
precoding weights for different UEs are selected from codebooks based on the
feedback from the UEs and the scheduler (similarly to closed-loop SU-MIMO
schemes) and only rank-1 precoding is allowed for every UE (e.g., each UE receives
only one data stream).
[0040]      Intra-cell multiplexing techniques employing spatial processing provide
satisfactory performance only in propagation scenarios characterized by high SNR
(or SINR) and high spatial selectivity (multipath-rich environments). For conventional
macrocells, these conditions may be harder to achieve as BTSs are typically far from
the UEs and the distribution of the SINR is typically centered at low values [43]. In
these scenarios, MU-MIMO schemes or diversity techniques may be better choices
than SU-MIMO with spatial multiplexing.
[0041]      Other techniques and network solutions contemplated by LTE-Advanced
to achieve additional multiplexing gain (without requiring spatial processing through
MIMO) are: carrier aggregation (CA) and small cells. CA [30,44-47] combines
different portions of the RF spectrum to increase signal bandwidth up to 100MHz
[85], thereby yielding higher data rates. Intra-band CA combines different bands
within the same portion of the spectrum. As such it can use the same RF chain for
multiple channels, and multiple data streams are recombined in software. Inter-band
CA requires different RF chains to operate at different portions of the spectrum as
well as signal processing to recombine multiple data streams from different bands.
[0042]      The key idea of small cells [30,47] is to reduce the size of conventional
macro-cells, thereby allowing higher cell density and larger throughput per area of
coverage. Small-cells are typically deployed through inexpensive access points 106
with low power transmission (as depicted in Figure 1) as opposed to tall and
expensive cell towers used for macro-cells. Two types of small cells are defined in
LTE-Advanced: i) metrocells, for outdoor installation in urban areas, supporting up 32
to 64 simultaneous users; and ii) femtocells, for indoor use, can serve at most 4
active users. One advantage of small cells is that the density of UEs close to the BTS
is statistically higher, yielding better SNR that can be exploited via spatial
                                            7

multiplexing to increase data rate. There are, however, still many concerns about
practical deployment of small cells, particularly related to the backhaul. In fact, it may
be challenging to reach BTSs of every small cell via high-speed wireline connections,
especially considering the high density of metrocells and femtocells in a given
coverage area. While using Line-Of-Sight (LOS) backhaul to small cells can often be
implemented inexpensively, compared to wireline backhaul, there often are no
practical LOS backhaul paths available for preferred small cell BTS placements, and
there is no general solution for Non-Line-Of-Sight (NLOS) wireless backhaul to small
cell BTSs. Moreover, small cells require complex real-time coordination across BTSs
to avoid      interference   as    in self-organized   networks  (SON)     [30,51-52] and
sophisticated cell-planning tools (even more complex than conventional cellular
systems, due to higher density of small cells) to plan their optimal location [48,49].
Finally, handoff is a limiting factor for small cells deployment, particularly in scenarios
where groups of subscribers switch cells at the same time, causing large amount of
handoff overhead over the backhaul, resulting in high latency and unavoidable
dropped calls.
[0043]       It can be trivially shown there is no practical general solution that enables
small cells to co-exist with macrocells and achieve optimal, or necessarily even
improved, throughput. Among the myriad of such unsolvable situations is when a
small cell is located such that its UEs unavoidably overlap with a macrocell
transmission and the small cell and the macrocell use the same frequencies to reach
their respective UEs. Clearly in this situation, the macrocell transmission will interfere
with the small cell transmission. While there may be some approach that mitigates
such interference for particular circumstances of a particular macrocell, a particular
small cell, the particular macrocell and small cell UEs involved, the throughput
requirements of those UEs, and environmental circumstances, etc., any such
approach would be highly specific, not only to the static plan of the macrocell and
small cell, but to the dynamic circumstances of a particular time interval. Typically,
the full throughput of the channel to each UE cannot be achieved.
3. Inter-cell Diversity Methods
[0044]       In a heterogeneous network (HetNet) [90] where macro-cells coexist with
small-cells (e.g., metro-cells, pico-cells and femto-cells) it is necessary to employ
different techniques to eliminate inter-cell interference. While HetNets provide better
                                               8

coverage through small-cells, the gains in data rate are only marginal since they
require sharing the spectrum through different forms of frequency reuse patterns or
using spatial processing to remove interference rather than achieve multiplexing gain.
The LTE standards employ inter-cell interference coordination (ICIC) schemes to
remove interference particularly at the cell-edge. There are two types of ICIC
methods: cell-autonomous and coordinated between BTSs.
[0045]       Cell-autonomous ICIC schemes avoid inter-cell interference via different
frequency reuse patterns depicted in Figure 2, where the hexagons represent the
cells and the colors refer to different carrier frequencies. Three types of schemes are
considered in LTE: i) full frequency reuse (or reuse 1), where the cells utilize all the
available bandwidth as in Figure 2a, thereby producing high interference at the cell
edge; ii) hard frequency reuse (HFR), where every cell is assigned with a different
frequency band as in Figure 2b (with typical reuse factor of 3) to avoid interference
across adjacent cells; iii) fractional frequency reuse (FFR), where the center of the
cell is assigned with the whole available bandwidth as in frequency reuse 1, whereas
the cell-edge operates in HFR mode to mitigate inter-cell interference as in Figure
2c.
[0046]       Coordinated ICIC methods enable cooperation across BTSs to improve
performance of wireless networks. These techniques are a special case of methods
taught in Related Patents and Applications [0002-0022] to enable cooperation across
wireless transceivers in the general case of distributed antenna networks for multiple
UEs all using the same frequency simultaneously. Cooperation across BTSs to
remove inter-cell interference for the particular case of cellular systems for a single
UE at a given time at a given frequency was described in [53]. The system in [53]
divides every macrocell into multiple subcells and enables soft-handoff across
subcells by employing dedicated beamforming from coordinated BTSs to improve link
robustness at a single UE at a single frequency, as it moves along the subcell
boundaries.
[0047]       More recently, this class of cooperative wireless cellular networks has
been defined in the MIMO literature as "network MIMO" or "coordinated multi-point"
(CoMP) systems. Theoretical analysis and simulated results on the benefits obtained
in network MIMO by eliminating inter-cell interference are presented in [54-61]. The
key advantage of network MIMO and CoMP is to remove inter-cell interference in the
overlapping regions of the cells denoted as "interference region" 301 in Figure 3 for
                                              9

the case of macro-cells 302.
[0048]       CoMP networks are actively becoming part of LTE-Advanced standard as
a solution to mitigate inter-cell interference in next generation cellular networks [62
64]. Three CoMP solutions have been proposed so far in the standard to remove
inter-cell interference: i) coordinated scheduling/beamforming (CS/CB), where the UE
receives its data stream from only one BTS via beamfoming and coordination across
BTSs is enabled to remove interference via beamforming or scheduling techniques;
ii) dynamic cell selection (DCS) that chooses dynamically the cell for every UE on a
per-subframe basis, transparently to the UE; iii) joint transmission (JT), where data
for given UE is jointly transmitted from multiple BTSs to improve received signal
quality and eliminate inter-cell interference. CoMP-JT yields larger gains than CoMP
CS/CB at the expenses of higher overhead in the backhaul to enable coordination
across BTSs.
4. Inter-cell Multiplexing Methods
[0049]       Prior art multi-user wireless systems add complexity and introduce
limitations to wireless networks which result in a situation where a given user's
experience (e.g. available throughput, latency, predictability, reliability) is impacted by
the utilization of the spectrum by other users in the area. Given the increasing
demands for aggregate throughput within wireless spectrum shared by multiple
users, and the increasing growth of applications that can rely upon multi-user
wireless network reliability, predictability and low latency for a given user, it is
apparent that prior art multi-user wireless technology suffers from many limitations.
Indeed, with the limited availability of spectrum suitable for particular types of
wireless communications (e.g. at wavelengths that are efficient in penetrating building
walls), prior art wireless techniques will be insufficient to meet the increasing
demands for bandwidth that is reliable, predictable and low-latency.
[0050]       Prior art intra-cell diversity and multiplexing methods can only provide up
to a theoretical 4x increase in throughput over current cellular networks for LTE
(through MIMO 4x4) or at most a theoretical 8x for LTE-Advanced (through MIMO
8x8), although higher orders of MIMO achieve diminishing improvements                    in
increasing throughput in a given multipath environment, particularly as UEs (such as
smartphones) get smaller and more constrained in terms of antenna placement.
Other marginal throughput gains in next generation cellular systems may be obtained
                                               10

from additional spectrum allocation (e.g., FCC national broadband plan), exploited via
carrier aggregation techniques, and more dense distribution of BTSs via small cell
networks and SON [30,46]. All the above techniques, however, still rely heavily on
spectrum or time sharing techniques to enable multi-user transmissions, since the
spectral efficiency gains obtained by spatial processing is limited.
[0051]       While prior art inter-cell methods (e.g., network MIMO and CoMP systems
[53-64]) can     improve    reliability of cellular networks by eliminating      inter-cell
interference, their capacity gains are only marginal. In fact, those systems constrain
power transmitted from every BTS to be contained within the cell boundaries and are
only effective to eliminate inter-cell interference due to power leakage across cells.
Figure 3 shows one example of cellular networks with three BTSs, each one
characterized by its own coverage area or cell. The power transmitted from each BTS
is constrained to limit the amount of interference across cells, depicted in Figure 3 by
the areas where the cells overlap. As these systems operate in the low SINR regime
at the interference region, their gains in spectral efficiency is only marginal, similarly
to intra-cell schemes for SU-MIMO. To truly obtain significant capacity gains in inter
cell cooperative networks, power constraints limited to cell-boundaries must be
relaxed and spatial multiplexing techniques should be enabled throughout the cells
where the SINR is high (not just at the cell-edge with poor SINR performance as in
prior art approaches).
[0052]       Figure 4 shows the case where the power transmitted from the three
BTSs 401 all transmitting simultaneously at the same frequency is increased, thereby
allowing a higher level of interference throughout the cell 402. In prior art systems,
such interference would result in incoherent interference (disrupting UE signal
reception) throughout the interfering areas of the BTSs, but this interference is
actually exploited in the present invention through novel inter-cell multiplexing
methods using spatial         processing to create      areas of coherent interference
(enhancing UE signal reception) around every UE, thereby providing simultaneous
non-interfering data streams to every UE and increasing their SINR throughout the
cell.
[0053]       The scenario depicted in Figure 4 is described in [89] for the particular
case of cellular systems. The system in [89] consists of several BTSs identifying
different cells that are grouped into clusters. Cooperation is allowed only across
BTSs from adjacent cells within the same clusters. In this case it was shown that, as
                                             11

the power transmitted from the BTSs increases, there is a limit to the capacity (or
spectral efficiency) achievable through inter-cell multiplexing methods. In fact, as the
transmit power increases, the out-of-cluster interference increases proportionally,
producing a saturation regime for the SINR and consequently for the capacity. As a
consequence of this effect, the system in [89] can theoretically achieve at most 3x
gain in capacity (i.e., at most three cells within the cluster) and any additional cell
included in the cluster would reduce capacity due to increased out-of-cluster
interference (e.g., the case of 21 cells per cluster yields lower capacity than the case
of 3 cells per cluster). We observe that the fundamental capacity limit in [89] holds
because the BTSs are constrained to predefined locations, as in cellular systems,
and multiplexing gain is achieved by increasing transmit power from the BTSs. To
obtain theoretically unlimited capacity gain via inter-cell multiplexing methods, the
constraint on the BTS placement must be removed, allowing the BTSs to be placed
anywhere is convenient.
[0054]      It would thus be desirable to provide a system that achieves orders of
magnitudes increase in spectral efficiency exploiting inter-cell multiplexing gain via
spatial processing by removing any constraint on the power transmitted from
distributed BTSs 501 as well as on their placement. Figure 5 shows one example
where many additional access points 502 are added to deliberately increase the level
of incoherent interference throughout the cell 503, that is exploited in the present
invention to generate areas of coherent interference around UEs, thereby yielding
theoretically unlimited inter-cell multiplexing gain. The additional access points are
placed serendipitously wherever it is convenient and are not constrained to any
specific cell planning, as in cellular systems described in prior art. In an exemplary
embodiment of the invention, the serendipitous access points are distributed-input
distributed-output (DIDO) access points and the inter-cell multiplexing gain is
achieved through DIDO methods described in [0014-0020] and [77-78]. In another
embodiment, the serendipitous access points are low power transceivers, similar to
inexpensive Wi-Fi access points or small-cells [30,47], thereby providing smaller
areas of coverage overlapping throughout the macro-cell as shown in Figure 5.
[0055]      We observe that prior art inter-cell methods [53-64] avoid incoherent
interference by intentionally limiting the transmit power from every BTS as in Figure
3 and eliminate residual inter-cell interference (on the overlapping areas between
cells) via spatial processing, thereby providing improved SINR and inter-cell diversity
                                             12

gain. We further observe that [89] constrains BTS placement to cell planning while
increasing transmit power, thereby limiting the achievable capacity due to out-of
cluster interference, and as such it is still limited by interference. By contrast, the
present invention exploits incoherent interference to create coherent interference
around the UEs, by transmitting higher power from every BTS serendipitously placed,
thereby improving signal quality at the UE that is necessary condition to obtain inter
cell multiplexing qain throughout the cell via spatial processing. As such, the systems
described in prior art cannot be used to achieve unlimited inter-cell multiplexing gain
via spatial processing, since there is not sufficient SINR throughout the cell (due to
the limited transmit power from the BTSs or the out-of-cluster interference when
transmit power is increased) to enable inter-cell multiplexing methods as in the
present invention. Moreover, the systems described in prior art would be inoperable
to achieve the multiplexing gain achieved in the present invention depicted in
Figures 4-5, given that prior art systems were designed to avoid inter-cell
interference within the diversity regions shown in the shaded area of Figure 1 and
Figures 3-5 rather than exploit inter-cell interference in the multiplexing regions to
obtain inter-cell multiplexing gain as achieved in the present invention.
[0056]      According to one example embodiment there is provided a multiple
antenna system (MAS) with multiuser (MU) transmissions ("MU-MAS") that employs
radio frequency (RF) calibration and exploits reciprocity between downlink (DL) and
uplink (UL) channels, comprising of multiple distributed antennas or wireless
transceiver stations using spatial processing for concurrently communicating with at
least one of a plurality of client devices and one or multiple beacon stations, wherein
the one or multiple beacon stations are used for RF calibration to compensate for
impairments of a plurality of RF chains of the distributed antennas.
[0057]       It is  acknowledged       that the  terms   "comprise",   "comprises"   and
"comprising" may, under varying jurisdictions, be attributed with either an exclusive or
an inclusive meaning.      For the purpose of this specification, and unless otherwise
noted, these terms are intended to have an inclusive meaning - i.e., they will be
taken to mean an inclusion of the listed components which the use directly
references, and possibly also of other non-specified components or elements.
[0058]       Reference to any document in this specification does not constitute an
admission that it is prior art, validly combinable with other documents or that it forms
part of the common general knowledge.
                                             13

BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
[0059]      A better understanding of the present invention can be obtained from the
following detailed description in conjunction with the drawings, in which:
[0060]      FIG. 1 illustrates multiplexing and diversity regions for a macro-cell and a
small-cell.
[0061]      FIG. 2a illustrates full frequency reuse pattern in conventional cellular
systems.
[0062]      FIG. 2b illustrates hard frequency reuse (HFR) pattern in conventional
cellular systems.
[0063]      FIG. 2c illustrates fractional frequency reuse (FFR) pattern in conventional
cellular systems.
[0064]      FIG. 3 illustrates the interference region between adjacent macro-cells.
[0065]      FIG. 4 illustrates multiple BTSs transmitting at higher power to increase
the level of interference between cells.
[0066]      FIG. 5 illustrates one example where many access points are added to
deliberately increase the level of incoherent interference throughout the cell.
[0067]      FIG. 6 illustrates the network elements in LTE networks.
[0068]      FIG. 7a illustrates the LTE frame structure for FDD operation.
[0069]      FIG. 7b illustrates the LTE frame structure for TDD operation.
[0070]      FIG. 8a illustrates the LTE "resource elements" and "resource blocks" in
the OFDM DL channel.
[0071]      FIG. 8b illustrates the LTE "resource elements" and "resource blocks" in
the SC-FDMA UL channel.
[0072]      FIG. 9 illustrates one embodiment of a multi-user (MU) multiple antenna
system (MAS), or MU-MAS, consisting of antenna-clusters and user-clusters.
[0073]      FIG. 10 illustrates one embodiment of a MU-MAS wherein a different cell
ID is associated to every antenna-subcluster.
[0074]      FIG. 11 illustrates one embodiment of a MU-MAS wherein the same set of
cell IDs are assigned to the antenna-subclusters with given repetition pattern.
[0075]      FIG. 12 illustrates the SNR distribution for practical deployment of MU
MAS systems in downtown San Francisco, CA, with sparsely and densely populated
areas.
                                              14

[0076]      FIG. 13 illustrates one embodiment of a MU-MAS consisting of CP,
distributed BTSs and multiple UEs.
[0077]      FIG. 14 illustrates one embodiment of a MU-MAS consisting of CP,
distributed BTSs, multiple devices and one UE connected to the devices as well as
the BTSs via network interfaces.
[0078]      FIG. 15 illustrates one embodiment of a MU-MAS wherein the UE is in a
case that physically attaches to the user device.
[0079]      FIG. 16 illustrates one embodiment of a MU-MAS wherein the distributed
antennas communicate to the UEs via the UL and DL channels.
[0080]      FIG. 17 illustrates one embodiment of a MU-MAS wherein the distributed
antennas communicate to the beacon via the UL and DL channels.
[0081]      FIG. 18 illustrates the symbol error rate (SER) performance of the MU
MAS with linear precoding with/without RF mismatch and with/without RF calibration.
[0082]      FIG. 19 illustrates the symbol error rate (SER) performance of the MU
MAS with linear and non-linear precoding with/without RF mismatch and with/without
RF calibration.
[0083]      FIG. 20a, b illustrates the 4-QAM constellations at the UEs (before
modulo operation) when applying THP non-linear precoding.
 DETAILED DESCRIPTION
 [0084]     One solution to overcome many of the above prior art limitations is an
 embodiment of Distributed-Input        Distributed-Output   (DIDO) technology. DIDO
 technology is described in the following patents and patent applications, all of which
 are assigned the assignee of the present patent and are incorporated by reference.
 These patents and applications are sometimes referred to collectively herein as the
 "Related Patents and Applications."
[0085]      U.S. Application Serial No. 13/633,702, entitled "Systems and Methods for
wireless backhaul in distributed-input distributed-output wireless systems"
 [0086]     U.S. Application Serial No. 13/475,598, entitled "Systems and Methods to
 enhance spatial diversity in distributed-input distributed-output wireless systems"
 [0087]     U.S. Application Serial No. 13/233,006, entitled "System and Methods for
 planned evolution and obsolescence of multiuser spectrum"
 [0088]     U.S. Application Serial No. 13/232,996, entitled "Systems and Methods to
 Exploit Areas of Coherence in Wireless Systems"
                                            15

[0089]     U.S. Application Serial No. 13/464,648, entitled "System and Methods to
Compensate for Doppler Effects in Distributed-Input Distributed Output Systems"
[0090]     U.S. Application Serial No. 12/917,257, entitled "Systems And Methods
To Coordinate Transmissions In Distributed Wireless Systems Via User Clustering"
[0091]     U.S.   Application    Serial   No.   12/802,988,    entitled "Interference
Management, Handoff, Power Control And Link Adaptation In Distributed-Input
Distributed-Output (DIDO) Communication Systems"
[0092]     U.S. Application Serial No. 12/802,974, entitled "System And Method For
Managing Inter-Cluster Handoff Of Clients Which Traverse Multiple DIDO Clusters"
[0093]     U.S. Application Serial No. 12/802,989, entitled "System And Method For
Managing Handoff Of A Client Between Different Distributed-Input-Distributed
Output (DIDO) Networks Based On Detected Velocity Of The Client"
[0094]     U.S. Application Serial No. 12/802,958, entitled "System And Method For
Power Control And Antenna Grouping In A Distributed-Input-Distributed-Output
(DIDO) Network"
[0095]     U.S. Application Serial No. 12/802,975, entitled "System And Method For
Link adaptation In DIDO Multicarrier Systems"
[0096]     U.S. Application Serial No. 12/802,938, entitled "System And Method For
DIDO Precoding Interpolation In Multicarrier Systems"
[0097]     U.S. Application Serial No. 12/630,627, entitled "System and Method For
Distributed Antenna Wireless Communications"
[0098]     U.S. Patent No. 8,170,081, issued May 1, 2012, entitled "System And
Method For Adjusting DIDO Interference Cancellation Based On Signal Strength
Measurements"
[0099]     U.S. Patent No. 8,160,121, issued Apr. 17, 2012, entitled, "System and
Method For Distributed Input-Distributed Output Wireless Communications";
[00100]    U.S. Patent No. 7,885,354, issued Feb. 8, 2011, entitled "System and
Method For Enhancing Near Vertical Incidence Skywave ("NVIS") Communication
Using Space-Time Coding."
[00101]    U.S. Patent No. 7,711,030, issued May 4, 2010, entitled "System and
Method For Spatial-Multiplexed Tropospheric Scatter Communications";
[00102]    U.S. Patent No. 7,636,381, issued Dec. 22, 2009, entitled "System and
Method for Distributed Input Distributed Output Wireless Communication";
                                          16

[00103]    U.S. Patent No. 7,633,994, issued Dec. 15, 2009, entitled "System and
Method for Distributed Input Distributed Output Wireless Communication";
[00104]    U.S. Patent No. 7,599,420, issued Oct. 6, 2009, entitled "System and
Method for Distributed Input Distributed Output Wireless Communication";
[00105]    U.S. Patent No. 7,418,053, issued Aug. 26, 2008, entitled "System and
Method for Distributed Input Distributed Output Wireless Communication";
[00106]    To reduce the size and complexity of the present patent application, the
disclosure of some of the Related Patents and Applications is not explicitly set forth
below. Please see the Related Patents and Applications for a full description of the
disclosure.
[00107]    The present invention describes system and methods to exploit inter-cell
multiplexing gain in wireless communications networks via spatial processing,
employing a multiple antenna system (MAS) with multi-user (MU) transmissions (a
Multi-User Multiple Antenna System, or "MU-MAS"), where the multiple antennas
are placed serendipitously. In one embodiment of the invention, the power
transmitted from the multiple antennas is constrained to minimize interference at cell
boundaries (as in conventional cellular systems) and spatial processing methods are
employed only to eliminate inter-cell interference. In another embodiment of the
invention, the power transmitted from the multiple antennas is not constrained to any
particular power level (as long as their power emission level falls within the
regulatory, safety or practical (e.g. available power, transmitter and/or antenna
specifications) limits), thereby creating intentionally higher levels of inter-cell
interference throughout the cell that is exploited to achieve inter-cell multiplexing
gain and increase the capacity of the wireless communications network.
[00108]    In one embodiment, the wireless communications network is a cellular
network as in Figures 1 and 3, such as a cellular network based on LTE standards
and the multiple antennas serendipitously deployed are transceivers for macro-cells
or small-cells. In another embodiment of the invention, the wireless communications
network is not constrained to any particular cell layout and the cell boundaries can
extend over      larger areas as    in  Figures 4-5.   For example, the      wireless
communications network could be a wireless local area network (WLAN) with
multiple antennas being WiFi access points, or a mesh, ad-hoc or sensor network,
or a distributed antenna system, or a DIDO system with access points placed
serendipitously without any transmit power constraint. But, such example network
                                          17

structures should not be considered as limiting the general applicability of the
present invention to wireless communications networks. The present invention
applies to any wireless network where multiplexing gain is achieved by transmitting
signals from multiple antennas that interfere where received by multiple UEs so as
to create simultaneous non-interfering data streams to multiple UEs.
[00109]     The MU-MAS consists of a centralized processor, a network and M
transceiver stations (or distributed antennas) communicating wirelessly to N client
devices or UEs. The centralized processor unit receives N streams of information
with different network content (e.g., videos, web-pages, video games, text, voice,
etc., streamed from Web servers or other network sources) intended for different
client devices. Hereafter, we use the term "stream of information" to refer to any
stream of data sent over the            network containing information     that can be
demodulated      or   decoded    as   a   standalone   stream,   according    to  certain
modulation/coding scheme or protocol, to produce any data, including but not limited
to audio, Web and video content. In one embodiment, the stream of information is a
sequence of bits carrying network content that can be demodulated or decoded as a
standalone stream.
[00110]     The centralized processor utilizes precoding transformation to combine
(according to algorithms, such as those described in the Related Patents and
Applications) the N streams of information from the network content into M streams
of bits. By way of example, but not limitation, the precoding transformation can be
linear (e.g., zero-forcing [65], block-diagonalization [66-67], matrix inversion, etc.) or
non-linear (e.g., dirty-paper coding [68-70] or Tomlinson-Harashima precoding [71
72], lattice techniques or trellis precoding [73-74], vector perturbation techniques
[75-76]). Hereafter, we use the term "stream of bits" to refer to any sequence of bits
that does not necessarily contain any useful bit of information and as such cannot be
demodulated or decoded as a standalone stream to retrieve the network content. In
one embodiment of the invention, the stream of bits is the complex baseband signal
produced by the centralized processor and quantized over given number of bits to
be sent to one of the M transceiver stations.
[00111]     Precoding is computed at the centralized processor by employing the
Channel State Information (CSI) and applied over the DL or UL channels to
multiplex data streams to or from multiple users. In one embodiment of the
invention, the centralized processor is aware of the CSI between the distributed
                                            18

antennas and the client devices, and utilizes the CSI to precode data sent over the
DL or UL channels. In the same embodiment, the CSI is estimated at the client
devices and fed back to the distributed antennas. In another embodiment, the DL
CSI is derived at the distributed antennas from the UL-CSI using radio frequency
(RF) calibration and exploiting UL/DL channel reciprocity.
[00112]     In one embodiment, the MU-MAS is a distributed-input distributed-output
(DIDO) system as described in Related Patents and Patent Applications. In another
embodiment, the MU-MAS depicted in Figure 13 consists of:
e           User Equipment (UE) 1301: An RF transceiver for fixed and/or mobile
clients receiving data streams over the downlink (DL) channel from the backhaul and
transmitting data to the backhaul via the uplink (UL) channel
e           Base Transceiver Station (BTS) 1302: The BTSs interface the backhaul
with the wireless channel. BTSs of one embodiment are access points consisting of
Digital-to-Analog Converter (DAC)/Analog-to-Digital Converter (ADC) and radio
frequency (RF) chain to convert the baseband signal to RF. In some cases, the BTS
is a simple RF transceiver equipped with power amplifier/antenna and the RF signal
is carried to the BTS via RF-over-fiber technology as described in Related Patents
and Applications.
0          Controller (CTR) 1303: A CTR is one particular type of BTS designed for
certain specialized features such as transmitting training signals for time/frequency
synchronization    of the   BTSs and/or the       UEs,  receiving/transmitting  control
information from/to the UEs, receiving the channel state information (CSI) or channel
quality information from the UEs. One or multiple CTR stations can be included in
any MU-MAS system. When multiple CTRs are available, the information to or from
those stations can be combined to increase diversity and improve link quality. In one
embodiment, the CSI is received from multiple CTRs via maximum ratio combining
(MRC) techniques to improve CSI demodulation. In another embodiment, the control
information is sent from multiple CTRs via maximum ratio transmission (MRT) to
improve SNR at the receiver side. The scope of the invention is not limited to MRC
or MRT, and any other diversity technique (such as antenna selection, etc.) can be
employed to improve wireless links between CTRs and UEs.
e          Centralized Processor (CP) 1304: The CP is a server interfacing the
Internet or other types of external networks 1306 with the backhaul.           In one
                                          19

embodiment, the CP computes the MU-MAS baseband processing and sends the
waveforms to the distributed BTSs for DL transmission
e            Base Station Network (BSN) 1305: The BSN is the network connecting
the CP to the distributed BTSs carrying information for either the DL or the UL
channel. The BSN is a wireline or a wireless network or a combination of the two.
For example, the BSN is a DSL, cable, optical fiber network, or Line-of-Sight (LOS)
or Non-Line-of-Sight (NLOS) wireless link. Furthermore, the BSN is a proprietary
network, or a local area network, or the Internet.
[00113]         Hereafter we describe     how the above MU-MAS          framework    is
incorporated into the LTE standard for cellular systems (and also non-cellular
system utilizing LTE protocols) to achieve additional gains in spectral efficiency. We
begin with a general overview of LTE framework and modulation techniques
employed in the DL and UL channels. Then we provide a brief description of the
physical layer frame structure and resource allocation in the LTE standard. Finally,
we define MU-MAS precoding methods for downlink (DL) and uplink (UL) channels
in multi-user scenarios using the LTE framework. For the DL schemes, we propose
two solutions: open-loop and closed-loop DIDO schemes.
[00114]         LTE is designed with a flat network architecture (as opposed a
hierarchical architecture from previous cellular standards) to provide: reduced
latency, reduced packet losses via ARQ, reduced call setup time, improved
coverage and throughput via macro-diversity. The network elements in LTE
networks depicted in Figure 6 are per [79]:
    e   GW (gateway): is the router connecting the LTE network to external networks
        (i.e., the Internet). The GW is split into serving gateway (S-GW) 601 that
        terminates the E-UTRAN interface 608 and PDN gateway (P-GW) 602 being
        the interface with external networks. The S-GW and P-GW are part of the so
        called evolved packet core (EPC) 609;
    e   MME      (mobility management     entity)  603:  manages   mobility, security
        parameters and UE identity. The MME is also part of the LTE EPC;
    e   eNodeB (enhanced Node-B) 604: is the base station handling radio resource
        management, user mobility and scheduling;
    " UE (user equipment) 605: is the mobile station.
                                          20

       SS1 and X2 interfaces (606 and 607): are the wireline or wireless backhauls
        between the MME and eNodeBs (S1-MME), the S-GW and eNodeBs (Si-U)
        and between multiple eNodeBs (X2).
[00115]       In one embodiment of the invention, the MU-MAS network is an LTE
network wherein the UE is the LTE UE, the BTS is the LTE eNodeB, the CTR is the
LTE eNodeB or MME, the CP is the LTE GW, the BSN is the S1 or X1 interface.
Hereafter we use the terms distributed antennas, BTS and eNodeB interchangeably
to refer to any base station in MU-MAS, DIDO or LTE systems.
[00116]       The LTE frame has duration of 10msec and consists of ten subframes
as depicted in Figure 7 [33,80]. Every subframe is divided in two slots of duration
0.5msec each. The LTE standards defines two types of frames: i) type 1 for FDD
operation as in Figure 7a), where all subframes are assigned either for the DL or UL
channels; ii) type 2 for TDD operation as in Figure 7b), where, part of the subframes
are assigned to the DL and part to the UL (depending on the selected configuration),
whereas a few subframes are reserved for "special use". These is at least one
special subframe per frame and it consists of three fields: i) downlink pilot time slot
(DwPTS) reserved for DL transmission; ii) guard period (GP); iii) uplink pilot time slot
(UpPTS), for UL transmission.
[00117]       LTE employs orthogonal frequency division multiplexing (OFDM) and
orthogonal frequency division multiple access (OFDMA) modulation for the DL and
single-carrier frequency division multiple access (SC-FDMA) for the UL. The
"resource element" (RE) is the smallest modulation structure in LTE and consists of
one OFDM subcarrier in frequency and one OFDM symbol duration in time, as
shown in Figure 8a for the DL channel and in Figure 8b for the UL channel. The
"resource block" (RB) consists of 12 subcarriers in frequency and one 0.5msec slot
in time (consisting of 3 to 7 OFDM symbol periods, depending on DL versus UL
channel and type of cyclic prefix). Resource blocks for every UE are assigned on a
subframe basis. Since the MU-MAS in the present invention uses spatial processing
to send multiple data streams to different UEs, at every subframe all resource blocks
can be allocated to the same UE. In one embodiment, all or a subset of resource
blocks are allocated to every UE and simultaneous non-interfering data streams are
sent to the UEs via precoding.
[00118]       To setup the link between the BTS and the UEs, the LTE standard
defines the synchronization procedure. The BTS sends two consecutive signals to
                                          21

the   UE:   the primary synchronization      signal (P-SS)   sent over the primary
synchronization channel (PSCH) and the secondary synchronization signal (S-SS)
sent over the secondary synchronization channel (SSCH). Both signals are used by
the UE for time/frequency synchronization as well as to retrieve the cell ID. The P
SS consists of length-63 Zadoff-Chu sequence from which the UE derives the
physical layer ID (0 to 2). The S-SS is an interleaved concatenation of two length-31
binary sequences and is used to derive the cell ID group number (0 to 167). From
the two identity numbers above, the UE derives the physical cell ID (PCI, defined
from 0 to 503).
[00119]       In the MU-MAS system described in the present invention, there are no
cell boundaries as the power transmitted from the BTSs is increased intentionally to
produce interference that is exploited to create areas of coherence around the UEs.
In the present invention, different BTSs are grouped into "antenna-clusters" or
"DIDO-clusters" as defined in related U.S. Patent No. 8,170,081, issued May 1,
2012, entitled "System And Method For Adjusting DIDO Interference Cancellation
Based On Signal Strength Measurements". For example, Figure 9 shows the main
antenna-cluster 901 and one adjacent antenna-cluster 902. Every antenna-cluster
consists of multiple BTSs 903.
[00120]       The cell ID can be used in MU-MAS and DIDO systems to differentiate
the antenna-clusters. In one embodiment of the invention, the same cell ID is
transmitted from all BTSs of the same antenna-cluster via the P-SS and S-SS. In the
same embodiment, different antenna-clusters employ different cell IDs. In another
embodiment of the invention, all BTSs within the same antenna-cluster 1001 are
grouped into "antenna-subclusters" 1003 depicted in Figure 10 with different shaded
colors and a different cell ID 1004 is associated to every antenna-subcluster. In one
embodiment, the antenna-subclusters are defined statically according to predefined
cluster planning or based on GPS positioning information. In another embodiment,
the antenna-subclusters are defined dynamically based on measurements of relative
signal strength between BTSs or GPS positioning information. In a different
embodiment of the invention, a different cell ID is assigned to every area of
coherence (described in related co-pending U.S. Application Serial No. 13/232,996,
entitled "Systems and Methods to Exploit Areas of Coherence in Wireless Systems")
associated to the UEs.
                                          22

[00121]       When all BTSs within the same antenna-cluster or antenna-subcluster
transmit the LTE broadcast channels (e.g., P-SS and S-SS) to the UEs, destructive
interference may degrade the performance of time or frequency synchronization
enabled by the broadcast channel. Destructive interference may be caused by
multipaths generated from spatially distributed BTSs that recombine incoherently at
some UE locations. To avoid or mitigate this effect, in one embodiment of the
invention, only one BTS out of all BTSs within the same antenna-cluster or antenna
subcluster transmits the LTE broadcast channels (e.g., P-SS and S-SS) to all UEs.
In the same embodiment, the BTS that transmits the LTE broadcast channels is
selected to maximize the power received at the UEs over the broadcast channels. In
another embodiment,       only a limited    set of BTSs      is selected to transmit
simultaneously the LTE broadcast channels to all UEs, such that destructive
interference is avoided at the UE. In a different embodiment of the invention, the
LTE broadcast channels are sent at higher power than the payload to reach all the
UEs within the same antenna-cluster or antenna-subcluster.
[00122]       As described above, LTE-Advanced supports carrier aggregation (CA)
schemes to increase data rate over the DL channel. In MU-MASs, CA can be used
in combination with precoding to increase per-user data rate. In one embodiment of
this invention, transmit precoding is applied to different portions of the RF spectrum
(inter-band CA) or different bands within the same portion of the spectrum (intra
band CA) to increase per-user data rate. When employing inter-band CA, pathloss
at different bands may change significantly as those bands are centered at different
carrier frequencies. In conventional LTE cellular systems, frequency bands at lower
carrier frequencies may experience lower pathloss than higher carrier frequencies.
Hence, applying inter-band CA in cellular systems may cause undesired inter-cell
interference at lower carrier frequencies. By contrast, the MU-MAS in the present
invention is not limited by interference at the cell boundary as the BTSs are
distributed and there is no concept of cell. This more flexible system layout allows
different methods for inter-band CA in MU-MAS. In one embodiment of the present
invention, the MU-MAS enables inter-band CA by employing one set of BTSs to
operate at lower carrier frequencies and another set of BTSs to operate at higher
carrier frequencies, such that the two sets intersect or one set is the subset of the
other. In another embodiment, the MU-MAS with precoding employs CA methods in
                                          23

conjunction with frequency hopping         patterns to improve robustness against
frequency-selective fading or interference.
1. Downlink closed-loop MU-MAS precoding methods in LTE
[00123]      MU-MAS closed-loop schemes can be used either in time-division
duplex (TDD) or frequency division duplex (FDD) systems. In FDD systems, DL and
UL channels operate at different frequencies and therefore the DL channel state
information (CSI) must be estimated at the UE side and reported back to the CP
through the BTSs or the CTRs via the UL channel. In TDD systems, DL and UL
channels are set at the same frequency and the system may employ either closed
loop techniques or open-loop schemes exploiting channel reciprocity (as described
in the following section). The main disadvantage of closed-loop schemes is they
require feedback, resulting in larger overhead for control information over the UL.
[00124]      The general mechanism for closed-loop schemes in MU-MASs is
described as follows: i) the BTSs send signaling information to the UEs over the DL;
ii) the UEs exploit that signaling information to estimate the DL CSI from all the
"active BTSs"; iii) the UEs quantize the DL CSI or use codebooks to select the
precoding weights to be used for the next transmission; iv) the UEs send the
quantized CSI or the codebook index to the BTSs or CTRs via the UL channel; v)
the BTSs or CTRs report the CSI information or codebook index to the CP that
calculates the precoding weights for data transmission over the DL. The "active
BTSs" are defined as the set of BTSs that are reached by given UE. For example, in
related co-pending U.S. Application Serial No. 12/802,974, entitled "System And
Method For Managing Inter-Cluster Handoff Of Clients Which Traverse Multiple
DIDO Clusters" and related co-pending U.S. Application Serial No. 12/917,257,
entitled "Systems And       Methods To Coordinate Transmissions In Distributed
Wireless Systems Via User Clustering" we defined the "user-cluster" 905 as the set
of BTSs that are reached by given UE, as depicted in Figure 9. The number of
active BTSs are limited to a user-cluster so as to reduce the amount of CSI to be
estimated from the BTSs to given UE, thereby reducing the feedback overhead over
the UL and the complexity of the MU-MAS precoding calculation at the CP.
[00125]      As described at paragraph [0083], MU-MAS precoding employs either
linear or non-linear methods. In the case of non-linear methods (e.g., dirty-paper
coding [68-70] or Tomlinson-Harashima precoding [71-72], lattice techniques or
                                          24

trellis precoding   [73-74], vector perturbation     techniques [75-76]), successive
interference cancellation is applied at the transmitter to avoid inter-user interference.
In this case the precoding matrix is computed accounting for the CSI to all the UEs
within the antenna-cluster. Alternatively, linear precoding methods (e.g., zero-forcing
[65], block-diagonalization [66-67], matrix inversion, etc.) can be used on a user
cluster basis, since the precoding weights for every UE are computed independent
on the other UEs. Depending on the number of UEs and eNodeBs inside the
antenna-cluster and user-clusters, linear versus non-linear precoding methods offer
different computational performance. For example, if the MU-MAS consists of K UEs
per antenna-cluster, M eNodeBs per antenna-cluster and C eNodeBs per user
cluster, the complexity of linear precoding is O(K*C 3) whereas for non-linear
precoding it is O(M*K 2). It is thus desirable to develop a method that dynamically
switches between the two types of precoding techniques based on the number if
UEs and eNodeBs in MU-MASs to reduce the computational complexity at the CP.
In one embodiment of the invention, the MU-MAS employs linear precoding
methods. In another embodiment, the MU-MAS employs non-linear precoding
methods. In the same embodiment of the invention, the MU-MAS dynamically
switches between linear and non-linear precoding methods based on the number of
UEs     and  eNodeBs     in  the   antenna-clusters    and   user-clusters    to   reduce
computational complexity at the CP. In a different embodiment, the MU-MAS
switches between precoding multiplexing methods for UEs experiencing good
channel quality (e.g., in the proximity of eNodeBs) and beamforming or diversity
methods for UEs with poor link quality (e.g., far away from the eNodeBs).
1.1 Downlink MU-MAS signaling methods within the LTE standard
[00126]      The LTE standard defines two types of reference signals (RS) that can
be used for DL signaling in closed-loop schemes [33,50,82-83]: i) cell-specific
reference signal (CRS); ii) UE specific RS such as channel state information (CSI)
reference signal (CSI-RS) and demodulation RS (DM-RS). The cell-specific RS is
not precoded, whereas the UE-specific RS is precoded [50]. CRS is used in LTE
Release 8 that employs SU/MU-MIMO codebook-based techniques with up to four
antennas in every cell. LTE-Advanced Release 10 supports non-codebook based
SU/MU-MIMO       schemes with up to eight transmit antennas as well as CoMP
schemes with antennas distributed over different cells. As such, Release 10 allows
                                           25

for more flexible signaling schemes via CSI-RS. In the present invention, we
describe how either types of signaling schemes can be used in MU-MAS systems to
enable precoding.
1.1.1 MU-MAS signaling using CRS
[00127]       The CRS is employed in LTE (Release 8) systems to estimate the CSI
from all transmit antennas at the BTS to the UE [80,84]. The CRS is obtained as the
product of a two-dimensional orthogonal sequence and a two-dimensional pseudo
random numerical (PRN) sequence. There are 3 orthogonal sequences (i.e., placed
on orthogonal sets of OFDM subcarriers) and 168 possible PRN sequences, for a
total of 504 different CRS sequences. Every sequence uniquely identifies one cell.
Each of the three orthogonal CRSs is associated to one of the three physical layer
IDs (0 to 2) that generate a different cell ID, as explained in the previous subsection.
The CRS is transmitted within the first and third-last OFDM symbol of every slot, and
every sixth subcarrier. Orthogonal patterns in time and frequency are designed for
every transmit antenna of the BTS, for the UE to uniquely estimate the CSI from
each of transmit antennas. Release 8 defines up to four orthogonal patters per CRS,
one for each of the four transmit antennas employed in MIMO 4x4. This high density
of CRS in time and frequency (i.e., sent every slot of 0.5msec, and every sixth
subcarrier), producing 5% overhead, was designed intentionally to support scenarios
with fast channel variations over time and frequency [83].
[00128]       In Release 8, since there are up to 3 orthogonal CRSs with 4
orthogonal patterns each for multi-antenna modes (or 6 orthogonal CRSs for single
antenna mode), it is possible to discriminate up to 12 transmit antennas within the
same coverage area, without causing interference to the CRS. In one embodiment
of the invention, the antenna-cluster 1001 is divided into three antenna-subclusters
1005 as in Figure 10. Different physical layer IDs (or cell IDs) are associated to
each of the antenna-subclusters, such that each antenna-subcluster is assigned with
one of the three orthogonal CRSs with four orthogonal patterns (i.e., each antenna
subcluster can support up to four BTS without causing interference to the CRS from
other BTSs). In this embodiment, every cluster can support up to 12 BTSs without
causing interference to the CRS.
[00129]       In scenarios where more than twelve BTSs are placed within the same
cluster, it is desirable to increase the number of available orthogonal CRSs to
support larger number of active BTSs (i.e., BTSs that simultaneously transmit
                                            26

precoded signals to the UEs). One way to achieve that is to define more than three
antenna-subclusters 1003 per antenna-cluster 1101 and assign the same three
physical layer IDs (or cell ID 1104 from 0 to 2) to the antenna-subclusters 1103 with
a repetition pattern as shown in Figure 11. We observe that the antenna-subclusters
may come in different shapes and are defined in such a way that every user-cluster
1102 cannot reach two antenna-subclusters with the same physical layer ID, thereby
avoiding interference to the CRS. For example, one way to achieve that is to define
the area of the antenna-subcluster 1103 larger than the user-cluster 1102 and avoid
that adjacent antenna-subcluster use the same            physical layer ID. In one
embodiment of the invention, the multiple antenna-subclusters are placed within the
same antenna-cluster with repetition patterns such that their respective CRSs do not
interfere, thereby enabling simultaneous non-interfering transmissions from more
than twelve BTSs.
[00130]        In practical MU-MAS systems, it may be the case that every UE sees
more than only four BTSs within its user-cluster. For example, Figure 12 shows the
SNR distribution for practical deployment of DIDO or MU-MAS systems in downtown
San Francisco, CA. The propagation model is based on 3GPP pathloss/shadowing
model [81] and assumes a carrier frequency of 900MHz. The dots in the map
indicate the location of the DIDO-BTSs, whereas the dark circle represents the user
cluster (with the UE being located at the center of the circle). In sparsely populated
areas 1201, the UE sees only a few BTSs within its user-cluster (e.g., as low as
three BTSs for the example in Figure 12), whereas in densely populated areas 1202
each user-cluster may comprise as many as 26 BTSs as in Figure 12.
[00131]       The high redundancy of the CRS can be exploited in MU-MASs to
enable CSI estimation from any number of transmit antennas greater than four. For
example, if the channel is fixed-wireless or characterized by low Doppler effects,
there is no need to compute the CSI from all four transmit antennas every 0.5msec
(slot duration). Likewise, if the channel is frequency-flat, estimating the CSI every
sixth subcarrier is redundant. In that case, the resource elements (RE) occupied by
the redundant CRS can be re-allocated for other transmit antennas or BTSs in the
MU-MAS.       In one embodiment of the invention, the system allocates resource
elements of redundant CRS to extra antennas or BTSs in the MU-MAS system. In
another embodiment, the system estimates time and frequency selectivity of the
                                          27

channel and dynamically allocates the CRS for different BTSs or only the BTSs
within the user-cluster to different resource elements.
[00132]       The number of BTSs included in every user-cluster depends on the
signal power level measured at the UE from all BTSs in the user-cluster relative to
the noise power level, or signal-to-noise ratio (SNR). In one embodiment, the UE
estimates the SNR from all BTSs in its neighborhood and selects the BTSs that
belong to its user-cluster based on the SNR information. In another embodiment, the
CP is aware of the SNR from the BTSs to every UE (based on feedback information
from the UEs or information obtained from the UL channel, assuming UL/DL channel
reciprocity) and selects the set of BTSs to be included in every user-cluster.
[00133]       The number of BTSs included in every user-cluster determines the
performance of the MU-MAS methods described in the present invention. For
example, if the number of BTSs per user-cluster is low, the UE experiences higher
level of out-of-cluster interference, resulting in high signal-to-interference-plus-noise
ratio (SINR) and low data rate. Similarly, if large number of BTSs is selected for
every user-cluster, the SNR measured at the UE from the BTSs at the edge of the
user-cluster is low and may be dominated by the out-of-cluster interference from
adjacent BTSs outside the user-cluster. There is an optimal number of BTSs per
user-cluster that produces the highest SINR and data rate. In one embodiment of
the invention, the CP selects the optimal number of BTSs per user-cluster to
maximize SINR and data rate to the UE. In another embodiment of the invention, the
BTSs per user-cluster are dynamically selected to adapt to the changing conditions
of the propagation environment or UE mobility.
[00134]       Another drawback of using large number of BTSs per user-cluster is
high computational load. In fact, the more BTSs in the user-cluster the larger the
computation complexity of the MU-MAS precoder. In one embodiment of the
inventions, the BTSs per user-cluster are selected to achieve optimal tradeoff
between SINR or data rate performance and computational complexity of the MU
MAS precoder. In another embodiment, the BTSs per user-cluster are dynamically
selected based on tradeoffs between propagation conditions and computational
resources available in the MU-MAS.
                                            28

1.1.2 MU-MAS signaling using CSI-RS and DM-RS
[00135]        In the LTE-Advanced (Release 10) standard the CSI-RS is used by
every UE to estimate the CSI from the BTSs [33,83]. The standard defines
orthogonal CSI-RS for different transmitters at the BTS, so that the UE can
differentiate the CSI from different BTSs. Up to eight transmit antennas at the BTS
are supported by the CSI-RS as in Tables 6.10.5.2-1,2 in [33]. The CSI-RS is sent
with a periodicity that ranges between 5 and 80 subframes (i.e., CSI-RS send every
5 to 80 msec) as in Tables 6.10.5.3-1 in [33]. The periodicity of the CSI-RS in LTE
Advanced was designed intentionally larger than the CRS in LTE to avoid excessive
overhead of control information, particularly for legacy LTE terminals unable to make
use of these extra resources. Another reference signal used for CSI estimation is to
demodulation RS (DM-RS). The DM-RS is a demodulation reference signal intended
to a specific UE and transmitted only in the resource block assigned for transmission
to that UE.
[00136]       When more than eight antennas (maximum number of transmitters
supported by the LTE-Advanced standard) are within the user-cluster, alternative
techniques must be employed to enable DIDO precoding while maintaining system
compliance to the LTE-Advanced standard. In one embodiment of the invention,
every UE uses the CSI-RS or the DM-RS or combination of both to estimate the CSI
from all active BTSs in its own user-cluster. In the same embodiment, the DIDO
system detects the number of BTSs within the user-cluster and whether or not the
user-cluster is compliant to the LTE-Advanced standard (supporting at most eight
antennas). If it not compliant, the DIDO system employs alternative techniques to
enable DL signaling from the BTSs to the current UE. In one embodiment, the
transmit power from the BTSs is reduced until at most eight BTSs are reachable by
the UE within its user-cluster. This solution, however, may result in reduction of data
rate as coverage would be reduced.
[00137]       Another solution is to divide the BTSs in the user-cluster in subsets and
send one set of CSI-RS for every subset at a time. For example, if the CSI-RS
periodicity is 5 subframes (i.e., 5msec) as in Table 6.10.5.3-1 in [33], every 5msec
the CSI-RS is sent from a new subset of BTSs. Note that this solution works as long
as the CSI-RS periodicity is short enough to cover all BTS subsets within the
channel coherence time of the UE (which is a function of the Doppler velocity of the
UE). For example, if the selected CSI-RS periodicity is 5msec and the channel
                                           29

 coherence time is 100msec, it is possible to define up to 20 BTS subsets of 8 BTS
 each, adding up to a total of 160 BTSs within the user-cluster. In another
 embodiment of the invention, the DIDO system estimates the channel coherence
 time of the UE and decides how many BTSs can be supported within the user
 cluster for given CSI-RS periodicity, to avoid degradation due to channel variations
 and Doppler effect.
 [00138]       The solutions for CSI-RS proposed so far are all compliant with the LTE
 standard and can be deployed within the framework of conventional LTE systems.
 For example, the proposed method that allows more than eight antennas per user
 cluster would not require modifications of the UE LTE hardware and software
 implementation, and only slight modification of the protocols used at the BTSs and
 CP to enable selection of BTSs subset at any given time. These modifications can
 be easily implemented in a cloud-based software defined radio (SDR) platform,
 which is one promising deployment paradigm for DIDO and MU-MAS systems.
 Alternatively, if it is possible to relax the constraints of the LTE standard and develop
 slightly modified hardware and software for LTE UEs to support similar, but non
 LTE-compliant DIDO or MU-MAS modes of operation, so as enable UEs to be able
 to operate in full LTE-compliant mode, or in a modified mode that supports non-LTE
 compliant DIDO or MU-MAS operation. For example, this would enable another
 solution is to increase the amount of CSI-RS to enable higher number of BTSs in the
 system. In another embodiment of the invention, different CSI-RS patterns and
 periodicities are allowed as a means to increase the number of supported BTSs per
 user-cluster. Such slight modifications to the LTE standard may be small enough
 that existing LTE UE chipsets can be used with simply software modification. Or, if
 hardware modification would be needed to the chipsets, the changes would be
 small.
1.2 Uplink MU-MAS CSI feedback methods within the LTE standard
 [00139]       In the LTE and LTE-Advanced standards, the UE feedbacks information
 to the BTS to communicate its current channel conditions as well as the precoding
 weights for closed-loop transmission over the DL channel. Three different channel
 indicators are included in those standards [35]:
                                               30

     *  Rank indicator (RI): indicates how many spatial streams are transmitted to
        given UE. This number is always equal or less than the number of transmit
        antennas.
     *  Precoding matrix indicator (PMI): is the index of the codebook used for
        precoding over the DL channel.
     e  Channel quality indicator (CQI): defines the modulation and forward error
        correction (FEC)    coding scheme to be used over the DL to maintain
        predefined error rate performance for given channel conditions
[00140]       Only one RI is reported for the whole bandwidth, whereas the PMI and
CQI reporting can be wideband or per sub-band, depending on the frequency
selectivity of the channel. These indicators are transmitted in the UL over two
different types of physical channels: i) the physical uplink control channel (PUCCH),
used only for control information; ii) the physical uplink shared channel (PUSCH),
used for both data and control information, allocated over one resource block (RB)
and on a sub-frame basis. On the PUCCH, the procedure to report the RI, PMI and
CQI is periodic and the indicators can be either wideband (for frequency-flat
channels) or UE-selected on a sub-band basis (for frequency-selective channels).
On the PUSCH, the feedback procedure is aperiodic and can be UE-selected on a
sub-band basis (for frequency-selective channels) or higher-layer configured sub
band (e.g., for transmission mode 9 in LTE-Advance with eight transmitters).
[00141]       In one embodiment of the invention, the DIDO or MU-MAS system
employs RI, PMI and CQI to report to BTSs and CP its current channel conditions as
well as precoding information. In one embodiment, the UE uses the PUCCH channel
to report those indicators to the CP. In another embodiment, in case a larger number
of indicators is necessary for DIDO precoding, the UE employs the PUSCH to report
additional indicators to the CP. In case the channel is frequency-flat, the UE can
exploit extra UL resources to report the PMI for a larger number of antennas in the
DIDO systems. In one embodiment of the invention, the UE or BTSs or CP estimate
the channel frequency selectivity and, in case the channel is frequency-flat, the UE
exploits the extra UL resources to report the PMI for larger number of BTSs.
2. Downlink open-loop MU-MAS precoding methods in LTE
[00142]       Open-loop MU-MAS precoding schemes can only be used in time
division duplex (TDD) systems employing RF calibration and exploiting channel
                                           31

reciprocity. The general mechanism of open-loop schemes in MU-MASs consists of:
i) the UEs send signaling information to the BTSs or CTRs over the UL; ii) the BTSs
or CTRs exploit that signaling information to estimate the UL CSI from all UEs; iii)
the BTSs or CTRs employ RF calibration to convert the UL CSI into DL CSI; iv) the
BTSs or CTRs send the DL CSI or codebook index to the CP via the BSN; v) based
on that DL CSI, the CP calculates the precoding weights for data transmission over
the DL. Similarly to closed-loop MU-MAS precoding schemes, user-clusters can be
employed to reduce the amount of CSI to be estimated at the BTSs from the UEs,
thereby reducing the computational burden at the BTSs as well as the amount of
signaling required over the UL. In one embodiment of the invention, open-loop
precoding techniques are employed to send simultaneous non-interfering data
streams from the BTSs to the UEs over the DL channel.
[00143]       In LTE there are two types of reference signal for the uplink channel
[31,33,87]: i) sounding reference signal (SRS), used for scheduling and link
adaptation; ii) demodulation reference signal (DMRS), used for data reception. In
one embodiment of the invention, the DMRS is employed in open-loop precoding
systems to estimate the UL channels form all UEs to all BTSs. In the time domain,
the DMRS is sent at the fourth OFDM symbol (when a normal cyclic prefix is used)
of every LTE slot (of duration 0.5msec). In the frequency domain, the DMRS sent
over the PUSCH is mapped for every UE to the same resource block (RB) used by
that UE for UL data transmission.
The length of the DMRS is MRs=mNRB, where m is the number of RBs and NRB=1 2 is
the number of subcarriers per RB. To support multiple UEs, up to twelve DMRSs are
generated    from one base Zadoff-Chu         [88] or computer-generated       constant
amplitude zero autocorrelation (CG-CAZAC) sequence, via twelve possible cyclic
shifts of the base sequence. Base sequences are divided into 30 groups and
neighbor LTE cells select DMRS from different groups to reduce inter-cell
interference. For example, if the maximum number of resource blocks within one
OFDM symbol is 110 (i.e., assuming 20MHz overall signal bandwidth), it is possible
to generate up to 11 0x30 = 3300 different sequences. We observe that the 30 base
sequences are not guaranteed to be orthogonal and are designed to reduce
interference across cells, without eliminating it completely. By contrast, the 12 cyclic
shifts of the same base sequence are orthogonal, thereby allowing up to 12 UEs to
transmit in the UL over the same RB without interference. The value of cyclic shift to
                                          32

be used by every UE is provided by the BTS through the downlink control
information (DCI) message sent over the PDCCH. The DCI in Release 8 consists of
3 bits, that enables the UE to use only up to 8 values of cyclic shift in the pool of
twelve possible options.
[00144]     The cyclic shifts of the base DMRS sequence are exploited in the present
invention to enable MU-MIMO schemes over the UL channel as well as to estimate
the CSI from multiple UEs for DL precoding when channel reciprocity is exploited in
TDD mode. In one embodiment of the invention, open-loop precoding methods are
employed to send simultaneous non-interfering data streams from the distributed
BTSs to the UEs over the DL channel. In a different embodiment of the invention,
open-loop MU-MIMO methods are employed to receive simultaneous non-interfering
data streams from the UEs to the BTSs over the UL channel. The same CSI
estimated over the UL from all active UEs can be used to compute the receiver
spatial filter for MU-MIMO operation in the UL as well as the weights for DL
precoding. Since Release 8 defines only up to 8 orthogonal DMRSs (due to limited
DCI bits, as explained above), MU-MIMO schemes for the UL channel and MU-MAS
precoding schemes for the DL channel can support at most eight UEs, assuming all
UEs utilize the full UL bandwidth.
[00145]     One way to increase the number of simultaneous UEs being served
through MU-MIMO in UL or MU-MAS precoding in DL is to multiplex the DMRS of
the UEs over the frequency domain. For example, if 10MHz bandwidth is used in
TDD mode, there are 50 RBs that can be allocated to the UEs. In this case, 25
interleaved RBs can be assigned to one set of eight UEs and the remaining 25
interleaved RBs to another set of UEs, totaling to 16 UEs that can be served
simultaneously. Then, the CSI is computed by interpolating the estimates from the
DMRS sent over interleaved RBs. Larger number of simultaneous UEs can be
supported by increasing the number of interleaving patterns of the UL RBs. These
patterns can be assigned to different UEs statically or dynamically according to
certain frequency hopping sequence. In one embodiment of the invention, DMRSs
are assigned to the UEs over orthogonal interleaved RBs to increase the number of
UEs to be supported via MU-MIMO               or MU-MAS  precoding. In the same
embodiment, the interleaved RBs are assigned statically. In another embodiment,
the interleaved RBs are assigned dynamically according to certain frequency
hopping pattern.
                                           33

[00146]    An alternative solution is to multiplex the DMRS of different UEs in the
time domain. For example, the UEs are divided into different groups and the DMRSs
for those groups are sent over consecutive time slots (of duration 0.5msec each). In
this case, however, it is necessary to guarantee that the periodicity of the DMRS
assignment for different groups is lower than the channel coherence time of the
fastest moving UE. In fact, this is necessary condition to guarantee that the channel
does not vary for all UEs from the time the CSI is estimated via DMRS to the time
system transmits DL data streams to the UEs via DIDO precoding. In one
embodiment of the invention, the system divides the active UEs into groups and
assigns the same set of DMRS to each group over consecutive time slots. In the
same embodiment, the system estimates the shortest channel coherence time for all
active UEs and calculates the maximum number of UE groups as well as the
periodicity of the DMRS time multiplexing based on that information.
[00147]    Another solution is to spatially separate different groups of UEs employing
the same sets of DMRSs. For example, the same set of orthogonal DMRSs can be
used for all the UEs from different antenna-subclusters in Figure 11 identified by the
same cell ID. In one embodiment of the invention, groups of UEs employing the
same set of orthogonal DMRSs are spatially separated to avoid interference
between the groups. In the same embodiment, the same set of orthogonal DMRSs
is employed by different antenna-subclusters identified by the same cell ID. The MU
MAS may assign the UEs to "virtual cells" to maximize the number of DMRS that
can be used in the UL. In one exemplary embodiment, the virtual cell is the area of
coherence (described in related co-pending U.S. Application Serial No. 13/232,996,
entitled "Systems and Methods to Exploit Areas of Coherence in Wireless Systems")
around the UE and the DIDO system generates up to 3300 areas of coherence for
different UEs. In another embodiment of the invention, each of the 30 base
sequences is assigned to a different antenna-cluster (clusters are defined in related
U.S. Patent No. 8,170,081, issued May 1, 2012, entitled "System And Method For
Adjusting     DIDO    Interference    Cancellation    Based      On   Signal  Strength
Measurements") to reduce inter-cluster interference across adjacent antenna
clusters.
                                            34

3. Uplink MU-MAS methods in LTE
[00148]         The present invention employs open-loop MU-MIMO schemes over the
UL channel to receive simultaneous UL data streams from all UEs to the BTSs. The
UL open-loop MU-MIMO scheme consists of the following steps: i) UEs send
signaling information and data payload to all BTSs; ii) the BTSs compute the
channel estimations from all UEs using the signaling information; iii) the BTSs send
the channel estimates and data payloads to the CP; iv) the CP uses the channel
estimates to remove inter-channel interference from all UEs' data payloads via
spatial filtering and demodulates the data streams form all UEs. In one embodiment,
the open-loop MU-MIMO system employs single-carrier frequency division multiple
access (SC-FDMA) to increase the number of UL channels from the UEs to the
BTSs and multiplex them in the frequency domain.
[00149]         In one embodiment, synchronization among UEs is achieved via
signaling from the DL and all BTSs are assumed locked to the same time/frequency
reference clock, either via direct wiring to the same clock or sharing a common
time/frequency reference, in one embodiment through GPSDO. Variations in
channel delay spread at different UEs may generate jitter among the time references
of different UEs that may affect the performance of MU-MIMO methods over the UL.
In one embodiment, only the UEs within the same antenna-cluster (e.g., UEs in
close proximity with one another) are processed with MU-MIMO methods to reduce
the relative propagation delay spread across different UEs. In another embodiment,
the relative propagation delays between UEs are compensated at the UEs or at the
BTSs to guarantee simultaneous reception of data payloads from different UEs at
the BTSs.
[00150]         The methods for enabling signaling information for data demodulation
over the UL are the same methods used for signaling in the downlink open-loop
DIDO scheme described at the previous section. The CP employs different spatial
processing techniques to remove inter-channel interference from the UEs data
payload. In one embodiment of the invention, the CP employs non-linear spatial
processing      methods such as      maximum    likelihood (ML),   decision feedback
equalization (DFE)      or successive interference cancellation (SIC) receivers. In
another embodiment the CP employs linear filters such as zeros-forcing (ZF) or
minimum mean squared error (MMSE) receivers to cancel co-channel interference
and demodulate the uplink data streams individually.
                                          35

4. Integration with Existing LTE Networks
[00151]       In the United States and other regions of the world, LTE networks are
already in operation or are in the process of being deployed and/or committed to be
deployed. It would be of significant benefit to LTE operators if they could gradually
deploy DIDO or MU-MAS            capability into their existing or already-committed
deployments. In this way, they could deploy DIDO or MU-MAS in areas where it
would provide the most immediate benefit, and gradually expand the DIDO or MU
MAS capability to cover more their network. In time, once they have sufficient DIDO
or MU-MAS coverage in an area, they can choose to cease using cells entirely, and
instead switch entirely to DIDO or MU-MAS and achieve much higher spectral
density at much lower cost. Throughout this entire transition from cellular to DIDO or
MU-MAS, the LTE operator's wireless customers will never see a loss in service.
Rather, they'll simply see their data throughput and reliability improve, while the
operator will see its costs decline.
[00152]       There are several embodiments that would enable a gradual integration
of DIDO or MU-MAS into existing LTE networks. In all cases, the BTSs for DIDO or
MU-MAS will be referred as DIDO-LTE BTSs and will utilize one of the LTE
compatible DIDO or MU-MAS embodiments described above, or other LTE
compatible embodiments as they may be developed in the future. Or, the DIDO-LTE
BTSs will utilize a slight variant of the LTE standard, such as those described above
and the UEs will either be updated (e.g. if a software update is sufficient to modify
the UE to be DIDO or MU-MAS compatible), or a new generation of UEs that are
DIDO- or MU-MAS-compatible will be deployed. In either case, the new BTSs that
support DIDO or MU-MAS either within the constraints of the LTE standard, or as a
variant of the LTE standard will be referred to below as DIDO-LTE BTSs.
[00153]       The LTE standard supports various channel bandwidths (e.g., 1.4, 3, 5,
10, 15 and 20 MHz). In one embodiment, an operator with an existing LTE network
would either allocate new bandwidth for the LTE-DIDO BTSs, or would subdivide the
existing LTE spectrum (e.g. 20MHz could be subdivided into two 10MHz blocks) to
support conventional LTE BTSs in a cellular configuration in one block of spectrum
and DIDO LTE BTSs in another block of spectrum. Effectively, this would establish
two separate LTE networks, and UE devices would be configured to use one or the
other network, or select between the two. In the case of subdivided spectrum, the
                                            36

spectrum could be divided evenly between the conventional LTE network and the
DIDO-LTE     BTS network, or unevenly, allocated more spectrum to whichever
network could best utilize it given the level of cellular LTE BTS and DIDO-LTE BTS
deployment and/or UE usage patterns. This subdivision could change as needed
over time, and at some point, when there are sufficient DIDO-LTE BTSs deployed to
provide the same or better coverage as the cellular BTSs, all of the spectrum can be
allocated to DIDO-LTE BTSs, and the cellular BTSs can be decommissioned.
[00154]       In another embodiment, the conventional cellular LTE BTSs can be
configured to be coordinated with the DIDO-LTE BTSs such that they share the
same spectrum, but take turns using the spectrum. For example, if they were
sharing the spectrum use equally, then each BTS network would utilize one 10ms
frame time in alternation, e.g. one 10ms frame for the cellular LTE BTS, followed by
one 10ms frame for the DIDO-LTE BTS. The frame times could be subdivided in
unequal intervals as well. This interval splitting could change as needed over time,
and at some point, when there are sufficient DIDO-LTE BTSs deployed to provide
the same or better coverage as the cellular BTSs, all of the time can be allocated to
DIDO-LTE BTSs, and the cellular BTSs can be decommissioned.
[00155]       In another embodiment of the invention, DIDO or MU-MAS is employed
as LOS or NLOS wireless backhaul to small cells in LTE and LTE-Advanced
networks. As small-cells are deployed in LTE networks, DIDO or MU-MAS provides
high-speed wireless backhaul to those small cells. As the demand for higher data
rate increases, more small-cells are added to the network until the wireless network
reaches a limit where no more small-cells can be added in a given area without
causing inter-cell interference. In the same embodiment of the invention, DIDO-LTE
BTSs are used to replace gradually small-cells, thereby exploiting inter-cell
interference to provide increased network capacity.
5. MU-MAS LTE Scheduler
[00156]       In MU-MAS, distributed antennas or BTSs transmit simultaneous
precoded data streams to multiple UEs. As described in Related Patents and
Applications, the number of BTSs must be equal or larger than the number of UEs to
enable simultaneous data transmissions. In practical deployments, the number of
UEs may exceed the number of BTSs. In this case, the extra UEs can be selected
for transmission at different time slots or frequency bands according to certain
                                          37

scheduling policy. The scheduler exploits the channel quality information of the UEs
to decide the best set of UEs to be serviced at a give time and frequency. Different
scheduling methods are used in the present invention, including proportional fair
scheduler, round-robin or greedy algorithms.
[00157]       As described in the previous sections, the LTE standard defines two
parameters to inform the scheduler about the link quality of every UE: CQ1 and SRS.
The CQ1 measures the quality of the DL channel and is fed back from the UE to the
BTS. The SRS is signaling information sent from the UE to the BTS to measure the
UL channel quality. Both indicators provide information of the UL/DL channel quality
over time and frequency domains. In FDD systems, the DL scheduler must use the
CQI as performance measure, since the DL and UL channel quality may vary due to
different carrier frequencies. In TDD mode, the DL schedule employs either the CSI
or the SRS or combination of both to perform its scheduling decision. The same
performance metrics can be used for UL scheduling. In one embodiment of the
invention, the MU-MAS scheduler employs the CQI and SRS as performance
metrics used by the scheduling algorithm.
[00158]       The MU-MAS described in the present invention enables one additional
channel quality indicator not disclosed in prior art: the spatial selectivity indicator
(SSI), described in related U.S. Application Serial No. 13/475,598, entitled "Systems
and Methods to enhance spatial diversity in distributed-input distributed-output
wireless systems". The SSI can be computed based on the CSI obtained from all
UEs via feedback mechanisms or from the UL channel (applying UL/DL channel
reciprocity). In one embodiment of the invention, the scheduler employs the SSI as
performance metric. The SSI is a measure of the spatial diversity available in the
wireless link. The SSI depends on the spatial characteristics of the BTSs as well as
the UEs. In one exemplary embodiment of the invention, the scheduler obtains the
SSI from all the UEs and schedules the UEs with the "optimal" SSI according to
certain scheduling criterion. If more BTSs are available than the active BTSs, the
users selection criterion described above is combined with the antenna selection
method described in related U.S. Application Serial No. 13/475,598, entitled
"Systems and Methods to enhance spatial diversity in distributed-input distributed
output wireless systems". In one embodiment of the invention, the scheduler selects
the optimal subset of BTSs and UEs based on certain scheduling criterion.
                                          38

[00159]        With respect to Figures 9, 10 and 11, in certain scenarios there may
not be enough orthogonal signaling sequences to enable large number of BTSs
within the same antenna-cluster or antenna-subcluster. In this case, some level of
interference may occur if additional BTSs are activated to cover regions with larger
numbers of active UEs. In one embodiment of the invention, the scheduler
measures the level of interference between antenna-clusters or antenna-subclusters
and schedules the UEs to minimize the effect of that interference over the wireless
link.
[00160]        The antenna selection algorithm described in related U.S. Application
Serial No. 13/475,598, entitled "Systems and Methods to enhance spatial diversity in
distributed-input distributed-output wireless systems" is employed in the present
invention to select the optimal set of active BTSs based on the SSI. This antenna
selection algorithm, however, may require high computational complexity as MU
MAS precoding processing must be applied over all possible permutations of
antenna subsets before making a decision on the best subset based on the SSI
performance metric. In MU-MAS with large number of cooperative BTSs, this
computational burden may become expensive or untenable to achieve in practical
deployments. It is thus desirable to develop alternative techniques to reduce the
number of antenna subsets while maintaining good performance of the antenna
selection method. In one embodiment of the invention, the MU-MAS employs
methods based on queuing of the antenna subset ID numbers, hereafter referred to
as "antenna shuffling method". In one embodiment of the invention, the antenna
shuffling method subdivides the queue containing all possible antenna subset IDs
(i.e., all possible permutations of active BTSs for given set of available BTSs) into
different groups and assigns different priorities to those groups. These groups are
defined to assign fair chances to all subset IDs to be selected, but the SSI metric is
computed only for limited number of subsets (e.g., those ones with highest priority)
thereby reducing computational complexity. In one exemplary embodiment, the
queue of subset ID is divided into three groups where each group is assigned a
different rule: i) group #1 contains the IDs with highest priority which are pulled out
of the group only in case a new subset with higher priority is identified; ii) group #2
where new antenna subsets (selected from group #3) are included at every iteration
of the method; iii) group #3 where the antenna subset IDs are shuffled according to
round-robin policy. All subset IDs within group #1 and #2 are sorted at each iteration
                                           39

of the method based on their priority to give opportunity to subsets IDs from group
#2 to be upgraded to group #1. The SSI is computed only for the subsets within
groups #1 and #2 and the antenna selection algorithm is applied only to those
subsets.
6. MU-MAS LTE User Equipment
[00161]      The present invention comprises of different designs of the LTE UE. In
one embodiment, the UE is an LTE UE that is compatible with the MU-MAS
employing precoding as described above and depicted in Figure 13.
[00162]       In a different embodiment, the UE 1401 connects to different devices
1402 and 1403 through a first network interface 1404 (e.g., Wi-Fi, USB, Ethernet,
Bluetooth, optical fiber, etc.) and to the MU-MAS through a second network interface
1405 as shown in Figure 14. The UE in Figure 14 is equipped with two different
network interfaces wherein each network interface comprises of one or multiple
antennas (although in alternative embodiments, first network interface 1404 may be
a wired interface without antennas). The antennas of the first network interface are
denoted with circles, whereas the antennas of the second network interface are
denoted with triangles. In the same embodiment, the second network interface
supports MU-MAS precoding, MU-MAS implemented with LTE-compliant protocols,
or MU-MAS       (implemented with or without LTE-compliant        protocols) and an
alternative network. In the same embodiment, the alternative network is a cellular
network, an LTE network or Wi-Fi network. In the same embodiment, the UE works
with either and/or both MU-MAS and/or the alternative network and the UE selects
either MU-MAS or the alternative network based on some criteria. In the same
embodiment, the criteria are: i) whether only one network is available and is chosen;
ii) whether one network has better performance; iii) whether one network is more
economical; iv) whether one network is less congested; v) whether one network
uses less UE resources.
[00163]       In one embodiment of the invention, the UE 1501 is in a case that
physically attaches to the user device 1502 as depicted in Figure 15. In the same
embodiment, the case serves as a decorative addition to the user device. In another
embodiment, the case serves to protect the user device from physical damage. The
UE comprises of battery 1503, and one or multiple network interfaces 1504.
                                            40

[00164]       In one embodiment, the UE electronics are embedded within a case. In
the same embodiment, the UE electronics include a battery 1503.            The battery
includes a power charger coupling through a physical electrical contact or a wireless
contact. Exemplary power couplings are conductive, inductive, RF, light, or thermal,
but power couplings are not limited these approaches. In the same embodiment, the
UE electronics are coupled to receive power from the user device. This power
coupling is through a physical contact or through an inductive or wireless contact. In
the same embodiment, the user device is coupled to receive power from the MU
MAS UE. This coupling is through a physical contact or through an inductive or
wireless contact. In a different embodiment, the same power charger powers both
the user device and the MUMAS UE.
[00165]       In one embodiment of the invention, the UE            is configured to
communicate to the user device. In the same embodiment, the UE can be reset
(e.g., via switch, or by removing power) so the user device can initially connect to it,
and once the connection is established, the UE can be configured by the user
device. Such configuration includes configuring a private password and/or other
security protocols. In a different embodiment, the UE includes a means to be
configured to communicate with the user device. Such configuration is done via a
communications port to another device, wherein the communications port is USB, or
via controls and/or buttons on the UE, or via display, wherein buttons or touch input
are used.
[00166]       In another embodiment, the same RF chain is used for MU-MAS
communications as well as for the alternative network. In another embodiment, a
different RF chain is used for MU-MAS communications and the alternative network.
7. Radio Frequency (RF) Calibration Exploiting Channel Reciprocity
[00167]       Conventional closed-loop MU-MAS methods employ UL channel to
feedback quantized CSI or codebook indices (as in codebook-based limited
feedback schemes) from the UEs to the BTSs or CP. This scheme, however, results
in large feedback overhead and high protocol complexity to enable the CSI feedback
channel. In TDD systems, where UL and DL are set at the same frequency, it is thus
desirable to avoid CSI feedback by exploiting UL/DL channel reciprocity. In practical
systems, transmit and receive RF chains at the BTS or UE typically have different
characteristics due to different RF components and circuit layout. Therefore, to
                                         41

preserve UL/DL reciprocity it is necessary to employ RF calibration methods to
compensate for RF mismatch between transmit and receive chains.
[00168]       Models for RF mismatch in typical wireless transceivers were described
in [91] and hardware solutions to mitigate the effect of RF mismatch on the
performance of adaptive digital beamforming systems were discussed in [92].
Software techniques to enable RF calibration in multiple-input multiple-output
(MIMO) systems where proposed in [93,94] and experimental results for multiple
input single-output (MISO) and for systems employing antenna selection where
shown in [95] and [96], respectively.
[00169]       Prior art, however, assumes all RF chains are collocated on the same
circuit board as in MIMO systems, thereby simplifying the RF calibration problem
since information about the RF mismatch between all the RF chains is available
locally. By contrast, the present invention consists of distributed         antennas
geographically placed far apart such that communication between those antennas
only happens through the network. Hence, we define a novel system unit that we
call "beacon station" designed specifically to enable RF calibration in MU-MASs with
distributed antennas. Moreover, in prior art MIMO systems significant RF coupling
between transmit/receive chains occurs due to the close proximity of the RF chains
on the same board. By contrast, in the present invention, RF coupling occurs only
between one transmit and one receive chain of the same distributed antenna.
Hence, techniques employed for RF calibration are significantly different than the
ones described in prior art as we will demonstrate hereafter. Finally, the RF
calibration methods disclosed in prior art were limited to systems with a single user
(e.g. a single User Equipment device). As shown in the derivations at the following
paragraphs, systems with multiple users (e.g., MU-MASs) are particularly sensitive
to RF mismatch, since that yields inter-user interference. As such, special
techniques must be employed to enable RF calibration while exploiting channel
reciprocity, as described below.
[00170]       The present invention consists of a MU-MAS that employs radio
frequency (RF) calibration and exploits reciprocity between downlink (DL) and uplink
(UL) channels, comprising of multiple distributed antennas, multiple User Equipment
devices (UEs) and one or multiple beacon stations. In one embodiment, the RF
calibration is employed to compute the DL MU-MAS precoding weights from the UL
channel estimates. Figure 16 shows the block diagram of the system including the
                                          42

distributed antennas 1601, multiple UEs 1613, one beacon station 1619, one base
station network (BSN) 1607 connecting the distributed antennas, one centralized
processor (CP) 1621 and one feedback channel 1620, that is the calibration control
channel from the beacon to the CP.
[00171]       Every distributed antenna unit consists of baseband unit 1602, transmit
RF chain 1603, receive RF chain 1604, RF switch unit 1605 that dynamically selects
transmit/receive   RF chains for TDD        operation, and antenna     1606. In one
embodiment, the baseband unit comprises baseband signal processing and digital
to-analog converter (DAC). In another embodiment, all the baseband processing is
executed at the CP such that RF signal is sent to every distributed antenna (e.g., via
RF coax cables or RF over fiber networks). Every UE consists of baseband unit
1608, transmit/receive RF chains 1609 and 1610, respectively, RF switch 1611 and
antenna 1612. The beacon          station  is composed      of baseband     unit   1614,
transmit/receive RF chains 1615 and 1616, respectively, RF switch 1617 and
antenna 1618.
[00172]       The wireless links between the distributed antennas and the UEs are
modeled as complex Gaussian channel matrix H of dimensions MxN, where M is the
number of UEs and N is the number of distributed antennas. We define        HDL  the DL
channel matrix 1622 and HUL the UL channel matrix 1623. Channel reciprocity holds
as long as DL and UL are set to the same carrier frequency. In this case, the
following property holds
                                    HDL    HL = H
where the symbol t denotes the transpose matrix operation.
[00173]       The model above holds for either single-carrier or multicarrier systems.
In multicarrier systems (e.g., OFDM) the complex matrix H represents the channel of
one subcarrier, and the same model extends to any subcarrier in the system. Figure
16 also shows transmit and receive RF units at the distributed antennas, modeled
with complex channel matrices    AT and AR, respectively, of dimension NxN. Likewise,
the transmit and receive RF units at the UEs are modeled by the matrices         BT and
BR, respectively, of dimension MxM. In the case of MU-MAS with distributed
antennas, RF coupling between distributed antennas and/or UEs is negligible due to
relative antenna separation, such that AT, AR,       BT  and   BR are represented as
diagonal matrices. We observe this is a unique feature of MU-MAS with distributed
                                          43

antennas and distributed UEs. As such, the present invention is novel over prior art
related to multiple-input multiple-output (MIMO) systems.
[00174]      Based on the block diagram in Figure 16, we write the effective DL
channel matrix (modeling transmit/receive RF units and wireless links) as
                            HDL        BRHDLAT       BR H AT
and the effective UL channel matrix as
                            HUL   -   AR HUL  BT     AR Ht BT
In the present invention, RF calibration is obtained by preconditioning the matrix of
the UL channel estimates HUL with the complex RF calibration matrix C, as follows
                                     HDL    (C  HUL) t
In one embodiment of the invention comprising LTE cellular networks, the effective
UL channel is estimated at the eNodeB employing the DMRS from all UEs.
[00175]      As shown in Figure 17, the matrix C is computed from the effective DL
(kDL)  channel 1722 and UL (kUL) channel 1723 vectors between every distributed
antenna 1701 and the beacon station 1719, defined as
                                    kDL     DR kDL AT
and
                                    kUL     AR   kUL DT
where   kDL    kUL    k are column vectors, assuming DL and UL channel reciprocity
between the distributed antennas and the beacon station. In one embodiment, the
DL channel between the distributed antennas and the beacon station is estimated by
sending training signals from the distributed antennas to the beacon. In one
exemplary embodiment comprising LTE cellular networks, the DL sequences CRS,
or CSI-RS, or DM-RS are used by the beacon to estimate the effective DL channel
from all eNodeBs. In the same embodiment, the UL channel between the beacon
station and the distributed antennas is estimated by sending training signals from
the beacon station to the antennas. In one embodiment of the invention, multiple
beacon stations are employed to improve the estimation of the RF calibration matrix.
In the present invention, there is no RF coupling between the distributed antennas,
such that the RF calibration matrix C is diagonal.
[00176]      When linear precoding (e.g., zero-forcing [65], block-diagonalization or
BD [66-67], matrix inversion, etc.) is employed, the symbol received at the m-th UE
is given by
                                           44

                                                   M
                   rm =   hDL,m WDL,m  Sm   +         hDL,m WDL,u     su + nm
                                              u=1,u#m
where hDL,m is the m-th row of the effective channel matrix                HDL, WDL,m  is the
precoding vector for the m-th UE derived from         HDL, Sm    is the symbol transmitted to
the m-th UE and nm is white Gaussian noise at the m-th UE. For the sake of
simplicity, the above model assumes a single receive antenna at every UE, but the
present invention extends to any number of antennas at the UE. It is possible to
show that when the RF calibration method described above is employed the inter
client interference at every UE is pre-cancelled at the transmitter such that the
following condition holds
              hDL,m WDL,u   =1DL,m    WDL,u     0,   Vu    1,...,M     with u # m
where WDL,u is the precoding weight vector derived from the RF calibrated channel
matrix   HDL.  In one embodiment, the precoding weights are computed from the RF
calibrated channel matrix to pre-cancel inter-client interference at every UE. Figure
18 shows the symbol error rate (SER) performance of MU-MAS employing BD
precoding and 4-QAM modulation in frequency-flat channels for three scenarios: i)
no RF mismatch; ii) RF mismatch without calibration; iii) RF mismatch with
calibration. We observe the RF calibration method in the present invention reduces
the SER down to ideal performance (i.e., with no RF mismatch).
[00177]         In another embodiment of the invention, non-linear precoding methods
(e.g., dirty-paper coding [68-70] or Tomlinson-Harashima precoding or THP [71-72],
lattice techniques or trellis precoding [73-74], vector perturbation techniques [75-76])
are applied to the RF calibrated channel matrix to pre-cancel inter-client interference
at every UE. Figure 19 shows that the SER obtained with non-linear precoding
techniques using RF calibration and UL/DL reciprocity matches the performance of
linear precoding. Figure 20a shows the constellation before THP modulo operation
for UE 1, whereas Figure 20b shows the constellation before THP modulo operation
for UE 2 (THP lattice structure) in MU-MAS with two distributed antennas and two
UEs. THP precoding is designed to completely cancel interference to the "reference
UE" and applies successive interference cancellation schemes to the other UEs. As
such it is expected the SER performance for the reference-UE may be better than
the other UEs. In one embodiment, Round-Robin or proportional fair scheduling or
other types of scheduling techniques are applied to the UEs to guarantee similar
                                              45

average SER performance to all UEs.
[00178]       The computational performance of BD and THP methods may vary
depending on the number of distributed antennas and/or UEs within every user
cluster. In one embodiment of the invention, the MU-MAS dynamically switches
between linear and non-linear precoding techniques to minimize the computational
complexity of the precoder, depending on the number of distributed antennas and/or
UEs in every user-cluster.
[00179]       In practical MU-MASs, the beacon station is a wireless transceiver
dedicated to the use for RF calibration. Since the beacon requires feedback channel
to communicate the estimated effective DL channel from all distributed antennas for
calibration purposes, the beacon communicates to the CP via wireless or wireline
link. In another embodiment, the beacon station is any of the distributed antennas,
and the calibration parameters are computed with respect to that antenna. In the
same embodiment, the distributed antennas are organized as in a mesh network
and pair-wise RF calibration between adjacent distributed antennas is computed to
guarantee good link quality. The RF calibration is carried across all antennas and
calibration information is fed back to the CP such that all distributed antennas are
calibrated with one another. In another embodiment, the beacon is any of the UEs
that use any wireless or wireline link to feedback calibration information to the CP.
[00180]       The calibration information from the beacon to the CP is quantized over
limited number of bits or sent via codebook-based limited feedback methods to
reduce overhead over the control channel. We observe that RF calibration can be
run at a slow rate (depending on the rate of variation of the RF characteristics, due
to temperature changes, etc.). If the rate of update of the calibration information is
low, the wireless data channel can be used to send that information to the CP
without causing any severe loss of data rate. In one exemplary embodiment, in LTE
cellular networks the PUSCH is used to feedback calibration information from the
UE to the CP.
[00181]       One or multiple geographically distributed beacons are employed per
user-cluster, or antenna-cluster or antenna-subcluster depending on the relative link
quality between the beacon and the distributed antennas in that cluster. In one
embodiment, the beacon with the best signal quality to all distributed antennas in the
cluster is used for RF calibration.        In another embodiment, the beacons are
dynamically selected at every instance of time to adapt to the changing quality of the
                                            46

links to the distributed antennas due to variations in the propagation environment. In
another embodiment, multiple beacons are employed cooperatively (e.g., via
maximum ratio combining/transmission) to maximize the SNR or SINR over the links
from/to the distributed antennas. In a different embodiment, one or more RF
calibrations are carried out per cluster.
[00182]       In one embodiment of the invention, the beacon station is used not only
for RF calibration but also to send signaling information to the distributed antennas
and/or UEs including time and frequency synchronization reference. The distributed
antennas and/or UEs employ that reference to maintain time and frequency
synchronization with the MU-MAS master reference clock. In one embodiment, this
reference clock distribution from the beacon to the distributed antennas and UEs is
enabled via the LTE multimedia broadcast single frequency network (MBSFN)
communication channel.
REFERENCES
[00183]       [1] A. Paulraj, R. Nabar, and D. Gore, Introduction to Space-Time
Wireless Communications, Cambridge University Press, 40 West 20th Street, New
York, NY, USA, 2003
[00184]       [2] D. Gesbert, M. Shafi, D. Shiu, P.J. Smith and A. Naguib, "From
theory to practice: an overview of MIMO space-time coded wireless systems", IEEE
Journal on Selected Areas on Communications, vol.2, n.3, pp.281-302, Apr. 2003
[00185]       [3] L. Zheng and D. N. C. Tse, "Diversity and multiplexing: a
fundamental tradeoff in multiple-antenna channels," IEEE Trans. Info. Th., vol. 49,
no. 5, pp. 1073-1096, May 2003
[00186]       [4] D. N. C. Tse, P. Viswanath, and L. Zheng, "Diversity-multiplexing
tradeoff in multiple-access channels", IEEE Trans. Info. Th., vol. 50, no. 9, pp. 1859
1874, Sept. 2004
[00187]       [5] E. Visotsky and U. Madhow, "Space-time transmit precoding with im
perfect feedback," IEEE Trans. Info. Th., vol. 47, pp. 2632-2639, Sep. 2001.
[00188]       [6] S. A. Jafar, S. Vishwanath, and A. Goldsmith, "Channel capacity and
beamforming for multiple transmit and receive antennas with covariance feedback,"
Proc. IEEE Int. Conf. on Comm., vol. 7, pp. 2266-2270, Jun. 2001.
[00189]       [7] S. A. Jafar and A. Goldsmith, "Transmitter optimization and
optimality of beamforming for multiple antenna systems," IEEE Trans. Wireless
                                           47

Comm., vol. 3, pp. 1165-1175, July 2004.
[00190]       [8] E. A. Jorswieck and H. Boche, "Channel capacity and capacity
range of beamforming in MIMO wireless systems under correlated fading with
covariance feedback," IEEE Trans. Wireless Comm., vol. 3, pp. 1543- 1553, Sep.
2004.
[00191]       [9] A. L. Moustakas and S. H. Simon, "Optimizing multiple-input single
output (MISO) communication systems with general Gaussian channels: nontrivial
covariance and nonzero mean," IEEE Trans. Info. Th., vol. 49, pp. 2770-2780, Oct.
2003.
[00192]       [10] M. Kang and M. S. Alouini, "Water-filling capacity and beamforming
performance of MIMO systems with covariance feedback," IEEE Work. on Sign.
Proc. Adv. in Wire. Comm., pp. 556-560, June 2003.
[00193]       [11] S. H. Simon and A. L. Moustakas, "Optimizing MIMO antenna
systems with channel covariance feedback," IEEE Jour. Select. Areas in Comm.,
vol. 21, pp. 406-417, Apr. 2003.
[00194]       [12] S. M. Alamouti, "A simple transmit diversity technique for wireless
communications," IEEE Jour. Select. Areas in Comm., vol. 16, no. 8, pp. 1451
1458, Oct. 1998.
[00195]       [13] V. Tarokh, N. Seshadri, and A. R. Calderbank, "Space-time codes
for high data rate wireless communication:          Performance    criterion and code
construction," IEEE Trans. Info. Th., vol. 44, pp. 744-65, Mar. 1998.
[00196]       [14] V. Tarokh, H. Jafarkhani, and A. R. Calderbank, "Space-time block
codes from orthogonal designs," IEEE Trans. Info. Th., vol. 45, pp. 1456-467, July
1999.
[00197]       [15] E. N. Onggosanusi, A. G. Dabak, and T. A. Schmidl, "High rate
space- time block coded scheme: performance and improvement in correlated
fading channels," Proc. IEEE Wireless Comm. and Net. Conf., vol. 1, pp. 194-199,
Mar. 2002.
[00198]       [16] G. D. Durgin, Space-Time Wireless Channels, Prentice Hall, Upper
Saddle River, NJ, USA, 2003
[00199]       [17] D.-S. Shiu, G. J. Foschini, M. J. Gans, and J. M. Kahn, "Fading
corre- lation and its effect on the capacity of multielement antenna systems," IEEE
Trans. Comm., vol. 48, no. 3, pp. 502-513, Mar. 2000
[00200]       [18] A. Forenza and R. W. Heath Jr., "Impact of antenna geometry on
                                           48

MIMO communication in indoor clustered channels," Proc. IEEE Antennas and Prop.
Symp., vol. 2, pp. 1700-1703, June 2004.
[00201]       [19] E. A. Jorswieck and H. Boche, "Channel capacity and capacity
range of beamforming in MIMO wireless systems under correlated fading with
covariance feedback," IEEE Trans. Wireless Comm., vol. 3, pp. 1543- 1553, Sep.
2004
[00202]       [20] R. W. Heath Jr. and A. Paulraj, "Switching between multiplexing
and diversity based on constellation distance," Proc. of Allerton Conf. on D208,
Comm. Control and Comp., Sep. 2000.
[00203]       [21] S. Catreux, V. Erceg, D. Gesbert, and R. W. Heath Jr., "Adaptive
modulation and MIMO coding for broadband wireless data networks," IEEE Comm.
Mag., vol. 2, pp. 108-115, June 2002.
[00204]       [22] A. Forenza, A. Pandharipande, H. Kim, and R. W. Heath Jr.,
"Adaptive MIMO transmission scheme: Exploiting the spatial selectivity of wireless
channels," Proc. IEEE Veh. Technol. Conf., vol. 5, pp. 3188-3192, May 2005
[00205]       [23] C. B. Chae, A. Forenza, R. W. Heath, Jr., M. R. McKay, and I. B.
Collings, ''Adaptive     MIMO Transmission Techniques for Broadband Wireless
Communication Systems," IEEE Communications Magazine, vol. 48, no. 5, pp. 112
118, May 2010
[00206]       [24] FCC, "Broadband action agenda", National Broadband Plan, 2010
http://www.broadband.gov/plan/national-broadband-plan-action-agenda.pdf
[00207]       [25], N. Delfas, F. Meunier, S. Flannery, T. Tsusaka, E. Gelblum and S.
Kovler, "Mobile data wave: who dares to invest, wins", Morgan Stanley Research
Global, June 13, 2012
[00208]       [26] D. Goldman, "Sorry, America: your wireless airwaves are full", CNN
Money
http://money.cnn.com/2012/02/21/technology/spectrumcrunch/index.htm
[00209]       [27] P. Rysavy, "No silver bullets for FCC, NTIA spectrum challange",
Daily report for executives, Bloomberg BNA, Aug. 2012
http://www.rysavy.com/Articles/2012_09_NoSpectrum_Silver_Bullets.pdf
[00210]       [28] T. W. Hazlett, "Radio spectrum for a hungry wireless world", Sept.
22, 2011
[00211]       [29] B. J. Love, D. J. Love and J. V. Krogmeier, "Like deck chairs on the
Titanic: why spectrum reallocation won't avert the coming data crunch but
                                           49

technology might keep the wireless industry afloat", Feb. 2012
[00212]       [30] Qualcomm, "The 1000x data challenge, the latest on wireless,
voice, services and chipset evolution", 4G World, Oct.  3 1 st, 2012
[00213]       [31] J. Lee, J.-K. Han, J. Zhang, "MIMO technologies in 3GPP LTE and
LTE-advanced", EURASIP Journal on Wireless Comm. and Net., Hindawi, May
2009
[00214]        [32] 3GPP, TS 36.201, "Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E
UTRA); LTE Physical Layer-General Description (Release 8)"
[00215]       [33] 3GPP, TS 36.211, "Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E
UTRA); Physical Channels and Modulation (Release 8)"
[00216]       [34] 3GPP, TS 36.212, "Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E
UTRA); Multiplexing and channel coding (Release 8)"
[00217]       [35] 3GPP, TS 36.213, "Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E
UTRA); Physical layer procedures (Release 8)"
[00218]       [36] T. Yoo, N. Jindal, and A. Goldsmith, "Multi-antenna broadcast
channels with limited feedback and user selection," IEEE Journal on Sel. Areas in
Communications, vol. 25, pp. 1478-91, July 2007.
[00219]       [37] P. Ding, D. J. Love, and M. D. Zoltowski, "On the sum rate of
channel subspace feedback for multi-antenna broadcast channels," in Proc., IEEE
Globecom, vol. 5, pp. 2699-2703, November 2005.
[00220]       [38] N. Jindal, "MIMO broadcast channels with finite-rate feedback,"
IEEE Trans. on Info. Theory, vol. 52, pp. 5045-60, November 2006.
[00221]       [39] D. J. Love, R. W. Heath, Jr., V. K. N. Lau, D. Gesbert, B. D.
Rao, and     M.   Andrews,     'An   Overview    of Limited      Feedback in Wireless
Communication Systems," IEEE Journal on Sel. Areas in Comm., Special Issue on
Exploiting Limited Feedback in Tomorrow's Wireless Communication Networks, vol.
26, no. 8, pp. 1341-1365, Oct. 2008.
[00222]       R. W. Heath, Jr., D. J. Love, V. K. N. Lau, D. Gesbert, B. D. Rao, and
M. Andrews, 'Exploiting     Limited Feedback in Tomorrow's Wireless Communication
Networks," IEEE Journal on Sel. Areas in Comm., Special Issue on Exploiting
Limited Feedback in Tomorrow's Wireless Communication Networks, vol. 26, no. 8,
pp. 1337-1340, Oct. 2008.
[00223]       [41] D. J. Love, R. W. Heath, Jr., and T. Strohmer, "'Grassmannian
Beamforming for Multiple-Input Multiple-Output Wireless Systems," IEEE Trans. on
                                           50

Info. Theory special issue on MIMO Communication, vol. 49, pp. 2735-2747, Oct.
2003
[00224]       [42] C. B. Chae, D. Mazzarese, N. Jindal and R. W. Heath, Jr.,
"Coordinated Beamforming with Limited Feedback in the MIMO Broadcast Channel"
IEEE Journal on Sel. Areas in Comm., Special Issue on Exploiting Limited Feedback
in Tomorrow's Wireless Comm. Networks, vol. 26, no. 8, pp. 1505-1515, Oct. 2008
[00225]       [43] A. Paulraj, "Is OFDMA, MIMO and OS the right stuff for mobile
broad-    band?"    http://www.ieeevtc.org/vtc2005fall/presentations/paulraj.pdf,  Sept.
2005
[00226]       [44] J. Wannstrom, "Carrier aggregation explained", 3GPP
http://www.3gpp.org/Carrier-Aggregation-explained
[00227]       [45] 3GPP, TS 36.808, "Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E
UTRA); Carrier Aggregation (Release 10)", v1 0.0.0, June 2012
[00228]       [46] Nokia Siemens Networks, "2020: beyond 4G, radio evolution for
the gigabit experience", White Paper, 2011, www.nokiasiemensnetworks.com
[00229]       [47] S. Marek, "AT&T's Rinne talks about carrier aggregation trials,
small   cells and more",       http://www.fiercebroadbandwireless.com/story/atts-rinne
talks-about-carrier-aggregation-trials-small-cells-and-more/201 2-11-08
[00230]       [48] M. Reed, "InterfereX", Tech23, 2011
http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YPpELm6iip8
[00231]       [49] NICTA, "InterfereX",
http://www.nicta.com.au/research/archive/researchthemes/networkedsystems/inte
rferex
[00232]       [50] J. Duplicity, et al., "MU-MIMO in LTE systems", EURASIP Journal
on Wireless Communications and Netowrking, Mar. 2011
[00233]       [51] S. Feng and E. Seidel, "Self-organizing networks (SON) in 3GPP
LTE", Nomor research, May 2008
[00234]       [52] NEC, "Self organizing networks", White paper, Feb. 2009
[00235]       [53] U.S. Patent No. 5,809,422, issued September 15, 1998, entitled
"Distributed microcellular communications system", G. R. Raleigh, M. A. Pollack
[00236]        [54] G. J. Foschini, H.C. Huang, K. Karakayali, R. A. Valenzuela, and
S. Venkatesan. The Value of Coherent Base Station Coordination. In Conference on
In- formation Sciences and Systems (CISS 2005), Mar. 2005
[00237]       [55] M. K. Karakayali, G. J. Foschini, R. A. Valenzuela, and R. D. Yates,
                                             51

"On the maximum common rate achievable in a coordinated network," Proc. of the
Int'l Conf. on Communications (ICC'06), vol. 9, pp. 4333-4338, June 2006.
[00238]       [56] M. K. Karakayali, G. J. Foschini, and R. A. Valenzuela, "Network
coor- dination for spectrally efficient communications in cellular systems," IEEE
 Wireless Communications Magazine, vol. 13, no. 4, pp. 56-61, Aug. 2006.
[00239]       [57] G.     J. Foschini, M.    K. Karakayali,   and   R. A. Valenzuela,
"Coordinating multiple antenna cellular networks to achieve enormous spectral
efficiency," Pro- ceedings of the IEEE, vol. 153, no. 4, pp. 548-555, Aug. 2006.
[00240]       [58] S. Venkatesan, A. Lozano, and R. Valenzuela, "Network MIMO:
overcoming inter-cell interference in indoor wireless systems", Proc. of Asilomar
conf., pp.83-87, Nov. 2007
[00241]       [59] S. Venkatesan, H. Huang, A. Lozano, and R. Valenzuela, "A
WiMAX-based implementation of network MIMO for indoor wireless systems",
EURASIP Journal on Advances in Signal Processing, Sep. 2009
[00242]       [60] Y. Liang, R. Valenzuela, G. Foschini, D. Chizhik, and A. Goldsmith,
"Interference suppression in wireless cellular networks through picocells", ACSSC,
pp.1041-1045, Nov. 2007
[00243]       [61] A. Papadogiannis, H. J. Bang, D. Gesbert, and E. Hardouin,
"Efficient selective feedback design for multicell cooperative networks", IEEE Trans.
On Vehicular Techn., pp.196-205, vol.60, n.1, Jan. 2011
[00244]        [62] I. F. Akyildiz, D. M. Guterrez-Estevez, E. C. Reyes, "The evolution
to 4G cellular systems: LTE-Advanced", Physical Comm., Elsevier, pp.217-244,
2010
[00245]       [63] A. Barbieri, P. Gaal, S. Geirhofer, T. Ji, D. Malladi, Y. Wei, and F.
Xue, "Coordinated downlink multi-point communications in heterogeneous cellular
networks", (Qualcomm), Information Theory and App. Workshop, pp. 7-16, Feb.
2012
[00246]       [64] S. Parkvall, E. Dahlman, A. Furuskar, Y. Jading, M. Olsson, S.
Wanstedt, and K. Zangi, "LTE-Advanced - evolving LTE towards IMT-Advanced",
(Ericsson) IEEE VTC, pp.1-5, Sep. 2008
[00247]       [65] R. A. Monziano and T. W. Miller, Introduction to Adaptive Arrays,
New York: Wiley, 1980.
[00248]       [66] K. K. Wong, R. D. Murch, and K. B. Letaief, "A joint channel
diagonalization for multiuser MIMO antenna systems," IEEE Trans. Wireless
                                            52

Comm., vol. 2, pp. 773-786, Jul 2003;
[00249]       [67] R. Chen, R. W. Heath, Jr.,        and   J. G. Andrews, 'Transmit
Selection Diversity for Unitary Precoded Multiuser Spatial Multiplexing Systems with
Linear Receivers," IEEE Trans. on Signal Proc., vol. 55, no. 3, pp. 1159-1171, Mar.
2007.
[00250]       [68] M. Costa, "Writing on dirty paper," IEEE          Transactions on
Information Theory, Vol. 29, No. 3, Page(s): 439 - 441, May 1983.
[00251]       [69] G. Caire and S. Shamai, "On the achievable throughput of a
multiantenna Gaussian broadcast channel," IEEE Trans. Info.Th., vol. 49, pp. 1691
1706, July 2003.
[00252]       [70] N. Jindal & A. Goldsmith, "Dirty Paper Coding vs. TDMA for MIMO
Broadcast Channels", IEEE Trans. on Info. Theory, vol.51, pp.1783-1794, May 2005
[00253]       [71] M. Tomlinson,     "New automatic equalizer employing        modulo
arithmetic," Electronics Letters, Page(s): 138 - 139, March 1971.
[00254]       [72] H. Miyakawa and H. Harashima, "A method of code conversion for
digital communication channels with intersymbol interference," Trans. of the Inst. of
Electronic
[00255]       [73] U. Erez, S. Shamai (Shitz), and R. Zamir, "Capacity and lattice
strategies   for   cancelling  known   interference,"   Proceedings  of International
Symposium on Information Theory, Honolulu, Hawaii, Nov. 2000.
[00256]       [74] W. Yu and J. M. Cioffi, "Trellis Precoding for the Broadcast
Channel", IEEE Globecom, vol.2, pp.1344-1348, 2001
[00257]       [75] B. M. Hochwald, C. B. Peel, and A. L. Swindlehurst, "A Vector
Perturbation Technique for Near-Capacity Multiantenna Multiuser Communication
Part I: Channel Inversion and Regularization", IEEE Trans. On Communications, vol.
53, n.1, pp.195-202, Jan. 2005
[00258]       [76] B. M. Hochwald, C. B. Peel, and A. L. Swindlehurst, "A Vector
Perturbation Technique for Near-Capacity Multiantenna Multiuser Communication
Part II: Perturbation", IEEE Trans. On Comm., vol. 53, n. 3, pp.537-544, Mar. 2005
[00259]       [77] S. Perlman and A. Forenza, "Distributed-input distributed-output
(DIDO) wireless technology: a new approach to multiuser wireless", Rearden Labs
White      Paper,     July    2011,    http://www.reardenwireless.com/110727-DIDO
A%20New%20Approach%20to%20Mu ltiuser%20Wireless.pdf
[00260]       [78] A. Vance, "Steve Perlman's wireless fix", Businessweek, July 2011
                                           53

http://www.businessweek.com/magazine/the-edison-of-silicon-valley-07272011.html
[00261]       [79] M. Lindstr6m (Ericsson), "LTE-Advanced Radio Layer 2 and RRC
aspects", 3GPP TSG-RAN WG2
[00262]       [80] Anritsu, "LTE resource guide", www.us.anritsu.com
[00263]       [81] 3GPP, "Spatial Channel Model AHG (Combined ad-hoc from 3GPP
& 3GPP2)", SCM Text V6.0, April 22, 2003
[00264]       [82] J. Lee, "Introduction of LTE-Advanced DL/UL MIMO", Samsung
Electronics, Sep. 2009
[00265]       [83] E. Dahlman, S. Parkvall and J. Skold, "4G: LTE/LTE-Advanced for
mobile broadband", Elsevier, 2011
[00266]       [84] J. Syren, "Overview on the 3GPP long term evolution physical
layer", Freescale White Paper, July 2007
[00267]       [85] M. Baker, "LTE-Advanced physical layer", Alcatel-Lucent, Dec.
2009
[00268]       [86] J. Xu, "LTE-Advanced signal generation and measurements using
SystemVue", Agilent Technologies
[00269]       [87] X. Hou and H. Kayama, "Demodulation reference signal design and
channel estimation for LTE-Advanced uplink", DOCOMO, Adv. in Vehic. Netw.
Tech., Apr. 2011
[00270]       [88] D. C. Chu, "Polyphase codes with good periodic correlation
properties", IEEE Trans. Info. D Theory, vol. 18, n. 4, pp. 531-532, July 1972
[00271]       [89] A. Lozano, R.W. Heath and J. Andrews, "Fundamental limits of
cooperation", Mar. 2012, http://arxiv.org/pdf/1 204.0011.pdf
[00272]       [90] J. G. Andrews, "Seven ways that HetNet are a cellular paradigm
shift"
http://users.ece.utexas.edu/~jandrews/pubs/AndHetNetCommMag2012_v3.pdf
[00273]       [91] J-C. Guey, and L. D. Larsson, "Nodeling and evaluation of MIMO
systems exploiting channel reciprocity in TDD mode", 2004
[00274]       [92] N. Tyler, B. Allen, and H. Aghvami, "Adaptive antennas: the
calibration problem", IEEE Comm. Mag., pp. 114-122, Dec. 2004
[00275]       [93]   A.   Bourdoux,   B. Come,     and    N.  Khaled,   "Non-reciprocal
transceivers in OFDM/SDMA systems: impact and mitigation", IEEE, pp. 183-186,
2003
[00276]       [94] M. Guillaud, D. T. M. Slock, and R. Knopp, "A practical method for
                                           54

wireless channel reciprocity exploitation through relative calibration", IEEE Proc. Of
Sign Proc., pp.403-406, vol.1, Aug. 2005
[00277]       [95] P. Zetterberg, "Experimental investigation of TDD reciprocity based
zero-forcing transmit precoding", EURASIP, June 2010
[00278]       [96] P. Uthansakul, K. Attakitmongkol, N. Promsuvana, and Uthansakul,
"MIMO antenna selection using CSI from reciprocal channel", Int. Journ. Of Elect.
And Info. Eng., 2010
                                           55

Claims
         1.      A multiple antenna system (MAS) with multiuser (MU) transmissions
("MU-MAS") that employs radio frequency (RF) calibration and exploits reciprocity
between downlink (DL) and uplink (UL) channels, comprising of multiple distributed
antennas or wireless transceiver stations using spatial processing for concurrently
communicating with at least one of a plurality of client devices and one or multiple
beacon stations, wherein the one or multiple beacon stations are used for RF
calibration to compensate for impairments of a plurality of RF chains of the distributed
antennas.
        2.       The system as in claim 1 comprising of a plurality of distributed
antennas interconnected to a centralized processor (CP) via a base stations network
(BSN) and employing precoding to communicate with a plurality of client devices.
        3.       The system as in claim 2 wherein the CP is aware of channel state
information (CSI) between the distributed antennas and the client devices, and
utilizes the CSI to precode data sent over the DL or UL channels.
        4.       The system as in claim 3 wherein the CSI is estimated at the client
devices and fed back to the distributed antennas.
        5.       The system as in claim 1 wherein downlink channel state information
(DL-CSI) is derived at the distributed antennas from uplink channel state information
(UL-CSI) using RF calibration and exploiting UL/DL channel reciprocity.
        6.       The system as in claim 1 wherein RF calibration is employed to
compute DL MU-MAS precoding weights from the UL channel.
        7.       The system as in claim 6 wherein the precoding weights are computed
to pre-cancel inter-client interference to every user equipment (UE).
        8.       The system as in claim 6 wherein the precoding weights are computed
from linear precoding methods (e.g., zero forcing or block diagonalization, matrix
inversion, etc.).
        9.       The system as in claim 6 wherein the precoding weights are computed
from non-linear precoding methods (e.g., dirty-paper coding, Tomlinson-Harashima,
lattice trellis, vector perturbation, etc.).
         10.     The system as in claim 6 wherein Round-Robin or proportional fair
scheduling or other types of scheduling methods are used to guarantee similar
symbol error rate (SER) performance to all user equipments (UEs) in the MU-MAS.
                                             56

        11.    The system as in claim 6 wherein the MU-MAS dynamically switches
between linear and non-linear precoding techniques to minimize the computational
complexity of the precoder, depending on the number of distributed antennas and/or
user equipments (UEs) in every user-cluster.
        12.    The system as in claim 6 wherein RF calibration is obtained by
preconditioning a matrix of UL channel estimates with a complex RF calibration
matrix.
        13.    The system as in claim 12 wherein the RF calibration matrix is obtained
from the effective DL and UL channels between the distributed antennas and one or
multiple beacon stations.
        14.    The system as in claim 13 wherein the effective DL and UL channels
are estimated via training signals sent from/to the distributed antennas to/from the
beacon station.
        15.    The system as in claim 1 wherein the beacon station is any of the
distributed antennas.
        16.    The system as in claim 1 wherein the beacon station is any of the client
devices.
        17.    The system as in claim 2 wherein RF calibration information is sent
from the beacon station to the CP via wireless or wireline feedback channel
        18.    The system as in claim 17 wherein quantization or codebook-based
limited feedback techniques are employed to feedback the RF calibration information
from the beacon station to the CP.
        19.    The system as in claim 2 wherein the MU-MAS is a cellular network
such as the long-term evolution (LTE) network, the client devices are LTE user
equipments (UEs), the distributed antennas are LTE enhanced NodeBs (eNodeBs) or
mobility management entities (MMEs), the CP is the LTE gateway (GW), the BSN is
the S1 or X1 interface.
        20.    The system as in claim 19 wherein a UL demodulation reference signal
(DMRS) or a sounding reference signal (SRS) is employed to estimate the UL
channels from the UEs to the eNodeBs.
        21.    The system as in claim 19 wherein a DL cell-specific reference signal
(CRS), or CSI reference signal (CSI-RS), or demodulation reference signal (DM-RS),
or other training signals are employed to estimate the DL and UL channels between
the eNodeBs and one or multiple beacon stations used for RF calibration.
                                          57

       22.   The system as in claim 19 wherein a PUSCH physical channel is used
to feedback RF calibration information from the beacon station to the CP.
                                          58

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
