A surfboard, short board or body board incorporating clear panels, strips or
windows as a shark deterrence feature.
The clear panels, strips or windows can be incorporated during construction,
or retro fitted.


      Editorial Note
       <removed-apn>
There are three pages of description only

Description;
SDSM is a design in which one largely balanced portion (or two small thin portions made
parallel to each other) are cut out and removed from a surfboard and replaced with hardened
transparent liquid polymer similar to the density of said boards own manufactory foam, of which
creates a clear plastic window that is permanently added into a board and capable of using
sunlight to distort the image of underwater shadow that causes sharks to attack. A modification
that when implemented correctly has negligible changes made to the physical shape or weight
of the original surfboard and thus its ability to be used for surfing.
Accordingly SDSM is a process that must be made with absolute precision and technique so
that the specifications specifically suited to a particular board are maintained the same as the
original board before it was tampered with. Making certain the modifications integrated into said
board are properly anchored and preserved without causing any additional disturbances of
balance or weight distribution that might compromise the integrity of the board and its natural
buoyancy.
Field of the invention;
The present invention relates to 'surfing' surfboards and is in the field of safety modification,
centred around the lateral side strips of the surfboard, where if a user was to be laid out flat and
spread across the surfboard in attempts to catch or wait for a wave, the light from the sun will be
allowed passage through said window strips without being obstructed by the core of the user's
own body
Description of the prior art;
Based on leading information provided by 'white shark' attack patterns and studies
Over recent years, a number of procedures have been used to deter sharks from attacking
surfboards; these include
Shark deterrent electro magnetic ankle bracelets designed to emit a frequency that repels
sharks from the nearby proximity of surfboards
Stylised Patterns painted onto back of boards (before market) to help distort the shadow of
surfers below the water in order to break the pinniped appearing silhouette that sharks could
observe from below.
Light Emitting Diodes installed onto the underbelly of the board in order to light up and break the
shadow of humans from sharks potentially observing down below
With lastly and In extension;

A clear plastic paddle board that has developed to allow surfing enthusiasts the ability to paddle
board whilst observing the marine wildlife below their feet, with serendipitous inclusion of the
SDSM safety feature detailed above.
Components required;
     1. Either Shortboard, longboard, funboard or hybrid surfboard type
     2. Either Clear and waterproof; Polyurethane, polystyrene foam, fibreglass or polyester
         filling, weighed to match weight force of foam per unit of size
     3. Drill press, jigsaw or any other accurate incision tools
     4. Non stick paper sheeting
     5. Masking tape
     6. Surfboard storage area (preferably indoors)
Methodoloqy;
Cuts are made perpendicular to the board and are measured in contrast to the centre axis of the
board so that cuts are mirrored perfectly in alignment with said axis, Where if multiple windows
wish to be added, it can be done so long as it remains in the usable zones parameters referred
as fig || and fig IV of sketch 1.1. This is to ensure balance and structural integrity of the board.
The length and width of the cuts being anything within the ranges specified by sketch 1.1 (at
least ten percent the total width away from all edges of said board).
In addition and for proper anchorage, grooved slits are cut to 20 percent of the total depth at the
dead centre of the shapes total depth and made along the entirety of the incisions, made so that
the clear polymer can harden with anchorage to parts inside of said board for greatest stability
achievable.
Detailed description of the invention;
The surfboard used is to be laid down horizontally and be surrendered for dissection at owners
own risk.
Installations are to be made in the form of cut out incisions; made vertically from within the
parameters dictated by sketch 1.1, the volume of perpendicular cut outs are made and ready to
be replaced with a clear plastic polymer, at an amount chosen by the instigator of the SDSM
integration process, performed anywhere within the allocated areas that this patent has claimed
for, inferring anywhere other than fig II (outside of the ten percent of the total width zone of the
board that spans across the entire perimeter of said board) and with inclusion that as all cut outs
created are made to be of perfect reflections to the other (counterpart) side of the central
(lateral) axis (fig I). Removed with great precision and care as this step is irreversible if
performed wrong.

After such vertical cuts are made and removed as holes in the surfboard, before any filling is
added; shallow scrapings are to be taken as one inch long inner slits are carved into said board,
performed at its centre depth in order to secure the best anchorage of the added polymer into
said board. Using the weight and size comparisons of the cutouts taken to determine the density
and required matching polymer required for the addition of the plastic window.
In addition to the cuts made; the bottom of the board is to be vigorously lined with taped paper
to secure it from any drippage of the clear filler once the SDSM Instigator has found and
prescribed the right waterproof liquid plastic polymer for the casting of the incision mold (SDSM
surfboard hole/s). A choice determined by having compared and matched the densities of the
cut out with plastic polymer filler once hardened.
The addition of a waterproof filler must then be added and completed in a motionless
environment, whilst poured with the utmost of care. For any disturbances done to the filler whilst
still in a liquid-drying state can potentially create bubbles of which will tamper with the result of
the clear window and its ability to uptake and refract sunlight. Meaning that filler can be poured
in but should be done slowly and be allowed to set in incremental stages as the plastic can also
sometimes expand once hardened and would be supremely difficult to be cut away of excess if
overfilled. Further disturbing the clarity of the polymer.
After filler is added, said board must be given an adequate amount of time in shelter to allow the
plastic to harden and fill into the crevices made into the depths of the board. A hardening time
which will be allocated by the label of the clear polymer used, as should any other conditions
surrounding the filler bottle and its drying time be followed accordingly (eg avoidance of sunlight
or water).
Once dried the paper can be removed in order to inspect and test the glossiness of the window
and its ability to allow light through the board, where on completion of this step, said board is fit
with the shark deterrent safety modification and ready for service.

 Editorial Note
   <removed-apn>
There is one page of claims only

What is claimed is;
Claim 1
A clear plastic polymer window added into a surfboard that comprises of
A clear polystyrene foam, a clear polyurethane, a clear fiberglass or a clear polyester material
which is filled and hardened into the predetermined holes cut out of said surfboard shell as the
appropriate polymer to said surfboard is filled and match with a polymer of similar density and
weight distribution of the original foam cut out replaced by the undergone shark deterrent
window modification.
Claim 2
A clear plastic polymer window as set forth in claim one which is further categorised as
belonging to the templated shell of a shortboard, funboard, longboard or any deviated from of
hybrid surfboard.
Claim 3
A clear plastic polymer window as set forth in claim one which is further categorised in that
The manufacture process entailing the separation of said surfboard with the plastic polymer
window installation; in which one or multiple incision are made to strip away small segments of
the board reflective and parallel to said surfboards central lateral axis.
Inferring in addition that multiple cuts being made with mirror reflection to their counterpart
incisions, whilst based along the centre vertical axis of the board, are also accomplished
between the set parameters and distanced at least 10 percent of the net width away from all
external edges of said boards perimetre. A precise length determined via the size of said
surfboard selected for Shark Deterrent Safety Modifications.

                 Editorial Note
<removed-date>
                  <removed-apn>
              There is one page of drawings only
<removed-apn>

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
