                                         ABSTRACT
A computer-implemented        method for presenting    information on a user device in a
presentation language. comprises receiving from the user device an identifier associated with
the information to be presented on the user device, the identifier being obtained at the user
device by scanning a mark containing the identifier using the user device, receiving from the
user device an indication indicating a desired language in which the information is presented
on the user device, determining the presentation language used to present the information
based on the identifier and the indication indicating the desired language, generating an
electronic document containing the information, the electronic document being configured to
present the information on the user device in the presentation language and sending the
electronic document to the user device in order to present the information on the user device
in the presentation language.

        2/7
   120
Fig. 1B

                                                 I
    A COMPUTER IMPLEMENTED METHOD AND A COMPUTER SYSTEM FOR
      PRESENTING INFORMATION ON A USER DEVICE IN A PRESENTATION
                                           LANGUAGE
Technical Field
[1] The present invention generally relates to facilitating understanding of information and
in particular to a computer implemented method and a computer system for presenting
information on a user device in a presentation language.
Background
[2] One of most remarkable facets of modern age is that cultural boundaries are disappearing
faster than ever as more and more people are willing to experience a different culture by
international travel or visiting a cultural theme based eateries, amusement parks and
boulevards etc. However, a significant barrier in breaking cultural boundaries is language.
For example, for tourists from China traveling to an English-speaking country like Australia,
it is difficult to fully understand information presented to them if the information is presented
in English when the Chinese tourists visit a museum or order a meal at a restaurant. It may be
important for an individual visiting the restaurant to be aware of the information on the menu,
not only to make an informed choice but also to be aware of any allergens present that the
individual may be susceptible to. To address the problems discussed above, local guides or
interpreters have been introduced to help foreign visitors, but that involves excessive costs
and any returns from the costs will be heavily dependent on individual skills of the interpreter
or the guide. Moreover, there could only be a limited number of guides or interpreters
available and the number of these professionals may not meet the demands.
[3] It is therefore desirable to have a computer implemented method and a computer system
for presenting information on a user device in a presentation language, which does not suffer
from above mentioned deficiencies.
[4] Throughout this        specification, unless the context requires     otherwise, the words
"comprise". "comprises" and "comprising" will be understood to imply the inclusion of a
stated step or element or group of steps or elements but not the exclusion of any other step or
element or group of steps or elements.

                                                2
[5]   Any one of the terms: "including" or "which includes" or "that includes" as used herein
is also an open term that also means including at least the elements/features that follow the
term, but not excluding others.
[6]   Any discussion of the background art throughout the specification should in no way be
considered as an admission that such background art is prior art nor that such background art
is widely known or forms part of the common general knowledge in the field in Australia or
worldwide.
Summary
[7] There is provided a computer-implemented method for presenting information on a user
device in a presentation language. The method comprises receiving from the user device an
identifier associated with the information to be presented on the user device, the identifier
being obtained at the user device by scanning a mark containing the identifier using the user
device, receiving from the user device an indication indicating a desired language in which
the information is presented on the user device, determining the presentation language used to
present the information based on the identifier and the indication indicating the desired
language, generating an electronic document containing the information, the electronic
document being configured to present the information on the user device in the presentation
language and sending the electronic document to the user device in order to present the
information on the user device in the presentation language.
[8] The use of the mark such as a QR code or a bar code containing the identifier is
advantageous as the user does not need to input the information into their mobile phones in
order to translate the information into the language the user is familiar with. Instead, the
electronic document containing the information is sent to the user device in the language the
use is familiar with. This significantly reduces the time for the user to fully understand the
information.
[9] The computer-implemented method may further comprise generating a Quick Response
(QR) code as the mark, the QR code representing a Universal Resource Locator (URL)
containing the identifier.
[10] The step of receiving the identifier from the user device may comprise receiving from the
user device the URL containing the identifier and extracting the identifier from the URL.

                                               3
[I1] The step of receiving the indication indicating the desired language from the user device
may comprise receiving from an Internet browser operating on the user device a message
containing the indication and extracting from the message the indication indicating the
desired language.
[12] The step of determining the presentation language may comprise identifying from a
database a set of candidate languages associated with the identifier and determining one of
the set of candidate languages to be the presentation language if the one of the set of the
candidate languages is the desired language.
[13] The step of determining the presentation language may comprise identifying from a
database a set of candidate languages associated the identifier and determining one of the set
of candidate languages to be the presentation language if the one of the set of the candidate
languages matches the desired language based on a set of matching rules.
[14] The step of determining the presentation language may comprise identifying from a
database a set of candidate languages associated the identifier, generating a further electronic
document containing the set of candidate languages to be presented on the user device for
selection of the presentation language from the set of candidate languages, receiving a further
indication indicating the selection of the presentation language and determining from the
further indication the presentation language.
[15] The step of generating the electronic document containing the information may comprise
determining a data entry in the database based on the presentation language and the identifier
associated with the information, the data entry containing a linguistic representation of the
information in the presentation language, extracting from the data entry the linguistic
representation of the information in the presentation language and generating the electronic
document containing the linguistic representation of the information in the presentation
language.
[16] The electronic document may be a Hypertext Markup Language (HTML) document that
can be presented on the user device.
[17] The user device may comprise a mobile phone having a camera. the mobile phone is
configured to scan the QR code using the camera, read the URL from the QR code and send
the URL to a server identified by the URL.

                                                  4
[18] The information may be in relation to one of a group of items comprising a menu, an
object of interest, a place of interest, a person of interest.
[19] The computer-implemented method may further comprise generating a barcode as the
mark, the barcode representing a Universal Resource Locator (URL) containing the identifier.
[20] There is provided a computer system for presenting information on a user device in a
presentation language, the computer system comprising a memory unit configured to store
machine-readable instructions and a processor operably connected with the memory unit, the
processor obtaining the machine-readable instructions from the memory unit, and being
configured by the machine-readable instructions to receive from the user device an identifier
associated with the information to be presented on the user device, the identifier being
obtained at the user device by scanning a mark containing the identifier using the user device,
receive from the user device an indication indicating a desired language in which the
information is presented on the user device, determine the presentation language used to
present the infonnation based on the identifier and the indication indicating the desired
language, generate an electronic document containing the information, the electronic
document being configured to present the information on the user device in the presentation
language and send the electronic document to the user device in order to present the
information on the user device in the presentation language.
[21] The processor may be further configured to generate a Quick Response (QR) code as the
mark, the QR code representing a Universal Resource Locator (URL) containing the
identifier.
[22] For receiving the identifier from the user device, the processor may be further configured
to receive from the user device the URL containing the identifier and extract the identifier
from the URL.
[23] For receiving the indication indicating the desired language from the user device, the
processor may be further configured to receive from an Internet browser operating on the user
device a message containing the indication and extract from the message the indication
indicating the desired language.
[24] For detennining the presentation language, the processor may be further configured to
identify from a database a set of candidate languages associated with the identifier

                                                  5
and determine one of the set of candidate languages to be the presentation language if the one
of the set of the candidate languages is the desired language.
[25] For determining the presentation language, the processor may be further configured to
identify from a database a set of candidate languages associated the identifier and determine
one of the set of candidate languages to be the presentation language if the one of the set of
the candidate languages matches the desired language based on a set of matching rules.
[26]For detennining the presentation language, the processor may be further configured to
identify from a database a set of candidate languages associated the identifier, generate a
further electronic document containing the set of candidate languages to be presented on the
user device for selection of the presentation language from the set of candidate languages,
receive a further indication indicating the selection of the presentation language and
detennine from the further indication the presentation language.
[27] For generating the electronic document containing the information, the processor may be
further configured to determine a data entry in the database based on the presentation
language and the identifier associated with the infonnation, the data entry containing a
linguistic representation of the information in the presentation language, extract from the data
entry the linguistic representation of the information in the presentation language and
generate the electronic document containing the linguistic representation of the information
in the presentation language.
[28] The electronic document may be a Hypertext Markup Language (HTML) document that
can be presented on the user device.
[29] The user device may comprise a mobile phone having a camera, the mobile phone is
configured to scan the QR code using the camera, read the URL from the QR code and send
the URL to a server identified by the URL.
[30] The information may be in relation to one of a group of items comprising a menu, an
object of interest, a place of interest, a person of interest.
[31] The processor may be further configured to generate a barcode as the mark, the barcode
representing a Universal Resource Locator (URL) containing the identifier.
Brief Description of Drawings

                                               6
[32]At least one example of the invention will be described with reference to the
accompanying drawings. in which:
     Figure IA illustrates an exemplary system in which the various embodiments described
     herein may be implemented in:
     Figure lB illustrates an example of a mark in accordance with an embodiment of the
     present invention;
     Figure 2 illustrates an example computer-implemented method for presenting information
     on a user device in a presentation language in accordance with an embodiment of the
     present invention;
     Figure 3A illustrates an information flow diagram for receiving an identifier and a
     language indication and determination of a presentation language at a computer system in
     accordance with an embodiment of the present invention;
     Figure 3B illustrates an information flow diagram for receiving the identifier and the
     language indication and determination of the presentation language at the computer
     system in accordance with another embodiment of the present invention;
     Figure 3C illustrates an example of generating an electronic document containing the
     information to be presented on the user device in accordance with an embodiment of the
     present invention; and
     Figure 4 illustrates an example webpage for the user to select the presentation language
     from the set of candidate languages in accordance with an embodiment of the present
     invention.
[33]     It should be noted that the same numeral represents the same or similar elements
throughout the drawings.
Description of Embodiments
[34]     Figure 1 illustrates an exemplary system 100 in which various embodiments of the
present invention may be implemented. The system 100 includes a user device 102 associated
with a user. The user device 102 may be selected from a group of devices comprising mobile
handheld devices (such as mobile phones, PDAs and tablet PCs etc.), desktop PCs and
notebooks etc. Alternately, the user device 102 may be purpose built dedicated devices
capable of reading encoded data and retrieving information in several different formats. The

                                                7
user device 102 is connected with a network 104. The network 104 may be one of but not
limited to a Local Area Network (LAN) or a Wide Area Network (WAN). The network 104
may be implemented using a number of protocols, such as but not limited to, TCP/IP, 3GPP,
3GPP2, LTE, IEEE 802;x, etc., and a combination thereof.
[35]     The exemplary system 100 further includes a computer system 106 connected to the
network 106. The computer system 106 is associated with a network-based service capable of
storing information in a number of languages and rendering the information in several
identical or other languages on demand. The computer system 106 may be a portable
computing device, a desktop computer or a server stack. The computer system 106 is
envisaged to include a memory unit 1062 configured to store machine readable instructions.
The machine-readable instructions may be loaded into the memory unit 1062 from a non
transitory machine-readable medium, such as but not limited to CD-ROMs, DVD-ROMs and
Flash Drives. Alternately, the machine-readable instructions may be loaded in a form of a
computer software program into the memory unit 1062. The memory unit 1062 in that
manner may be selected from a group comprising EPROM, EEPROM and Flash memory.
[36]     Further, the computer system 106 includes a processor 1064 operably connected with
the memory unit 1062. In various embodiments, the processor 1064 is one of, but not limited
to, a general-purpose processor, an application specific integrated circuit (ASIC) and a field
programmable gate array (FPGA). The computer system 106 is also envisaged to include a
data interface 1066 for transmission of data between the computer system 106 and any other
external devices connected with the computer system 106 through wired or wireless
connection. In that manner, the data interface 1066 may include several ports such as a
Universal Serial Bus (USB) port, an Ethernet port, e-SATA and SCSI etc.
[37]     Further connected to the computer system 106 is a database 108. The database 108
may be maintained on a cloud-based storage or a local storage. The database 108 may include
multiple separate databases. The database 108 may also be a distributed database distributed
along several nodes providing peer to peer functionalities. In any manner, the database 108 is
capable of providing the data to the computing devices connected with the network 104 when
the data is queried appropriately using applicable security and other data transfer protocols.
Although the exemplary system 100 is described with reference to a scenario where a user
visits a restaurant, the system 100 can also be applied to other scenarios.

                                                 8
[38]    In a typical restaurant in Australia, a menu is normally printed in English and thus the
information is presented in English more specifically Australian English. As Australia is an
popular tourist destination, it would make more sense for the operator of the restaurant to
make the information (for example, dishes, ingredients, allergens, etc.) on the menu available
in multiple languages (such as Mandarin, Cantonese, British English, American English,
French, and German, etc.). However, there is normally no enough space on a paper menu.
Therefore, it might not be possible to present the information in all of the above listed
languages.
[39]    In the exemplary system 100, the operator of the restaurant registers with the
computer system 106. The processor 1064 of the computer system 106 assigns an identifier
(for example, "rest 1045") to identify the restaurant. The operator of the restaurant also
enters into the languages that the menus of the restaurant support, for example, Mandarin,
Cantonese, American English, Russian, Korean, Japanese, Canadian French, and French of
France. The processor 1064 of the computer 1064 creates a record in a first data table (for
example, Table 1) in the database 108. The record includes an "Identifier" field and a
"Candidate Languages" filed. The "Identifier" field contains the identifier, e.g., "rest_1045"
and the "Candidate Languages" field includes the languages that the menus of the restaurant
support.
                                              Table 1
 Identifier                      Candidate Languages
                                 Mandarin, Cantonese, American English, Russian, Korean,
 rest_1045                       Japanese, Canadian French, French of France
The operator of the restaurant then uploads the menus in different languages to the computer
system 106. These menus are the linguistic representations of the information (for example,
dishes, ingredients, allergens, etc.) on the menu in different languages. Alternatively, the
operator of the restaurant only uploads the menu in one language, and the operator of the
exemplary system 100 translates the menu into different languages. The processor 1064 of
the computer system 106 stores the menus in a second data table (e.g. Table 2) in database
108 in association with the identifier "rest_1045" and their respective languages.
                                              Table 2

                                                 9
  Identifier            Presentation Language               Menus
  rest_1045             Mandarin                            Menu in Mandarin
  rest_1045             Cantonese                           Menu in Cantonese
  rest_1045             American English                    Menu in American English
  rest_1045             Russian                             Menu in Russian
  rest_1045             Korean                              Menu in Korean
  rest_1045             Japanese                            Menu in Japanese
  rest_1045             Canadian French                     Menu in Canadian French
  rest_1045             French of France                    Menu in French of France
[40]    The processor 1064 of the computer system 106 generates a mark such as a Quick
Response (QR) code that contains the identifier. For example, the QR code contains a
Universal Resource Locator (URL) including the identifier "rest_1045". As another example,
the processor 1064 may generate a barcode as the mark, the barcode representing the
Universal Resource Locator (URL) including the identifier. Figure 1B illustrates an example
of a mark 120 in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention. The mark 120 is a
QR code in this          example,    and the URL        contained  in the QR code       120   is
http://rm.lecoov.com/qrcode/rest 1045. The QR code 120 is sent from the computer system
106 to a computer or a mobile phone used by the operator of the restaurant. The operator of
the restaurant then prints the QR code 120 on the menu of the restaurant or the QR code 120
is displayed on a display installed at the restaurant, as shown in Figures 3A and 3B.
[41]    Figure 2 illustrates a computer-implemented method 200 for presenting information
on the user device 102 in a presentation language in accordance with an embodiment of the
present invention. In this example, the user visiting the restaurant uses the mobile device 102
to scan the QR code 120 printed on the menu or displayed on the display. The user device
102 may be for example a mobile phone having a camera. The mobile phone is configured to
scan the QR code using the camera and read the URL from the QR code according to QR
code standards as known to the person skilled in the art. The user device 102 invokes the
Internet browser operating on the user device 102 and starts a session under the Internet
Protocols stack. As part of the session under the Internet Protocols stack. The user device 102
requests to visit a server (in this case the computer system 106) identified by the URL. In this
example, the URL is http://rm.lecoov.com/qrcode/rest 1045, which includes the identifier
"rest_1045". The URL is sent to the server according to the Internet Protocols stack.

                                                 10
[42]     The processor 1064 of the computer system 106 receives at step 210 from the user
device 102 the URL including the identifier "rest_1045" associated with the information to
be presented on the user device 102. The processor 1064 extracts the identifier from the URL.
[43]     Also, as part of the session under the Internet Protocols stack, the Internet browser on
the user device 102 sends an indication indicating the language setting (for example, a
language code) on the user device 102. An example of the indication may be 'fr' for French
of France or 'fr-CA' for Canadian French. The language setting indicates the language used
by the user device 120, which represents a desired language of the user. At step 220, the
processor 1064 receives from the user device 102 the indication indicating the desired
language in which the information is presented on the user device 102.
[44]     At step 230, the processor 1064 determines a presentation language used to present
the information based on the identifier and the indication indicating the desired language.
This may be done in a number of ways presented in Figures 3A and 3B.
[45]     Figure 3A illustrates an information flow diagram for receiving an identifier and a
language indication and determination of the presentation language at the computer system
106 in accordance with an embodiment 320 of the present invention. As shown in Figure 3A,
the processor 1064 searches the first data table (i.e., Table 1) in the database 108 by the
identifier and locates the record containing the identifier. The processor 1064 further
identifies a set of candidate languages associated with the identifier in the record, in this
example, Mandarin, Cantonese, American English, Russian, Korean, Japanese, Canadian
French, and French of France.
[46]     Further, the processor 1064 compares the desired language indicated by the indication
received at step 220 with the set of candidate languages. If one of the set of the candidate
languages is the desired language, the presentation language is determined to be the one of
the set of the candidate languages. For example, Canadian French is one of the language of
the set of candidate languages, then Canadian French is determined to be the presentation
language.
[47]     However, there may be scenarios where Canadian French is not one of the set of
candidate languages. In this case, the processor 1064 compares the desired language with the
set of candidate languages. If none of the set of candidate languages is the desired language
(for example, Canadian French is not in the set of candidate language), the processor 1064
then determines one of the set of candidate languages to be the presentation language if the

                                               11
one of the set of the candidate languages matches the desired language based on a set of
matching rules. The set of matching rules may be, but not limited to, that if Canadian French
is not in the set of candidate languages, then it is determined that French of France is the
presentation language. The set of matching rules may be different in other examples without
departing from the scope of the invention.
[48]     There also might be scenarios where the user wants to select the presentation
language themselves. Figure 3B illustrates an information flow diagram for receiving the
identifier and the language indication and determination of the presentation language at the
computer system 106 in accordance with yet another embodiment 340 of the present
invention. As shown in figure 3B, after identifying from the database 108 the set of candidate
languages associated the identifier, the processor 1064 generates an electronic document (for
example, a HTML webpage) containing the set of candidate languages to be presented on the
user device 102 for selection of the presentation language by the user from the set of
candidate languages. Figure 4 illustrates an example webpage 400 for the user to select the
presentation language from the set of candidate languages in accordance with an embodiment
of the present invention. The webpage 400 is sent from the computer system 106 to the user
device 102. The user touches one of the languages presented on the webpage 400 to select the
presentation language. The user device 102 sends a presentation language indication
indicating the selection of the presentation language to the computer system 106. The
processor 1064 of the computer system 1064 receives the presentation language indication
and determines the presentation language from the presentation language indication.
[49]     Figure 3C illustrates an example 350 of generating an electronic document containing
the information to be presented on the user device. At step 240, the processor 1064 generates
an electronic document containing the information to be presented on the user device 102.
The electronic document, in that manner, is configured to present the information on the user
device 102 in the presentation language. Particularly, the processor 1064 of the computer
system 106 determines a data entry in the second data table (i.e., Table 2) in the database 108
based on the presentation language and the identifier. The data entry contains the linguistic
representation of the information in the presentation language. For example, if the identifier
is "rest_1045"and the presentation language is "Mandarin", then first data entry in Table 2 is
identified. Then the linguistic representation of the information in the presentation language
(i.e., a menu in Mandarin) is extracted from the data entry. The processor 1064 further
generates the electronic document containing the menu in Mandarin. The electronic

                                                 12
document may be a Hypertext Markup Language (HTML) document that can be presented on
the user device 102. However, the electronic document may also be an XML document, an e
mail, an e-mail attachment (such as pdf or image file), a message containing a link from
which another document may be downloaded or an audio file for visually impaired etc.
[50]    At step 250, the electronic document is sent to the user device 102 in order to present
the information on the user device 102 in the presentation language. Particularly, the Internet
browser on the user device 102 presents the electronic document in the presentation language
on the user device 102. This way the user is able to understand the menu in their preferred
language. It should note that the present invention is not limited to presenting the information
on a menu, as discussed above, the information may also be in relation to one of a group of
items comprising a menu, an object of interest, a place of interest and a person of interest, etc.
[51]     The use of the mark such as a QR code or a bar code containing the identifier is
advantageous as the user does not need to input the information into their mobile phones in
order to translate the information into the language the user is familiar with. Instead, the
electronic document containing the information is sent to the user device in the language the
use is familiar with. This significantly reduces the time for the user to fully understand the
information.
[52]     It should be understood that the techniques of the present disclosure might be
implemented using a variety of technologies. For example, the methods described herein may
be implemented by a series of computer executable instructions residing on a suitable
computer readable medium. Suitable computer readable media may include volatile (e.g.
RAM) and/or non-volatile (e.g. ROM, disk) memory, carrier waves and transmission media.
Exemplary carrier waves may take the form of electrical, electromagnetic or optical signals
conveying digital data steams along a local network or a publically accessible network such
as the Internet.
[53]     It should also be understood that, unless specifically stated otherwise as apparent from
the following discussion, it is appreciated that throughout the description, discussions
utilizing terms such as "controlling" or "obtaining" or "computing" or "storing" or "receiving"
or "determining" or the like, refer to the action and processes of a computer system, or similar
electronic computing device, that processes and transforms data represented as physical
(electronic) quantities within the computer system's registers and memories into other data

                                               13
similarly represented as physical quantities within the computer system memories or registers
or other such information storage, transmission or display devices.

                                                14
CLAIMS:
1.      A computer-implemented method for presenting information on a user device in a
presentation language, the method comprising:
      receiving from the user device an identifier associated with the information to be
presented on the user device, the identifier being obtained at the user device by scanning a
mark containing the identifier using the user device;
      receiving from the user device an indication indicating a desired language in which the
information is presented on the user device;
       determining the presentation language used to present the information based on the
identifier and the indication indicating the desired language ;
       generating an electronic document containing the information, the electronic document
being configured to present the information on the user device in the presentation language;
and
       sending the electronic document to the user device in order to present the information
on the user device in the presentation language.
2.       The computer-implemented method of claim 1, further comprising generating a Quick
Response (QR) code as the mark, the QR code representing a Universal Resource Locator
(URL) containing the identifier.
3.       The computer-implemented method of claim 2, wherein receiving the identifier from
the user device comprises:
      receiving from the user device the URL containing the identifier; and
       extracting the identifier from the URL.
4.       The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein receiving the indication
indicating the desired language from the user device comprises:
      receiving from an Internet browser operating on the user device a message containing
the indication; and
       extracting from the message the indication indicating the desired language.

                                                15
5.       The method of claim 1, wherein determining the presentation language comprises:
        identifying from a database a set of candidate languages associated with the identifier;
and
        determining one of the set of candidate languages to be the presentation language if the
one of the set of the candidate languages is the desired language.
6.       The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein determining the presentation
language comprises:
       identifying from a database a set of candidate languages associated the identifier; and
       determining one of the set of candidate languages to be the presentation language if the
one of the set of the candidate languages matches the desired language based on a set of
matching rules.
7.       The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein determining the presentation
language comprises:
       identifying from a database a set of candidate languages associated the identifier;
       generating a further electronic document containing the set of candidate languages to be
presented on the user device for selection of the presentation language from the set of
candidate languages;
      receiving a further indication indicating the selection of the presentation language; and
       determining from the further indication the presentation language.
8.       The computer-implemented method of any one of claims 5 to 7, wherein generating
the electronic document containing the information comprises:
       determining a data entry in the database based on the presentation language and the
identifier associated with the information, the data entry containing a linguistic representation
of the information in the presentation language;
       extracting from the data entry the linguistic representation of the information in the
presentation language; and

                                               16
      generating the electronic     document     containing the linguistic representation of the
information in the presentation language.
9.      The computer-implemented method of claim 8, wherein the electronic document is
a Hypertext Markup Language (HTML) document that can be presented on the user device.
10.     The computer-implemented method of claim 3, wherein the user device comprises a
mobile phone having a camera, the mobile phone is configured to
      scan the QR code using the camera;
      read the URL from the QR code; and
      send the URL to a server identified by the URL.
11.     The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the information is in relation
to one of a group of items comprising a menu, an object of interest, a place of interest, a
person of interest.
12.     The computer-implemented method of claim 1, further comprising generating
a barcode as the mark, the barcode representing a Universal Resource Locator (URL)
containing the identifier.
13.     A computer system for presenting information on a user device in a presentation
language, the computer system comprising:
        a memory unit configured to store machine-readable instructions; and
        a processor operably connected with the memory unit, the processor obtaining the
machine-readable instructions from the memory unit, and being configured by the machine
readable instructions to:
            receive from the user device an identifier associated with the information to be
presented on the user device, the identifier being obtained at the user device by scanning a
mark containing the identifier using the user device;
            receive from the user device an indication indicating a desired language in which
the information is presented on the user device;

                                                17
             determine the presentation language used to present the information based on the
identifier and the indication indicating the desired language;
             generate an electronic document containing the information, the electronic
document being configured to present the information on the user device in the presentation
language; and
              send the electronic document to the user device in order to present the
information on the user device in the presentation language.
14.      The computer system of claim 13, wherein the processor is further configured to
generate a Quick Response (QR) code as the mark, the QR code representing a Universal
Resource Locator (URL) containing the identifier.
15.      The computer system of claim 14, wherein for receiving the identifier from the user
device, the processor is further configured to:
      receive from the user device the URL containing the identifier; and
       extract the identifier from the URL.
16.      The computer system of claim 13, wherein for receiving the indication indicating the
desired language from the user device, the processor is further configured to:
      receive from an Internet browser operating on the user device a message containing the
indication; and
       extract from the message the indication indicating the desired language.
17.      The computer system of claim 13, wherein for determining the presentation language,
the processor is further configured to:
        identify from a database a set of candidate languages associated with the identifier; and
        determine one of the set of candidate languages to be the presentation language if the
one of the set of the candidate languages is the desired language.
18.      The computer system of claim 13, wherein for determining the presentation language,
the processor is further configured to:

                                                18
       identify from a database a set of candidate languages associated the identifier; and
       determine one of the set of candidate languages to be the presentation language if the
one of the set of the candidate languages matches the desired language based on a set of
matching rules.
19.      The computer system of claim 13, wherein for determining the presentation language,
the processor is further configured to:
       identify from a database a set of candidate languages associated the identifier;
       generate a further electronic document containing the set of candidate languages to be
presented on the user device for selection of the presentation language from the set of
candidate languages;
      receive a further indication indicating the selection of the presentation language; and
       determine from the further indication the presentation language.
20.      The computer system of claim 17 to 19, wherein for generating the electronic
document containing the information, the processor is further configured to:
       determine a data entry in the database based on the presentation language and the
identifier associated with the information, the data entry containing a linguistic representation
of the information in the presentation language;
       extract from the data entry the linguistic representation of the information in the
presentation language; and
       generate    the  electronic  document     containing the linguistic   representation of the
information in the presentation language.
21.      The computer system of claim 20, wherein the electronic document is a Hypertext
Markup Language (HTML) document that can be presented on the user device.
22.      The computer system of claim 15, wherein the user device comprises a mobile phone
having a camera, the mobile phone is configured to:

                                                19
       scan the QR code using the camera;
      read the URL from the QR code; and
       send the URL to a server identified by the URL.
23.      The computer system of claim 13, wherein the information is in relation to one of a
group of items comprising a menu, an object of interest, a place of interest, a person of
interest.
24.      The computer system of claim 13, wherein the processor is further configured to
generate a barcode as the mark, the barcode representing a Universal Resource Locator (URL)
containing the identifier.

                                  <removed-apn>     <removed-date>
Fig. 1A
                100
                      104
                                  MEMORY UNIT
                                                 1062
                                   PROCESSOR
                                                 1064
                                                        1/7
                                      DATA
          102               106    INTERFACE
                                                 1066
                                                108
                                   DATABASE

          <removed-apn>     <removed-date>
Fig. 1B            120
                               2/7

<removed-date>
                                                  3/7
                 200
<removed-apn>
                    RECEIVE FROM THE USER DEVICE AN IDENTIFIER ASSOCIATED
                   WITH THE INFORMATION TO BE PRESENTED ON THE USER DEVICE
                                                                                 210
                       RECEIVE FROM THE USER DEVICE AN INDICATION INDICATING A
                       DESIRED LANGUAGE IN WHICH THE INFORMATION IS PRESENTED
                                         ON THE USER DEVICE
                                                                                 220
                       DETERMINE A PRESENTATION LANGUAGE USED TO PRESENT THE
                       INFORMATION BASED ON THE IDENTIFIER AND THE INDICATION
                                  INDICATING THE DESIRED LANGUAGE
                                                                                 230
                        GENERATE AN ELECTRIC DOCUMENT CONTAINING THE
                   INFORMATION, THE ELECTRIC DOCUMENT BEING CONFIGURED TO
                       PRESENT THE INFORMATION ON THE USER DEVICE IN THE
                                    PRESENTATION LANGUAGE
                                                                                 240
                  SEND THE ELECTRIC DOCUMENT TO THE USER DEVICE IN ORDER TO
                      PRESENT THE INFORMATION ON THE USER DEVICE IN THE
                                   PRESENTATION LANGUAGE
                                                                                 250
              Fig. 2

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
                                                                                         <removed-apn>        <removed-date>
Fig. 3C
          350                             electric document
                                          MEMORY UNIT
                                                                     presentation language,
                                                              1062         identifier                        108   6/7
                electric document           PROCESSOR
                                                                                                DATABASE
                                                              1064          data entry
102
                                               DATA
                                            INTERFACE
                                                              1066
                                    106

<removed-date>
                         7/7
                 400
<removed-apn>
                       Please choose a language
                               Mandarin
                               Cantonese
                           American English
                                Russian
                                Korean
                               Japanese
              Fig. 4

