ABSTRACT
A mobile display system is disclosed. The mobile display system comprises a shipping container
and at least one electronic display that is at least partially embedded in at least one wall of the
shipping container. The mobile display system is readily moveable between, and used in,
different locations. The mobile display system functions as a digital billboard that is useful for
displaying advertising, information, and other digital content.
Figure 1

                              1/3
     (.0         C\J
             C\J
             C\J
                                    C0
                                           a)
                                           LM
           C
                                       Cdj
    Cdl
Cdj
         co                C      m
                     00 C) 00

MOBILE DISPLAY SYSTEM
TECHNICAL FIELD
[0001]        The present invention relates to a mobile display system for displaying
advertisements and other digital media. More particularly, the present invention relates to a
digital display system, such as a digital billboard, that is readily moveable between, and used in,
different locations.
BACKGROUND ART
[0002]        Billboards have long been used along busy roads and public places frequented by
pedestrians to advertise products and services or to supply information to drivers and people.
Billboards are typically quite large so they can be easily seen from a speeding vehicle or read
from the back of a crowd of people.
[0003]        Traditional painted and printed billboards were fixed into the ground with concrete
or other similar tough-wearing building materials. This increased the cost and time needed to
prepare and erect the billboard and the advertisement. Further, traditional billboards needed to be
removed or re-printed when the advertised products and services were no longer available or
when a business changed location.
[0004]        More recently, digital billboards have been used to overcome the above re-printing
problem associated with traditional billboards. However, the large size and power requirements
of digital billboards has meant digital billboards still need to be erected and fixed in a given
location thereby making any movement of the digital billboard to a new location a costly and
time-consuming exercise.
[0005]        It would be desirable to provide a digital display system, such as a digital billboard,
that is readily moveable between two or more locations.
[0006]        It will be clearly understood that, if a prior art publication is referred to herein, this
reference does not constitute an admission that the publication forms part of the common general
knowledge in the art in Australia or in any other country.
SUMMARY OF INVENTION
[0007]        The present invention is directed to a mobile display system, which may at least
partially overcome at least one of the abovementioned disadvantages or provide the consumer

with a useful or commercial choice.
[0008]        With the foregoing in view, the present invention in one form, resides broadly in a
mobile display system comprising:
         a shipping container; and
         at least one electronic display at least partially embedded in at least one wall of the
         shipping container.
[0009]        The shipping container is not limited in volume, dimensions, or colour. In fact, any
suitable shipping container that is normally used to transport cargo and goods may be used in the
mobile display system. The shipping container may be a general shipping container or a high
cube shipping container. Suitable shipping containers include 8 foot (about 2.44 metres), 10 foot
(about 3.05 metres), 16 foot (about 4.88 metres), 20 foot (about 6.10 metres), 24 foot (about 7.32
metres) and 40 foot (about 12.30 metres) containers. In a preferred embodiment, the shipping
container is a 20 foot (about 6.10 metres) or a 40 foot shipping container (about 12.30 metres).
[0010]        Similarly, the electronic display is not limited in type, shape, or dimensions although
it is preferred that the electronic display be significantly larger than conventional television
screens found in homes and public venues such as restaurants and clubs in order to function as a
billboard. The electronic display is sufficiently large in order that advertising or similar media
displayed on the screen can be seen and read by passing vehicles and by people who may be
standing a significant distance from the display, such as at the back of a crowd of people. A
person skilled in the art will understand that common names in use to describe the preferred
electronic display of the mobile display system are (a) large format LED Screen, (b) large format
digital screen, and (c) video wall. The size and dimensions of the electronic display will vary
depending on the particular application or use of the system. In one embodiment, the mobile
display system comprises a 20 foot shipping container and an electronic display with a width of
about 5 metres and a height of about 2 meters. In another embodiment, the mobile display
system comprises a 40 foot shipping container and an electronic display with a width of about 8
metres and a height of about 2 metres. The person skilled in the art will understand these are
non-limiting embodiments and that many combinations of shipping container sizes and
electronic display sizes are within the scope of the present invention.
[0011]        The electronic display may comprise one large screen or multiple smaller screens. If
multiple smaller screens are used they may operate independently to show their own content or
they may operate together to show one portion of a single large image. In a preferred
embodiment, the electronic display comprises one or more LED screens. In alternative

embodiments the electronic display comprises one ore more vacuum fluorescent displays,
plasma screens, LCD screens, cathode ray tubes, electroluminescent screens, photoluminescent
screens, and field emission displays. Combinations of different screen types from these
embodiments are also possible.
[0012]       In a preferred embodiment of the invention, one electronic display is provided on one
longitudinal wall of the shipping container. The electronic display preferably occupies the
majority of the longitudinal wall of the shipping container. In some embodiments, the at least
one electronic display may occupy an entire face of the shipping container. When electronic
displays are provided on more than one wall or face of the shipping container, the electronic
displays may display the same electronic media or operate independently of one another to
display different electronic media. In an embodiment, the mobile display system comprises at
least two electronic displays, preferably located on opposing walls of the shipping container.
[0013]       According to some embodiments the mobile display system also comprises at least
one or more of:
        a power socket mounted externally on a wall of the shipping container and configured to
        connect to a power source;
        a power distribution cabinet mounted internally to a wall of the container for receiving
        power from the power socket; and
        a media player and / or networking equipment powered by the distribution cabinet for
        supplying digital content to the at least one electronic display.
[0014]       Where the at least one electronic display and associated media and networking
equipment are powered by an external source, an appropriate external power socket is provided
to connect power to an internally mounted power distribution system within the shipping
container. The external socket will be an Australian industry standard socket for single phase or
three phase power. The external source of power will be capable of supplying sufficient power to
the power distribution cabinet, medial player, networking equipment, and the electronic
display(s). Examples of external power sources are mains power or a generator situated at the
location of use.
[0015]       Alternatively, the mobile display system does not rely on mains power at the location
of use. In those embodiments, the mobile display system further comprises at least one of a
battery, generator, or a photovoltaic cell. For example, a generator may be present within the
shipping container. Thus, in some embodiments the mobile display system comprises at least one
or more of:

                                                   _r
        a power source located on the interior of the shipping container or mounted on an
        external wall of the shipping container,
        a power distribution cabinet mounted internally to a wall of the container for receiving
        power from the power source; and
        a media player and / or networking equipment powered by the distribution cabinet for
        supplying digital content to the at least one electronic display.
[0016]       The power distribution cabinet may take a variety of forms and will be configured to
receive power from the power source as the location of use (e.g. mains power) or the display
system's own power source (e.g. on board battery or generator). The power distribution cabinet
will be adapted to supply power to all components of the system as required including the
electronic display(s), media player and / or networking equipment, and the cooling system
described below, if present. . The power distribution cabinet will preferably be configured to
detect if both mains power and generator power are provided to the system and, if so, to default
to use of mains power.
[0017]       Examples of a media player and networking equipment are described below and
include a computing device, removable media such as a USB drive, modems, routers, cables for
physical connections, and WiFi receivers for wireless connections.
[0018]       The electronic media or digital content that is displayed on the electronic display(s)
is not particularly limited. For example, the electronic content may comprise text, moving or still
images, or combinations thereof. The media or content also includes picturesque backgrounds,
advertising, information, images, video, web-based content (any HTML), and coverage of a
sporting, musical, or festival event. The same electronic media may be constantly displayed
during use of the display system. Alternatively, the electronic media may vary during use such as
when advertising is shown during a pause in a sporting event. The electronic media may also
comprise web pages, television including internet television and live video feeds that are
streamed onto the electronic display(s).
[0019]       When different electronic media or content are displayed, the electronic media may
be contained in an electronic media file. Alternatively, an electronic database may contain the
media which are then randomly selected from the database for display on the screen. In either
case, the electronic media file or electronic database may be uploaded or transmitted to the
electronic display using conventional removable / mobile media including a USB flash drive,
CD, Blu-Ray disc, and a DVD. It is also possible that the electronic media file or electronic
database is stored on a computing device including a desktop computer, laptop computer, tablet

computer, and a mobile smart-type telephone that is associated with the electronic display.
[0020]       When a computing device is utilised, the computing device may be located externally
or internally of the shipping container. For example, the computing device may be located on an
external wall of the container or housed within the interior of the container. In an embodiment,
the computing device is located both internally and externally of the container such as when the
device is embedded in a hole in the wall of the container. The computing device may be
temporarily or permanently retained with the container. The computing device may be connected
to the electronic display(s) using a physical connection such as one or more cables or a wireless
connection such as a WiFi, LAN, WAN, or a 3G/4G/planned 5G mobile data connection. The
computing device may also be located remotely from the shipping container, if convenient. If
remotely located, a wireless connection is preferred. In one preferred embodiment, the mobile
display system comprises a Linux-based media player running an Android OS which is
connected via a HDMI cable to a Video sending unit to configure the receiving cards in the
electronic display(s) to display the content at the required resolution. In an alternative
embodiment, the mobile display system comprises a Microsoft Windows-based media player or
an Apple Macintosh-based media player. These are provided merely as example embodiments
and should not be construed as limiting on the mobile display system of the invention. In fact,
there are many types of media player and networking equipment known to the person skilled in
the art that are within the scope of the present invention.
[0021]       In an embodiment, the at least one electronic display comprises one or more
receivers configured to receive the electronic media from the computing device. Examples of
suitable receivers are WiFi receivers and modems.
[0022]       One or more settings of the electronic display may be adjustable. Examples of such
settings include colour, brightness, or contrast. Additional settings including the selection of
electronic media to be displayed, the scheduling of particular electronic media and/or the order in
which particular electronic media is to be displayed may also be adjusted. The settings may be
adjusted on the electronic display(s), using the computing device, or adjusted remotely using an
electronic interface such as an electronic interface accessed via the internet.
[0023]       In some embodiments the mobile display system further comprises a frame fastened
to the interior of the shipping container, the at least one electronic display being mounted onto
the frame. The structure and design of the frame is not particularly limited. The frame may be
made of several elongated metal members fastened together to create a scaffold-type frame. In
some embodiments, the frame is welded to the shipping container to provide mounting positions

for a plurality of panels (e.g. LED panels or display cabinets) making up the electronic display.
In some embodiments, the electronic display comprises a plurality of LED panels (or display
cabinets) of a predetermined size and the frame is designed to correspond with the requisite
mounting positions of each LED panel. According to some embodiments, the frame is welded to
the wall of the shipping container in order that each LED panel, upon mounting, is flush with the
wall of the shipping container.
[0024]       The mobile display system may be used outdoors where it is exposed to all types of
weather conditions including strong wind and rain. It is thus preferred that the display system be
resistant to water and more generally weather resistant. Therefore, in some embodiments the
mobile display system comprises flashing surrounding the at least one electronic display to
prevent ingress of water into the shipping container. The flashing may be made of a corrosion
resistant material such as stainless steel or galvanised steel. Other types of flashing material may
be used including hard wearing rubber and plastic materials.
[0025]       The mobile display system may be used in environments exposed to high
temperatures. In order to maximise the lifespan of the system's electronic components, the
mobile display system may comprise at least one cooling system. In an embodiment, the cooling
system comprises a roof vent system such as whirly birds or similar wind powered rotating vents
or regular vents. The cooling system may comprise floor and / or wall vents to promote
thermodynamic activity and heat transfer. The cooling system may comprise fans and / or air
conditioning systems that are powered using the same power source as the electronic display and
networking equipment. In another embodiment, the cooling system comprises combinations such
as a roof vent system, floor vents, and door vents. In yet another embodiment, the shipping
container is coated with a thermodynamic coating that either absorbs or reflects heat. Examples
of suitable coatings are paints or other insulating coatings. The shipping container may also be
affixed with panels or other cladding to limit the amount of heat inside the container. Traditional
physical advertising media in the form of print, vinyl, or banners may be affixed to the panels
and cladding if desired. Again, the cooling system may comprise a roof vent system and panels
or cladding. Other combinations are possible in relation to the cooling system.
[0026]       Therefore, according to some embodiments the mobile display system further
comprises a cooling system for facilitating heat transfer from the interior to the exterior of the
shipping container thereby reducing the internal temperature of the shipping container.
[0027]       The mobile display system may also be referred to as a shipping container billboard.
The shipping container billboard provides numerous significant advantages over traditional

digital billboards. Firstly, the shipping container billboard can be readily moved between first,
second, third etc. locations which allows for the shipping container billboard to be used in
multiple locations. The shipping container billboard is so readily movable that it is literally drop
and go. Secondly, the shipping container billboard may be used in a variety of different
applications. For instance, the shipping container billboard can be used for short term lease
applications such as land developments, special events such as concerts, festivals, and sporting
days. Thirdly, the ability to stack shipping containers allows for height adjustments of the
electronic display. The mobile display system may also be referred to as a portable movie screen,
a portable billboard, a large screen portable unit, or a portable sign.
[0028]       Any of the features described herein can be combined in any combination with any
one or more of the other features described herein within the scope of the invention.
[0029]        The reference to any prior art in this specification is not, and should not be taken as
an acknowledgement or any form of suggestion that the prior art forms part of the common
general knowledge.
BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF DRAWINGS
[0030]        Preferred features, embodiments and variations of the invention may be discerned
from the following Detailed Description which provides sufficient information for those skilled
in the art to perform the invention. The Detailed Description is not to be regarded as limiting the
scope of the preceding Summary of the Invention in any way. The Detailed Description will
make reference to a number of drawings as follows:
[0031]        Figure 1 is a perspective view of a mobile display system according to an
embodiment of the invention.
[0032]        Figure 2 is a sectional front view showing the interior of the mobile display system in
figure 1.
[0033]        Figure 3 shows the mobile display system of figure 1 in use.
DESCRIPTION OF EMBODIMENTS
[0034]        Figures 1 to 3 show a mobile display system 10 according to an embodiment of the
present invention for displaying advertisements and other digital media. The following table lists
the components of system 10 together with their reference number:

   Feature                                                                Reference Numeral
   Mobile display system                                                   10
   Shipping container                                                      12
   Display screen                                                          14
   Longitudinal wall                                                       16
   Door                                                                    18
   Door locking bars                                                      20
   Roof vents                                                             22
   Door vent                                                              24
   Bottom rail                                                            26
   Flashing                                                               28
   Top rail                                                               30
   Fixing points                                                          32
   Forklift pockets                                                       34
   Externally mounted power socket                                        36
   Internally mounted power distribution cabinet                          38
   Media player / networking equipment                                    40
   Cable                                                                  42
   Internal frame                                                         44
   Outer parallel frame members                                           46
   Central frame member                                                   48
   Cross frame members                                                    50
   Display cabinets                                                       52
[0035]       The system 10 broadly comprises a shipping container 12 and a display screen 14
embedded into a longitudinal wall 16 of the shipping container 12.
[0036]       As seen in figure 1, the shipping container 12 has a longitudinal wall 16, a door 18,
and door locking bars 20. Door 18 allows access to the interior of the container 12 during
manufacture of the system 10 and when maintenance of the screen 14 and associated
components described below is required. Door locking bars 20 prevent unauthorised access to
the interior of the container 12.
[0037]       The display screen 14 is a large format digital LED screen. Although only one screen
14 is shown in figure 1, a second display screen could be embedded into the longitudinal wall

(not shown) opposing longitudinal wall 16. One system 10 would then have two display screens
14 on opposing longitudinal walls 16 of the shipping container 12. A hole corresponding to the
approximate size of screen 14 is first cut out of the longitudinal wall 16 before the screen 14 is
embedded through the hole into wall 16. The screen 14 is mounted onto an internal frame 44 as
will be described with reference to figure 2. Surrounding the screen 14 is flashing 28 to prevent
ingress of water into the container 12 during rainfall.
[0038]       Figure 2 shows a frame 44 located in the interior of the container 12. Frame 44 has a
pair of outer parallel frame members 46, a central frame member 48 parallel to frame members
46, and several cross frame members 50 perpendicular to frame members 46 and 48. The outer
frame member 46 closest to bottom rail 26 (and hence the frame 44) is supported by the interior
floor of the container 12. The outer frame member 46 closest to top rail 30 and the outermost
cross frame members 50 are fastened to the interior of the longitudinal wall 16 using, for
example, nuts and bolts. Alternatively, the frame 55 is fastened by welding to the interior of the
longitudinal wall 16. The frame 44 broadly functions to mount the display screen 14 and
strengthen the container 12. Figure 2 shows the display screen 12 comprises multiple display
cabinets 52 each mounted to the frame members 46, 48, and 50. The frame 44 provides a
sufficiently sturdy mounting point for the LED display cabinets 52 in order that uniformity of the
cabinets 52 is maintained after the container 12 has been transported to a location for use. In one
preferred embodiment, the display cabinets 52 (e.g. LED panels) are a specific size and the
frame 44 is constructed to match the required mounting positions of each specifically-sized
display cabinet 52. The frame 44 is then welded in place near the hole cut out of wall 16 in order
that each display cabinet 52, upon mounting to frame 44, is flush with the wall 16 of the
container 12.
[0039]       System 10 also has a power socket 36 mounted externally on a wall of the shipping
container as shown in figure 2. In the illustration, the socket is mounted on an end wall opposing
door 18. The power socket 36 is adapted to connect to any suitable power supply cable that is
available at a particular location for supplying power to the display screen 14. Socket 36
simplifies the connection of essential power to system 10 and allows the interior of system 10 to
remain sealed from the external environment. Once a power supply cable is connected to socket
36, power is routed into a power distribution cabinet 38 mounted internally to a wall of the
container 12. Cabinet 38 supplies power to media player and networking equipment 40. Cabinet
38 also supplies power via cable 42 to the display cabinets 52 of display screen 14.
[0040]       The media player and networking equipment 40 supplies content to the digital

                                                   IV
display screen 14. Equipment 40 includes a wireless connector such as WiFi and an internet
browser connected to the display screen 14. Content to be displayed on screen 14 is fetched via
the wireless connector and the internet browser then transmitted to the digital display screen 14.
Where WiFi is not accessible, a mobile data modem that connects to the 3G, 4G, and planned 5G
networks via an externally mounted antenna (not shown) may used to connect to the internet and
fetch content to be displayed on screen 14. Content includes advertising of products and services
as well as televised programming such as sporting events. Figure 3 shows system 10 in use with
a picturesque landscape with rolling hills and trees displayed on screen 14.
[0041]        Referring back to figures 1 and 2, the system 10 has a thermodynamic cooling
system comprising two roof vents 22 and two door vents 24. Only one door vent 24 is visible in
figure 1. Roof vents 22 and door vents 24 allow for the escape of warm air from the container
interior that is generated by operation of the display screen 14.
[0042]       An alternative cooling system (not shown) is a split air conditioning system
comprising an externally mounted compressor and internally mounted head unit. Such split air
conditioning system is of the type commonly found in Australian homes.
[0043]        The shipping container 12 has a bottom rail 26 with two forklift pockets 32 for
transporting the shipping container 12 or the system 10 from one location to another using a
forklift or similar apparatus. The forklift pockets 32 may also be used to load and unload the
shipping container 12 or the system 10 onto or from a truck for transport to a desired location of
use.
[0044]        The shipping container 12 also has a top rail 30. Both the top rail 30 and the bottom
rail 26 comprise fixing points 32 at the comers of the shipping container 12 for joining the
shipping container 12 to a second shipping container in a vertically stacked manner. This allows
the system 10 to be placed and to operate high above ground level by placing the system 10 on
top of at least one other shipping container (not shown). The system 10 could even be placed on
top of two or three vertically stacked shipping containers for additional height. It is also possible
to stack at least two systems 10 one on top of the other resulting in multiple displays and
increased advertising, for example.
[0045]        In the present specification and claims (if any), the word 'comprising' and its
derivatives including 'comprises' and 'comprise' include each of the stated integers but does not
exclude the inclusion of one or more further integers.
[0046]        Reference throughout this specification to 'one embodiment' or 'an embodiment'

means that a particular feature, structure, or characteristic described in connection with the
embodiment is included in at least one embodiment of the present invention. Thus, the
appearance of the phrases 'in one embodiment' or 'in an embodiment' in various places
throughout this specification are not necessarily all referring to the same embodiment.
Furthermore, the particular features, structures, or characteristics may be combined in any
suitable manner in one or more combinations.
[0047]       In compliance with the statute, the invention has been described in language more or
less specific to structural or methodical features. It is to be understood that the invention is not
limited to specific features shown or described since the means herein described comprises
preferred forms of putting the invention into effect. The invention is, therefore, claimed in any
of its forms or modifications within the proper scope of the appended claims (if any)
appropriately interpreted by those skilled in the art.

CLAIMS
1.   A mobile display system comprising:
     a shipping container; and
     at least one electronic display at least partially embedded in at least one wall of the
     shipping container.
2.   The mobile display system of claim 1, further comprising a frame fastened to the interior
     of the shipping container, the at least one electronic display being mounted onto the
     frame.
3.   The mobile display system of claim 1 or claim 2, further comprising a cooling system for
     facilitating heat transfer from the interior to the exterior of the shipping container thereby
     reducing the internal temperature of the shipping container.
4.   The mobile display system of any one of claims I to 3, further comprising flashing
     surrounding the at least one electronic display to prevent ingress of water into the
     shipping container.
5.   The mobile display system of any one of claims 1 to 4, further comprising at least one or
     more of:
     a power socket mounted externally on a wall of the shipping container and configured to
     connect to a power source;
     a power distribution cabinet mounted internally to a wall of the container for receiving
     power from the power socket; and
     a media player and / or networking equipment powered by the distribution cabinet for
     supplying digital content to the at least one electronic display.

                                                     <removed-apn>        <removed-date>
1433454_1
                 32
                      22                                                  16
                                30
                                                           22
                                                                           32
            18
            20
            28
                                                                                     1/3
                                                                           14
            24
                                                      34
                                     34         26
                                                                  10
                           12
                      32
                                          Figure 1

                                                                <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
1433454_1
                                                                        22
            22                       46               16
                           30
            20
                                                                                    40
            44
                                                                                    38     2/3
            48
                                                                                    36
                 52             46        42                                 42
                      26                                   50
                                               Figure 2

                             <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
1433454_1
                            22
                                                        3/3
            10     12
                                 14
                 Figure 3

