  ABSTRACT
  DISPLAY SYSTEM AND METHOD
5 The present disclosure relates to a display system (1) for generating a composite view of a
  region behind a vehicle (V) towing a trailer (T). A first camera (Cl) is provided for outputting
  first image data corresponding to a first image (IMG1), the first camera (Cl) being configured
  to be mounted in a rear-facing orientation to the vehicle (V). A second camera (C2) is provided
  for outputting second image data corresponding to a second image (IMG2), the second
0 camera (C2) being configured to be mounted in a rear-facing orientation to the trailer (T). An
  image processor (5) receives the first image data and said second image data. The image
  processor (5) is configured to combine said first image data and said second image data to
  generate composite image data corresponding to a composite image (IMG3). The present
  disclosure also relates to a corresponding method of generating a composite image (IMG3),
5 and to a rig made up of a vehicle (V) and a trailer (T).

    DISPLAY SYSTEM AND METHOD
    TECHNICAL FIELD
    The present disclosure relates to a display system for a vehicle towing a trailer, to a method
 5  of generating a composite image, and to a rig comprising a vehicle and a trailer.
    BACKGROUND
    It is common practice to tow a trailer behind a vehicle. A particular problem encountered while
    towing is the reduced visibility behind the vehicle. In particular, the trailer presents an obstacle
 0  which partially secures the driver's field of view behind the vehicle. Large and small trailers
    typically reduce visibility and create a blind spot behind the vehicle. The resulting lack of
    visibility can, for example, compromise the following manoeuvres: lane changes, overtaking,
    parking, joining a motorway (highway) and pulling out of junctions.
 5  In order to mitigate the aforementioned problems, it is common practice to fit a so-called towing
    mirror to the side mirrors of the vehicle. The towing mirrors extend laterally outwardly to
    provide improved visibility along the side of the trailer. However, towing mirrors have several
    disadvantages, notably they increase the vehicle width and may reduce manoeuvrability in
    confined spaces. Moreover, towing mirrors are not well suited to providing a view of other
 .0 vehicles positioned directly behind the trailer. Towing mirrors can also suffer from vibration
    and hence blurring of the image.
    It is known to provide a rear-facing camera on a vehicle to enable a rear-view image to be
    displayed in the vehicle cabin, for example on an electronic display. However, when a trailer
25  is being towed behind the vehicle, the image generated by the rear-facing camera will be at
    least partially obscured. As a consequence the image may include blind spots, for example in
    lateral regions alongside the trailer.
    It is against this backdrop that the present invention has been conceived. At least in certain
30  embodiments, the present invention seeks to overcome or ameliorate at least some of the
    aforementioned problems associated with prior art devices.
    SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
    Aspects of the present invention relate to display system for a vehicle towing a trailer, to a
35  method of generating a composite image, to a rig comprising a vehicle and a trailer.
                                                     1

    According to a further aspect of the present invention there is provided a display system for a
    vehicle, the display system comprising:
               a first camera configured to be mounted in a rear-facing orientation to the vehicle and
    to output first image data;
 5             a second camera configured to be mounted in a rear-facing orientation to a trailer
    towed by the vehicle and to output second image data; and
               processor means for receiving said first image data and said second image data and
    for generating a composite image therefrom.
 0  According to another aspect of the invention for which protection is sought there is provided a
    processor or control module for a vehicle, the processor or control module being configured
    and/or arranged to receive first image data from a first camera disposed in a rear-facing
    orientation relative to the vehicle and second image data from a second camera disposed in
    a rear-facing orientation relative to a trailer towed by the vehicle, and to generate a composite
 5  image from said first and second image data.
    The processor or control module may be configured to output the composite image to a display
    system, such as a screen or digital display of the vehicle.
 .0 The display system may comprise a rear-view display system. The resulting composite image
    may be a rear-facing composite image which, at least in certain embodiments, can facilitate
    towing the trailer. In use, the first camera may be mounted to the vehicle and at least a portion
    of the first image may comprise a view of the front of the trailer. The second camera can be
    mounted to the rear of the trailer such that the second image is unobstructed. However, the
25  second image does not provide the driver with an indication of the relative position and/or
    orientation of the trailer. As such, the driver of the vehicle may find it difficult to judge the
    relative position of obstructions and/or other vehicles to the trailer using the second image. By
    combining the first image data and the second image data, the view of the front of the trailer
    from the first image can be composited with the unobstructed second view. The first image
30  can, for example, be displayed as a transparent or semi-transparent layer which overlays the
    second image (for example to provide a phantom or ghost image of the trailer). The composite
    image data can be output to a display screen to display the composite image.
    The image processor can be configured to combine said first image data and said second
35  image data such that at least a portion of one of said first image and said second image is
    overlaid onto the other of said first image and said second image. At least said portion of one
                                                       2

    of said first image and said second image can be overlaid as a transparent or semi-transparent
    image onto the other of said first image and said second image. In one implementation, the
    image processor can be configured to overlay at least a portion of said first image onto said
    second image to form the composite image data.
 5
    The image processor can be configured to select the portion of said first image or of said
    second image to be overlaid in dependence on an image mask. The image mask can be
    predefined or can be generated in dependence on the first image data. The first image data
    can be analysed to identify the trailer in the first image. The image mask can correspond to
 0  the trailer identified in the first image. The analysis of the first image can, for example,
    comprise performing edge detection or feature identification.
    The image processor can be configured to combine said first image data and said second
    image data such that a portion of said first image or of said second image is substituted with
 5  at least a portion of the other of said first image and said second image.
    The image processor can be configured to analyse said first image data and said second
    image data to identify one or more features common to both said first image and said second
    image. The image processor can be configured to match (align) said first image and said
 .0 second image in dependence on the identified one or more features. The image processor
    can be configured to perform one or more of the following transforms to said first image and/or
    said second image: image rotation, scaling, cropping, magnification, skew correction and
    translation. These transforms could, for example, compensate for different viewing angles
    and/or imaging properties of the first and second cameras.
25
    The image processor can be configured to generate said composite image in dependence on
    positional data defining the relative position of the first and second cameras. The positional
    data can comprise longitudinal positional data and/or vertical positional data and/or lateral
    positional data. A longitudinal offset between the first and second cameras can be used to
30  facilitate registration of the first and second images. Alternatively, or in addition, the image
    processor can compensate for a lateral offset and/or a vertical offset between said first and
    second cameras.
    The first camera can comprise a first wireless transmitter for transmitting the first image data
35  to the image processor and/or the second camera can comprise a second wireless transmitter
    for transmitting the second image data to the image processor. Alternatively, a wired
                                                      3

    connection can be established between the image processor and the first camera and /or the
    second camera.
    The image processor can be configured to augment the composite image with one or more of
 5  the following:
              a graphical representation of the trailer being towed by the vehicle;
              a graphical representation of a projected path for the trailer during a reversing
    operation;
              a vehicle control instruction(s) to guide the trailer during a reversing operation; and
 0            proximity information for the trailer.
    The image processor can be a digital image processor. Alternatively, the image processor can
    be an analogue image processor configured to generate the composite image data.
 5  The image processor can be configured to output the composite image data for display on a
    display screen. The display screen could, for example, be disposed in a centre console, an
    instrument cluster, or a rear-view mirror of the vehicle. Alternatively, the image processor can
    be configured to output the composite image data wirelessly, for example to be displayed on
    a network device, such as a cellular telephone or a so-called "smart-phone", a personal
 .0 computer or a tablet computer.
    According to a further aspect of the present invention there is provided a rig comprising a
    vehicle and a trailer, wherein the rig comprises a display system as described herein. The first
    camera can be mounted to the vehicle and the second camera can be mounted to the trailer.
25
    According to a further aspect of the present invention there is provided a display system for
    providing a view of a region behind a vehicle, the display system comprising:
              a camera for mounting in a rear-facing orientation to a trailer, the camera being
    operable to output image data corresponding to an image;
30            an image processor for receiving said image data;
              wherein the image processor is configured to overlay a graphical representation of
    the trailer onto the image data to form an augmented image for display.
    According to a further aspect of the present invention there is provided a method of generating
35  a composite image of a region behind a vehicle towing a trailer, the method comprising:
              using a first camera disposed on the vehicle to generate a first image;
                                                      4

               using a second camera disposed on the trailer to generate a second image;
               using an image processor to combine said first and second images to form a
    composite image.
 5  The method can comprise overlaying at least a portion of one of said first image and said
    second image onto the other of said first image and said second image. The image to be
    overlaid onto the other image can be modified to be rendered in a transparent or semi
    transparent form. At least said portion of one of said first image and said second image can
    be overlaid as a semi-transparent image onto the other of said first image and said second
 0  image. An image mask can be used to select the portion of said first image or of said second
    image to be overlaid. The image mask can be generated in dependence on the first image
    data.
    The process of combining said first and second images can comprise substituting a portion of
 5  said first image or of said second image with at least a portion of the other of said first image
    and said second image.
    The method can comprise identifying one or more features common to both said first image
    and said second image. The method can comprise matching said first image and said second
 .0 image in dependence on the identified one or more features. The method can comprise
    performing image registration to match (align) the first and second images with each other.
    The image registration can be performed substantially in real-time by the image processor.
    The method can comprise performing one or more of the following transforms to said first
25  image and/or to said second image: image rotation, scaling, cropping, magnification, skew
    correction and translation.
    The composite image can be generated in dependence on positional data defining the relative
    position of the first and second cameras.
30
    The method can comprise augmenting the composite image with one or more of the following:
               a graphical representation of the trailer being towed by the vehicle;
               a graphical representation of a projected path for the trailer during a reversing
    operation;
35             a vehicle control instruction(s) to guide the trailer during a reversing operation; and
               proximity information for the trailer.
                                                       5

    The method can comprise displaying the composite image, for example on a display screen.
    The display screen can be provided in a centre console or an instrument cluster. Alternatively,
    or in addition, the display screen can be incorporated into a rear view mirror.
 5
    According to a further aspect of the present invention there is provided a display system for
    generating a composite view of a region behind a vehicle towing a trailer, the display system
    comprising:
               a first camera for outputting first image data corresponding to a first image, the first
 0  camera being configured to be mounted in a rear-facing orientation to the vehicle;
               a second camera for outputting second image data corresponding to a second image,
    the second camera being configured to be mounted in a rear-facing orientation to the trailer;
               a first lateral camera for outputting first lateral image data corresponding to a first
    lateral image;
 5             a second lateral camera for outputting second lateral image data corresponding to a
    second lateral image;
               an image processor for receiving said first image data, said second image data, said
    first lateral image data and said second lateral image data;
               wherein the image processor is configured to combine said first image data, said
 .0 second image data, said first lateral image data and said second lateral image data to
    generate composite image data corresponding to a composite image. By incorporating the
    first and second lateral images into the composite image, the display system can provide a
    more comprehensive representation of the area around a vehicle and a trailer being towed by
    the vehicle. The first lateral image can comprise a first side of the trailer; and the second lateral
25  image can comprise a second side of the trailer.
    The image processor can be configured to combine said first image data, said second image
    data, said first lateral image data and said second lateral image data such that at least a
    portion of said first image is overlaid onto one or more of said second image, said first lateral
30  image and said second lateral image. The at least a portion of said first image can, for
    example, be overlaid as a semi-transparent image onto one or more of said second image,
    said first lateral image and said second lateral image.
    The image processor can be configured to form an intermediate composite image by
35  combining one or more of the following: the second image, the first lateral image and the
    second lateral image. The first lateral image can be disposed on a first side of the second
                                                      6

    image. The second lateral image can be disposed on a second side of the second image. The
    image processor can perform one or more transform to match the second image to the first
    and second lateral images. The one or more transform can, for example, comprise translation,
    scaling, cropping and rotation. The image processor can be configured to overlay said at least
 5  a portion of the first image onto the intermediate composite image.
    The image processor can be configured to identify one or more feature common to both said
    first image and said intermediate composite image. The image processor can be configured
    to match said first image and said intermediate composite image in dependence on the
 0  identified one or more feature.
    The first lateral image and/or the second lateral image can have a vertical height substantially
    equal to a vertical height of the second image. The lateral image data can extend the full height
    of the composite image.
 5
    Alternatively, the first lateral image can have a vertical height which is less than a vertical
    height of the second image; and/or the second lateral image can have a vertical height which
    is less than a vertical height of the second image. The first and second lateral image data can
    have a smaller vertical extent. The region(s) above the first lateral image and/or the second
 .0 lateral image data can be infilled with the second image data to create the composite image.
    The first lateral image and/or the second lateral image can be inserted into the second image
    data to form said intermediate composite image. The images can be joined along boundaries,
    for example by stitching the images together.
25
    The first lateral camera can be a first side-mounted camera. The second lateral camera can
    be a second side-mounted camera. The first side-mounted camera can be mounted to a first
    side of the vehicle. The second side-mounted camera can be mounted to a second side of the
    vehicle. In certain embodiments, the first side-mounted camera can be mounted to a first side
30  of the trailer. The second side-mounted camera can be mounted to a second side of the trailer.
    The image processor can be configured to perform one or more of the following transforms:
    image rotation, scaling, cropping, magnification, skew correction and translation. The one or
    more transform can be applied to one or more of the: first image, second image, first lateral
35  image, and second lateral image.
                                                    7

    The image processor can be configured to output the composite image data for display on a
    display screen.
    According to a further aspect of the present invention there is provided a rig comprising a
 5  vehicle and a trailer, wherein the rig comprises a display system as claimed in any one of the
    preceding claims; wherein the first camera, the first lateral camera and the second lateral
    camera are mounted to the vehicle; and the second camera is mounted to the trailer.
    According to a still further aspect of the present invention there is provided a method of
 0  generating a composite image of a region behind a vehicle towing a trailer, the method
    comprising:
               using a first camera to generate a first image;
               using a second camera to generate a second image;
               using a first lateral camera to generate a first lateral image;
 5             using a second lateral camera to generate a second lateral image;
               using an image processor to combine said first image, said second image, said first
    lateral image and said second lateral image to form a composite image.
    The method can comprise overlaying at least a portion of the first image onto one or more of
 .0 said second image, said first lateral image and said second lateral image. The at least a portion
    of the first image can be overlaid as a semi-transparent image.
    The method can comprise forming an intermediate composite image by combining one or
    more of the following: the second image, the first lateral image and the second lateral image.
25  The at least a portion of the first image can be overlaid onto the intermediate composite image.
    The method can comprise identifying one or more feature common to both said first image
    and said intermediate composite image. The first image and the intermediate composite image
    can be matched in dependence on the identified one or more feature.
30
    The first lateral image and/or the second lateral image can have a vertical height substantially
    equal to a vertical height of the second image in said intermediate composite image.
    Alternatively, the first lateral image can have a vertical height less than a vertical height of the
35  second image; and/or the second lateral image can have a vertical height less than a vertical
                                                      8

    height of the second image. The method can comprise inserting the first lateral image and/or
    the second lateral image into the second image to form said intermediate composite image.
    The method can comprise displaying the composite image data on a display screen.
 5
    The term processor is used herein to refer to one or more electronic processors. Similarly, the
    term system memory is used herein to refer to one or more storage devices. The processor
    can be a general purpose computational device configured to execute a set of software
    instructions to perform the method(s) described herein.
 0
    Within the scope of this application it is expressly intended that the various aspects,
    embodiments, examples and alternatives set out in the preceding paragraphs, in the claims
    and/or in the following description and drawings, and in particular the individual features
    thereof, may be taken independently or in any combination. That is, all embodiments and/or
 5  features of any embodiment can be combined in any way and/or combination, unless such
    features are incompatible. The applicant reserves the right to change any originally filed claim
    or file any new claim accordingly, including the right to amend any originally filed claim to
    depend from and/or incorporate any feature of any other claim although not originally claimed
    in that manner.
 .0
    BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
    One or more embodiments of the present invention will now be described, by way of example
    only, with reference to the accompanying figures, in which:
              Figure 1 shows a vehicle and a trailer incorporating a rear-view display system in
25  accordance with an embodiment of the present invention;
              Figure 2 shows a schematic representation of the components of the rear-view
    display system shown in Figure 1;
              Figure 3A shows a first image from a first camera disposed on the vehicle;
              Figure 3B shows a second image from a second camera disposed on the trailer;
30            Figure 3C shows a composite image generated by combining the first and second
    images shown in Figures 3A and 3B;
              Figure 4 shows an augmented composite image generated by the rear-view display
    system shown in Figure 1;
              Figure 5 shows a vehicle and a trailer incorporating an alternate arrangement of the
35  rear-view display system;
                                                   9

               Figure 6 illustrates the formation of a composite image incorporating image data from
    the cameras in the alternate arrangement shown in Figure 5;
               Figure 7 illustrates an alternate formation of a composite image incorporating image
    data from the cameras in the alternate arrangement shown in Figure 5;
 5             Figure 8 illustrates the formation of a composite image incorporating image data from
    the cameras in the alternate arrangement shown in Figure 5; and
                     Figure 9 illustrates the composition of the composite image using the formation
    shown in Figure 8.
 0  DETAILED DESCRIPTION
    A rear-view display system 1 in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention will
    now be described with reference to the accompanying figures. The rear-view display system
    1 is intended for use in a vehicle V towing a trailer T (referred to in combination as a rig) to
    generate a composite image for providing improved visibility for the vehicle driver of the region
 5  behind the vehicle V. The vehicle V in the present embodiment is an automobile or a utility
    vehicle. However, it will be appreciated that the rear-view display system 1 may be
    incorporated into other types of vehicle, such as a tractor unit.
    The vehicle V has a first longitudinal axis Xi, and the trailer T has a second longitudinal axis
 .0 X 2 , as shown in Figure 1. The terms "front" and "rear" are used herein in their conventional
    sense when defining the relative position of features on the vehicle V and the trailer T. The
    terms "rear-facing" and "rear-view" are used herein to refer to a position or orientation which
    is in a direction towards the back of the vehicle V or the trailer T.
25  As shown in Figure 1, the rear-view display system 1 is in the form of a vehicle-mounted unit
    and a trailer-mounted unit. The vehicle-mounted unit comprises a central processing unit 3
    connected to a first camera C1. As shown in Figure 2, the central processing unit 3 comprises
    an image processor 5 coupled to system memory 7, and a wireless receiver 9 having a first
    antenna 11. The image processor 5 can be a digital image processor. The image processor 5
30  is configured to execute a set of software instructions held in the system memory 7. The image
    processor 5 is connected to a communication bus 13, such as the vehicle CAN bus, for
    communicating with other vehicle systems. The vehicle V comprises a display screen 15 on
    which the images received from the first and second cameras C1, C2 can be selectively
    displayed. The trailer-mounted unit comprises a second camera C2 connected to a wireless
35  transmitter 17 having a second antenna 19.
                                                       10

    The first and second cameras C1, C2 are both rear-facing digital cameras for generating video
    images. The first and second cameras C1, C2 each comprise a wide-angle lens to provide a
    viewing angle of approximately 1300. The first camera C1 is mounted centrally at the rear of
    the vehicle V above a rear license plate (not shown) and, in the present embodiment, can
 5  selectively function as a reversing camera to provide a parking aid when there is no trailer T
    coupled to the vehicle V. The second camera C2 is mounted centrally at the rear of the trailer
    T. The first camera C1 has a first field of view FOV1 (shown in Figure 1) having a line of sight
    (i.e. a centreline) substantially coincident with the first longitudinal axis Xi. The second camera
    C2 has a second field of view FOV2 (shown in Figure 1) having a line of sight (i.e. a centreline)
 0  substantially coincident with the second longitudinal axis X 2 , for example above a license plate
    on the trailer T. The first and second cameras C1, C2 are arranged at approximately the same
    vertical height above ground level. In alternate arrangements, the first and second cameras
    C1, C2 can be offset from each other in a vertical and/or transverse direction. The image
    processor 5 can be configured to correct for any such positional offset. Equally, the image
 5  processor 5 can be configured to correct for an angular offset between the first and second
    cameras C1, C2, for example if one or both of the first and second cameras C1, C2 is angularly
    offset from the respective first and second longitudinal axes X 1, X2 .
    The first camera C1 outputs a first signal S1 comprising first image data corresponding to a
 .0 first image IMG1. The first signal S1 is published to the communication bus 13 and provides
    a first input for the image processor 5. The second camera C2 outputs a second signal S2
    comprising the second image data corresponding to a second image IMG2. The second signal
    S2 is transmitted by the wireless transmitter 17 to the wireless receiver 9 to provide a second
    input for the image processor 5. The wireless transmitter 17 can transmit the second signal
25  S2 using a suitable wireless communication standard, such as Wi-Fi@.
    As outlined above, the first camera C1 is rear-facing and, when the vehicle V is towing the
    trailer T, the first image IMG1 contains the trailer T which partially obstructs the view afforded
    to the driver in a rearwards direction. The second camera C2 is mounted to the trailer T and
30  the second image IMG2 provides an unobstructed view of the scene behind the trailer T. The
    image processor 5 is configured to combine the first image data and the second image data
    to generate composite image data. The composite image data corresponds to a composite
    image IMG3 formed from said first and second images IMG1, IMG2.
35  The image processor 5 modifies the first image data such that the first image IMG1 will be
    rendered as a semi-transparent image. For example, the image processor 5 can modify an
                                                      11

    alpha channel or an index transparency of the first image data. The first image data can be
    modified to provide a transparency of 25%, for example. The first image data and the second
    image data are combined to form a composite image IMG3. The image processor 5 can be
    configured to perform other image-manipulation techniques, for example to modify the colour
 5  and/or contrast of one or more image, for example to highlight an outline of the trailer T. The
    image processor 5 may also be configured to implement an edge-recognition algorithm to
    identify an outline of the trailer T for display in the composite image IMG3. The resulting
    composite image IMG3 comprises the second image IMG2 as a background element over
    which the first image IMG1 is overlaid. Significantly, the trailer T (which is present in the first
 0  image IMG1, but not the second image IMG2) is partially visible in the composite image IMG3
    to facilitate determining its relative position to objects and/or other vehicles. The image
    processor 5 can perform additional blending or smoothing functions to obscure the transition
    between the first and second images IMG1, IMG2 in the composite image IMG3. The rear
    view display system 1 may be configured to allow the user to select the modification to the
 5  first image data, for example to adjust a transparency setting of the first image data, to allow
    customisation of the composite image IMG3.
    When the vehicle V and the trailer T are aligned with each other (such that the first and second
    longitudinal axes X1 , X2 are coincident), the first and second images IMG1, IMG2 are in respect
 .0 of the same scene albeit offset from each other due to the longitudinal offset between the first
    and second cameras C1, C2. Moreover, there may be a lateral offset and/or a vertical offset
    due to the positioning of the first and second cameras C1, C2 on the vehicle V and the trailer
    T. Accordingly, the first image IMG1 cannot be overlaid directly onto the second image IMG2.
    Rather, the image processor 5 is configured to implement an image matching procedure to
25  align the first image IMG1 with the second image IMG2. The image processor 5 can implement
    a cross-correlation technique automatically to match features common to both the first image
    IMG1 and the second image IMG2. The image processor 5 can, for example, use a Hough
    transform feature extraction technique. The relative position and/or orientation of the identified
    features can be compared in the first and second images IMG1, IMG2. Alternatively, or in
30  addition, the image processor 5 can identify the centroid of one or more image features and
    compare their relative position in the first and second images IMG1, IMG2. Other image
    analysis techniques that may be included are point mapping and/or edge-recognition. The
    image processor 5 can optionally perform image processing techniques with respect to time
    in order to track movement of the identified features in the first and second images. The image
35  processor 5 may retrieve vehicle dynamic data published to the communication bus 13 to
    refine analysis of the image data. For example, the image processor 5 may optionally utilise
                                                       12

    the vehicle speed and/or turning angle during analysis of the image data. The image processor
    5 may also be configured to determine the relative orientation of the trailer T by analysing a
    target 21 provided on the front of the trailer T. In the illustrated arrangement, the target 21
    comprises three circles arranged in a triangular formation. The relative orientation of the trailer
 5  T can be characterised as a hitch angle 6 defining the angular orientation of the centrelines of
    the vehicle V and the trailer T in a horizontal plane. The image processor 5 may also be
    configured to compensate for differences in the first and second images IMG1, IMG2 due to
    different specifications of the first and second cameras C1, C2.
 0  The image processor 5 utilises the results of the cross-correlation to perform image
    registration such that the first and second images IMG1, IMG2 are aligned with each other.
    The image registration can comprise one or more of the following transforms: image rotation,
    scaling, cropping, magnification (zooming), skew correction and translation. It will be
    appreciated that the transform(s) required to match the first and second images IMG1, IMG2
 5  depend on the relative positioning of the first and second cameras C1, C2. The transform(s)
    may be applied in two dimensions (2D) or three dimensions (3D), for example to compensate
    for an angular offset between the first and second longitudinal axes X1, X 2 (in a horizontal
    plane and/or a vertical plane). As outlined above, the first image IMG1 data is modified such
    that the first image IMG1 appears semi-transparent when displayed. The first image IMG1 is
 .0 then overlaid onto the second image IMG2 to form the composite image IMG3 (for example
    using alpha-compositing techniques). The image processor 5 can optionally edit the first image
    IMG1 such that only a portion thereof is overlaid onto the second image IMG2. A cropping
    function may be applied to a predefined region of the first image IMG1, for example having a
    predefined width and height. Alternatively, the image processor 5 may be configured to identify
25  the trailer T within the first image IMG1 to generate a mask which is overlaid onto the second
    image IMG2.
    The operation of the rear-view display system 1 in accordance with an embodiment of the
    present invention will now be described with reference to Figures 3A, 3B and 3C. The first
30  camera C1 generates first image data corresponding to a first image IMG1 which includes the
    trailer T being towed behind the vehicle V, as shown in Figure 3A. The second camera C2
    generates second image data corresponding to a second image IMG2 which is an
    unobstructed view of the region behind the trailer T, as shown in Figure 3B. The image
    processor 5 implements an image matching procedure to match (align) the first and second
35  images IMG1, IMG2, as described herein. The image processor 5 modifies the first image data
    such that the first image IMG1 will be displayed as a partially transparent image. The first
                                                    13

   image data and the second image data is then combined to form composite image data. The
   composite image data corresponds to a composite image IMG3 comprising the first image
   IMG1 overlaid onto the second image IMG2, as shown in Figure 3C. The trailer T appears as
   a 'ghost' image or grind of the composite image IMG3. The resulting composite image IMG3
 5 provides a clear view of the region behind the trailer T whilst retaining sufficient details of the
   trailer T to enable the driver to determine its relative position to obstacles and other vehicles.
   The composite image IMG3 is output for display on a display screen, such as a liquid-crystal
   display, provided in the vehicle. The display screen can, for example, be provided in a centre
 0 console or in an instrument cluster. Alternatively, or in addition, the display screen can be
   incorporated into a rear view mirror, for example to display the composite image IMG3
   alongside a reflective image.
   If the angular offset between the first and second longitudinal axes Xi, X2 becomes excessive,
 5 for example during a turning manoeuvre, the image processor 5 may be unable to match the
   first and second images. The image processor 5 may be configured to activate one or more
   side-mounted cameras (on the vehicle V and/or the trailer T) to obtain different images for
   processing. If this function is not available, the image processor 5 can output a notification to
   the vehicle driver that the rear-view display function is not available.
   The rear-view display system 1 described herein can be modified to display additional
   information. By way of example, the composite image IMG3 can be augmented by displaying
   a projected path P which the trailer T will follow during a reversing procedure. The projected
   path P can be overlaid onto the composite image IMG3 when the vehicle V is placed in reverse
25 and the trailer T is detected. The driver can use the projected path P to control the trailer T
   when the vehicle V is being reversed. An illustration of an augmented composite image IMG4
   is shown in Figure 4 by way of example. Moreover, the rear-view display system 1 may be
   modified to display driver instructions, for example to provide vehicle control instructions
   (steering angle and/or transmission selection) for guiding the trailer T to an identified parking
30 area. Further details of a vehicle control system for controlling a vehicle to facilitate parking a
   trailer are known from the applicant's earlier UK patent application GB1312036.5 filed on 04th
   July 2013), the contents of which are incorporated herein in their entirety by reference.
   In the illustrated example, the vehicle V is an automobile (for example a sports utility vehicle)
35 and the trailer T is a caravan. It will be appreciated, however, that the apparatus and method(s)
   described herein are not limited in this respect and may be implemented in other types and
                                                      14

    categories of vehicle and to other types of trailer. The apparatus and method(s) could, for
    example, be applied to an articulated vehicle, a semi-trailer or a tractor-trailer.
    It will be appreciated that further changes and modifications can be made to the apparatus
 5  and method described herein without parting from the scope of the present invention. A rear
    view display system 1 has been described herein with reference to a single first camera C1
    disposed on the vehicle V and a single second camera C2 disposed on the trailer T. It will be
    appreciated that more than one rear-facing camera may be provided on the vehicle V and/or
    the trailer T. By providing more than one camera, the composite image IMG3 may provide a
 0  greater sense of depth perception.
    The rear-view display system 1 can be configured to overlay the first image IMG1 onto the
    second image IMG2 when the vehicle V is travelling in a forwards direction such that the
    composite image IMG3 is displayed to enable the driver to identify other vehicles behind the
 5  trailer T. Alternatively, the rear-view display system 1 may be configured to overlay the first
    image IMG1 onto the second image IMG2 only when the vehicle is parked or during a parking
    operation, for example when the transmission of the vehicle V is placed in reverse.
    Furthermore, rather than overlaying the first image onto the second image, a graphical
 .0 representation of the trailer (for example a silhouette or an outline of the trailer T, or a graphical
    indicia) may be overlaid onto the second image. Alternatively, a mask of the trailer T may be
    generated based on a static image generated by the first camera C1 and overlaid onto the
    second image generated by the second camera C2.
25  The rear-view display system 1 has been described with reference to a first camera C1
    mounted to the rear of the vehicle V. In an alternate arrangement, the rear-view display system
    1 can comprise a first side-mounted camera mounted to a first side of the vehicle and/or a
    second side-mounted camera mounted to a second side of the vehicle V. The first and second
    side-mounted cameras would be rearward-facing, for example mounted to the side (wing)
30  mirrors. The first side-mounted camera and/or the second side-mounted camera may be used
    in conjunction with the vehicle-mounted first camera C1 and/or the trailer-mounted second
    camera C2. In particular, the image processor 5 can be arranged to combine the first image
    IMG1 and/or the second image IMG2 with an image generated by the first side-mounted
    camera and/or the second side-mounted camera. The image processor 5 may utilise the
35  image(s) from the first side-mounted camera and/or the second side-mounted camera to
    provide a partially transparent overlay on the first image IMG1 and/or the second image IMG2.
                                                     15

    In this arrangement, the partially transparent overlay can comprise a side view of the vehicle
    V, for example a view of a rear quarter of the vehicle V. It will be appreciated that this
    arrangement may be used when the vehicle V is not towing a trailer T, so the second camera
    C2 may be omitted. The resulting composite image IMG3 may be used during parking or
 5  reversing manoeuvres to provide a substantially uninterrupted view of the area behind the
    vehicle V. By displaying the image from the first side-mounted camera and/or the second side
    mounted camera as a partially transparent overlay, the driver can be provided with an
    indication of the extent of the vehicle V to facilitate judgement of distances and/or position.
    The composite image IMG3 may be output to a display provided, for example, in the centre
 0  console, the instrument cluster, the rear view mirror or a side mirror display.
    The alternate arrangement of the rear-view display system 1 is illustrated in Figure 5; and the
    formation of a composite image from the image data generated by the cameras is shown in
    Figure 6. The rear-view display system 1 comprises a first side-mounted camera C3 mounted
 5  to a first side of the vehicle V; and a second side-mounted camera C4 mounted to a second
    side of the vehicle V. The first and second side-mounted cameras C3, C4 are mounted to the
    side (wing) mirrors and have respective third and fourth fields of vision FOV 3 , FOV 4 . As shown
    in Figure 5, the third and fourth fields of vision FOV 3 , FOV 4 extend along the respective sides
    of the vehicle V. This arrangement is advantageous since it can provide coverage of the lateral
 .0 regions of the trailer T. This is particularly relevant since the front of the trailer T may obscure
    portions of the images generated by the first camera C1. Similarly, the images generated by
    the second camera C2 do not provide coverage along the sides of the trailer T. Consequently,
    there may be regions along the sides of the trailer T, particularly towards the rear, which are
    not covered by either of the first and second cameras C1, C2. The composite image IMG3
25  may therefore include blind spots. Furthermore, the presence of these blind spots may not be
    immediately apparent when viewing the composite image IMG3 since the trailer T is displayed
    as a semi-transparent 'ghost' image which may give the impression of an uninterrupted view.
    The first and second side-mounted cameras C3, C4 generate first and second lateral images
    IMG1L, IMG2L which can provide improved coverage on each side of the trailer T. As
30  illustrated in Figure 5, the third and fourth fields of vision FOV 3 , FOV 4 can extend along each
    side of the trailer T at least when the vehicle V is travelling in a straight line.
    As illustrated in Figure 6, a second composite image IMG5 is formed comprising the first and
    second lateral images IMG1L, IMG2L and the first and second images IMG1, IMG2. The
35  components of the second composite image IMG5 are illustrated in Figure 6. The first and
    second lateral images IMG1 L, IMG2L are combined with the second image IMG2, for example
                                                       16

    by stitching the first and second lateral images IMG1L, IMG2L and the second image IMG2.
    The image processor 5 can be configured to join the first and second lateral images IMG1 L,
    IMG2L and the second image IMG2 at predefined boundaries or at dynamically determined
    boundaries, for example determined in dependence on identification of one or more common
 5  feature in the images. In the present embodiment, the first and second lateral images IMG1 L,
    IMG2L are stitched to the left and right hand sides respectively of the second image IMG2
    along vertical boundaries. As illustrated in Figure 6, the first and second lateral images IMG1 L,
    IMG2L extend vertically for the full height of the second composite image IMG5. The first
    image IMG1 is then overlaid onto an intermediate composite image formed by combining the
 0  second image IMG2 and the first and second lateral images IMG1 L, IMG2L. As in the previous
    embodiment, the first image IMG1 is overlaid as a semi-transparent image onto the
    intermediate composite image. In particular, the image processor 5 modifies the first image
    data such that the first image IMG1 is displayed as a partially transparent image which overlies
    a portion of each of the second image IMG2 and the first and second lateral images IMG1L,
 5  IMG2L. In a variant, the first image IMG1 may be overlaid onto the second image IMG2 which
    is then combined with the first and second lateral images IMG1L, IMG2L.
    In a variant of the arrangement described above with reference to Figures 5 and 6, the first
    and second side-mounted cameras C3, C4 each comprise a wide-angle lens, for example a
 .0 fish-eye lens, and are arranged to generate respective first and second lateral images IMG1 L,
    IMG2L extending along the sides of the vehicle V and the trailer T. The first and second side
    mounted cameras C3, C4 can have a view angle of 2000 or more. The first and second side
    mounted cameras C3, C4 are arranged such that their respective focal centrelines are directed
    downwardly. The first and second side-mounted cameras C3, C4 are mounted to the side
25  (wing) mirrors and have respective third and fourth fields of vision FOV 3 , FOV 4 . The third and
    fourth fields of vision FOV 3 , FOV 4 extend along the respective sides of the vehicle V. The
    resulting first and second lateral images IMG1L, IMG2L encompass a region extending from
    the front to the rear of the vehicle V. The resulting first and second lateral images IMG1L,
    IMG2L can be used by other vehicle systems, for example to assist with vehicle parking and/or
30  to identify other vehicles at a road junction. Due to the arrangement of the first and second
    side-mounted cameras C3, C4, the first and second lateral images IMG1L, IMG2L typically
    only comprise a low-level region alongside the trailer T, for example a region below a
    horizontal plane in which the first and second side-mounted cameras C3, C4 are disposed. A
    third composite image IMG6 is formed taking account of this limitation of the vertical extent of
35  the first and second lateral images IMG1L, IMG2L.
                                                    17

    The third composite image IMG6 comprises the first and second lateral images IMG1 L, IMG2L
    and the first and second images IMG1, IMG2. The components of the third composite image
    IMG6 are illustrated in Figure 7. The first and second lateral images IMG1L, IMG2L are
    combined with the second image IMG2 to form an intermediate composite image. The
 5  combination can, for example, comprise stitching the first and second lateral images IMG1 L,
    IMG2L and the second image IMG2. The region in the third composite image IMG6 vertically
    above the first and second lateral images IMG1L, IMG2L is formed from the second image
    IMG2. The first image IMG1 is then overlaid onto the intermediate composite image formed
    by combining the second image IMG2 and the first and second lateral images IMG1 L, IMG2L.
 0  The first image IMG1 is overlaid as a semi-transparent image. In particular, the image
    processor 5 modifies the first image data such that the first image IMG1 is displayed as a
    partially transparent image which overlies a portion of each of the second image IMG2 and
    the first and second lateral images IMG1L, IMG2L.
 5  The present invention has been described with reference to first and second side-mounted
    cameras C3, C4 mounted to the wing mirrors. It will be appreciated that the first and second
    side-mounted cameras C3, C4 may be incorporated into towing mirrors for mounting to the
    wing mirrors of the vehicle V. Alternatively, the first and second side-mounted cameras C3,
    C4 may be mounted in other locations on the vehicle, for example on left and right sides of a
 .0 rear bumper of the vehicle. Alternatively, the first and second rear-mounted cameras C3, C4
    may be incorporated into a lamp housing, for example a side indicator housing or a rear lamp
    housing.
    In a further variant of the present invention, the first and second side-mounted cameras C3,
25  C4 may be mounted to the trailer T rather than to the vehicle V. For example, the first and
    second side-mounted cameras C3, C4 may be mounted at the front of the trailer T in a
    rearwards-facing orientation. It will be appreciated that the first and second lateral images
    IMG1 L, IMG2L may be used by other vehicle systems, for example to facilitate manoeuvring
    and/or parking of the trailer T.
30
    In a still further variant, the vehicle V can comprise first and second rear-mounted cameras for
    generating first and second rear images. The first and second rear-mounted cameras could,
    for example, be disposed in a rear quarter of the vehicle V. The first and second rear-mounted
    cameras may be mounted in the rear bumper of the vehicle V; within left and right rear-light
35  clusters; within left and right roof bars; or at the outer ends of a roof spoiler. The first and
    second rear-mounted cameras have respective fields of view directed behind the vehicle V.
                                                     18

    The first and second rear images may be combined with the second image IMG2 generated
    by the second camera C2 disposed at the rear of the trailer T. In this arrangement, the fields
    of view of the first and second rear-mounted cameras may encompass at least a portion of
    the front of the trailer T. The image processor 5 can be configured to render the portion of the
 5  first and second rear images corresponding to the trailer T as a semi-transparent image which
    is overlaid onto the second image IMG2. The extent of the first rear image IMG1 which is
    overlaid as a semi-transparent image could, for example, be determined in dependence on a
    determined hitch angle 6 of the trailer T. Alternatively, or in addition, the image processor 5
    may implement an edge-locating algorithm or a shape-recognition algorithm to determine the
 0  extent of the trailer T. It will be appreciated that the composite image may be formed in
    conjunction with the first image IMG1, or without the first image IMG1. Thus, in certain
    arrangements, the first camera C1 may be omitted.
    A variant of the embodiment above in which the first and second side-mounted cameras C3,
 5  C4 are used to generate first and second lateral images IMG1 L, IMG2L will now be described
    with references to Figures 8 and 9. Like references will be used for like components when
    describing this variant.
    The image processor 5 is configured to generate a fourth composite image IMG7 in
 .0 dependence on a hitch angle       e and   optionally also a pitch angle a of the trailer T. The hitch
    angle 6 and the pitch angle a define the angular orientation of the trailer T relative to the
    vehicle V. Specifically, the hitch angle    e and the   pitch angle a are defined with reference to a
    reference frame of the vehicle V. The hitch angle       e defines the angular offset between the first
    longitudinal axis X 1and the second longitudinal axis X2 in a horizontal plane. The pitch angle
25  a defines the angular offset between the first longitudinal axis X 1and the second longitudinal
    axis X2 in a vertical plane. In the present embodiment, the hitch angle 6 and the pitch angle a
    are determined by tracking a target 21 disposed on the front of the trailer T. Specifically, the
    image processor 5 analyses the first image IMG1 to identify the target 21 and to determine its
    position and orientation relative to the vehicle V. The hitch angle 6 and the pitch angle a can
30  thereby be determined using image processing techniques.
    As shown in Figure 8, the second camera C2 is mounted to the trailer T in a rear-facing
    orientation, typically at the rear of the trailer T. The second image IMG2 encompasses a region
    behind the trailer T and is referred to as a rear image. As shown in Figure 9, the second image
35  IMG2 has a horizontal dimension DH and a vertical dimension DV. The second image IMG2
    has a first horizontal centreline CLH1 and a first vertical centreline CLV1. The first horizontal
                                                         19

    centreline CLH1 and the first vertical centreline CLV1 are virtual reference lines which bisect
    the second image IMG2 horizontally and vertically. The second camera C2 is fixedly mounted
    to the trailer T and has a central focal axis CX2. The second camera C2 is arranged such that
    the central focal axis CX2 is arranged substantially parallel to the second longitudinal axis X 2 ,
 5  but corrections can be applied to the second image IMG2 to allow for any angular offset and/or
    translational offset from said second longitudinal axis X 2 . A virtual origin 0 is defined by the
    first horizontal centreline CLH1 and the first vertical centreline CLV1. The virtual origin 0 is
    coincident with the central focal axis CX2 of the second camera C2.
 0  It will be appreciated that the orientation of the central focal axis CX2 relative to the reference
    frame defined for the vehicle V varies in dependence on the hitch angle a and the pitch angle
    a of the trailer T. Thus, the content of the second image IMG2 varies in dependence on the
    orientation of the trailer T. As a result, there can be a discrepancy between the second image
    IMG2 and the first and second lateral images IMG1 L, IMG2L (which are generated by the side
 5  mounted third and fourth cameras C3, C4 mounted to the vehicle V). In order to compensate
    for this discrepancy, the image processor 5 is configured to select a sub-section P1 of the
    second image IMG2 for incorporation into the fourth composite image IMG7. The sub-section
    P1 is selected from within the second image IMG2 to compensate for changes in the hitch
    angle E and the pitch angle a. By compensating for these angular changes, the fourth
 .0 composite image IMG7 formed by the image processor 5 can provide a substantially
    continuous view of the image behind the vehicle V. The sub-section P1 has a second
    horizontal centreline CLH2 and a second vertical centreline CLV2. The second horizontal
    centreline CLH2 and the second vertical centreline CLV2 are virtual reference lines which
    bisect the sub-section P1 horizontally and vertically. If a predefined section of the second
25  image IMG2 was used to form the fourth composite image IMG7, discontinuities would be
    introduced into the fourth composite image IMG7 as the hitch angle 6 and/or the pitch angle
    a changed. Due to the overlaying technique described herein to display a portion of the first
    image IMG1 as a semi-transparent image, any such discontinuities may potentially be
    obscured, which may result in the formation of one or more blind spot in the resulting
30  composite image.
    The selection of the sub-section P1 will now be described in more detail with reference to
    Figure 9. In the present arrangement, the horizontal dimension DH and the vertical dimension
    DV of the sub-section P1 are fixed, i.e. the sub-section P1 has a predefined size. However,
35  the image processor 5 is configured to vary the position of the sub-section P1 within the
    second image IMG2 in dependence on the hitch angle            e and  the pitch angle a. The image
                                                      20

    processor 5 determines a negative equivalent of the hitch angle       e and the pitch angle a (by
    multiplying by -1), thereby changing the sign of the respective angles. The image processor
    5 determines the location of the sub-section P1 within the second image IMG2 in dependence
    on the determined negative of the hitch angle 6 and the pitch angle a. Specifically, the image
 5  processor 5 modifies the offset between the first and second horizontal centrelines CLH1,
    CLH2 in dependence on the determined negative of the hitch angle 6; and between the first
    and second vertical centrelines CLV1, CLV2 in dependence on the determined negative of the
    pitch angle a. A horizontal offset AH between the first vertical centreline CLV1 and the second
    vertical centreline CLV2 is determined in direct proportion to the determined negative of the
 0  hitch angle 0. Similarly, a vertical offset AV between the first horizontal centreline CLH1 and
    the second vertical horizontal centreline CLH2 is determined in direct proportion to the
    determined negative of the pitch angle a. When the hitch angle 6 is zero, the first and second
    vertical centrelines CLV1, CLV2 are aligned. When the pitch angle a is zero, the first and
    second horizontal centrelines CLH1, CLH2 are aligned. The extent of the horizontal and/or
 5  vertical translation of the sub-section P1 for a given angular change can be determined with
    reference to a virtual image plane. The virtual image plane can be defined at a known position
    along the central focal axis CX2 of the second camera C2. The image processor 5 can then
    combine the selected sub-section P1 with the first and second lateral images IMG1L, IMG2L.
    The first image IMG1 is overlaid as a semi-transparent image to form the fourth composite
 .0 image IMG7. In certain embodiments, the fourth composite image IMG7 may be formed
    without overlaying the first image IMG1.
    To compensate for the angular change, the image processor 5 can also apply one or more
    image correction transform to the sub-section P1, for example to de-skew the image or to
25  correct a perspective shift. The image correction transform can also be dependent on the hitch
    angle   e  and/or the pitch angle a. An image correction transform may also be applied to
    compensate for optical distortion within the third camera C3.
    In the above variant, the transverse and vertical dimensions of the sub-section P1 are
30  predefined. However, the image processor 5 may be modified also to vary a horizontal
    dimension DH and/or a vertical dimension DV of the sub-section P1 in dependence on the
    hitch angle E and/or the pitch angle a. Specifically, the horizontal dimension DH may be varied
    in direct proportion to the hitch angle E; and/or the vertical dimension DV may be varied in
    direct proportion to the pitch angle a. By varying the dimensions of the sub-section P1, regions
35  of the first and second lateral images IMG1L, IMG2L generated by the second and third
    cameras C2, C3 which might otherwise be obscured by the trailer T (for example as the hitch
                                                     21

    angle 8 increases) can be incorporated into sub-section P1. The changes in the horizontal
    dimension DH can be symmetrical about a first vertical reference line corresponding to the
    negative equivalent of the hitch angle 8; and/or the changes in the vertical dimension DV can
    be symmetrical about a first horizontal reference line corresponding to the negative equivalent
 5  of the pitch angle a. Alternatively, the changes in the horizontal dimension DH can be
    asymmetrical about the first vertical reference line corresponding to the negative equivalent of
    the hitch angle E; and/or the changes in the vertical dimension DV can be asymmetrical about
    the first horizontal reference line corresponding to the negative equivalent of the pitch angle
    a. It will be appreciated that the extent of the variations in the horizontal dimension DH and/or
 0  the vertical dimension DV may vary depending on the trailer configuration, for example its
    external dimensions and/or axle location.
    A similar technique may be applied to modify the first image IMG1 prior to overlaying the first
    image IMG1. For example, the first image IMG1 may be cropped in a transverse direction in
 5  dependence on the hitch angle E.
    A modification of the above embodiment may comprise changing the horizontal dimension DH
    of the sub-section P1 about the first vertical centre line CLV1; and/or changing the vertical
    dimension DV of the sub-section P1 about the first horizontal centre line CLH1. The changes
 .0 in the horizontal dimension DH and/or the vertical dimension DV can be symmetrical.
    Alternatively, the changes can be implemented asymmetrically.
    It will be appreciated that other techniques can be used to determine the hitch angle 8, for
    example by directly measuring the angular orientation of a trailer hitch relative to a ball joint
25  mounted to the vehicle. For example, the image processor 5 may be configured to select sub
    sections of the first and second lateral images IMG1L, IMG2L in dependence on the hitch
    angle 6 of the trailer T.
    Throughout this specification and the claims which follow, unless the context requires
30  otherwise, the word "comprise", and variations such as "comprises" and "comprising", will be
    understood to imply the inclusion of a stated integer or step or group of integers or steps but
    not the exclusion of any other integer or step or group of integers or steps.
    The reference to any prior art in this specification is not, and should not be taken as, an
35  acknowledgement or any form of suggestion that the referenced prior art forms part of the
    common general knowledge in Australia.
                                                     22

    CLAIMS:
    1.        A display system for generating a view of a region behind a vehicle towing a trailer,
    the display system comprising:
 5            a camera for outputting image data corresponding to an image;
              an image processor for receiving said image data;
              wherein the image processor is configured to select a sub-section of said image in
    dependence on a determined orientation of the trailer.
 0  2.        A display system as claimed in claim 1, wherein the determined orientation
    comprises a hitch angle relative to the vehicle and optionally a pitch angle of the trailer
    relative to the vehicle.
    3.        A display system as claimed in claim 2, wherein the image processor is configured
 5  to select the sub-section of said image in dependence on a negative equivalent of the hitch
    angle.
    4.        A display system as claimed in claim 3, wherein the image has a first vertical
    centreline and the sub-section has a second vertical centreline;
 .0           the image processor being configured to select the sub-section such that a
    horizontal offset between the first and second vertical centrelines is directly proportional to
    the negative of the hitch angle.
    5.        A display system as claimed in any one of claims 2 to 4, wherein the image
25  processor is configured to select the sub-section of said image in dependence on a negative
    equivalent of a determined pitch angle of the trailer.
    6.        A display system as claimed in claim 5, wherein the image has a first horizontal
    centreline and the sub-section has a second horizontal centreline; and
30            the image processor being configured to select the sub-section such that a vertical
    offset between the first and second horizontal centrelines is directly proportional to the
    negative of the pitch angle.
    7.        A display system as claimed in any one of claims 2 to 6, wherein the sub-section
35  has a predefined horizontal dimension and/or a predefined vertical dimension.
                                                   23

    8.        A display system as claimed in any one of claims 2 to 7, wherein the sub-section
    has a horizontal dimension which is determined in dependence on the hitch angle; and/or a
    vertical dimension which is determined in dependence on the pitch angle.
 5  9.        A display system as claimed in claim 8, wherein the horizontal dimension is varied
    symmetrically about a vertical centreline of the sub-section; and/or the vertical dimension is
    varied symmetrically about a horizontal centreline of the sub-section.
    10.       A display system as claimed in any one of claims 2 to 9 comprising a further
 0  camera; wherein the further camera is a second camera for outputting second image data
    corresponding to a second image; and the camera is a first camera for outputting first image
    data corresponding to a first image.
    11.       A display system as claimed in claim 10, wherein the image processor is configured
 5  to select a sub-section of said second image and to combine the selected sub-section of
    said second image with the selected sub-section of the first image, and optionally at least a
    portion of said first image is overlaid as a semi-transparent image onto the selected sub
    section of the second image.
 .0 12.       A display system as claimed in claim 11, wherein selecting the sub-section of the
    first image and selecting the sub-section of the second image are for alignment of the
    combined images.
    13.       A display system as claimed in any one of the preceding claims comprising a third
25  camera for outputting third image data corresponding to a third image, and a fourth camera
    for outputting fourth image data corresponding to a fourth image, wherein the image
    processor is configured to combine the selected sub-section of said image with the third
    and/or fourth images to form a composite image.
30  14.       A rig comprising a vehicle and a trailer, wherein the rig comprises a display system
    as claimed in any one of the preceding claims.
    15.       A rig as claimed in claim 14, wherein the camera is mounted in a rear-facing
    orientation to the vehicle.
35
                                                    24

   16.       A rig as claimed in claim 14 or 15, wherein the display system is as claimed in claim
   10, and wherein the second camera is mounted in a rear-facing orientation to the trailer.
   17.       A rig as claimed in claim 14, 15 or 16, wherein the display system is as claimed in
5  claim 13, wherein the third camera is a first lateral camera for outputting first lateral image
   data corresponding to a first lateral image, wherein the fourth camera is a second lateral
   camera for outputting second lateral image data corresponding to a second lateral image.
   18.       An image processor for a vehicle, wherein the image processor is for receiving
0  image data corresponding to an image output from a camera, and a determined orientation
   of a trailer;
             wherein the image processor is configured to select a sub-section of said first rear
   image in dependence on the determined hitch angle.
5  19.       A method of generating a view of a region behind a trailer coupled to a vehicle, the
   method comprising:
              receiving image data corresponding to an image from a camera; and
              selecting a sub-section of said rear image in dependence on a determined
   orientation of the trailer.
.0
   20.       A method as claimed in claim 19, wherein the camera is mounted in a rear-facing
   orientation to the vehicle.
                                                    25

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
