                                                ABSTRACT
The disclosed personal goal setting, tracking and mnemonic aid helps people to easily integrate key
goal setting and attainment principles naturally into their daily lives. It uses visual representations to
keep goal-setters informed about their progress and reward systems to keep goal-setters focused
and motivated in the long-term attainment of personal goals. The aid also helps goal-setters
disaggregate long-term goals into short-term and medium-term goals.
The disclosed personal goal setting, tracking and mnemonic aid is a made up of a substrate that can
be affixed to a vertical surface using magnetic backing or non-permanent adhesive with a writable
outer layer such that text or images written on the outer layer using a non-permanent marker can be
a least substantially removed. The outer, writable surface is indelibly printed with a data table
similar to the example shown in Figure 1 that sets up a structure for tracking the attainment of daily
goals. The goal-setter indicates in each cell of the chart whether the goal has been achieved using
removable, visual icons to indicate success or failure. The chart also scaffolds the task of setting and
tracking of medium-term weekly goals, thereby breaking long-term goals into smaller milestones.
Tracking goals through visual representations allows goal setters to easily monitor, assess and
remedy their habitual behaviours. Goal setters can also set targets, learn the relationship between
behaviours and outcomes, understand behaviours as part of a broader context, break goals into
manageable steps and engage others as part of a support system. Reducing success or failure of
short-term goals to their simplest possible form reduces the burden of maintaining a detailed
written or numerical record, which frees the goal-setters' attention to focus on attaining their goals.

                        AUSTRALIA
                      Patents Act 1990
                COMPLETE SPECIFICATION
                  INNOVATION PATENT
       METHOD AND APARATUS FOR A
PERSONAL GOAL SETTING, TRACKING AND
                  MNEMONIC AID
The following statement is a full description of this
invention including the best method of performing it
known to me:

                                                         1
                           PERSONAL GOAL SETTING, TRACKING AND MNEMONIC AID
    People set a myriad of different goals for personal improvement that require daily attention and
    focus such as weight loss, fitness, mindfulness or quitting bad habits. The challenge in attaining
  5 these goals is to maintain improved daily habits over a long period of time. However, with busy
    schedules and divided attention, people often lose track of their goals and slip back into old habits.
    Written or electronic diaries of daily achievements such as calorie counters, meal planners, weight
    trackers and workout programs attempt to solve this problem to some extent. These tools require
 LO the goal-setter to update written or numerical lots that require a certain amount of discipline to
    maintain. For many goal-setters, the additional burden of maintaining diaries and plans becomes
    ultimately self-defeating.
    Also, written diaries do not provide an overall visual representation of the goal-setter's progress for
 L5 trend analysis and reflection. Written diaries also make it difficult to engage family and friends as
    part of a broader support network.
    Software solutions can partially overcome the limitations of written diaries through plotting data
    and sharing through social media. However, these applications can become lost or irksome amongst
 )0 all of the other electronic apps vying for people's attention on phones, tablets and desktops.
    Conversely, some goal-setters find software solutions too technologically challenging or unnatural.
    Therefore, software solutions are not suitable for all types of goal-setters.
    More importantly, both written and electronic diaries are hidden from view in ordinary life and
25  require extra time and effort from the goal-setter to remember to write a diary entry or open the
    software to enter daily data. For many people, these tools for goal tracking soon become out of
    sight, out of mind.
    To improve the likelihood of success, the personal goal setting, tracking and mnemonic aid should be
30  a directly visible and integrated part of the goal-setter's normal daily life, progress should be quickly
    ascertainable through visual inspection and the process for maintaining the record should be fun
    and engaging. Having a simple system that is readily visible and integrated into the daily routine as
    part of a reward system removes the barrier of remembering to enter data, motivates goal-setters
    to keep on track with their new daily habits and removes the burden of maintaining detailed notes

                                                         2
    or numerical data. Critically, this frees the mind of the goal-setter to focus on their goal rather than
    on maintaining a detailed diary.
    For decades, the domestic fridge has been the 'information board' in homes around the world. It is
  5 used to post shopping lists, notes, children's art, calendars, key contact numbers and myriad other
    information. This is because the home fridge is one place that almost everyone in a household visits
    at least once a day. Therefore, the fridge also makes the ideal place for a personal goal setting,
    tracking and mnemonic aid that can provide daily reminders without being overly intrusive in a goal
    setter's life. However, other surfaces can be equally effective depending on the goal-setter's lifestyle
 LO such as walls, wardrobes and mirrors.
    For this reason, our personal goal tracking and mnemonic aid is ideally made from a flexible
    magnetic substrate similar to the substrates used for flexible fridge magnets. However, other non
    permanent adhesive substrates are also possible for attaching the goal tracking aid to non-magnetic,
 L5 vertical surfaces.
    The outer surface of the personal goal setting, tracking and mnemonic aid is an indelibly printed
    chart that provides the structure within which the goal-setter can track goal attainment in a visual
    format that is quickly and easily decipherable. The outer surface should be made of such a material
 )0 that when written or drawn on by a non-permanent marker, the written text or drawn image can be
    at least substantially removed.
    An example of a personal goal setting, tracking and mnemonic aid is shown in Figure 1. In this
    example, seven vertical columns 1 correspond to the seven days of the week and an eighth vertical
25  column 2 corresponds to a weekly goal. The rows in the example correspond to four consecutive
    weeks 3 across which two personal goals 4 are being tracked. In this case, those two goals are diet
    and exercise. However, any goals that require daily attention could replace these two examples.
    Many variations of this template are possible depending on the number, type and duration of the
30  personal goals. The template could chart goals over more or less than four weeks. There could be
    different goals inserted into the rows or there could be more or less than two goals. In addition, the
    template could be transposed such that the days of the week and weekly goals correspond to the
    horizontal rows, while the consecutive weeks and goals correspond to the vertical columns.

                                                         3
    The chart is completed by the goal-setter according to the goal-setter's own success criteria. The
    goal-setter indicates in each cell of the chart whether the goal has been achieved or not on each day.
    The goal-setter could indicate success or failure in a variety of ways including using a non-permanent
    marker to draw an image or write text or using different coloured non-permanent markers to draw
  5 an image or write text. However, in the ideal version of the personal goal setting, tracking and
    mnemonic aid, the goal-setter uses magnetic tokens or non-permanent adhesive stickers to indicate
    attainment 5 or failure 6 of the goal.
    The tokens could take myriad different forms and might be customised by the goal-setter. However,
 LO the tokens used to indicate attainment and failure should be sufficiently different such that the goal
    setter can quickly ascertain the overall pattern of behaviour. The design that indicates goal
    attainment should ideally provide positive feedback as part of a reward system such as a gold star or
    smiley face emoji. The design that indicates goal failure should be neutral or negative as part of a
    penalty system such as a red star or a grumpy face emoji.
 -5
    Other than a binary system of attainment and failure, it would also be possible to have tokens or
    stickers that represent various gradations between these two extremes. It would also be possible to
    have multiple tokens to indicate either attainment or failure. For example, there may be many
    different smiling emoji token designs, all of which indicate goal attainment. Ideally, these tokens
 )0 should be similar enough to each other and dissimilar enough from the tokens indicating failure to
    ensure that the goal-setter can easily observe behavioural patterns and trends at a glance.
    While the tokens help goal-setters plot the attainment of daily, short-term goals, the Weekly Goal
    section of the chart helps goal-setters break their long-term goal into medium-term, weekly goals. In
25  this section of the template, it is expected that goal-setters set up weekly milestones that need to be
    attained to stay on track towards attaining their overall long-term goal. This is done by writing the
    milestone in using a non-permanent marker 7. As the goal-setter reaches the end of each week, the
    goal-setter can also indicate whether this milestone has been attained or not by writing or drawing
    with a non-permanent marker or using a magnetic or non-permanent adhesive sticker 8. The goal
30  setter can then reflect on if the daily goals need to be adjusted to achieve the weekly milestone or
    alternatively whether or not the weekly milestones are realistic.
    Plotting goal attainment in an easy-to-read visual format naturally incorporates key, goal setting
    strategies into the daily life of the goal-setter:

                                                        4
        1. Removing the burden of maintaining detailed numerical or written records
        2. Reducing goal attainment to its simplest possible form i.e. daily goals with binary options for
             success or failure.
        3. Clearly identifying patterns of good and bad behaviour and in particular identifying the
 5           onset of bad behaviour or the need for remedial action.
        4.   Setting targets such as improving on the previous week, getting a certain number of
             attainment tokens in a row or beating a previous personal best.
        5.   Providing a semi-quantitative measure of behaviour versus outcomes so that if certain
             behaviour patterns are not achieving the desired outcomes then the behaviour patterns can
LO           be adjusted appropriately.
        6.   Contextualising momentary lapses in behaviour as a small part of a greater pattern of good
             behaviour so that the goal is not abandoned but instead returned to.
        7.   Gamifying the process of goal attainment through rewards and merit systems
        8.   Braking large goals into manageable steps.
-5
   Making the personal goal setting and attainment system openly accessible and visible:
        1. Regularly prompts goal-setters to continue with their goals.
        2. Reduces the burden of reminding oneself to complete the chart.
        3.   Engages close family members and friends for additional support, feedback and
 0           accountability.
   In addition, the fact that charting the progress is a hand-on, tactile process helps to engage goal
   setters and brings an element of childlike fun to the process.

   Editorial Note
     <removed-apn>
There is one page of drawings only

1. A personal goal setting, tracking and mnemonic aid comprising of:
        a. a substrate in rectangular, circular, elliptical, polygonal or free-outline shape,
            that can be affixed to a vertical surface by magnets or adhesion or hooks and
            loop fasteners whereon the outer surface of the substrate is indelibly printed a
            table of seven vertical columns corresponding to the days of the week plus an
            eighth column for recording a weekly goal and one or more horizontal rows
            showing consecutive weeks where each row is subdivided into one or more
            horizontal rows corresponding to specific personal goals and
        b. an outer surface to display writing or images imparted thereto by a user, the
            writing or images when written by a non-permanent marker being at least
            substantially removable and
        c. a plurality of non-permanent adhesive labels or stickers or magnetic tokens
            with a plurality of designs that can be stuck on to and removed from the
            substrate within each cell of the table so as to indicate different levels of goal
            attainment.
2. A personal goal setting, tracking and mnemonic aid as described in Claim 1 except in
   which the table is transposed to have seven horizontal rows corresponding to the days
   of the week and an eighth row corresponding to a weekly goal and one or more
   vertical columns representing consecutive weeks where each weekly vertical column
   may be subdivided into one or more vertical columns representing specific personal
   goals.
3. A personal goal setting, tracking and mnemonic aid as described in Claims 1 or 2 on
   which the user uses a non-permanent marker to indicate different levels of goal
   attainment by drawing or writing instead of non-permanent adhesive labels or stickers
   or magnetic tokens.
4. A personal goal setting, tracking and mnemonic aid substantially as hereinbefore
   described with reference to the accompanying drawing.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
