Protein Expression Enhancing Polypeptides
Abstract of the Invention
         Fusion proteins comprising a protein expression enhancing polypeptide linked to a target
protein binding domain and nucleic acid molecules encoding such fusion proteins are described for
use in enhancing expression and/or location of a targeted protein of interest, for restoring lost
functions in cells, and for treating disease. Additional fusion proteins comprising a target protein of
interest modified with a fusion partner comprising a protein expression enhancing polypeptide are
also disclosed.
                                                    178

                          Protein Expression Enhancing Polypeptides
Cross-Reference to Related Applications
         This application is a divisional of Australian Patent Application No. 2013355120
(national phase of PCT/US2013/073442) which claims the benefit of priority to U.S.
Provisional Application No. 61/733,884, filed December 5, 2012, and to U.S. Provisional
Application No. 61/733,743, filed December 5, 2012, the entire contents of all of which are
incorporated herein.
Field of the Invention
         This invention is in the field of engineered proteins. In particular, the invention is
directed to polypeptides for enhancing expression of proteins and nucleic acid molecules
encoding such protein expression enhancing polypeptides. Methods of increasing production
levels of a protein of interest are also provided.
Background of the Invention
         Expressing a protein of interest in a culture of genetically engineered cells at levels
that permit easy isolation in quantities sufficient for research, development, or commercial
use requires the optimization of a variety of recombinant techniques and cell culture
methodologies. Such techniques include in vitro methods of isolating and recombining
nucleic acid molecules to encode a desired protein molecule, operably linking the desired
coding sequences with appropriate transcriptional and translational elements, inserting the
engineered genetic material into an appropriate expression vector, introducing the resulting
recombinant expression vector into compatible host cells, and culturing the host cells
containing the recombinant expression vector under conditions that permit expression of the
desired recombinant protein. Proper selection and optimization of such methods has
permitted expression and use of a variety of recombinant proteins from a wide variety of host
cells, including bacterial, fungal, insect, plant, and mammalian host cells.
         Despite many advances in recombinant and cell culture methodologies, the problem
of ensuring proper protein folding can still thwart the most extensive efforts to produce useful
amounts of a desired recombinant protein. All proteins must achieve a proper two- and three
dimensional conformation in order to function properly at their intended location. Proper
conformation ensures that a protein will provide a cell or multi-cell organism with its
intended function (for example, enzymatic activity, signal transduction, or structural feature)
at its intended location (for example, cytoplasm, nucleus, intracellular structure, organelle,
cell membrane, or extracellular (secreted) location). Although the information for the proper
structure and conformation resides in a protein's amino acid sequence, the general
                                                   1

intracellular environment and a variety of stimuli and environmental stresses, including
oxidative stress, nutrient deprivation, and high temperature, can make proper folding of even
endogenously produced proteins more difficult to the point that many protein molecules take
on an undesired structure and thus fail to provide a cell with their intended function. To deal
with the continual risk of not attaining or maintaining proper functional conformations, cells
possess a system of proteins that serve as molecular chaperones to assist in the folding and
refolding of nascent and mature proteins into their proper conformations. The heat shock 70
kDa proteins
                                                la

   (referred herein as "Hsp70s") constitute one of the most ubiquitous classes of chaperone proteins in
   the cells of a wide variety of species. The Hsp70 machinery includes the participation of co-factor (or
   co-chaperone) proteins, such as J proteins, and nucleotide exchange factors (NEFs).
            In a current model of the Hsp70 chaperone machinery for folding proteins, Hsp70 cycles
 5 between ATP- and ADP-bound states. In this model, a J protein binds to a protein in need of folding
   or refolding (referred to as a "client protein") and interacts with an ATP-bound state of Hsp70
   (Hsp70-ATP). Binding by the J protein-client complex to Hsp70-ATP stimulates ATP hydrolysis,
   which causes a conformational change in the Hsp70 protein that closes a helical lid, thereby
   stabilizing the interaction between the client protein with the Hsp70-ADP, and release of the J protein,
10 which is then free to bind another client protein. While bound to the Hsp70-ADP, the client protein is
   provided with an environment that permits folding or refolding into a proper conformation. Next, a
   nucleotide exchange factor (NEF) binds to Hsp70-ADP resulting in release of ADP and binding of
   ATP. The client protein is then released because of its low affinity (in the absence of J protein) for
   Hsp70-ATP. If the client protein has not achieved a proper conformation, it may be rebound by a J
15 protein and enter the cycle again. See, Kampinga et al., Nat. Rev., 11: 579-592 (2010). Thus,
   according to this model, J proteins play a critical role in the Hsp70 machinery by associating with
   individual client proteins and also with the Hsp70 chaperone protein to provide a bridging function
   that facilitates the capture and submission of a wide variety of client proteins into the Hsp70
   machinery to promote folding or refolding into proper conformations. When attempts by the Hsp70
20 chaperone machinery fail to fold or refold a protein into proper functional conformations, the Hsp70
   chaperone machinery also can facilitate the transfer of the improperly folded protein to the cell's
   proteolytic system (e.g., the proteasome) for degradation and recycling of amino acids. For a review
   of the Hsp70 chaperone machinery, including the critical role of J proteins, see, Kampinga et al,
   Nature Rev., 11: 579-592 (2010) and Voisine et al., Neurobiol. Dis., 40: 12-20 (2010).
25          Expressed proteins are thus subjected to a strict quality control system of the Hsp70
   machinery for maintaining proper conformations. The problem of proper protein folding is of
   particular concern in the case of producing useful quantities of functional exogenous (recombinant)
   proteins expressed in various recombinant host cells. The problem can arise in both eukaryotic and
   prokaryotic host cells. The failure to properly fold exogenous proteins expressed in bacterial host
30 cells frequently can result in the formation within the cells of large, potentially toxic, aggregates of
   inactive molecules of the exogenous protein. Such aggregates are referred to as "inclusion bodies"
   and are considered to be the result of ineffective protein folding that leads to non-functional
   conformations with exposed hydrophobic domains that in turn promote association and aggregation
   with other improperly folded protein molecules.
35          When a wild-type gene encoding a protein undergoes a mutation, the encoded mutant form of
   the protein may still be expressed in the cell. Such expressed mutant proteins usually fail to achieve a
                                                         2

   proper functional conformation of the wild-type protein and may form inactive aggregates. Such
   improperly folded mutant protein species are typically ushered by the Hsp70 machinery into the cells
   proteolytic system for degradation and recycling of amino acids. Elimination of the improperly
   folded mutant protein still, of course, leaves the cell with a loss of functional protein and the
 5 consequence of such loss of function can be debilitating or even fatal to the cell. In fact, loss of
   properly folded functional protein species has been demonstrated or is implicated in a number of
   diseases, including prion-associated diseases (transmissible spongiform encephalopathies),
   Alzheimer's disease, Parkinson's disease, Huntington's disease, and cystic fibrosis.
            Members of the BAG family of proteins found in eukaryotes are nucleotide exchange factors
10 (NEFs) that possess diverse N-terminal domains and a conserved C-terminal Hsp70-binding domain
   (the BAG domain) that can interact with the ATPase domain of Hsp70. See, for example, Kampinga
   et al., Nat. Rev. Biol., 11:579-592 (2010). Thus, BAG proteins have a topology, binding domains, and
   binding specificities that are consistent with a protein designed to participate in recruiting the Hsp70
   chaperone machinery. Although a BAG protein might participate as a NEF in the Hsp70 machinery,
15 many studies suggest that BAG proteins may predominantly be involved in regulatory mechanisms to
   control a variety of activities, including promoting cell growth, quiescence, or apoptosis; regulating
   transcription complex formation; and modulating signal transduction. See, for example, the review by
   Takayama et al., Nat. Cell Biol., 3: E237-E241 (2001). Recently, it has been reported that when
   desired recombinant proteins are linked to a BAG domain, the resulting fusion proteins are expressed
20 at levels that are greater than those of the protein alone. See, International Publication No.
   WO 2012/087835 A2.
            In general, with an increasing level of expression of a protein in a cell (as can easily occur in
   recombinant gene expression systems), there is an increasing risk that such proteins may fail to fold or
   refold into proper functional conformations. Accordingly, along with a constant desire for increasing
25 expression of desired exogenous or endogenous proteins, needs remain for means for enhancing the
   proper folding of exogenous and endogenous proteins expressed in cells, i.e., to increase the yield of
   properly conformed, functional proteins.
   Summary of the Invention
30          The present invention provides compositions and methods for enhancing the level of
   expression of a target protein of interest produced by a cell. In particular, the invention provides
   protein expression enhancing polypeptides that can be incorporated into genetically engineered fusion
   proteins, which when expressed by a host cell are able to enhance the level of expression of a specific
   target protein of interest at its intended location.
35          In one embodiment, a protein expression enhancing polypeptide of the invention is selected
   from the group consisting of:
                                                         3

                     (a) an isolated J domain of a J protein;
                     (b) an isolated protein expression enhancing polypeptide fragment of a J domain;
                     (c) an isolated protein expression enhancing polypeptide analog of a J domain, said J
                     domain analog polypeptide comprises the amino acid sequence of formula I:
 5                   (I)      X1-X2-X3-X4-X5-X6-X7-X8-X9 (SEQ ID NO:47), wherein:
                              X1 is isoleucine (I), leucine (L), valine (V), alanine (A), or methionine (M);
                              X2 and X3 are each independently any amino acid with the proviso that one
                              or both are K or R;
                              X4 is any amino acid or X4 may be absent when X1 through X3 are present
10                            and X5 through X9 are present;
                              X5 is tyrosine (Y), tryptophan (W), or phenylalanine (F);
                              X6 and X7 are each independently any amino acid with the proviso that one
                              or both are lysine (K) or arginine (R); or either one of X6 and X7 may be
                              absent when the other is K or R and when X1 through X5 are present and X8
15                            and X9 are present; and
                              X8 and X9 are any amino acid with the proviso that one or both are leucine
                              (L) or alanine (A); or one of X8 and X9 may be absent when the other is L or
                              A and when X1 through X7 are present; and
                     (d) an isolated protein expression enhancing polypeptide selected from the group of
20                   decapeptides consisting of:
                              IKKAYKLALQ (SEQ ID NO:49),
                              IKKAYRLALQ (SEQ ID NO:50),
                              IKKAYRKALQ (SEQ ID NO:51), or
                              IKKAYRKLLQ (SEQ ID NO:52).
25          In accordance with the invention, a protein expression enhancing polypeptide enhances the
   level of expression of a target protein of interest expressed in a host cell as compared to the level of
   expression of the target protein of interest in the absence of the protein expression enhancing
   polypeptide. Use of the polypeptides of the present invention provides a means for increasing the
   amount of a desired recombinant protein in the desired location (compartment) with respect to the
30 producing cell.
            In a particular embodiment, a protein expression enhancing polypeptide of the invention is an
   isolated J domain that has an amino acid sequence selected from any of the J domain sequences set
   forth in Table 1, infra.
            Preferably, a protein expressing enhancing polypeptide of the invention is an isolated J
   domain of an Erdj protein, a large T antigen of SV40, or a mammalian cysteine string protein alpha
   (CSP-a). A preferred isolated J domain of an Erdj protein of the invention is an isolated J domain of
                                                          4

   Erdjl, Erdj2, Erdj3, Erdj4, Erdj5, Erdj6 or Erdj7. Particularly preferred is an isolated J domain of
   Erdj3.
            In another embodiment, a protein expression enhancing polypeptide of the invention is a
   polypeptide fragment of a J domain that has an amino acid sequence that is selected from any of the
   following:
                      I-K-K-A-Y-R-K-L-A (SEQ ID NO:48),
                      I-R-K-A-Y-R-K-L-S-L-T-L (SEQ ID NO:83),
                      I-K-K-Q-Y-R-L-L-S-L-K-Y (SEQ ID NO:84),
                      I-K-K-A-F-H-K-L-A-M-K-Y (SEQ ID NO:85),
                      I-R-Q-A-F-K-K-L-A-L-K-L (SEQ ID NO:86),
                      I-I-K-A-Y-R-K-L-A-L-Q-W (SEQ ID NO:87),
                      I-A-R-A-Y-R-Q-L-A-R-R-Y (SEQ ID NO:88),
                      I-K-R-A-Y-R-R-Q-A-L-R-Y (SEQ ID NO:89),
                      I-K-K-S-Y-R-K-L-A-L-K-Y (SEQ ID NO:90), and
                      I-K-K-A-Y-K-R-L-A-M-K-Y (SEQ ID NO:91).
 5          In another embodiment, a protein expression enhancing polypeptide is a J domain analog
   polypeptide having the amino acid sequence of formula I, supra. In particular embodiments, a protein
   enhancing polypeptide of the invention comprises a polypeptide having the sequence: X1-X2-X3-X4
   X5-X6-X7-X8-X9 (SEQ ID NO:47), wherein:
            X1 is I, L, V, A, or M;
10          the dipeptide X2-X3 is selected from the group consisting of: KR, KK, RK, RR, AK, AR,
   KA, IK, NK, KQ, RQ, and RD;
            X4 is A, S, T, R, S, Q, E, F, C, or I;
            X5 is Y or F;
            the dipeptide X6-X7 is selected from the group consisting of: KR, KK, RK, RR, RQ, FR, RL,
15 KL, HK, LK, QK, and KV; and
            the dipeptide X8-X9 is selected from the group consisting of: LA, LL, AL, AA, LC, LV, QA,
   KA, LS, LI, LY, and RA.
            In particular embodiments, a J domain analog polypeptide of the invention comprises one of
   the following amino acid sequences:
                Sequence Identifier      Amino Acid Sequence
                                         123456789012345
               SEQ ID NO:48              IKKAYRKLA
               SEQ   ID NO:49            IKKAYKLALQ
               SEQ   ID NO:50            IKKAYRLALQ
               SEQ   ID NO:51            IKKAYRKALQ
               SEQ   ID NO:52            IKKAYRKLLQ
               SEQ   ID NO:53            IKKYRKLA
                                                      5

                Sequence Identifier     Amino Acid Sequence
                                        123456789012345
               SEQ ID NO:54             IKKAYKLA
               SEQ ID NO:55             IKKAYRLA
               SEQ ID NO:56             IKKAYRKA
               SEQ   ID NO:57           LKKAYRKLA
               SEQ   ID NO:58          VKKAYRKLA
               SEQ   ID NO:59          MKKAYRKLA
               SEQ   ID NO:60          AKKAYRKLA
               SEQ   ID NO:61           IAKAYRKLA
               SEQ   ID NO:62           IKAAYRKLA
               SEQ   ID NO:63           IKKRYRKLA
               SEQ   ID NO:64           IKKSYRKLA
               SEQ ID NO:65             IKKQYRKLA
               SEQ   ID NO:66           IKKEYRKLA
               SEQ   ID NO:67           IKKFYRKLA
               SEQ   ID NO:68           IKKCYRKLA
               SEQ   ID NO:69           IKKAFRKLA
               SEQ   ID NO:70           IKKAWRKLA
               SEQ ID NO:71             IKKAYRKQA
               SEQ   ID NO:72           IKKAYRKMA
               SEQ   ID NO:73           IKKAYRKIA
               SEQ   ID NO:74           IKKAYRKAA
               SEQ   ID NO:75           IKKAYRKVA
               SEQ   ID NO:76           IKKAYRKRA
               SEQ   ID NO:77           IKKAYRKLM
               SEQ   ID NO:78           IKKAYRKLI
               SEQ   ID NO:79           IKKAYRKLV
               SEQ   ID NO:80           IKKAYRKLC
               SEQ   ID NO:81           IKKAYRKLS
               SEQ   ID NO:82           IKKAYRKLY
               SEQ   ID NO:83           IRKAYRKLSLTL
               SEQ   ID NO:84           IKKQYRLLSLKY
               SEQ   ID NO:85           IKKAFHKLAMKY
               SEQ   ID NO:86           IRQAFKKLALKL
               SEQ   ID NO:87           IIKAYRKLALQW
               SEQ   ID NO:88           IARAYRQLARRY
               SEQ   ID NO:89           IKRAYRRQALRY
               SEQ   ID NO:90           IKKSYRKLALKY
               SEQ   ID NO:91           IKKAYKRLAMKY
            In a further embodiment, the invention provides a fusion protein comprising a protein
  expression enhancing polypeptide fused to a target protein of interest, wherein the protein expression
  enhancing polypeptide fusion partner is a J domain of a J protein, a J domain fragment having the
5 ability to enhance expression of the protein of interest fusion partner, or a J domain analog
  polypeptide having the amino acid sequence of formula I (SEQ ID NO:47) as described above.
  Expression of this fusion protein leads to increased expression of the fused target protein of interest,
  as compared with expression of the target protein of interest without the use of the protein expression
                                                       6

   enhancing polypeptide fusion partner. Removal of the protein expression enhancing polypeptide
   portion of the fusion protein by standard methods results in increased recovery of the target protein of
   interest.
             A fusion protein of the invention comprising a protein expression enhancing polypeptide
   described herein linked to a target protein of interest may be used in a method to restore a protein
   function in cells of a mammalian subject that are deficient in the secretion of a native secreted protein
   that provides the protein function comprising the steps of inserting into cells of the mammalian
   subject (such as a human, non-human primate, rodent, or livestock) an exogenous nucleic acid
   molecule encoding a fusion protein comprising a protein expression enhancing polypeptide as
   described above linked to the secreted protein, wherein expression of the fusion protein provides the
   function of the native secreted protein whose secretion is deficient in cells of the subject in the
   absence of the exogenous nucleic acid.
             In a preferred embodiment, the above method for restoring a protein function in cells of a
   mammalian subject is used to treat a subject that has a disease associated with the deficient secretion
   of a native secreted protein in the subject. Such diseases include, but are not limited to, prion
   associated disease, Alzheimer's disease, Parkinson's disease, Huntington's disease, cystic fibrosis
   (CF), and al-antitrypsin deficiency. In a particularly preferred embodiment, a method for restoring a
   protein function is used to treat a human subject deficient in the secretion of cystic fibrosis
   transmembrane conductance regulator protein (CFTR) and the disease is cystic fibrosis. In this
   embodiment, an exogenous nucleic acid molecule that is inserted into cells of the human subject
   encodes a fusion protein comprising a protein expression enhancing polypeptide described above
   linked to CFTR. Expression of the fusion protein in the cells of the human subject restores the
   deficiency of CFTR function.
             In a further embodiment, the invention provides a fusion protein comprising a protein
 5 expression enhancing polypeptide linked to a target protein binding domain, wherein the protein
   expression enhancing polypeptide element is a J domain of a J protein, a J domain fragment having
   the ability to enhance expression of the protein of interest fusion partner, or a J domain analog
   polypeptide having the amino acid sequence of formula I (SEQ ID NO:47) as described above, and
   the target protein binding domain is a polypeptide capable of binding to a target protein of interest
10 when the fusion protein and the target protein of interest are co-expressed in the same host cell. A
   fusion protein that binds a target protein of interest enhances the level of expression of the target
   protein and/or enhances the level of the target protein at its proper cellular or extracellular location.
   Accordingly, fusion proteins described herein may be used to enhance the level of expression of a
   target protein of interest that is not expressed in adequate amounts or at the proper cellular or
15 extracellular location for a given purpose. Such situations in which a fusion protein described herein
   is useful include, without limitation, failure to express desired quantities of an endogenous or
                                                         7

   heterologous (recombinant) protein of interest in cell culture and failure to express sufficient levels of
   a protein in vivo where inadequate expression of one or more functional proteins leads to a
   pathological state (such as, without limitation, a prion-associated disease (a transmissible spongiform
   encephalopathy); Alzheimer's disease; Parkinson's disease; Huntington's disease; cystic fibrosis; al
 5 antitrypsin deficiency).
             A protein that is targeted by a fusion protein of the invention for an enhanced level of
   expression and/or enhanced expression at a desired cellular or extracellular location may be a soluble
   protein, a membrane-associated protein, or a secreted protein.
             A target protein binding domain of a fusion protein of the invention is a polypeptide that
10 binds a target protein. Preferably, the target binding domain has a binding affinity for a target protein
   that is sufficiently specific as to exclude other proteins from interfering with the enhancement in the
   level of expression of the target protein. Examples of polypeptides that may be used as a target
   binding domain of the invention include, but are not limited to, an antibody or antigen binding portion
   thereof that binds a target protein, an immunoglobulin-specific binding protein (such as Protein A,
15 Protein L, and Protein G) that binds a target immunoglobulin or fragment thereof, an Fc binding
   protein (such as Protein A and Protein G) that binds an Fc domain of a target protein, an Fc binding
   peptide that binds an Fc domain of a target protein, a ligand binding domain of a receptor protein that
   binds the target protein of interest, a protein ligand of the target protein (such as a protein ligand of a
   receptor), a PDZ domain of a PDZ protein that binds a PDZ binding domain of a target protein, and
20 the like.
             In an embodiment of the invention, when the target protein is a cytokine, the target binding
   domain of a fusion protein of the invention may comprise a ligand binding domain of a cytokine
   receptor protein that binds the target cytokine protein.
             In another embodiment, when the target protein is a receptor protein or ligand binding portion
25 thereof, then the target binding domain of a fusion protein of the invention may comprise a protein
   ligand which is bound by the receptor or the ligand binding portion thereof. In a preferred
   embodiment, when the target protein is a cytokine receptor protein or cytokine binding portion
   thereof, the target binding domain comprises the cytokine that is bound by the cytokine receptor or
   cytokine binding portion of such receptor.
30           In an embodiment wherein the target protein, such as the cystic fibrosis transmembrane
   conductance regulator (CFTR) protein, possesses a PDZ-binding domain, then the target binding
   domain of a fusion protein of the invention may comprise a PDZ domain from any of a variety of
   proteins that possess a PDZ domain. In a preferred embodiment, when a target protein possesses a
   PDZ-binding domain, a target binding domain of a fusion protein of the invention comprises a PDZ
35 domain from any of the members of the NHERF family of PDZ adapter proteins including, but not
                                                          8

   limited to, of NHERF1 (also known as NHERF, EBP50, or SLC9A3R1), NHERF2 (also known as
   E3KARP or SLC9A3R2), and PDZK1 (also known as CAP70 or NHERF3).
            Particular embodiments of a target protein-binding fusion protein of the invention comprise a
   J domain of a J protein, or an active (expression enhancing) fragment thereof, or a protein expression
 5 enhancing polypeptide of formula I, fused to a target protein binding domain with or without a linker
   peptide. When a linker peptide is present in a target protein-binding fusion protein of the invention,
   the linker may be one or more amino acids, including 1 to 10 amino acids, 1 to 20 amino acids, and
   even 1 to 50 amino acids. Typically, a linker will not be more than 20 amino acids and will be
   selected or designed so that linker does not interfere with (and hopefully enhances) the function of
10 either the target protein binding domain or the protein expression enhancement polypeptide. The
   linker, if present, preferably is selected to optimize the contribution of both elements of the fusion
   protein and thereby increase the level of expression and/or proper location of a target protein of
   interest. The linker may be omitted if direct attachment of a protein expression enhancement
   polypeptide to a target protein binding domain does not unacceptably diminish the function of either
15 element or does not unacceptably diminish the desired enhancement in the level of expression and/or
   location of the target protein.
            A linker useful in a fusion protein of the invention may include an enzymatically cleavable
   peptide, i.e., a cleavage site for an enzyme such as an enterokinase, the light chain of enterokinase,
   thrombin, urokinase, tobacco etch virus protease (TEV), tissue plasminogen activator, a zinc
20 dependent endopeptidase, a matrix metalloproteinase (MMP), a serralysin, an astacin, an adamalysin,
   a disintegrin, an ADAM, a caspase, a cathespsin, a calpain, and the like. Use of a cleavable linker in a
   fusion protein described herein may be advantageous to halt or slow the function of the fusion protein
   or to eliminate its presence in a cell or presence in a population of target protein molecules. Some
   cells possess one or more intracellular proteases that can cleave polypeptide linker molecules that
25 contain a corresponding proteolytic recognition site. Accordingly, a cleavable linker used in a fusion
   protein of the invention may be selected that permits an intracellular protease to cleave the fusion
   protein after expression in the cell.
            A fusion protein of the invention may further comprise an epitope tag to assist in detecting or
   isolating the fusion protein. An epitope tag useful in the invention includes, but is not limited to, a
30 polyhistidine tag (such as hexaHis), a V5 epitope tag, a Myc epitope tag, a Flag epitope tag, and an
   HA (human influenza hemagglutinin) epitope tag.
            Fusion proteins of the present invention are demonstrated to enhance the level of expression
   of target proteins compared to the level of expression of the target proteins alone, i.e., in the absence
   of a fusion protein. The level of expression of a target protein of interest can be increased at least
35 about 1.5-fold and up to 2-fold, 4-fold, 6-fold, 8-fold, 10-fold, 25-fold or more by following the
                                                         9

   methods described herein. Moreover, fusion proteins of the invention also enhance the level of target
   proteins at their proper cellular or extracellular locations.
            In another embodiment, the invention provides compositions comprising a fusion protein
   useful for providing the fusion protein to an individual to enhance expression of a target protein.
 5 Compositions of the invention also include pharmaceutical compositions comprising a fusion protein
   and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier for use in treating a disease or disorder in an individual,
   including in a human individual. Pharmaceutical compositions comprising a fusion protein as
   described herein may further comprise one or more other therapeutically active compounds.
   Examples of such additional therapeutically active compounds that may be incorporated into a
10 pharmaceutical composition of the invention include, but are not limited to, an antibiotic, an anti-viral
   compound, an anti-cancer compound, a sedative, a stimulant, a local anesthetic, a corticosteroid, an
   analgesic, an anti-histamine, a non-steroid anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID), and appropriate
   combinations thereof.
            The invention also provides methods of treating a human or animal subject for a disease state
15 characterized by a loss or diminution of a function or property that can be provided by a target protein
   of interest whose expression is enhanced by one of the types of fusion proteins described herein.
   Such methods may include administering a fusion protein as described herein to a patient in need of
   treatment.
            The invention also provides isolated nucleic acids encoding a protein expression enhancing
20 polypeptide selected from the group consisting of an isolated J domain of a J protein, an isolated J
   domain fragment having the ability to enhance expression of a target protein of interest, or an isolated
   J domain analog polypeptide having the amino acid sequence of formula I (SEQ ID NO:47) as
   described above.
            The invention also provides nucleic acid vectors comprising an isolated nucleic acid described
25 above.
            In another embodiment, the invention comprises a host cell comprising an isolated nucleic
   acid or a nucleic acid vector described above.
            The invention provides isolated nucleic acid molecules encoding a fusion protein described
   herein. Also provided are recombinant vector molecules into which has been inserted an isolated
30 nucleic acid molecule encoding a fusion protein of the invention. Such recombinant vector molecules
   include cloning vectors to replicate the inserted nucleic acid in a transfected host cell and also
   expression vectors for expressing the encoded fusion protein in a compatible transfected host cell.
   Any of a variety of expression vectors available in the art may be used to produce a fusion protein of
   the invention. Examples of expression vectors useful for expressing a fusion of the invention include,
35 but are not limited to, plasmid pcDNA, pcDNA3.3 TOPO (Life Technologies, New York), plasmid
   pTT3, plasmid pEF-BOS, and the like.
                                                         10

            The invention also provides expression vector molecules into which has been inserted an
   isolated nucleic acid encoding an isolated J domain, an active J domain fragment, or a J domain
   analog of formula I, for use in expressing a fusion protein of the invention in vitro in a compatible
   host cell.
 5          Expression vectors of the invention also include gene therapy vectors for expressing a fusion
   protein of the invention in vivo in a gene therapy to restore a lost or deficient target protein function in
   a plant or animal (including mammals, such as humans, non-human primates, rodents, and livestock).
            In another aspect, the invention provides a host cell comprising an expression vector for
   expressing a protein expression enhancing polypeptide described here or a fusion protein described
10 herein. Host cells useful in the invention include, without limitation, eukaryotic host cells. Preferred
   eukaryotic host cells include, without limitation, a mammalian host cell, an insect host cell, a plant
   host cell, a fungal host cell, a eukaryotic algal host cell, a nematode host cell, a protozoan host cell,
   and a fish host cell. Preferably, a mammalian host cell is a Chinese Hamster Ovary (CHO) cell, a
   COS cell, a Vero cell, an SP2/0 cell, an NS/0 myeloma cell, a human embryonic kidney (HEK293)
15 cell, a baby hamster kidney (BHK) cell, a HeLa cell, a human B cell, a CV-1/EBNA cell, an L cell, a
   3T3 cell, an HEPG2 cell, a PerC6 cell, or an MDCK cell. Preferred fungal host cells include
   Aspergillus, Neurospora,Saccharomyces, Pichia,Hansenula, Schizosaccharomyces,Kluyveromyces,
   Yarrowia, and Candida. More preferably, a Saccharomyceshost cell is a Saccharomyces cerevisiae
   cell.
20          The invention provides a method of expressing a fusion protein comprising a J domain of a J
   protein, a protein expression enhancing fragment thereof, or a J domain analog of formula I linked to
   a target protein of interest comprising culturing a host cell comprising a vector molecule comprising
   an isolated nucleic acid molecule encoding the fusion protein under conditions sufficient to produce
   the fusion protein.
25          In another embodiment, the invention provides a method of expressing a fusion protein
   comprising a J domain of a J protein, a protein expression enhancing fragment thereof, or a J domain
   analog of formula I as described above linked to a target protein of interest comprising transfecting a
   host cell with an expression vector comprising a structural gene encoding the fusion protein and
   culturing the transfected host cell under conditions causing the expression of the fusion protein.
            The invention also provides a method of expressing a fusion protein comprising a protein
   expression enhancing polypeptide described herein linked to a target protein of interest comprising the
   steps of:
                     1) constructing a recombinant gene sequence encoding the fusion protein;
                     2) inserting the recombinant gene sequence into an expression vector to form a
                     recombinant expression vector wherein said recombinant gene sequence is operably
                     linked to a transcriptional promoter sequence;
                                                         11

                     3) transfecting said recombinant expression vector into host cells that are compatible
                     with said promoter sequence; and
                     4) culturing said transfected host cells under conditions that permit expression said
                     fusion protein.
            The invention also provides a method of expressing a fusion protein comprising an isolated
   expression enhancing polypeptide described herein linked to a target protein binding domain
   comprising culturing a host cell comprising a vector comprising an isolated nucleic acid encoding the
   fusion protein under conditions sufficient to produce the fusion protein.
            In another embodiment, the invention provides a method of enhancing the expression of a
   target protein of interest expressed by a host cell comprising transfecting the host cell with an
   expression vector comprising a structural gene encoding a fusion protein comprising an isolated J
   domain of a J protein, an isolated J domain fragment having the ability to enhance expression of a
 5 target protein of interest, or an isolated J domain analog polypeptide having the amino acid sequence
   of formula I (SEQ ID NO:47) as described above linked to the target protein binding domain, and
   culturing said transfected host cell under conditions causing the co-expression of said fusion protein
   encoded by said structural gene and of said target protein of interest.
            The invention provides a method of enhancing the expression of a target protein of interest
10 comprising (a) transfecting a host cell with an expression vector comprising a structural gene
   encoding a fusion protein, wherein the fusion protein comprises a J domain of a J protein, an active
   fragment thereof, or a J domain analog of formula I linked to a target protein binding domain and
   wherein the fusion protein binds the target protein of interest, and (b) culturing said transfected host
   cell under conditions causing the expression of the fusion protein encoded on the structural gene.
15 Said structural gene may also include optional segments encoding a linker peptide connecting the J
   domain/J domain fragment/J domain analog element and the target protein binding domain element,
   and may also include segments encoding epitope tags, enzyme cleavage sites, and the like. The
   method may advantageously be carried out by following the steps:
            1) constructing a recombinant gene sequence encoding a fusion protein comprising a protein
20          expression enhancing polypeptide linked to a target binding domain;
            2) inserting the recombinant gene sequence into an expression vector to form a recombinant
            expression vector wherein said recombinant gene sequence is operably linked to a
            transcriptional promoter sequence;
            3) transfecting suitable host cells that are compatible with said promoter sequence with said
25          recombinant expression vector; and
            4) culturing said transfected host cells under conditions that lead to expression of said fusion
            protein.
                                                         12

            In an embodiment of the invention, a nucleic acid encoding a fusion protein of the invention
   is inserted into the cells of a plant or non-human animal to express the fusion protein and enhance the
   level of expression of a target protein to provide a missing or desired function to the plant or non
   human animal. Such methods include producing transgenic plants and transgenic non-human animals
 5 in which a nucleic acid encoding a fusion protein is permanently incorporated into the genome as a
   functional gene (transgene) such that the plant or non-human animal not only expresses the fusion
   protein, but also passes a copy of the expressible transgene on to progeny.
            In another embodiment, the invention provides a method of restoring a function provided by a
   target protein in cells of a subject that are deficient in the expression of the target protein comprising
   inserting into cells of the subject an exogenous nucleic acid molecule encoding a fusion protein
   according to the invention, wherein after inserting the exogenous nucleic acid molecule into the cells,
   the fusion protein is expressed and enhances the level expression of the target protein (which
   enhancement may be the result of stabilizing the endogenous target protein, increasing the amount of
   properly folded target protein, improving the localization of the target protein to the desired cellular or
   extracellular compartment (e.g., improving secretion of a secreted protein), etc.), to provide the
   function of the target protein whose expression is deficient in the cells of the subject in the absence of
   the exogenous nucleic acid. Such a method is particularly useful in treating a subject that has a
   disease associated with the deficient expression of a protein in the subject. Such diseases include, but
   are not limited to, a prion-associated disease (a transmissible spongiform encephalopathy),
   Alzheimer's disease, Parkinson's disease, Huntington's disease, cystic fibrosis, and al-antitrypsin
   (AAT) deficiency. Particularly preferred, are embodiments of the method wherein the subject is a
   human subject that is deficient in the expression of cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance
   regulator (CFTR) protein and the disease is cystic fibrosis or wherein the subject is a human subject
   that is deficient in al-antitrypsin and the disease is al-antitrypsin (AAT) deficiency.
   Brief Description of the Drawings
            Figure 1 illustrates a series of experiments described in Example 2 that demonstrate
10 improvement in the level of expression of a target protein of interest (the IL13Ra2 receptor protein) in
   a modified arrangement in which the target protein is linked to a J domain (from Hsp40, SV40, or
   CSP J proteins) in comparison to the protein alone (IL13Ra2WT) or expressed as a fusion protein
   with a BAG domain (from BAG3, BAG4, BAG5, or BAG6 proteins). Figure 1A depicts diagrams of
   the structural genes for insertion into an expression vector plasmid used to transfect host cells. A
15 cDNA encoding an IL13Ra2 protein (wild-type protein, "WT") was augmented with a segment
   encoding a V5 epitope tag at the 3' end for the "IL13Ra2WT" expression product. For BAG domain
   fusion proteins, a cDNA encoding IL13Ra2 was linked in frame to a segment encoding a BAG
   domain, which was linked in turn to a segment encoding a V5 epitope tag to provide BAG domain
   fusion protein expression products. For J domain fusion proteins of the invention, a cDNA encoding
                                                          13

   IL13Ra2 was linked in frame to a segment encoding a J domain, which was linked in turn to a
   segment encoding a V5 epitope tag to provide J domain fusion protein expression products. Figure
   1B shows x-ray film images of chemiluminescent signals of a Western blot (immunoblot) analysis of
   cell lysates indicating relative levels of expression of the tagged IL13Ra2 wild-type (WT) protein or
 5 fusion protein counterparts in transfected cells. It can be seen that employing a J domain of J proteins
   Hsp40, SV40, or CSP as a fusion partner for the IL1 3Ra2 protein of interest resulted in significantly
   greater protein expression compared to the wild-type IL13Ra2 protein (WT) or any of the BAG
   domain fusion counterparts comprising a BAG domain of BAG proteins BAG3, BAG4, BAG5, or
   BAG6. All transfectants were co-transfected with a reporter plasmid expressing green fluorescent
10 protein (GFP) to show successful transfection and operability of the transfectants. See, lower panel of
   Figure 1B. Figure 1C provides the results of a densitometry analysis of the chemiluminescent signals
   in the immunoblot of Figure 1B using the NIH ImageJ image processing program. The bar graphs in
   Figure 1C clearly show a significantly higher level of expression of all three secreted IL1 3Ra2-J
   domain fusion proteins compared to that for any of the four IL13Ra2-BAG domain fusion proteins or
15 the wild-type IL13Ra2 protein (IL13a2WT expression = 100%).
            Figure 2 shows the results of an experiment described in Example 2 that examined
   improvement in the level of expression of a secreted target protein of interest in a modified
   arrangement in which a truncated form ("TF") of the IL13Ra2 receptor protein (which is the
   extracellular portion of the IL13Ra2 receptor protein containing the ligand binding domain) is linked
20 to a J domain (J-IL13Ra2TF) in comparison to the truncated receptor protein alone (IL13Ra2TF).
   Figure 2A depicts diagrams of the structural gene constructs for insertion into an expression vector
   plasmid used to transfect host cells. A cDNA encoding IL13Ra2TF was augmented with a segment
   encoding a V5 epitope tag at the 3' end for the IL13Ra2TF expression product. A cDNA encoding
   IL13Ra2TF was augmented at the 3' end with a segment encoding a V5 epitope tag and linked at the
25 5' end with a segment encoding a J domain (from J protein Erdj3) for a J domain fusion protein
   expression product of the invention (J-IL13Ra2TF). Figure 2B shows x-ray film images of
   chemiluminescent signals in a Western blot indicating relative levels of expression in cells (cell
   lysates) and secreted into culture medium (medium) of the V5 -tagged IL1 3Ra2TF protein and J
   domain fusion protein counterpart. It can be seen that employing a J domain as a fusion partner for
30 the IL13Ra2TF protein of interest resulted in significantly greater level of protein expression
   compared to IL13Ra2TF protein without a J domain. All transfectants were co-transfected with a
   reporter plasmid expressing green fluorescent protein (GFP) to show successful transfection and
   operability of the transfectants. See, lower panel of Figure 2B. Mock cultures contained cells
   transfected with an "empty" vector, i.e., an expression vector lacking a structural gene for expressing
35 any protein.
                                                        14

            Figure 3 shows results of an experiment an experiment described in Example 2 comparing
   relative levels of expression of protein secreted into the culture medium of host cells transfected with
   an expression vector for expressing a truncated receptor protein (IL1 3Ra2TF), a BAG domain
   IL13Ra2TF fusion protein (BAG-IL13Ra2TF), and a J domain-IL13Ra2TF fusion protein (J
 5 IL13Ra2TF). Figure 3A shows x-ray film images of chemiluminescent signals of a dot blot analysis
   of IL13Ra2TF, BAG domain-IL13Ra2TF fusion protein, and J domain-IL13Ra2TF fusion protein
   secreted into culture medium of transfected cells. All proteins carried a V5 epitope tag for
   immunodetection with anti-V5 antibody. Figure 3B provides the results of a densitometry analysis of
   the chemiluminescent signals in Figure 3A using the NIH ImageJ image processing program. The bar
10 graphs in Figure 3B clearly show the significantly higher level of expression of secreted J domain
   IL13Ra2TF fusion protein (bar graph 4) compared to either the IL13Ra2TF (bar graph 2) or the BAG
   domain- IL13Ra2TF fusion protein (bar graph 3). Mock cultures (bar graph 1) contained cells
   transfected with expression vector lacking a structural gene for expressing any protein.
            Figure 4 shows results of an experiment described in Example 2 to examine improvement in
15 the level of expression of a secreted al anti-trypsin (alAT) in a modified arrangement in which alAT
   is linked to (fused with) a J domain fusion partner in comparison to the protein alone or expressed as a
   fusion with a BAG domain. Figure 4A depicts diagrams of the structural gene constructs for insertion
   into an expression vector plasmid used to transfect host cells. A cDNA encoding alAT was
   augmented with a segment encoding a V5 epitope tag at the 3' end for the alAT expression product.
20 A cDNA encoding alAT was linked in frame to a segment encoding a BAG domain, which was
   linked in turn to a segment encoding a V5 epitope tag for a BAG domain fusion protein (a1AT-BAG)
   expression product. A cDNA encoding alAT was linked in frame to a segment encoding a J domain,
   which was linked in turn to a segment encoding a V5 epitope tag for a J domain fusion protein
   (alAT-J) expression product of the invention. Figure 4B shows x-ray film images of
25 chemiluminescent signals of a dot blot analysis indicating relative levels of expression of secreted
   alAT protein or secreted fusion protein counterparts secreted into culture media. It can be seen that
   employing a J domain as a fusion partner for the alAT protein of interest (alAT-J) resulted in
   significantly greater expression of the secreted protein (alAT-J) compared to the alAT protein alone
   or BAG domain fusion counterpart (a1AT-BAG). Mock cultures contained cells transfected with
30 expression vector lacking a structural gene for expressing any protein. Figure 4C provides the results
   of a densitometry analysis of the chemiluminescent signals in Figure 4B using the NIH ImageJ image
   processing program. The bar graphs in Figure 4C clearly show the significantly higher level of
   expression of secreted alAT-J fusion protein (bar graph 4) compared to either the (unfused) alAT
   (bar graph 2) or the BAG domain-a1AT fusion protein (bar graph 3).
35          Figure 5 shows results of an experiment described in Example 2 that demonstrate
   improvement in the level of expression of a secreted truncated form of a TNF-a receptors protein
                                                        15

   (TNFR1TF) in a modified arrangement in which TNFR1TF is linked to a J domain fusion partner in
   comparison to the protein alone (TNFR1TF). Figure 5A depicts diagrams of the structural gene
   constructs for insertion into an expression vector plasmid used to transfect host cells. A cDNA
   encoding TNFR1TF was augmented with a segment encoding a V5 epitope tag at the 3' end for the
 5 TNFR1TF expression product. A cDNA encoding TNFR1TF was linked in frame to a segment
   encoding a J domain, which was linked in turn to a segment encoding a V5 epitope tag to provide a J
   domain fusion protein expression product of the invention. Figure 5B shows x-ray film images of
   chemiluminescent signals of dot blots indicating relative levels of TNFR1TF and TNFR1TF-J domain
   fusion protein secreted into culture media. It can be seen that employing a J domain as a fusion
10 partner for the TNFR1TF protein of interest (TNFR1TF-J) resulted in significantly greater expression
   of the secreted protein than for the (unfused) TNFR1TF protein. Figure 5C provides the results of a
   densitometry analysis of the chemiluminescent signals in the dot blots of Figure 5B using the NIH
   ImageJ image processing program. The bar graphs in Figure 5C clearly show the significantly higher
   level of expression of secreted TNFR1TF-J domain fusion protein (bar graph 3) compared to
15 TNFR1TF (bar graph 2). Mock cultures contained cells transfected with expression vector lacking a
   structural gene for expressing any protein.
            Figure 6 shows results of a series of experiments described in Example 2 that demonstrate
   improvement in the level of expression of target Fc fusion proteins of interest in a modified
   arrangement in which each of three target proteins of interest is linked to a J domain fusion partner.
20 Figure 6A depicts diagrams of structural gene constructs used in this example. For the Fc fusion
   proteins, a cDNA encoding each protein of interest (TNFR1TF, IL13Ra2TF, or alAT) was
   augmented with a segment encoding a V5 epitope tag at the 3' end, which was linked in turn to a
   segment ("Fc") encoding constant domains of an immunoglobulin Fc region. For J domain fusions, a
   cDNA encoding a J domain was linked in frame between the cDNA encoding each protein of interest
25 and the segment encoding a V5 epitope tag. See, Figure 6A. Figure 6B shows dot blot analysis for
   secreted proteins in media from cultures of transfected cells. Each of the Fc fusion proteins (TNFR1
   V5-Fc, IL13Ra2TF-Fc, and alAT-Fc) were expressed in culture media as shown in the dot blots in
   the middle lane of each panel in Figure 6B. This level of expression of the Fc fusion proteins was
   greater than that for each of the proteins of interest alone (i.e., without fusion to an Fc domain; data
30 not shown). Significantly higher levels of expression were obtained in each case when a J domain
   was linked to the protein of interest segment within the Fc fusion proteins as shown in the dot blots in
   the right lane of each panel in Figure 6B. The results of a densitometry analysis of the
   chemiluminescent signals of the dot blots in Figure 6B are shown in the corresponding panels of
   Figure 6C, where the significantly higher level of expression of the J domain fusion proteins is clearly
35 evident by comparing bar graph 2 (protein of interest-Fc fusion proteins) with bar graph 3 (protein of
                                                        16

   interest-J domain-Fc fusion proteins) in each of the panels of Figure 6C. Mock cultures contained
   cells transfected with expression vector lacking a structural gene for expressing any protein.
            Figure 7 shows results of an experiment described in Example 2 that demonstrates
   improvement in the level of expression of the cytoplasmic p53 protein in a modified arrangement in
 5 which p53 is linked to (fused with) a J domain fusion partner in comparison to the p53 protein alone.
   Figure 7A depicts diagrams of the constructs used in this experiment. A cDNA encoding p53 was
   augmented at its 5' end with a segment encoding a V5 epitope tag for the p53 expression product. A
   cDNA encoding p53 was linked in frame at its 5' end to a segment encoding a J domain of an SV40 J
   protein, which was in turn linked at its 5' end to a segment encoding a V5 epitope tag for a J domain
10 fusion protein (J-p53) expression product of the invention. Figure 7B shows x-ray film images of
   chemiluminescent signals of a Western blot of cell lysates indicating relative levels of expression in
   cells of the tagged p53 protein and the J domain fusion protein counterpart (J-p53). It can be seen that
   employing a J domain as a fusion partner for the p53 protein of interest (J-p53) resulted in a
   significantly greater level of expression in transfected cells compared to the level of expression in
15 transfected cells of the p53 protein without a J domain (p53). Mock cultures contained cells
   transfected with expression vector lacking a structural gene for expressing any protein.
            Figure 8 shows results of a series of experiments described in Example 2 that demonstrate
   improvement in the levels of expression of two target proteins of interest, i.e., a wild-type CFTR
   protein and the corresponding CFTR A508F mutant protein (deletion at position 508 of a
20 phenylalanine residue results in defective folding and rapid degradation of the CFTR A508F mutant
   protein), in a modified arrangement in which each of the proteins is linked to (fused with) a J domain
   fusion partner in comparison to each of the proteins alone or each of the proteins expressed as a fusion
   with a BAG domain. Figure 8A depicts diagrams of constructs for insertion into an expression vector
   plasmid used to transfect host cells. A cDNA encoding each protein of interest, i.e., the wild-type
25 CFTR protein (CFTR WT) or the CFTR A508F mutant protein (A508F), was augmented at the 5' end
   with a segment encoding a V5 epitope tag. For BAG domain fusions, a cDNA encoding a BAG
   domain was linked in frame between the cDNA encoding each protein of interest and the 5' segment
   encoding a V5 epitope tag. For J domain fusion protein expression products of the invention, a cDNA
   encoding an SV40 J domain was linked in frame between the cDNA encoding each protein of interest
30 and a 5' segment encoding a V5 epitope tag for the J domain. See, Figure 8A. Figure 8B shows x-ray
   film images of chemiluminescent signals of a Western blot analysis of cell lysates indicating relative
   levels of expression in cells of the tagged proteins of interest (CFTR WT and CFTR A508F), BAG
   domain fusion proteins (BAG-CFTR WT and BAG-CFTR A508F), and J domain fusion proteins (J
   CFTR WT and J-CFTR A508F). It can be seen that employing a J domain as a fusion partner for both
35 CFTR WT and CFTR A508F proteins resulted in a significantly greater level of expression in
   transfected cells as compared to the levels of expression of (unfused) CFTR WT and mutant CFTR
                                                        17

   A508F proteins or of the BAG domain fusion counterparts. All transfectants were co-transfected with
   a reporter plasmid expressing green fluorescent protein (GFP) to show successful transfection and
   operability of the transfectants (lower panel of Figure 8B).
            Figure 9 depicts a diagram of a general scheme of an unmodified arrangement for enhancing
 5 expression of a target protein on interest in which co-expression of a fusion protein of the invention
   enhances expression of a target protein of interest as described in Example 4. In the scheme, a fusion
   protein of the invention comprises a protein expression enhancing polypeptide (PEEP) domain linked
   to a target protein binding domain, wherein the target protein binding domain binds a target protein of
   interest thereby bringing the target protein into close proximity with the PEEP domain, which in turn
10 results in an elevation of the level of expression of the target protein in its proper cellular or
   extracellular location.
            Figure 9B is a diagram of a structural gene encoding an IL13Ra2TF fusion protein (target
   protein) for insertion into an expression vector plasmid, which was used to transfect host cells as
   described in Example 4, below. A cDNA encoding a truncated form of the IL13Ra2 receptor protein
15 (IL13Ra2TF), which comprises the extracellular IL13 ligand binding domain of IL13Ra2, was
   augmented with a segment encoding a V5 epitope tag at the 3' end.
            Figure 9C depicts a construct for expressing a fusion protein of the invention to enhance
   expression of the V5-tagged IL13Ra2TF target protein depicted in Figure 9B and as described in
   Example 4. A cDNA encoding a J domain of an Erdj3 J protein (protein expression enhancing
20 polypeptide domain) was linked to a segment encoding the IL13 protein (target protein binding
   domain). A segment encoding a Flag epitope tag was linked to the 3' end of the segment encoding the
   IL13 target protein binding domain.
            Figure 10 shows x-ray film images of chemiluminescent signals of a Western blot analysis of
   culture medium (upper panel) and cell lysates (middle panel) of transfected cells expressing a
25 truncated form of the IL13Ra2 receptor protein (IL13Ra2TF) when expressed alone (lane 2 from the
   left), when co-expressed with its IL13 ligand (IL13 Only, lane 3 from the left), and when co
   expressed in an unmodified arrangement with a J domain-IL1 3 fusion protein of the invention (J
   IL13, lane 4 from the left), as described in Example 4. A properly folded IL13Ra2TF protein (target
   protein) is expected to be secreted from the transfected host cells. It can be seen that co-expression of
30 the IL13Ra2TF protein with the J domain-IL13 fusion protein significantly enhanced the level of
   expression of secreted IL13Ra2TF protein (top panel, lane 4 from the left) as compared to expression
   of IL13Ra2TF protein alone (top panel, lane 2 from the left) or co-expression of IL13Ra2TF protein
   with its IL13 ligand (top panel, lane 3 from the left). Moreover, co-expression of the IL13Ra2TF
   protein with the J domain-IL13 fusion protein significantly enhanced the level of expression of
35 intracellular IL1 3Ra2TF protein (middle panel, lane 4 from the left) as compared to the level
   expression of IL13Ra2TF protein alone (middle panel, lane 2 from the left) or co-expression of
                                                        18

   IL13Ra2TF protein with its IL13 ligand (middle panel, lane 3 from the left). All transfectants were
   co-transfected with a reporter plasmid expressing green fluorescent protein (GFP) to show successful
   transfection and operability of the transfectants. See, lower panel of Figure 10. Mock cultures
   contained cells transfected with "empty vector", i.e., an expression vector lacking a structural gene for
 5 expressing any protein (no IL1 3Ra2TF protein, no co-expression; "none" in lane 1 from the left of the
   blot). The empty vector transfectants were, however, co-transfected with the GFP vector, and
   successful co-transfection is shown by GPF expression detected in the lower panel of Figure 10.
            Figure 11 shows schematic diagrams of nucleic acid constructs encoding proteins for insertion
   into expression vector plasmids used to transfect host cells for the experiments described in Example
10 5 below. Figure 11A depicts a DNA construct encoding an Fc fusion protein (target protein)
   comprising a cDNA encoding a protein of interest augmented at its 3' end with a segment encoding a
   V5 epitope tag, which in turn was linked to a segment encoding the constant domains of an
   immunoglobulin Fc domain. For Example 5 below, the Fc fusion protein target comprised a truncated
   form of the IL13Ra2 receptor protein (IL13Ra2TF), which was linked to a V5 epitope tag, which in
15 turn was linked to an Fc domain to yield the desired IL13Ra2TF-Fc fusion protein. Figure 1 1B
   depicts a DNA construct encoding a fusion protein of the invention in which a protein expression
   enhancing polypeptide (PEEP) domain (such as a J domain of a J protein) is linked to a target protein
   binding domain (such as Protein A, which is known to bind Fc domains). The construct was further
   augmented at the 3' end with a coding segment for a Flag epitope tag for easy identification and
20 isolation with a standard anti-Flag antibody.
            Figure 12 shows results of an experiment described in Example 5 that demonstrate significant
   enhancement in the expression of an IL13Ra2TF-Fc fusion protein (target protein) in an unmodified
   arrangement in which the target protein is co-expressed with a J domain-Protein A fusion protein but
   not when the target protein is co-expressed with Protein A alone.
25          Figure 12A shows x-ray film images of chemiluminescent signals of a Western blot analysis
   of media from cultures of transfected cells expressing the IL13Ra2TF-Fc fusion protein (target
   protein) when expressed alone (lane 2, none), when co-expressed with Protein A alone (lane 3,
   Protein A Only), when co-expressed with an Erdj3 J domain-Protein A fusion protein (lane 4, J
   Protein A), and when co-expressed with an Erdj5 J domain-Protein A fusion protein (lane 5, J2
30 Protein A), as described in Example 5. Mock cultures contained cells transfected with expression
   vector lacking a structural gene for expressing any protein (lane 1 from the left). It can be seen that
   co-expression of the IL13Ra2TF-Fc fusion target protein and either J domain-Protein A fusion protein
   (lanes 4 and 5 from the left) resulted in a significantly greater level of expression of the IL13Ra2TF
   Fc fusion target protein secreted into culture medium as compared to the level of expression in
35 transfectant cells expressing the IL13Ra2TF-Fc fusion target protein alone (lane 2 from the left) or
   co-expressing the IL13Ra2TF-Fc fusion target protein with unfused Protein A (lane 3 from the left).
                                                        19

            Figure 12B shows results of a densitometry analysis of the chemiluminescent signals in
   Figure 12A using the NIH ImageJ image processing program. Bar graphs 1-5 of Figure 12B
   correspond to signals in lanes 1-5 in Figure 12A. The bar graphs in Figure 12B clearly show that co
   expression of the IL13Ra2TF-Fc target protein with either J domain-Protein A fusion protein (bar
 5 graphs 4 and 5) significantly enhanced the level of expression of secreted IL13Ra2TF-Fc as compared
   to expression of IL13Ra2TF-Fc alone (bar graph 2) or co-expression of IL13Ra2TF-Fc with
   (unfused) Protein A alone (bar graph 3).
            Figure 12C shows x-ray film images of chemiluminescent signals of a Western blot analysis
   of media from cultures of transfected cells expressing the IL13Ra2TF (no Fc domain) protein alone
10 (lane 1, none), when co-expressed with an Erdj3 J domain-Protein A fusion protein (lane 2, J-Protein
   A), and when co-expressed with Protein A alone (lane 3, Protein A Only), as described in Example 5.
   The results show that little if any expression of secreted IL13Ra2TF protein was observed, as
   expected if the enhanced level of the secreted IL13Ra2TF-Fc fusion target protein in Figures 12A and
   12B was dependent on the specificity of the target protein binding domain of the J domain-Protein A
15 fusion protein for the Fc domain of IL13Ra2TF-Fc target protein. Figure 12D provides the results of
   a densitometry analysis of the chemiluminescent signals in Figure 12C using the NIH ImageJ image
   processing program. Figures 12C and 12D thus show a control experimental result in that the
   IL13Ra2TF protein was not recognized by the J domain-Protein A fusion (the Fc ligand for the target
   binding domain (Protein A) being absent), and thus the enhancement in the level of expression that
20 could be provided by the J domain (a protein expression enhancing polypeptide domain) was not
   targeted to the IL13Ra2TF, as the results indicate.
            Figure 13 provides results of a series of experiments that demonstrate significant
   enhancement of the level of expression of three different Fc fusion target proteins when co-expressed
   with a corresponding fusion protein of the invention as described in Example 6 below. Figure 13A
25 (left panel) shows x-ray film images of chemiluminescent signals of a Western blot assay for
   expression of an IL13Ra2TF-Fc fusion protein (target protein) secreted into the media of cultures of
   transfected cells expressing the IL13Ra2TF-Fc fusion protein alone (lane 1 from the left) and of
   transfected cells co-expressing the IL13Ra2TF-Fc fusion protein and the J domain-Protein A fusion
   protein (lane 2 from the left) as described in Example 6.1 below and similar to the experiment
30 described in Example 5. The right panel of Figure 13A provides the results of a densitometry analysis
   of the chemiluminescent signals in the left panel of Figure 13A using the NIH ImageJ image
   processing program. Bar graphs 1 and 2 (from left to right) in the right panel of Figure 13A
   correspond to the signals in lanes 1 and 2 (from left to right) in the left panel of Figure 13A. The
   results show that co-expression of the J domain-Protein A fusion protein of the invention significantly
35 elevated (8-fold) the level of expression of the IL13Ra2TF-Fc target protein secreted into the culture
                                                        20

   medium as compared to the level of expression of the target protein in the absence of the J domain
   Protein A fusion protein. Results are consistent with those described in Example 5 and Figure 12.
             Figure 13B (left panel) shows x-ray film images of chemiluminescent signals of a Western
   blot assay for expression of a TNFR1TF-Fc fusion protein (target protein) secreted into the media of
 5 cultures of transfected cells expressing the TNFR1TF-Fc fusion target protein alone (lane 1 from the
   left) and of transfected cells co-expressing the TNFR1TF-Fc fusion protein and the J domain-Protein
   A fusion (lane 2 from the left) as described in Example 6.2 below. The right panel of Figure 13B
   provides the results of a densitometry analysis of the chemiluminescent signals in the left panel of
   Figure 13B using the NIH ImageJ image processing program. Bar graphs 1 and 2 (from left to right)
10 in the right panel of Figure 13B correspond to the signals in lanes 1 and 2 (from left to right) in the
   left panel of Figure 13B. The results show that co-expression of J domain-Protein A fusion protein
   significantly elevated (6-fold) the level of expression of the TNFR1TF-Fc target protein secreted into
   the culture medium as compared to the level of expression of the target protein in the absence of the J
   domain-Protein A fusion protein.
15           Figure 13C (left panel) shows x-ray film images of chemiluminescent signals of a Western
   blot assay for expression of an al anti-trypsin (alAT)-Fc fusion protein (target protein) secreted into
   the media of cultures of transfected cells expressing the alAT-Fc fusion target protein alone (lane 1
   from the left) and of transfected cells co-expressing the alAT-Fc fusion target protein and the J
   domain-Protein A fusion protein (lane 2 from the left) as described in Example 6.3. The right panel
20 of Figure 13C provides the results of a densitometry analysis of the chemiluminescent signals in the
   left panel of Figure 13C using the NIH ImageJ image processing program. Bar graphs 1 and 2 (from
   left to right) in the right panel of Figure 13C correspond to the signals in lanes 1 and 2 (from left to
   right) in the left panel of Figure 13C. The results show that co-expression of J domain-Protein A
   fusion protein significantly elevated (3-fold) the level of expression of the alAT-Fc fusion target
25 protein secreted into the culture medium as compared to the level of expression of the target protein in
   the absence of the J domain-Protein A fusion protein.
             Figure 14 provides results from a series of experiments that test the enhancement in the level
   of expression of a secreted humanized anti-IL8 IgG1 antibody in an unmodified arrangement
   described in Example 7 below. Figure 14A shows x-ray film images of chemiluminescent signals of a
30 dot blot assay for expression of the anti-IL8 antibody (target protein) secreted into the media of
   cultures of transfected cells expressing the anti-IL8 antibody alone (lane 2), co-expressing anti-IL8
   antibody and Protein A (lane 3, Protein A Only), co-expressing anti-IL8 antibody and an Erdj3 J
   domain-Protein A fusion protein of the invention (lane 4, J-Protein A), co-expressing anti-IL8
   antibody and Protein L (lane 5, Protein L Only), co-expressing anti-IL8 antibody and an Erdj3 J
35 domain-Protein L fusion protein of the invention (lane 6, J-Protein L), co-expressing anti-IL8
   antibody and its IL8 ligand (lane 7, IL8), co-expressing an Erdj3 J domain-IL8 ligand fusion protein
                                                        21

   of the invention (lane 8, J-IL8), expressing the Erdj3 J-Protein A fusion protein alone (lane 9, J
   Protein A), expressing the Erdj3 J domain-Protein L fusion protein alone (lane 10, J-Protein L), and
   expressing the Erdj3 J domain-IL8 ligand fusion protein (lane 11, J-IL8). Mock cultures contained
   cells transfected with expression vector lacking a structural gene for expressing any protein (no anti
 5 IL8 antibody, lane 1). Expression of the anti-IL8 antibody in culture media was analyzed in the dot
   blot assay using an anti-human IgG antibody ("anti-huIgG Ab") (catalog no. AP1 12P, Millipore). It
   can be seen that co-expression in transfected cells of the anti-IL8 antibody with a J domain-Protein A
   fusion protein (lane 4), with a J domain-Protein L fusion protein (lane 6), or with a J domain-IL8
   fusion protein (lane 8) significantly enhanced the level of expression of anti-IL8 antibody secreted
10 into the culture medium as compared to the level of the antibody expressed in transfected cells
   expressing the anti-IL8 antibody alone (lane 2), co-expressing with Protein A alone (lane 3, Protein A
   Only), co-expressing Protein L alone (lane 5, Protein L Only), or co-expressing IL8 ligand protein
   alone (lane 7). No signal was detected in culture media of transfected cells expressing the J domain
   Protein A fusion protein alone (lane 9, J-Protein A), of transfected cells expressing the J domain
15 Protein L fusion protein alone (lane 10, J-Protein L), or of transfected cells expressing the J domain
   IL8 fusion protein alone (lane 10, J-IL8), indicating that all three fusion proteins specifically targeted
   and enhanced expression of the co-expressed anti-IL8 antibody target protein.
            Figure 14B shows the results of a densitometry analysis of the chemiluminescent signals in
   each of the lanes in Figure 14A using the NIH ImageJ image processing program. The bar graphs of
20 Figure 14B are numbered to correspond to the lane numbers of Figure 14A. The results of this series
   of experiments clearly show that co-expression of the targeted anti-IL8 antibody with a fusion protein
   of the invention comprising a protein expression enhancing polypeptide (here, an Erdj3 J domain)
   linked to a target protein binding domain (here, Protein A, Protein L, or IL8) significantly enhanced
   the expression of secreted anti-IL8 antibody as compared to co-expression of the antibody with the
25 unfused target protein binding domain protein alone (Protein G only, Protein L only, or IL8 only).
            Figure 15 provides results that demonstrate that a fusion protein according to the invention
   can be used to enhance the level of expression of a target protein that is already stably produced in an
   established commercially relevant cell line as described in Example 8 below. Figure 15A shows x-ray
   film images of chemiluminescent signals of a dot blot assay for expression of the anti-IL8 antibody
30 (target protein) secreted into the media of cultures of cells of a CHO-DP12 cell line (accession no.
   CRL-124444, American Type Culture Collection, Manassas, Virginia) expressing the anti-IL8
   antibody alone (lane 2) and in transfected cells co-expressing anti-IL8 antibody and an Erdj3 J
   domain-Protein A fusion protein (lane 3, J-Protein A). Expression of the anti-IL8 antibody in culture
   media was analyzed in the dot blot assay using an anti-human IgG antibody ("anti-huIgG Ab"). It can
35 be seen that co-expression of the antibody with the J domain-Protein A fusion protein significantly
   enhanced the level of expression of the antibody secreted into the culture medium (lane 3) as
                                                       22

   compared to the level of the antibody expressed in the absence of the J domain-Protein A fusion
   protein (lane 2, none). Lane 1 is control (Medium Only). Figure 15B shows the results of a
   densitometry analysis of the chemiluminescent signals in the dot blots in the lanes in Figure 15A
   using the NIH- ImageJ image processing program is shown in the respective bar graphs in Figure 15B.
 5 The results indicate that co-expression of the antibody with the J domain-Protein A fusion protein (bar
   graph 3) significantly enhanced expression of the secreted antibody, providing an approximately four
   to five-fold greater enhancement in the level of expression, as compared to that obtained when the
   antibody was expressed in the absence of the J domain-Protein A fusion protein (bar graph 2). The
   results indicate that a fusion protein of the invention can be employed to significantly enhance the
10 level of production of a target protein that is already stably expressed in an established production cell
   line.
            Figure 16 provides results from a series of experiments that tested various fusion proteins
   comprising a J domain (as a protein expression enhancing polypeptide domain) of a J protein linked to
   any of a variety of proteins, as described in Example 9.1 below. The various J domain fusion proteins
15 and other proteins were then tested and compared for their ability to enhance levels of expression of
   the IL13Ra2TF-Fc fusion protein (target protein) secreted into media of cultures of transfected
   HEK293 cells. Figure 16A shows x-ray film images of chemiluminescent signals of a Western blot
   analysis of samples of media from cultures of transfected cells expressing the IL13Ra2TF-Fc fusion
   protein (target protein) alone (lane 1), co-expressing IL13Ra2TF-Fc with a J domain-Protein A fusion
20 protein (lane 2), co-expressing IL13Ra2TF-Fc with Protein A alone (lane 3, Protein A Only), co
   expressing IL13Ra2TF-Fc with a J domain-Protein G fusion protein (lane 4), co-expressing
   IL13Ra2TF-Fc with a J domain-hFcR fusion protein (lane 5, J-hFcR), co-expressing IL13Ra2TF-Fc
   with a J domain-vFcR fusion protein (lane 6, J-vFcR), co-expressing IL13Ra2TF-Fc with a J domain
   gI fusion protein (lane 7, J-gJ), co-expressing IL1 3Ra2TF-Fc with a J domain-gE fusion protein (lane
25 8, J-gE), and co-expressing IL13Ra2TF-Fc with both J domain-gI fusion protein and J domain-gE
   fusion protein (lane 9, J-gI + J-gE). The results of a densitometry analysis of the chemiluminescent
   signals in the Western blot in Figure 16A using the NIH ImageJ image processing program are shown
   in the respective bar graphs in Figure 16B. See, Example 9.1 for details.
            Figure 17 provides results from a series of experiments that tested various fusion proteins
30 comprising a J domain (as a protein expression enhancing polypeptide domain) of a J protein linked to
   each of six Fc-binding peptides (FcBP1 through FcBP6) for use in enhancing the level of expression
   of proteins that possess an Fc domain as described in Example 9.2 below. The amino acid sequences
   of the Fc binding peptides are given between panels A and B in Figure 17. Figure 17A shows x-ray
   film images of chemiluminescent signals of a Western blot assay of samples of media of cultures of
35 transfected cells expressing the IL13Ra2TF-Fc fusion protein (target protein) alone (lanes 1 and 3),
   co-expressing IL13Ra2TF-Fc with a J domain-Protein A fusion protein (lane 2, J-Protein A), co
                                                         23

   expressing IL13Ra2TF-Fc with a J domain-FcBP1 fusion protein (lane 4, J-FcBP1), co-expressing
   IL13Ra2TF-Fc with a J domain-FcBP2 fusion protein (lane 5, J-FcBP2), co-expressing IL13Ra2TF
   Fc with a J domain-FcBP3 fusion protein (lane 6, J-FcBP3), co-expressing IL13Ra2TF-Fc with a J
   domain-FcBP4 fusion protein (lane 7, J-FcBP4), co-expressing IL13Ra2TF-Fc with a J domain
 5 FcBP5 fusion protein (lane 8, J-FcBP5), co-expressing IL13Ra2TF-Fc with a J domain-FcBP6 fusion
   protein (lane 9, J-FcBP6), and co-expressing IL13Ra2TF-Fc with a J domain-Protein G fusion protein
   (lane 10, J-Protein G),. As shown in Figure 17A, co-expression of the IL13Ra2TF-Fc fusion protein
   with each of the six J domain-peptide fusion proteins in HEK293 transfectants significantly enhanced
   the level of expression of secreted IL13Ra2TF-Fc fusion protein (lanes 4-9) as compared to the level
10 of expression of IL13Ra2TF-Fc fusion protein alone (lanes 1 and 3). The experiment also included
   for comparison the effect of co-expression of IL13Ra2TF-Fc fusion protein with a J domain-Protein
   A fusion protein (lane 2) or with a J domain-Protein G fusion protein (lane 10) on the expression of
   secreted IL13Ra2TF-Fc fusion protein. As shown in Figure 17A, co-expression of IL13Ra2TF-Fc
   fusion protein with either J domain-Protein A fusion protein (lane 2) or the J domain-Protein G fusion
15 protein (lane 10) significantly enhanced the level of expression of secreted the IL13Ra2TF-Fc fusion
   protein as also observed in Examples 5 (Figure 12), 6.1 (Figure 13A), and 9.1 (Figure 16). The results
   of a densitometry analysis of the chemiluminescent signals in the Western blot in Figure 17A using
   the NIH ImageJ image processing program are shown in the respective bar graphs in Figure 17B.
             Figure 18 shows x-ray film images of chemiluminescent signals of a dot blot assay showing
20 examples of relative levels of target protein expression enhancing activity of three polypeptides used
   in an unmodified arrangement described in Example 10. The levels of expression indicated in the dot
   blot, i.e., High Activity (HA), Activity (A), and No Activity (NA), were determined for polypeptides
   designated "3 (J domain)", "3-45", and "3-72" (see Table 58, infra.). Each polypeptide was linked to
   Protein A to form a fusion protein that was co-expressed with a V5-tagged IL13Ra2-Fc target protein
25 in transfected cells. The level of expression of the V5-tagged IL13Ra2-Fc target protein in culture
   media was determined in the dot blot using an anti-V5 antibody. The dot blot shows expression of the
   V5-tagged IL13Ra2-Fc target protein in the media of cultures of transfected cells expressing the
   target protein alone (lane 2 from left), of transfected cells co-expressing the target protein and the
   polypeptide 3-Protein A fusion protein (lane 3 from left), of transfected cells co-expressing the target
30 protein and the polypeptide 3-45-Protein A fusion protein (lane 4 from left), and of transfected cells
   co-expressing the target protein and the polypeptide 3-72-Protein A fusion protein (lane 5 from left).
   The high activity (HA) of a polypeptide for enhancing expression of a target protein in an unmodified
   arrangement is represented by the level of expression shown in lane 3 (from the left) of the dot blot.
   Improved activity compared to negative control (A) of a polypeptide for enhancing expression of a
35 target protein is represented by the level of expression shown in lane 4 (from the left) of the dot blot.
   No activity (NA) of a polypeptide for enhancing expression of a target protein is shown in lane 5
                                                         24

   (from the left) of the dot blot. Lane 1 (from the left) of the dot blot shows no target protein was
   expressed in the medium of a mock culture of cells that did not express the target protein or any
   polypeptide-Fc fusion protein.
            Figure 19 shows an alignment of the amino acid sequence of the J domain of Erdj3 with the
 5 amino acid sequences of a series of polypeptides that were generated as N- and C-terminal deletion
   mutations of the full-length J domain as described in Example 11. The alpha helices and loop
   domains of the J domain are indicated by brackets. Also shown are a designation number, length
   (amino acid residues), protein expression enhancing activity (HA, NA), and sequence identification
   number for each of the polypeptides. (See, Figure 18 and Example 10 for a description of high
10 activity (HA), improved activity (A), and no activity (NA) for enhancing target protein expression.)
   As shown in the alignment, the J domain is designated polypeptide 3, is 61 amino acids in length, and
   has high activity (HA) for enhancing expression of a target protein in an unmodified arrangement.
            Figure 20 shows results of a series of experiments described in Example 12 that compares the
   target protein expression enhancing activity of two polypeptides used in a modified arrangement.
15 Figure 20A shows diagrams of nucleic acid constructs for insertion into an expression vector used to
   transfect cells. The IL13Ra2TF construct encodes a fusion polypeptide comprising a truncated form
   of IL13Ra2 that contains the extracellular IL13 binding domain fused to a C-terminal V5 epitope tag.
   The IL13Ra2TF-BSC1 construct encodes a fusion polypeptide comprising the truncated form of
   IL13Ra2 fused to the BSC1 sequence (polypeptide 3-29, IKKAYRKLA, SEQ ID NO:48), which is
20 fused to a C-terminal V5 epitope tag. The IL13Ra2TF-BSC1MT construct encodes the truncated
   from of IL13Ra2 fused to the BSC1MT sequence (polypeptide 3-55, IAQAYRKLA, SEQ ID
   NO:298), which is fused to a C-terminal V5 epitope tag. The amino acid sequence of polypeptide 3
   55 differs from that of polypeptide 3-29 at two positions as shown at the bottom of Figure 20A. Cells
   transfected with a vector containing the IL13Ra2TF construct were taken as the control (no fusion
25 with a BSC1 or BSC1MT polypeptide).
            Figure 20B shows X-ray film images of chemiluminescent signals of a dot blot analysis of the
   media of cultures of transfected cells expressing the IL13Ra2TF, IL13Ra2TF-BSC1, and
   IL13Ra2TF-BSC1MT proteins using an anti-V5 antibody. Lane 2 (from the left) of Fig. 20B shows
   that only a very low level of IL13Ra2TF fusion protein was detected in medium of a culture of
30 control cells. Lane 3 (from the left) in Fig. 20B shows that a significant level of the IL13Ra2TF
   BSC1 fusion protein was expressed in the medium of a culture of cells transfected with a vector
   containing the IL13Ra2TF-BSC1 construct. Lane 4 (from the left) in Fig. 20B shows that only a very
   low level of the IL13Ra2TF-BSC1MT fusion protein was expressed in the medium of culture of cells
   transfected with a vector containing the IL13Ra2TF-BSC1MT construct. The results indicate that
35 polypeptide 3-29 has "high activity" for enhancing expression of a target protein in a modified
                                                       25

   arrangement, whereas polypeptide 3-55 is considered to have "no activity" for enhancing expression
   of a target protein in a modified arrangement.
            Figure 21 is a bar graph showing IL13 binding activity of IL13Ra2TF-Fc target protein co
   expressed in an unmodified arrangement with a BSC1-Protein A in HEK293 cells as described in
 5 Example 13. The BSC1-Protein A protein if a fusion protein comprising the polypeptide 3-29
   (IKKAYRKLA, SEQ ID NO:48) linked to Protein A as shown in Example 13. The assay used for
   determining IL1 3 binding activity is a sandwich ELISA in which detection of human IL1 3 decreases
   when the IL13 is trapped by the IL13Ra2TF-Fc protein. The first bar graph (from the left) in Fig. 21
   shows no IL13 binding activity was present in medium from a culture of control cells that did not
10 express either IL13Ra2TF-Fc or the BSC1-Protein A fusion protein. Bar 2 (middle) in Fig. 21 shows
   that some low level of IL13 binding activity was detected in medium from a culture of cells
   expressing only the IL13Ra2TF-Fc protein. In contrast, as shown in Bar 3 (far right) in Fig. 21, a
   significant level of human IL13 binding activity was present in the medium of a culture of cells co
   expressing IL13Ra2TF-Fc and the BSC1-Protein A fusion protein. The results shown that the
15 IL13Ra2TF-Fc target protein expressed at enhanced levels in culture medium in an unmodified
   arrangement retains its IL13 binding activity.
            Figure 22 shows results of an experiment that demonstrates significant enhancement in the
   level of expression of a Factor VII (FVII)-Fc fusion protein (target protein) secreted into culture
   medium when co-expressed in an unmodified arrangement with a BSC1-Protein G fusion protein
20 comprising polypeptide 3-29 (IKKAYRKLA, SEQ ID NO:48) linked to Protein G as described in
   Example 14. Figure 22A shows X-ray film images of chemiluminescent signals of a Western blot
   assay for expression of an FVII-Fc fusion protein (top panel) secreted into the media of cultures of
   transfected cells expressing the FVII-Fc fusion protein alone (lane 2) and of transfected cells co
   expressing the FVII-Fc fusion protein and the BSC1-Protein G fusion protein (lane 3). Lane 1 shows
25 non-expressing cell culture medium as a control. Anti-Flag antibody was used to detect BSC1-Protein
   G in cell lysate (middle panel) and secreted BSC1-Protein G (bottom panel), respectively. Figure 22B
   provides the results of a densitometry analysis of the chemiluminescent signals in the top panel of
   Figure 22A using the NIH ImageJ image processing program. Bar graphs 1, 2, and 3 in Figure 22B
   correspond to the signals in lanes 1, 2, and 3 in the top panel of Figure 22A. The results show that co
30 expression of the FVII-Fc target protein and the BSC1-Protein G fusion protein significantly elevated
   the level of expression of the FVII-Fc target protein secreted into the culture medium as compared to
   the level of expression of the target protein expressed in the absence of the BSC1-Protein G fusion
   protein. In addition, the BSC1-Protein G fusion protein was not secreted but remained in the cells.
   Compare expression of BSC1-Protein G fusion protein cell lysates (middle panel of Fig. 22A) with
35 that in medium (bottom panel of Fig. 22A).
                                                        26

            Figure 23 shows results of an experiment to demonstrate improvement in the level of
   expression of a Factor IX (FIX)-Fc fusion protein (FIX-Fc) target protein in the presence of a BSC1
   Protein A fusion protein comprising polypeptide 3-29 (IKKAYRKLA, SEQ ID NO:48) linked to
   Protein A as described in Example 15. Figure 23A shows X-ray film images of chemiluminescent
 5 signals of a Western blot assay for expression of an FIX-Fc fusion protein secreted into the media of
   cultures of transfected cells expressing the FIX-Fc fusion protein alone (row 2) and of transfected
   cells co-expressing the FIX-Fc fusion protein and the BSC1-Protein A fusion protein (row 3). Row 1
   shows non-expressing cell culture medium as a control. Figure 23B provides the results of a
   densitometry analysis of the chemiluminescent signals in the top panel of Figure 23A using the N-I
10 ImageJ image processing program. Bar graphs 1, 2, and 3 in Figure 23B correspond to the signals in
   rows 1, 2, and 3 in Figure 23A. The results show that co-expression of the FIX-Fc target protein and
   the BSC1-Protein A fusion protein significantly elevated the level of expression of the FIX-Fc target
   protein secreted into the culture medium as compared to the level of expression of the target protein in
   the absence of the BSC1-Protein A fusion protein.
15          Figure 24 provides results of a series of experiments that demonstrate significant
   enhancement of the level of expression of a Factor VIII (FVIII)-Fc fusion protein (FVIII-Fc) when co
   expressed in an unmodified arrangement with a BSC1-Protein G fusion protein comprising
   polypeptide 3-29 (IKKAYRKLA, SEQ ID NO:48) linked to Protein G as described in Example 16.
   Media was harvested from cultures of transfected HEK293 cells co-expressing the FVIII-Fc fusion
20 protein (target protein) with BSC1-Protein G fusion protein or cells expressing the FVIII-Fc fusion
   protein alone. The media was assayed for FVIII activity by ELISA (VisuLizem FVIII Antigen Kit,
   Affinity Biologicals Inc.). Cell culture medium in which empty vector was transfected was used for a
   negative control (first bar from the left). Second bar from the left shows no FVIII was detected in
   medium from cells expressing the FVIII-Fc target protein alone. Third bar from the left shows that
25 significant level of FVIII-Fc target protein was secreted into the medium of cells co-expressing the
   FVIII-Fc target protein and the BSC 1-Protein G fusion protein. Human serum was used as a positive
   control (last bar from left). The results show that co-expression of the FVIII-Fc target protein and the
   BSC1-Protein G fusion protein significantly elevated the level of expression of the FVIII-Fc target
   protein secreted into the culture medium as compared to the level of expression of the target protein in
30 the absence of the BSC1-Protein G fusion protein.
            Figure 25 shows results of an experiment demonstrating improved levels of expression of an
   anti-IL8 antibody (target protein) secreted into the culture medium when co-expressed in an
   unmodified arrangement with a BSC 1-Protein A comprising the 3-29 polypeptide (IKKAYRKLA,
   SEQ ID NO:48) linked to Protein A as described in Example 17. Figure 25A shows X-ray film
35 images of chemiluminescent signals of a dot blot assay for expression of the anti-IL8 antibody (target
   protein) secreted into the media of cultures of transfected cells expressing the anti-IL8 antibody alone
                                                        27

   (row 2) and of cells co-expressing the anti-IL8 antibody and a BSC1-Protein A fusion protein (row 3,
   BSC1-Protein A). Expression of the anti-IL8 antibody in culture media was analyzed in the dot blot
   assay using an anti-human IgG antibody. Mock cultures contained cells transfected with expression
   vector lacking a structural gene for expressing any protein (no anti-IL8 antibody, row 1). It can be
 5 seen that co-expression in transfected cells of the anti-IL8 antibody with a BSC1-Protein A fusion
   protein (row 3) significantly enhanced the level of expression of anti-IL8 antibody secreted into the
   culture medium as compared to the level of the antibody expressed in transfected cells expressing the
   anti-IL8 antibody alone (row 2).
            Figure 25B shows the results of a densitometry analysis of the chemiluminescent signals in
10 each of the rows in Figure 25A using the NIH ImageJ image processing program. The bars of Figure
   25B are numbered to correspond to the row numbers of Figure 25A. The results of this series of
   experiments clearly show that co-expression of the targeted anti-IL8 antibody with a BSC1-Protein A
   fusion protein significantly enhanced the expression of secreted anti-IL8 antibody compared to the
   level of expression of the antibody in the absence of the BSC1-Protein A fusion protein.
15          Figure 25C shows a bar graph of the results of an ELISA to detect IL8 binding activity by the
   expressed anti-IL8 antibody (target protein). A 96-well plate was coated with recombinant purified
   human IL8, and incubated with the anti-IL8 antibody (target protein) secreted into the media of
   cultures of transfected cells expressing the anti-IL8 antibody alone (bar graph 2) or co-expressing the
   anti-IL8 antibody with the BSC1-Protein A fusion protein (bar graph 3, BSC1-Protein A). Mock
20 cultures contained cells transfected with expression vector lacking a structural gene for expressing any
   protein (no anti-IL8 antibody, bar graph 1). The results of this series of experiments clearly show that
   the anti-IL8 antibody expressed at enhanced levels and secreted into the culture medium retains its
   binding activity for human IL8, indicating proper conformation of the antibody.
            Figure 26 shows results of a series of experiments demonstrating significant enhancement in
25 the level of expression of the anti-VEGF antibody, bevacizumab, when co-expressed with a BSC1
   Protein A fusion comprising the 3-29 polypeptide (IKKAYRKLA, SEQ ID NO:48) linked to Protein
   A as described in Example 18. Figure 26A shows X-ray film images of chemiluminescent signals of
   a dot blot assay for expression of the anti-VEGF antibody secreted into the media of cultures of
   transfected cells expressing the anti-VEGF antibody alone (row 2) or co-expressing the anti-VEGF
30 antibody and a BSC1-Protein A fusion protein (row 3). Mock cultures contained cells transfected
   with expression vector lacking a structural gene for expressing any protein (no anti-VEGF antibody,
   row 1). Expression of the anti-VEGF antibody in culture media was analyzed in the dot blot assay
   using an anti-human IgG antibody. It can be seen that co-expression in transfected cells of the anti
   VEGF antibody with the BSC1-Protein A fusion protein (row 3) significantly enhanced the level of
35 expression of anti-VEGF antibody secreted into the culture medium as compared to the level of the
   antibody expressed in transfected cells expressing the anti-VEGF antibody alone (row 2).
                                                       28

            Figure 26B shows the results of a densitometry analysis of the chemiluminescent signals in
   each of the rows in Figure 26A using the NIH ImageJ image processing program. The bar graphs in
   Figure 26B are numbered to correspond to the row numbers in Figure 26A. The results clearly show
   that co-expression of the anti-VEGF antibody with a BSC1-Protein A fusion protein significantly
 5 enhanced the expression of secreted anti-VEGF antibody compared to the level of the antibody
   expressed alone.
            Figure 26C shows the results of an ELISA to detect VEGF binding by the anti-VEGF
   antibody expressed in the media of cultures of transfected cells. A 96-well plate was coated with
   recombinant purified human VEGF-A, and incubated with the anti-VEGF antibody (target protein)
10 secreted into the media of cultures of transfected cells expressing the anti-VEGF antibody alone (bar
   graph 2) or co-expressing anti-VEGF antibody and the BSC1-Protein A fusion protein of the
   invention (bar graph 3). Mock cultures contained cells transfected with expression vector lacking a
   structural gene for expressing any protein (no anti-VEGF antibody, bar graph 1). The results of this
   series of experiments clearly show that the anti-VEGF antibody expressed at enhanced levels and
15 secreted into the culture medium retains its binding activity for human VEGF-A, indicating proper
   conformation of the secreted antibody.
            Figure 27 shows results from a series of experiments demonstrating significant enhancement
   in the level of expression the therapeutic anti-TNFa antibody, adalimumab (Humira, AbbVie), when
   co-expressed with a BSC1-Protein A fusion comprising the 3-29 polypeptide (IKKAYRKLA, SEQ ID
20 NO:48) linked to Protein A as described in Example 19. Figure 27A shows X-ray film images of
   chemiluminescent signals of a dot blot assay for expression of the anti-TNFa antibody secreted into
   the media of cultures of transfected cells expressing the anti-TNFa antibody alone (row 2) or co
   expressing the anti-TNFa antibody and the BSC1-Protein A fusion (row 3). Mock cultures contained
   cells transfected with expression vector lacking a structural gene for expressing any protein (row 1, no
25 anti-TNFa antibody). Expression of the anti-TNFa antibody in culture media was analyzed in the dot
   blot assay using an anti-human IgG antibody. It can be seen that co-expression in transfected cells of
   the anti-TNFa antibody with a BSC 1-Protein A fusion protein (bottom row) significantly enhanced
   the level of expression of anti-TNFa antibody secreted into the culture medium as compared to the
   level of the antibody expressed in transfected cells expressing the anti-TNFa antibody alone (middle).
30          Figure 27B shows the results of a densitometry analysis of the chemiluminescent signals in
   each of the rows in Figure 27A using the NIH ImageJ image processing program. The bar graphs of
   Figure 27B are numbered to correspond to the row numbers of Figure 27A. The results of this series
   of experiments clearly show that co-expression of the anti-TNFa antibody (target protein) with the
   BSC1 -Protein A fusion protein significantly enhanced the expression of secreted anti-TNFa antibody.
35          Figure 27C shows the results of an ELISA to detect TNFa binding activity by the anti- TNFa
   antibody expressed in the media of cultures of transfected cells. A 96-well plate was coated with
                                                       29

   recombinant purified human TNFa and incubated with the anti-TNFa antibody (target protein)
   secreted into the media of cultures of transfected cells expressing the anti-TNFa antibody alone (bar
   graph 2) or cells co-expressing the anti-TNFa antibody and the BSC1-Protein A fusion protein (bar
   graph 3). Mock cultures contained cells transfected with expression vector lacking a structural gene
 5 for expressing any protein (bar graph 1). The results of this series of experiments clearly show that
   the anti-TNFa antibody expressed at enhanced levels and secreted into the culture medium retains its
   binding activity for human TNFa, indicating proper conformation of the secreted antibody.
            Figure 28 provides results that demonstrate that the level of expression of a protein that is
   already stably produced in an established commercially relevant cell line can be enhanced when co
10 expressed with as BSC1-Protein A fusion comprising the 3-29 polypeptide (IKKAYRKLA, SEQ ID
   NO:48) linked to Protein A as described in Example 20. Figure 28A shows X-ray film images of
   chemiluminescent signals of a dot blot assay for expression of the anti-IL8 antibody (target protein)
   secreted into the media of cultures of cells of a CHO-DP12 cell line (accession no. CRL-124444,
   American Type Culture Collection, Manassas, Virginia) expressing the anti-IL8 antibody alone (row
15 2) and of transfected cells co-expressing the anti-IL8 antibody and the BSC1-Protein A fusion protein
   (row 3). It can be seen that co-expression of the antibody with the BSC1-Protein A fusion protein
   significantly enhanced the level of expression of the antibody secreted into the culture medium (row
   3) as compared to the level of the antibody expressed in the absence of the BSC1-Protein A fusion
   protein (row 2). Row 1 is control (Medium Only). Figure 28B shows the results of a densitometry
20 analysis of the chemiluminescent signals in the dot blots in the rows in Figure 28A using the NIH
   ImageJ image processing program are shown in the respective bar graphs in Figure 28B. The results
   indicate that co-expression of the antibody with the BSC1-Protein A fusion molecule (bar graph 3)
   significantly enhanced expression of the secreted antibody, providing an approximately four to five
   fold greater enhancement in the level of expression, as compared to that obtained when the antibody
25 was expressed in the absence of the BSC1-Protein A fusion molecule (bar graph 2).
            Figure 28C shows the results of an ELISA to detect IL8 binding activity by the anti-IL8
   antibody expressed in the media of cultures of transfected cells. A 96-well plate was coated with
   recombinant purified human IL8 and incubated with the anti-IL8 antibody (target protein) secreted
   into the media of cultures stably expressing the anti-IL8 antibody (bar graph 2) or co-expressing the
30 antibody and the BSC1-Protein A fusion protein (bar graph 3). Culture medium was used as a
   negative control (bar graph 1, no IL8 binding activity). The results of this series of experiments
   clearly show that the anti-IL8 antibody secreted at enhanced levels into the culture medium retains its
   binding activity for human IL8, indicating proper conformation of the secreted antibody.
            Figure 29 provides results of an experiment described in Example 21 that indicate that protein
35 expression enhancing polypeptides of the invention may be used to treat a disease caused by a mutant
   protein that does not fold into its proper conformation. Figure 29A shows X-ray film images of
                                                       30

   chemiluminescent signals of a Western blot assay for expression of fusion proteins comprising wild
   type alphal -antitrypsin (AAT) or the mutant alphal -antitrypsin containing the Z mutation (AATZ,
   wherein Glu is replaced by Lys at codon 342) linked to the Fc domain from human IgG with or
   without co-expression of a BSC1-Protein A comprising the 3-29 polypeptide (IKKAYRKLA, SEQ ID
 5 NO:48) linked to Protein A. The top panel of Figure 29 shows expression of Fc fusion proteins in the
   media of cultures of transfected cells expressing the AAT-Fc fusion protein alone (lane 2, from the
   left), of transfected cells expressing the AATZ-Fc fusion protein alone (lane 3, from the left), and of
   transfected cells co-expressing the AATZ-Fc fusion protein and the BSC1-Protein A fusion protein
   (lane 4, from the left). Lane 1 shows non-expressing cell culture medium as a control. Clearly, no
10 AATZ-Fc fusion protein was secreted into media of cultures of cells expressing AATZ-Fc fusion
   protein alone (lane 3, from the left). As shown in the middle panel (Cell Lysate) of Figure 29, for
   cells expressing the AATZ-Fc fusion protein alone, the AATZ-Fc fusion protein remained in the cells
   (lane 3, from the left), presumably lodged in the endoplasmic reticulum as is known for the unfused
   AATZ protein. In contrast, co-expression of the AATZ-Fc fusion protein and the BSC1-Protein A
15 fusion protein significantly enhanced the level of AATZ-Fc fusion protein secreted into the culture
   medium as shown in lane 4 (from the left) in the top panel (medium) of Figure 29. Moreover, as
   shown in lane 4 (from the left) in the middle panel (Cell Lysate) of Figure 29, virtually no AATZ-Fc
   fusion protein was retained in the cells. The same membrane was blotted with anti-Tubulin antibody
   for a loading control (lower panel) in Figure 29. The results show that co-expression of the BSC1
20 Protein A fusion protein significantly elevated the level the AATZ-Fc target protein secreted into the
   culture medium as compared to the level of expression of the target protein in the absence of the
   BSC1 -Protein A fusion protein with virtually no AATZ-Fc retained in the cells.
   Detailed Description of the Invention
             The invention provides a new family of polypeptides for enhancing the level of expression of
25 a target protein of interest. The invention is based on the discovery that a target protein of interest can
   be expressed at a significantly higher level and in the proper cellular or extracellular location when
   co-expressed in either of two arrangements in a host cell with a protein expression enhancing
   polypeptide comprising:
             an isolated J domain of a J protein,
30           a protein expression enhancing polypeptide fragment of a J domain, or
             a protein expression enhancing J domain analog polypeptide comprising the formula:
             X1-X2-X3-X4-X5-X6-X7-X8-X9 (SEQ ID NO:47), wherein:
                      X1 is isoleucine (I), leucine (L), valine (V), alanine (A), or methionine (M);
                      X2 and X3 are each independently any amino acid with the proviso that at least one is
35                    lysine (K) or arginine (R);
                                                          31

                     X4 is any amino acid; or X4 may be absent when X1 through X3 are present and X5
                     through X9 are present;
                     X5 is tyrosine (Y), tryptophan (W), or phenylalanine (F);
                     X6 and X7 are each independently any amino acid with the proviso at least one is
 5                   lysine (K) or arginine (R); or one of X6 and X7 may be absent when the other is K or
                     R and when X1 through X5 are present and X8 and X9 are present; and
                     X8 and X9 are any amino acid with the proviso that at least one is leucine (L) or
                     alanine (A); or one of X8 and X9 may be absent when the other is L or A and when
                     X1 through X7 are present.
10          A protein expression enhancing polypeptide of the invention may be employed in either of
   two arrangements for enhancing expression of a target protein of interest by a host cell. In a
   "modified" arrangement, a fusion protein comprises a protein expression enhancing polypeptide
   linked (fused) to a target protein of interest. The fusion protein is thus a "modified" target protein that
   acts as a functional surrogate for the target protein of interest and is expressed at an enhanced level by
15 a host cell compared to the level of expression of the unmodified target protein alone. In an
   "unmodified" arrangement, a fusion protein comprises a protein expression enhancing polypeptide of
   the invention linked to a target protein binding domain that has an affinity for and binds the regular
   "unmodified" target protein of interest, wherein co-expression of the fusion protein and the target
   protein of interest in a host cell enhances the expression of the unmodified target protein as compared
20 to the level of expression in the absence of the target protein-binding fusion protein according to the
   invention. In accordance with the invention, the enhanced level of protein expression in the modified
   and unmodified arrangements includes expression of the respective modified or unmodified target
   protein of interest in the proper location (cellular or extracellular) of the target protein of interest.
            Accordingly, the invention provides a technical solution when there is a failure to express
25 desired quantities of an endogenous or heterologous (recombinant) protein of interest in cells. The
   present invention also provides compositions and methods for treating individuals for a disease or
   disorder in which there is a failure to express sufficient levels of a functional protein in vivo, where
   inadequate expression of the protein or a functional version thereof leads to a pathological state.
   Examples of diseases in which an improperly folded protein species has been demonstrated or
30 implicated include, but are not limited to, prion-associated disease (transmissible spongiform
   encephalopathy), Alzheimer's disease; Parkinson's disease; Huntington's disease; and cystic fibrosis
   (CF).
            In order to more clearly describe the invention the following comments and definitions of
   terms apply.
35          Unless otherwise defined herein, scientific and technical terms used in connection with the
   present invention shall have the meanings that are commonly understood by those of ordinary skill in
                                                         32

   the art. The meaning and scope of the terms should be clear; however, in the event of any latent
   ambiguity, definitions provided herein take precedent over any dictionary or extrinsic definition.
   Further, unless otherwise required by context, singular terms shall include pluralities and plural terms
   shall include the singular. In this application, the use of the term "or" means "and/or," unless stated
 5 otherwise. Furthermore, the use of the term "including", as well as other forms, such as "includes"
   and "included", is not limiting.
            Generally, nomenclatures used in connection with and techniques of protein and nucleic acid
   chemistry (including methods of recombinant nucleic acid and polymerase chain reaction (PCR)), cell
   and tissue culture, molecular biology, genetics, microbiology, biochemistry, proteomics,
10 pharmacology, and pharmaceutical science described herein are those well-known and commonly
   used in the art. The methods and techniques of the present invention are generally performed
   according to conventional methods in the art and as described in various general and more specific
   references available in the art. Assays and purification techniques are performed according to
   protocols available in the art, including in manuals of laboratory techniques and manufacturer's
15 specifications, as commonly accomplished in the art or as described herein.
            Unless indicated otherwise, when the terms "about" and "approximately" are used in
   combination with an amount, number, or value, then that combination describes the recited amount,
   number, or value alone as well as the amount, number, or value plus or minus 10% of that amount,
   number, or value. By way of example, the phrases "about 40%" and "approximately 40%" disclose
20 both "40%" and "from 36% to 44%, inclusive".
            The term "target protein of interest", "target protein", or "protein of interest" refers to any
   protein for which there is a need or desire to enhance the level of expression in its intended cellular
   (including intracellular and membrane-associated) or extracellular (secreted) location.
            The term "isolated" as in an "isolated molecule" (e.g., "isolated protein" or "isolated nucleic
25 acid") is a molecule that by virtue of its origin or source of derivation: is not associated with naturally
   associated components that accompany it in its native state; is substantially free of other kinds of
   molecules from the same species; is expressed by a cell from a different species; or does not occur in
   nature. Thus, a protein or nucleic acid molecule that is chemically synthesized or synthesized in a
   cellular system different from the cell from which it naturally originates will be "isolated" from its
30 naturally associated components. A protein or nucleic acid molecule may also be rendered
   substantially free of naturally associated components by isolation, using respectively protein or
   nucleic acid purification techniques well known in the art.
            The term "vector", as used herein, is intended to refer to a nucleic acid molecule capable of
   transporting another nucleic acid to which it has been linked. One type of vector is a "plasmid",
35 which refers to a circular double stranded nucleic acid (typically, DNA) loop into which additional
   nucleic acid segments may be inserted. Another type of vector is a viral vector, wherein additional
                                                         33

   DNA segments may be inserted into the viral genome. Certain vectors are capable of autonomous
   replication in a host cell into which they are introduced (e.g., bacterial vectors having a bacterial
   origin of replication and episomal mammalian vectors). Other vectors (e.g., non-episomal
   mammalian vectors) can be integrated into the genome of a host cell upon introduction into the host
 5 cell, and thereby are replicated along with the host genome. Moreover, certain vectors are capable of
   directing the expression of genes to which they are operatively linked. Such vectors are referred to
   herein as "recombinant expression vectors" (or simply, "expression vectors"). In general, expression
   vectors of utility in recombinant DNA techniques are often in the form of plasmids. In the present
   specification, "plasmid" and "vector" may be used interchangeably as the plasmid is the most
10 commonly used form of vector. However, the invention is intended to include other forms of
   expression vectors, such as viral vectors (e.g., replication defective retroviruses, lentivirus-derived
   vectors, and adenovirus-derived viruses), which serve equivalent or comparable functions.
            The term "operably linked" refers to a juxtaposition of described components wherein the
   components are in a relationship permitting them to function in their intended manner. A control
15 sequence "operably linked" to a coding sequence is ligated in such a way that expression of the coding
   sequence is achieved under conditions compatible with the control sequences. "Operably linked"
   sequences may include both expression control sequences that are contiguous with the gene of interest
   and expression control sequences that act in trans or at a distance to control the gene of interest. The
   term "expression control sequence" refers to polynucleotide sequences that are necessary to effect the
20 expression and processing of coding sequences to which they are ligated. Expression control
   sequences include appropriate transcription initiation, termination, promoter and enhancer sequences;
   efficient RNA processing signals such as splicing and polyadenylation signals; sequences that
   stabilize cytoplasmic mRNA; sequences that enhance translation efficiency (such as, a Kozak
   consensus sequence); sequences that enhance protein stability; and when desired, sequences that
25 enhance protein secretion. The nature of such control sequences differs depending upon the host
   organism; in prokaryotes, such control sequences generally include promoter, ribosomal binding site,
   and transcription termination sequence; in eukaryotes, generally, such control sequences include
   promoters and transcription termination sequence. The term "control sequences" is intended to
   include components whose presence is essential for expression and processing, and can also include
30 additional components whose presence is advantageous, for example, leader sequences and fusion
   partner sequences. Unless stated otherwise, a description or statement herein of inserting a nucleic
   acid molecule encoding a fusion protein of the invention into an expression vector means that the
   inserted nucleic acid has also been operably linked within the vector to a functional promoter and
   other transcriptional and translational control elements required for expression of the encoded fusion
35 protein when the expression vector containing the inserted nucleic acid molecule is introduced into
   compatible host cells or compatible cells of an organism.
                                                        34

            As used herein, the term "recombinant" when used as an adjective describes non-naturally
   altered or manipulated nucleic acids, host cells transfected with exogenous nucleic acids, or
   polypeptides expressed non-naturally, through manipulation of isolated nucleic acid (typically DNA)
   and transfection of host cells or through manipulation of endogenous nucleic acid to alternative
 5 expression by introduction of non-endogenous nucleic acid. "Recombinant" is a term that specifically
   encompasses DNA molecules that have been constructed in vitro using genetic engineering
   techniques, and use of the term "recombinant" as an adjective to describe a molecule, construct,
   vector, cell, protein, polypeptide, peptide, or polynucleotide specifically excludes naturally occurring
   ("endogenous") such molecules, constructs, vectors, cells, proteins, polypeptides, peptides, and
10 polynucleotides in their respective, unisolated, native locations (for example, intracellular, tissue, or
   organ locations).
            The term "recombinant host cell" (or simply, in context, "host cell"), as used herein, is
   intended to refer to a cell into which exogenous nucleic acid has been introduced. It should be
   understood that such terms are intended to refer not only to the particular subject cell but to the
   progeny of such a cell. Because certain modifications may occur in succeeding generations due to
   either mutation or environmental influences, such progeny may not, in fact, be identical to the parent
   cell, but are still included within the scope of the term "host cell" as used herein. Host cells useful in
   various aspects of the invention may be prokaryotic and eukaryotic cells. Preferred prokaryotic host
   cells include various bacterial cells, including Escherichiacoli. While some manipulations,
   constructions, expressions, or replications of nucleic acids or encoded polypeptides related to the
   invention may be conducted using prokaryotic or eukaryotic host cells, the preferred host cells for
   enhanced expression of a target protein of interest, whether in the modified or unmodified
   arrangements described herein, are eukaryotic host cells. Preferred eukaryotic host cells include,
   without limitation, a mammalian host cell, an insect host cell, a plant host cell, a fungal host cell, a
   eukaryotic algal host cell, a nematode host cell, a protozoan host cell, and a fish host cell. Preferably,
   a mammalian host cell is a Chinese Hamster Ovary (CHO) cell, a COS cell, a Vero cell, an SP2/0 cell,
   an NS/0 myeloma cell, a human embryonic kidney (HEK293) cell, a baby hamster kidney (BHK) cell,
   a HeLa cell, a human B cell, a CV-1/EBNA cell, an L cell, a 3T3 cell, an HEPG2 cell, a PerC6 cell, or
   an MDCK cell. Preferred fungal host cells include Aspergillus, Neurospora,Saccharomyces, Pichia,
   Hansenula, Schizosaccharomyces, Kluyveromyces, Yarrowia, and Candida. A particularly preferred
   Saccharomyces host cell is a Saccharomyces cerevisiae cell. A particularly preferred insect host cell
   is an Sf9 cell.
            The terms "heterologous" and "exogenous" are synonymous and are used broadly as
   adjectives to describe any molecule (e.g., protein, polypeptide, nucleic acid) that is not native to a host
   cell containing or expressing the molecule. Accordingly, "heterologous" and "exogenous" encompass
15 the term "recombinant" as defined above.
                                                         35

              "Transgenic organism", as known in the art and as used herein, refers to an organism having
   cells that contain a transgene, wherein the transgene introduced into the organism (or an ancestor of
   the organism) expresses a polypeptide not naturally expressed in the organism or not naturally
   expressed at the normal or proper level to provide the intended function of the polypeptide to the
 5 organism. A "transgene" is a nucleic acid construct, which is stably and operably integrated into the
   genome of a cell from which a transgenic organism develops, directing the expression of an encoded
   gene product in one or more cell types or tissues of the transgenic organism.
             The terms "disease" and "disorder" are used interchangeably to indicate a pathological state
   identified according to acceptable medical standards and practices in the art.
10           As used herein, the term "effective amount" refers to the amount of a therapy that is sufficient
   to reduce or ameliorate the severity and/or duration of a disease or one or more symptoms thereof; to
   prevent the advancement of a detrimental or pathological state; to cause regression of a pathological
   state; to prevent recurrence, development, onset, or progression of one or more symptoms associated
   with a pathological state; to detect a disorder; or to enhance or improve the prophylactic or therapeutic
15 effect(s) of a therapy (e.g. , the administration of another prophylactic or therapeutic agent).
             A "biological sample," as used herein, includes, but is not limited to, any quantity of a
   substance from a living organism or formerly living organism. Such organisms include, but are not
   limited to, humans, non-human primates, mice, rats, monkeys, dogs, rabbits, ruminants, and other
   animals. Such substances of a biological sample may include, but are not limited to, blood, serum,
20 plasma, urine, saliva, sputum, mucus, synovial fluid, milk, semen, cells, organs (for example, heart,
   spleen, lung, kidney, breast, brain, eye, tongue, stomach, pancreas, intestines, gall bladder,
   reproductive organs, appendix), tissues (for example, bone, cartilage, muscle, skin), bone marrow,
   and lymph nodes.
             A composition or method described herein as "comprising" (or which "comprises") one or
25 more named elements or steps is open-ended, meaning that the named elements or steps are essential,
   but other elements or steps may be added within the scope of the composition or method. To avoid
   prolixity, it is also understood that any composition or method described as "comprising" (or which
   "comprises") one or more named elements or steps also describes the corresponding, more limited,
   composition or method "consisting essentially of" (or which "consists essentially of") the same named
30 elements or steps, meaning that the composition or method includes the named essential elements or
   steps and may also include additional elements or steps that do not materially affect the basic and
   novel characteristic(s) of the composition or method. It is also understood that any composition or
   method described herein as "comprising" or "consisting essentially of" one or more named elements
   or steps also describes the corresponding, more limited, and close-ended composition or method
35 "consisting of' (or which "consists of") the named elements or steps to the exclusion of any other
   unnamed element or step.
                                                         36

            The term "J domain analog" as used herein refers to a target protein expression enhancing
   polypeptide (or PEEP) that comprises the sequence of amino acids of formula I (SEQ ID NO:47).
   Such polypeptides, where incorporated into a target protein sequence to make a modified target
   protein or when used to construct a protein expression enhancing polypeptide-target protein binding
 5 domain fusion protein, are useful for effecting an increase in expression of a target protein of interest.
            The terms "J domain active fragment" or "active fragment of a J domain" refer to a fragment
   of a J domain of a J protein which retains the ability to increase the level of expression of a target
   protein when used in the two types of fusion proteins (PEEP/target protein fusion or PEEP/target
   protein binding domain fusion) described herein. The Examples below indicate that J domain active
10 fragments will commonly retain the region of a J domain at the C-terminal extremity of a helix II.
   Larger portions of a J domain may be active as well, but excision of all or part of the C-terminal nine
   amino acids of a helix II invariably leads to loss of protein expression enhancement activity.
            In any composition or method disclosed herein, known or disclosed equivalents of any named
   essential element or step may be substituted for that element or step.
15          Unless specifically indicated, a composition or method is not limited by any particular order
   of the listed elements or steps, unless a particular method step requires the prior performance of
   another step.
            It is also understood that an element or step "selected from the group consisting of" or "any
   of' (or equivalent phrase) refers to one or more of the elements or steps in the list that follows,
20 including combinations of any two or more of the listed elements or steps.
   J Domains Useful in the Invention
            The J domains of a variety of J proteins have been determined. See, for example, Kampinga
   et al., Nat. Rev., 11: 579-592 (2010); Hennessy et al., Protein Science, 14:1697-1709 (2005). A J
   domain useful in preparing a fusion protein of the invention (whether in the modified or unmodified
25 arrangement) has the key defining features of a J domain of any member of the J protein family.
   Accordingly, an isolated J domain useful in the invention comprises a polypeptide domain from a J
   protein, which is characterized by four a-helices (I, II, III, IV) and usually having the highly
   conserved tripeptide sequence of histidine, proline, and aspartic acid (referred to as the "HPD motif")
   between helices II and III. Typically, the J domain of a J protein is between fifty and seventy amino
30 acids in length, and the site of interaction (binding) of a J domain with an Hsp70-ATP chaperone
   protein is believed to be a region extending from within helix II and including the HPD motif.
   Representative J domains include, but are not limited, a J domain of an ERdj protein (for example, a J
   domain of ERdj3 or ERdj5), a J domain of a large T antigen of SV40, and a J domain of a mammalian
   cysteine string protein (CSP-a). The amino acid sequences for these and other J domains that may be
35 used in fusion proteins of the invention are provided in Table 1.
   Table 1. Amino acid sequences of representative isolated J domains.
                                                        37

 J Protein Source of J Domain      SEQ ID       J Domain Amino Acid Sequence
                                    NO:
                                            123456789012345678901234567890
            human Hsp40               1    KDYYQTLGriRGASDE.ETKRAYRRQALRYH
(NP 006136; Heat Shock Protein             PDKNKFPCG.AEEKFKE TAEAYDVL S DPRK
                 40)
            human ErdJ1              2      LN FYFLG VQQD'SSADIRKA YRKLSLTLH
  (NM 022365; DnaJC1, HTJ1,                PDKK DENAETQFRQLVAIYEVLKDDER
                MTJ1,
   DnaJ homolog subfamily C
   member 1 protein, DNAJL1)
            human ErdJ2              3       N     V   PGTVAEKKQYRLLSLKYH
     (NM_001017975; HFM1,                  PDKGGDEVMFMIAKAYAkLTDEES
   SEC63 domain containing 1
      protein, MER3, hHFM1)
            human ErdJ3              4     RDFYKiLGVPRSAS IKDIKKAYYRKLALQLH
 (NM_016306; DNAJB11, DnaJ                 PDRNPDDPQAQEQ DLG2LEVL SDSEK
 (Hsp40) homolog, subfamily B,
member 11, ERj3p, HEDJ, ERj3,
  ABBP2, ER-associated DNAJ
              protein 3)
            human ErdJ4              5     KSYYDiLGVPKSASERQIKKAFHKLAJKYH
      (NM_012328; DNAJB9,                   PDKNP DAEAKFREIAEAYETLSDANR
microvascular differentiation gene
   1 protein, MDG1, endothelial
                Mdgl)
            human ErdJ5              6     QDFYS LLGVSKTASSRE    RQAFKKLALKL I
  (NM 018981; DNAJC10, ER-                 PDKNPNNNAHGDFLKiNRAYELKDFDL
 resident protein ERdj5, JPD1, J
     domain-containing protein
 disulfide isomerase-like protein,
            DnaJ (Hsp40)
              homolog,
            subfamily C,
             member 10,
          hMTHr protein)
            human ErdJ6              7      RDYYKILGVKRNAKKQE I IKAY RKLALQvH
      (NM_006260; DNAJC3,                  PDNFQNEEEKKKAEKKF ID IAAAKEVL SDP
            DnaJ (Hsp40)                   EM
              homolog,
 subfamily C, member 3 protein,
     protein-kinase, interferon
 inducible double stranded RNA
    dependent inhibitor protein,
 P58JPK protein, PRKRI, 58 kDa
   cellular inhibitor protein, p58
    inhibitor of protein kinase)
                                                           2
             human CSP                8    ESLYHVLGLDKiNA'   ThDDIKKSYRKLALKYH
   (NP079495; cysteine string               PDKNPDIPEAADKFKE INNAHAI L i DATK
 protein alpha, CSPalpha protein,
 DNAJC5 protein, cysteine string
 protein, DnaJ (Hsp40) homolog,
 subfamily C, member 5 protein,
            CSP protein)
                                          38

  J Protein Source of J Domain      SEQ ID          J Domain Amino Acid Sequence
                                     NO:
                                             123456789012345678901234567890
        SV40 large T antigen           9     LQLMD LLGLR SAWGNIPLM.RKTY LKKCKE
   (YP_003708382; large tumor               FFHPDKGDEEKKKMNTYKKMEDGVK
  antigen T-ag [Simian virus 40])
                DnaJ                  10    QDYYEILGVSKTPEEREIKKAY'KRLAMKYH
                                            PD RNQGDKETAEAKFKE IKEAYEVL T DSQK
human dnaJ homolog subfamily C,       11    NPFEVLQIDPEVTDEEIKKRFRQLSILVHP
              member 8                       DKNQDDADRAQKAFEAVDKAYKLLLDQEQK
                                            KRALDVIQ
human dnaJ homolog subfamily C,       12    ELYE ILGLHKGASNEE IKKTYRKLALK-H
             member 5B                        DKN DDPATEKFKEINNAHI-          L TD SK
human dnaJ homolog subfamily C,       13     LNBFHVLGVEATAS DVELKKAYRQLAVMVH
             member 14                      PDKNHHPRXEEAFKVLRAAWDi-ISNAEK
human dnaJ homolog subfamily C,       14    RDCYE'LGVSRSAGKAE IARAY RQLAIRRYH
        member 25 precursor                 PDRYRPQPGDEGGRTPQSAE'E'FL LV"FTA
                                            YE TLKDE      T
human dnaJ homolog subfamily B,       15     ASYYE LDVPRSASADDIKKAYRRKALQWH
         member 2, isoform a                 BDKNPDN KEFKKFKEVEAYEVL              KHUK
human dnaJ homolog subfamily B,       16    ASYYELVP7 T"A-          DTKK'-YRRK AL WH
        member 2, isoform b                 PDKNPDNKEAFAKKFKEVAE     ,     YEVL'SKHK
              Chain A,                17     TTYYDVLGV'KPNTQE LKKAYRKL ALK-,YH
nmr structure of B008182 protein,           BDKNPNEGEKF'KQ SQAYEVL H)AKK
     a human Dnaj-like domain
              Chain A,                18      1SYYE   IL DV         ISASADDT
                                                                       KKTAYRRKALQWI-I
 solution structure of J Domain of           BDKNPDNKEFAE.KKFKEVEAYEVL             I K
                Hsjla
              Chain A,                19     KD SWDML GVKPGASRDEVN KAY RK7AVL LH
  solution structure of a Dnaj-like         PDK(V-,PGSE DAFKAN R             A    FTL
domain from human ras-associated
            protein Rap1
              Chain A,                20     VDYYEVL DVRQASSEAIKKAYRKLALKWH
 solution structure of Dnaj domain           BDKNPENKEEAERRFKQVAEAYEVL SDAKK
      of human protein Hcg3, a
         hypothetical protein
           Tmpjlocus_21
              Chain A,                21     GDYYQ-         r       EIKKAYYQLAKYH
solution structure of J domain from          PDTNKDDPKA        KF SQLAEAYEvL SDElVK
Dnaj homolog, human Tidl protein
              Chain A,                22     GYYDG V"PKSSERTKKTAF LAK Y
solution structure of J domain from         PDKN KSPAAYKFRE TAE AYE TL DANEFS
human Dnaj subfamily B, member
                  9
              Chain A,                23     GDYYE      IGV'GA7)SDEDLKKAYRRLALKH
solution structure of J domain from           DKNHAPGTEAFKAIGTAYAVL SNP-K
human Dnaj subfamily B, member
                                           39

 J Protein Source of J Domain       SEQ ID        J Domain Amino Acid Sequence
                                     NO:
                                            123456789012345678901234567890
                 12
              Chain A,                24    KD YYQT     LARGADEE IKRARRQALRTH
   human Hsp40 (HDJ-1), nmr                 PDKNKEPGAEEKFKE AEAYDV @DPRK
Chain A, solution structure of Dnaj   25    TA L YD LL GVB STATQAQ I T AYYRQC         YIH
  domain from human Williams-               PDRNSGSAEAAERF T-, , QAVV                TL
  Beuren syndrome chromosome
         region 18 protein
  Chain A, solution structure of J    26    ANYYEVLGVQSA_ PEDIPKKAYRKLAL
     domain of Dnaj homolog                 BDKNBDNKEEAEKKFKLVSEAY EVL SD SKK
            subfamily B,
              member 8
  Chain A, solution structure of J    27    EDYYT LLGCDEL SSVEQILAEFKVRALECH
     domain of Dnaj homolog                 BDKHBENPKAVE FQKLQKAKE ILTNEES
            subfamily C,
             member 12
 Chain A, Dnaj domain of human        28    SILKEVTSVVEQAWKLPESERKKI IRRLYL
         Kiaa0730 protein                   KWHPDKNPENHDIANEVFKHLQNEINR
 human dnaJ homolog, subfamily        29    VDYYEVLGVQRHASPED IKKAYRKLALKWH
                 B,                         PDKNPE1KEEAERKFKQVAEYEl SDAKK
       member 6, isoform a
 human dnaJ homolog, subfamily        30    "DY     1EVLGQRHA'PEDTKKAYRKLALKW
                 B,                         PD KP EIKEEA ERFKQVAEAYEVL SDAKK
       member 6, isoform b
 human dnaJ homolog, subfamily        31    KSYY     LGKA             I K K AF HK    K 1H
                 B,                           DKNKSPDAEAKFRE IA         AYET
       member 9 precursor
 human DnaJ(Hsp40)homolog,            32      L     VLQIDPEVTDEKKRFRQLSILVH
            subfamily C,                    PD KN QDDDR.KCFAF.A,VDKAYKI:TLLQEQ
             member 8,
          isoform CRA_c
 human DnaJ (Hsp40) homolog,          33    DDAYEVLNLPQGQGPHDE SKI.RKAYFRLAQ
            subfamily C,                    KYHPDKNPEGRDMFEKVNKAYEFL CTK SA
             member 13,
          isoform CRA_b
 human DnaJ (Hsp40) homolog,          34    REAALILGVSPTANKGKIRDAHRRIMLLNH
            subfamily C,                    PDKGK
             member 19,
          isoform CRA_e
 human DnaJ (Hsp40) homolog,          35    E.SYHVLGLDKNATSDDIKKSYRKLALKYH
            subfamily C,                    PDKNPDNPEAADKFKE iNNAHA iLTDATK
             member 5,
          isoform CRA_b
 human DnaJ (Hsp40) homolog,          36    STYYLL GVHPGSTEEVKRAFFSKSKELH
            subfamily C,                    PDRDP G'NP SLH SR"VELSEAYRVLSREQS
             member 4,
          isoform CRA_f
   human zinc finger, CSL-type        37    KDWYS T7APSANI7SDLKQKYQKL             ILMYT
   containing 3, isoform CRAc               PDKQ S TVPAG VE'E CVQKF I E DQAWnK I L
                                           40

      J Protein Source of J Domain          SEQ ID            J Domain Amino Acid Sequence
                                              NO:
                                                       123456789012345678901234567890
      human DnaJ (Hsp40) homolog,               38     MDLYALLGIEKAADKEVKKAYQ)KALSC
                 subfamily C,                          PDKNPDNPRA\E LTUQLSQA\LEVL TAAA
                  member 17,
               isoform CRA_a
      human DnaJ (Hsp40) homolog,               39     KS YYDILGVPKSASEQI KKAFH KLAMKIIY'f
                 subfamily B,                          PDKNK SPDAEJAKFRE        IAEGASVPAA S SF
                  member 9,
               isoform CRA_a
      human DnaJ (Hsp40) homolog,               40     STYYELLGVHPGASTEVKRAFFSKSKELH
                 subfamily C,                          PDRDPGNBSL S          VELSEAYVLS.EQS
                  member 4,
               isoform CRA g
      human DnaJ (Hsp40) homolog,               41     STYYELLGVHPGASTFEVKRAFFSKSKELH
                 subfamily C,                          PDRDPNIPSL H        R-VELSEAYRVLSREQS
                  member 4,
               isoform CRA_a
      human DnaJ(Hsp40)homolog,                 42     EDYYLN V7SSEIEL.KAAYRRLCMLYH
                 subfamily C,                          PDKHRDPELKSQAERLFNLVHOAYEVLSDP
                  member 11,                             T
               isoform CRA_c
        human zinc finger, CSL-type             43     KDWS   3 TGPANI        SD L.KQKYQKL ILMYT
        containing 3, isoform CRAb                     PDKQS'TDVPAG TVEE CVQK I E DQAWKI L
         human J-type co-chaperone              44     RD YFS LMD CNR S FRVDTAKLQHRYQQLQRL
          HSC20, isoform CRAc                          V P DFFSQF SQTEK DFSEKPHST LVNDAYKT
        human hCG1994888, isoform               45     PDCYEVLGVSRSAGKAEIARAYRQLARRYH
                   CRA_d                                PDRQPGDEGPGFTPQSAEEAFLLVATA
                                                        YE T LDEEPT
      human DnaJ (Hsp40) homolog,               46     TTY 'YDVLiGVKPNATQEELKKAYRKLALKYH
                 subfamily A,                          -PDKNPNErGEKVMLY ISSQ
                  member 1,
               isoform CRA_a
  J Domain Fra2ments and Analo2s with Protein Expression Enhancin2 Activity
           Further study of J domains using sequence analysis, including amino and carboxy terminal
  deletion analysis, revealed that only a relatively small portion of a J domain is required to provide
5 protein expression enhancement activity. Surprisingly, the analysis determined that protein
  expression enhancement activity according to the invention can be provided by a polypeptide
  fragment isolated from within a J domain and that consists of as little as 9 or 10 amino acids. See,
  Examples 10 and 11, infra. As with isolated J domains, such J domain polypeptide fragments may be
  used in the methods and compositions described herein to enhance expression of a target protein of
                                                      41

   interest in its intended cellular (intracellular, membrane-associated) or extracellular (secreted)
   location. The individual J domain polypeptide fragments are not all identical in amino acid sequence,
   but may share some sequence homology and structural features in addition to providing a protein
   expression enhancement activity in either a modified or an unmodified arrangement described herein.
 5          Further deletion and substitution mutation analysis of the above-mentioned J domain
   polypeptide fragments provided the basis for defining a structural formula for a new family of J
   domain analog polypeptides that possess target protein expression enhancement activity. The
   members of this family of analog polypeptides comprise 8 to 9 amino acids and include some J
   domain polypeptide fragments as well as polypeptides that have not been previously identified in the
10 current library of J domains. See, Example 11.
            The smaller size of J domain polypeptide fragments and of J domain analog polypeptides
   compared to complete (full-length) J domains reduces the size of fusion proteins that can be
   constructed and expressed in the modified and unmodified arrangements of the invention for
   enhancing expression of a target protein of interest. Thus, the size of recombinant nucleic acid
15 molecules encoding such fusion proteins can be correspondingly smaller than nucleic acid molecules
   that encode fusion proteins comprising a complete J domain. The relatively small size of J domain
   polypeptide fragments and J domain analog polypeptides of the invention may be particularly
   beneficial in reducing the immunogenicity of fusion proteins of the modified arrangement in which a
   protein expression enhancing polypeptide is linked (fused) to a target protein of interest to form a
20 modified (fusion) target protein that is expressed in or administered to a subject in place of the
   (unlinked) target protein of interest. The less immunogenic the fusion protein is, the more likely the
   fusion protein can persist in the subject in order to provide the subject with the beneficial property or
   effect of the fusion protein without being rapidly eliminated or inhibited by an immune response
   directed to the fusion protein.
25 Fusion Proteins Comprising a Protein Expression Enhancing Polypeptide
            According to the invention, a protein expression enhancing polypeptide described herein is
   used as a component of a fusion protein that enhances expression of a target protein of interest for
   which there is a need to improve expression in a host cell. The protein expression enhancing
   polypeptide is used to enhance expression of a target protein of interest in either of two arrangements
30 that describe the primary structure (amino acid sequence) of the expressed target protein of interest.
            In the "modified" arrangement for enhancing protein expression, a protein expression
   enhancing polypeptide is linked to a target protein of interest to form a fusion protein, i.e., a
   "modified" target protein of interest, which is expressed at an enhanced level compared to that of the
   unmodified target protein that is poorly expressed in the absence of a protein expression enhancing
35 polypeptide. Thus, the fusion protein in the modified arrangement is a modified form of the target
                                                        42

   protein of interest that is expressed and employed as a surrogate in place of the poorly expressed,
   unmodified target protein.
            In the "unmodified" arrangement for enhancing protein expression, the primary structure of
   the target protein of interest remains unaltered ("unmodified") in that it is not fused to a protein
 5 expression enhancing polypeptide. A protein expression enhancing polypeptide of the invention is
   linked to a target protein binding domain that has an affinity for and binds to a target protein of
   interest. Co-expression of the fusion protein and the unmodified target protein of interest in a host
   cell results in an enhanced level of expression of the target protein of interest as compared to the level
   of expression in the absence of the target protein-binding fusion protein.
10          As the primary structure (amino acid sequence) of a target protein of interest remains
   unaltered (not linked in a fusion protein) in the unmodified arrangement, it is likely that for many
   applications, the unmodified arrangement for enhancing protein expression will be preferred over the
   modified arrangement. However, as explained below, it is also possible to engineer the fusion protein
   of a modified arrangement so that the protein expression enhancing polypeptide component of the
15 fusion protein is easily cleaved to liberate the target protein component comprising the original amino
   acid sequence of the target protein with no or only a few additional remnant amino acids from the
   fusion protein. Such a fusion protein may be more suitable than the unmodified target protein for
   certain applications.
            While it is possible to synthesize a fusion protein in either arrangement using direct synthesis
20 (for example, solid-phase peptide synthesis, solution-phase synthesis, etc.), it is likely that in most
   cases a fusion protein described herein will be more economically produced using standard
   recombinant nucleic acid techniques, including polymerase chain reaction (PCR) techniques, in
   concert with cell culture methods or transgenic methods.
            Standard techniques may be used for recombinant DNA, oligonucleotide synthesis,
25 transfection of cells (for example, without limitation, electroporation, liposome-mediated transfection,
   transformation methods), and cell and tissue culture methods to express a fusion protein of the
   invention. Enzymatic reactions and purification techniques may be performed as commonly
   accomplished in the art, as described in a manufacturer's specifications, or as described herein. The
   foregoing techniques and procedures may be generally performed according to conventional methods
30 well known in the art and as described in various general and more specific references that are cited
   and discussed throughout the present specification. See e.g., Sambrook et al., eds., Molecular
   Cloning: A Laboratory Manual, Second Edition (Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory Press, Cold Spring
   Harbor, New York, 1989) and Ausubel et al. (eds.), Current Protocols in Molecular Biology (John
   Wiley & Sons, New York, 2012), which are incorporated herein by reference.
35          As noted above, the terms "modified" and "unmodified" refer to whether or not a target
   protein of interest is linked to a protein expression enhancing polypeptide. It is understood that in
                                                        43

   some embodiments of both the modified and unmodified arrangements, it may be beneficial to link
   one or more additional domains may to a fusion protein or target protein of interest. For example, any
   of the well-known epitope tag peptides (epitope tags) may be incorporated into a protein to facilitate
   detection and/or purification of the expressed protein. Such epitope tags include, but are not limited
 5 to, a V5 epitope tag (GKPIPNPLLGLDST (SEQ ID NO: 110)), a Flag epitope tag (DYKDDDDK
   (SEQ ID NO: 111)), a hexa-histidine epitope tag (HHHHHH (SEQ ID NO: 112)), a hemagglutinin
   epitope tag (YPYDVPDYA (SEQ ID NO:113)), a c-myc epitope tag (EQKLISEEDL (SEQ ID
   NO: 114)), a VSV-G epitope tag (YTDIEMNRLGK (SEQ ID NO: 115)), and a HSV epitope tag
   (QPELAPEDPED (SEQ ID NO: 116)). As explained below, it is also possible to link a protein with
10 such an epitope tag using a linker that can be cleaved by a proteolytic enzyme and thereby removed
   (or substantially removed) from the protein.
   Linkers
            Any domain may be linked to another domain within a fusion protein of the invention by
   methods known in the art. For example, in the modified arrangement of the invention, a fusion
15 protein comprises a protein expression enhancing polypeptide linked to a target protein of interest.
   The expressed fusion protein is therefore a modified target protein that can be used as a surrogate for
   the unfused and poorly expressed target protein of interest. The protein expression enhancing
   polypeptide may be linked directly to the target protein of interest or linked indirectly via a linker
   molecule. In the unmodified arrangement of the invention, a fusion protein comprises a protein
20 expression enhancing polypeptide linked to a target protein binding domain that has an affinity for
   and binds to a target protein of interest. Co-expression of the fusion protein with the target protein of
   interest enhances the level of expression of the unmodified (unfused) target protein of interest
   compared to the level of expression in the absence of the fusion protein. The protein expression
   enhancing polypeptide may be linked directly to the target protein binding domain or linked indirectly
25 via a linker molecule. Other domains may also be linked to a fusion protein or unfused protein in
   either the modified and unmodified arrangements to provide one or more additional features. For
   example, an epitope tag may be linked to a fusion protein or unfused protein to facilitate detection or
   purification of the tagged protein.
            At the amino acid level, a linker may be one or more amino acids, including 1 to 10 amino
30 acids, 1 to 20 amino acids, and even 1 to 50 amino acids. Typically, with respect to linking a protein
   expression enhancing polypeptide to a target protein of interest (in the modified arrangement) or to a
   target protein binding domain (in the unmodified arrangement), it is not necessary to use a linker that
   is more than 20 amino acids because linking a protein expression enhancing polypeptide directly to a
   target protein of interest or to a target protein binding domain does not appear to significantly
35 diminish the necessary biochemical and functional properties of the protein of interest or the target
   protein binding domain (data not shown).
                                                         44

             Selecting one or more linkers to produce a fusion protein according to the invention is within
   the knowledge and skill of the art. See, for example, Arai et al., ProteinEng., 14(8): 529-532 (2001);
   Crasto et al., Protein Eng., 13(5): 309-314 (2000); George et al., ProteinEng., 15(11): 871-879
   (2003); Robinson et al., Proc.Natl. Acad. Sci. USA, 95: 5929-5934 (1998). General considerations
 5 for using a particular linker to link a protein expression enhancing polypeptide to a target protein of
   interest or to a target protein binding domain may include those in making other fusion proteins in
   which one functional domain is linked to another functional domain, for example, as may be
   considered in linking immunoglobulin variable and/or constant domains in a wide variety of formats
   for producing engineered functional binding proteins. Clearly, a linker should not interfere with the
10 folding of a target protein of interest or a target protein binding domain that is linked to a protein
   expression enhancing polypeptide. A linker, if present in a fusion protein, is selected to optimize the
   contribution of the protein expression enhancing polypeptide to increase levels of expression or yield
   of the fusion protein in the modified arrangement or the (unfused) target protein of interest in the in
   the unmodified arrangement, and it may be omitted if direct attachment of a protein expression
15 enhancement polypeptide to the target protein of interest or target protein binding domain achieves a
   desired enhanced level of expression. Linker molecules present in a fusion protein of the invention
   may comprise one or more amino acids encoded by a nucleotide sequence present on a segment of
   nucleic acid in or around a cloning site of an expression vector into which is inserted in frame a
   nucleic acid segment encoding a protein domain (e.g., protein expression enhancing polypeptide,
20 protein of interest, target protein binding domain) or an entire fusion protein.
             Linker molecules, especially those that are four amino acids and longer, preferably possess a
   flexibility that permits the protein of interest to fold into its proper conformation. A variety of
   relatively flexible linkers are known in the field for linking functional domains. A linker may also be
   used to link one or more additional domains, such as an epitope tag, to the protein expression
25 enhancing polypeptide or protein of interest of a fusion protein of the invention. Linkers that may be
   used in preparing a fusion protein according to the invention, include, by are not limited to, DIAAA
   (SEQ ID NO:117); DIAAALE (SEQ ID NO:118); GTGSEF (SEQ 1D NO:119); AS; TVA; ASTK
   (SEQ ID NO:120); GGGSGGSGGSGG (SEQ ID NO: 121); DIGGGSGGSGGSGGAAA (SEQ ID
   NO:122); AKTTPKLEEGEFSEAR (SEQ ID NO:123); AKTTPKLEEGEFSEARV (SEQ ID
30 NO:124); AKTTPKLGG (SEQ ID NO:125); SAKTTPKLGG (SEQ ID NO:126); SAKTTP (SEQ ID
   NO:127); RADAAP (SEQ ID NO: 128); RADAAPTVS (SEQ ID NO:129); RADAAAAGGPGS
   (SEQ ID NO:130); RADAAAA(G 4S) 4 (SEQ ID NO:13 1); SAKTTPKLEEGEFSEARV (SEQ ID
   NO:132); ADAAP (SEQ ID NO:133); ADAAPTVSIFPP (SEQ ID NO:134); TVAAP (SEQ ID
   NO:135); TVAAPSVFIFPP (SEQ ID NO:136); QPKAAP (SEQ ID NO:137); QPKAAPSVTLFPP
35 (SEQ ID NO:138); AKTTPP (SEQ 1D NO:139); AKTTPPSVTPLAP (SEQ ID NO:140); AKTTAP
   (SEQ ID NO:141); AKTTAPSVYPLAP (SEQ ID NO:142); ASTKGP (SEQ ID NO:143);
                                                          45

   ASTKGPSVFPLAP (SEQ ID NO:144), GGGGSGGGGSGGGGS (SEQ ID NO: 145);
   GENKVEYAPALMALS (SEQ ID NO:146); GPAKELTPLKEAKVS (SEQ ID NO:147);
   GHEAAAVMQVQYPAS (SEQ ID NO:148); GGGGGGGP (SEQ ID NO:149); GGGGGGGGP
   (SEQ ID NO:150); PAPNLLGGP (SEQ ID NO: 151); PNLLGGP (SEQ ID NO:152); GGGGGGP
 5 (SEQ ID NO:153); PAPELLGGP (SEQ ID NO:154); PTISPAPNLLGGP (SEQ ID NO:155);
   TVAADDDDKSVFIVPP (SEQ ID NO:156); TVDDDDKAAP (SEQ ID NO: 157); LVPRGSAAP
   (SEQ ID NO:158); ASTKGPSV (SEQ ID NO:159); ASTKGPSVFP (SEQ ID NO:160); TVAAPSV
   (SEQ ID NO:161); TVAAPSVFI (SEQ ID NO:162); and the like.
            In some embodiments, a fusion protein may contain one or more linkers that can be cleaved
10 by one or more proteases. Such linkers possess an amino acid sequence that is recognized by a
   protease for cleavage of the protein at or near the recognition sequence. Incorporating one or more
   cleavable linker molecules into a fusion protein provides the option of removing one or more domains
   from the expressed fusion protein. By way of non-limiting examples, in some applications or
   preparations, it may be desirable to remove the polypeptide expression enhancing polypeptide linked
15 to the protein of interest (for example, to reduce potential immunogenicity) and/or to remove an
   epitope tag that had been incorporated into a fusion protein to facilitate detection or purification of the
   expressed fusion protein. In another example, if the fusion protein is secreted, a polypeptide
   expression enhancing polypeptide (or other domain) linked by a cleavable linker to the protein of
   interest may be removed by adding the appropriate protease directly to the medium of cultures
20 expressing the fusion protein. Alternatively, the protein expression enhancing polypeptide (or other
   domain) linked by the cleavable linker may be removed after performing one or more steps to purify
   the fusion protein from the culture medium.
            It may be useful in some situations to remove a domain or epitope tag linked to a protein.
   This can be accomplished, for example, by expressing the protein comprising the additional domain
25 or tag in cells in which the expression of a protease that can cleave a linker of the protein is regulated,
   such as incorporating into the cell a recombinant gene for the appropriate protease under the control of
   a promoter that can be regulated by a signal (e.g., temperature shift) or agent (ion change) that can be
   applied to a culture after the cells have expressed the fusion protein. A variety of promoters are
   available in the art for regulating gene expression in prokaryotic or eukaryotic cells. In addition,
30 some cells express one or more proteases that can cleave a linker molecule containing a corresponding
   cleavage site. It is within the skill of a practitioner in the art to determine whether use of a protease
   that may be expressed by a host cell may be useful to cleave a linker in a fusion protein expressed by
   the same host cell. Alternatively, it is possible to add an appropriate protease to a sample, such as
   culture medium or cell lysate, containing a protein linked to an additional domain or tag via a
35 protease-cleavable linker.
                                                          46

            A variety of linker molecules containing proteolytic cleavage sites are known and available in
   the art for linking one protein or protein domain to another. Such linkers include, but are not limited
   to, one of more of the following examples, where the asterisk (*) indicates the proteolytic cleavage
   site: DYKDDDDK* (SEQ ID NO: 163); ASDDDDK*GGP (SEQ ID NO:164); ALVPR*GSGP (SEQ
 5 ID NO:165 ); ASTDDDDK*SVFPLAP (SEQ ID NO:166 ); TVALVPR*GSVFIFPP (SEQ ID
   NO:167 ); ASTLVPR*GSVFPLAP (SEQ ID NO: 168); TVAADDDK*SVFIVPP (SEQ ID NO:169);
   ASTDDDK*SVFPLAP (SEQ ID NO: 170); LEVLFQ*GP (SEQ ID NO:171);
   TVAALEVLFQ*GPAP (SEQ ID NO:172); ASTLEVLFQ*GPLAP (SEQ ID NO: 173);
   PAPLEVLFQ*GP (SEQ ID NO: 174); TAENLYFQ*GAP (SEQ ID NO: 175); AENLYFQ*GA (SEQ
10 ID NO:176); PGPFGR*SAGGP (SEQ ID NO: 177); PGPFGR*SAGG (SEQ ID NO:178);
   PQRGR*SAG (SEQ ID NO:179); PHYGR*SGG (SEQ ID NO:180); GPFGR*SAGP (SEQ ID
   NO:181); GDDDDK*GGP (SEQ ID NO:182); AGDDDDK*GGP (SEQ ID NO:183);
   GGDDDDK*GGP (SEQ ID NO:184); ENLYFQ*G (SEQ ID NO:185); ENLYFQ*S (SEQ ID
   NO:186); and the like.
15          A variety of proteolytic enzymes are known in the art that may be used to cleave a cleavable
   linker employed in a protein of the invention. Clearly, a protease that is selected to cleave a cleavable
   linker in a fusion protein comprising a target protein of interest should not also cleave the target
   protein of interest or any other domain that is desired to be retained after cleavage of the linker.
   Proteolytic enzymes that may be used to cleave a fusion protein at a site in a linker within the fusion
20 protein include, but are not limited to, enterokinase, factor Xa, thrombin, PreScission, tobacco etch
   virus (TEV) protease, tissue plasminogen activator (tPA), a zinc-dependent endopeptidase, a matrix
   metalloproteinase (MMP), a serralysin, an astacin, an adamalysin, a disintegrin, an ADAM, a caspase,
   a cathespsin, a calpain, and the like.
   Nucleic Acids Encodin2 Fusion Proteins
25          Using standard methods available in the art, a nucleic acid (typically DNA) molecule is
   constructed that encodes a fusion protein employed in a modified or unmodified arrangement for
   enhancing expression of a target protein of interest. One or more additional domains may also be
   incorporated into a protein, such as a standard epitope tag used to facilitate detection and/or
   purification of the protein. A nucleic acid molecule encoding a desired fusion protein can be inserted
30 into any of a variety cloning vectors available in the art for the purpose of replicating the recombinant
   structural gene for the fusion protein. For expressing a fusion protein, a nucleic acid molecule
   encoding the fusion protein can be inserted into any of a variety of expression vectors available in the
   art. An expression vector with the inserted nucleic acid encoding the fusion protein is then introduced
   into compatible host cells that permit expression of the fusion protein from the expression vector. In
35 the case of an unmodified arrangement, a vector may also contain a copy of functional structural gene
                                                        47

   encoding the unmodified target protein of interest if the host cell does not possess a functional gene
   for the target protein of interest.
             Expression vectors of the invention include expression vector molecules comprising a nucleic
   acid segment encoding a protein expression enhancing polypeptide described herein and one or more
 5 cloning sites (for example, unique restriction enzyme sites) located 5' or 3' to the protein expression
   enhancing polypeptide coding sequence into which a nucleic acid molecule encoding another domain
   of the fusion protein may be inserted: in a modified arrangement, a nucleic acid encoding a target
   protein of interest may be inserted to form the desired fusion protein (modified target protein);
   whereas in an unmodified arrangement, a nucleic acid encoding a target protein binding domain may
10 be inserted to form a fusion protein that is capable of binding to and enhancing expression of an
   unmodified target protein of interest. An expression vector may also possess multiple cloning sites
   that permit the insertion of one or more additional nucleic acid segments encoding one or more other
   desired domains (for example, an epitope tag, Fc region, etc.) to construct and express a desired
   fusion protein. The final nucleic acid fusion construct encoding a desired fusion is operably linked to
15 a promoter on the expression vector. Engineering cloning sites into a vector molecule and operably
   linking an inserted nucleic acid segment encoding a desired protein to a promoter and other signals
   required for expression of the protein in a compatible host cell are within the skill in the art.
             While a description herein for assembling a nucleic acid construct encoding a fusion protein
   of the invention may suggest a particular stepwise order to the linking of various nucleic acid
20 molecules followed by insertion of the fully assembled nucleic acid construct into an expression
   vector, it is understood and appreciated that the exact order of linking segments of nucleic acid
   molecules to produce a nucleic acid construct encoding a desired fusion protein is within the
   discretion, skill, and experience of a practitioner in this art. Moreover, although it is possible to first
   link all segments together to form a nucleic acid molecule encoding a fusion protein prior to insertion
25 into an expression vector, in some cases, a nucleic acid segment encoding one or more domains may
   already properly reside within an expression vector so that it is practical to insert one or more nucleic
   acid segments adjacent to the segment(s) already residing in the expression vector and thereby
   assemble within the expression vector an operably linked structural gene for a desired fusion protein
   of the invention.
30           Expression vectors encoding a fusion protein of the invention may be transfected into any of a
   variety of host cells that are compatible for expressing the fusion protein from the particular
   expression vector. Although some steps in the process of constructing a recombinant structural gene
   encoding a fusion protein of the invention may be conducted in either prokaryotic or eukaryotic cells,
   the preferred host cell for enhanced expression of fusion proteins according to the invention are
35 eukaryotic cells. Eukaryotic host cells useful in the invention include, but are not limited to, a
   mammalian host cell, an insect host cell, a plant host cell, a fungal host cell, a eukaryotic algal host
                                                         48

   cell, a nematode host cell, a protozoan host cell, and a fish host cell. Mammalian host cells useful for
   expressing a fusion protein of the invention include, but are not limited to, a Chinese Hamster Ovary
   (CHO) cell, a COS cell, a Vero cell, an SP2/0 cell, an NS/0 myeloma cell, a human embryonic kidney
   (HEK293) cell, a baby hamster kidney (BHK) cell, a HeLa cell, a human B cell, a CV-1/EBNA cell,
 5 an L cell, a 3T3 cell, an HEPG2 cell, a PerC6 cell, and an MDCK cell. Fungal host cells useful for
   expressing a J domain fusion protein of the invention include, but are not limited to, Aspergillus,
   Neurospora,Saccharomyces, Pichia, Hansenula, Schizosaccharomyces,Kluyveromyces, Yarrowia,
   and Candida. A particularly useful Saccharomyceshost cell is a Saccharomyces cerevisiae cell.
            Using methods available in the art, nucleic acid molecules encoding a fusion protein of the
10 invention may be introduced into cells of a plant or non-human animal for the purpose of expressing
   the fusion protein in levels that permit easy purification of the fusion protein or as a gene therapy to
   provide the plant, human, or non-human animal with the benefit of the function provided by the
   protein of interest within the expressed fusion protein. Such methods can be used to provide
   transgenic plants or animals that express the fusion protein encoded by the transferred nucleic acid
15 (transgene) encoding the fusion protein. In the case of plants and non-human animals, techniques are
   available for incorporating expressible nucleic acid encoding a protein into the germline so that
   progeny of the transgenic organism also can express the fusion protein. A variety of vectors and
   methods are available for introducing nucleic acid into cells of a plant or non-human animal
   including, but not limited to, syringe injection of naked DNA into cells, ballistic transfer (for example,
20 using a gene gun), liposomes, and virus-derived vector molecules.
            A gene therapy for treating a human subject according to the invention may employ a
   recombinant gene encoding a fusion protein that comprises an expression enhancing polypeptide in
   either a modified or unmodified arrangement described herein. Such gene therapy is especially useful
   in diseases in which an improperly folded protein species results in loss or substantial loss of function
25 as to cause a clinically recognized pathological condition. Examples of diseases in which an
   improperly folded protein species resulting in loss of function has been demonstrated or implicated
   include, but are not limited to, prion-associated disease (transmissible spongiform encephalopathy),
   Alzheimer's disease; Parkinson's disease; Huntington's disease; cystic fibrosis (CF), and al
   antitrypsin (AAT) deficiency.
30          In a gene therapy employing a modified arrangement of the invention, a recombinant gene is
   constructed encoding a fusion protein comprising a protein expression enhancing polypeptide linked
   to a target protein of interest. The recombinant gene is inserted into a vector, which in turn is
   integrated into the genome of somatic cells of a human subject. In most cases, it is not necessary for
   the recombinant vector to be taken up and integrated into the genome of all somatic cells, but only a
35 sub-population of cells that may be relevant to a particular disease. The fusion protein expressed from
   the integrated recombinant gene in the somatic cells of the human subject treats the disease by
                                                        49

   restoring a function of the endogenous target protein of interest that is otherwise missing, has been
   lost, or is so diminished as to cause a clinically recognized disease in a human subject.
             In a gene therapy employing an unmodified arrangement of the invention, a recombinant gene
   is constructed encoding a fusion protein comprising a protein expression enhancing polypeptide
 5 linked to a target protein binding domain that has an affinity for and binds a target protein of interest.
   The recombinant gene is inserted into a vector, which in turn is integrated into the genome of somatic
   cells of a human subject. Again, in most cases, it is not necessary for the recombinant vector to be
   taken up and integrated into that genome of all somatic cells, but only a sub-population of cells that
   may be relevant to a particular disease. Expression of the fusion protein from the integrated
10 recombinant gene in the cells of the human subject enhances expression of the endogenous target
   protein of interest so that the protein can provide the cells with the required function provided by the
   target protein to avoid a clinically recognized disease. If the endogenous gene for the endogenous
   target protein of interest is not functional or has been deleted, then a recombinant gene encoding the
   target protein of interest must also be constructed and inserted into a vector for integration into the
15 genome of a human subject for expression along with the fusion protein.
             Any of a variety of vectors, agents, and methods may be used to introduce nucleic acid
   molecules into the somatic cells of a human subject including, but not limited to, modified viruses
   (e.g., a modified adenovirus, a modified lentivirus), virus-associated virus (e.g., an adenovirus
   associated virus), naked DNA (such as naked plasmid DNA), compacted DNA in nanoparticles, and
20 liposomes (e.g., using various cationic lipids).
   Fusion Proteins Comprising a Protein Expression Enhancing Polypeptide and a Target Protein
   of Interest in a Modified Arran2ement
             A fusion protein in a modified arrangement of the invention comprises a protein expression
   enhancing polypeptide (or PEEP, comprising an isolated J domain, an active J domain polypeptide
25 fragment, or J domain analog polypeptide as described herein) linked to a target protein of interest.
   Preferably, the protein expression enhancing polypeptide is linked to the amino (N) terminus or
   carboxy (C) terminus of the target protein of interest. The protein expression enhancing polypeptide
   may also be spaced from the protein of interest by one or more intervening polypeptide sequences
   such as linkers, enzyme cleavage sites, epitope tags, and the like. Insertion of a protein expression
30 enhancing polypeptide within a target protein of interest is possible, however as a practical matter this
   requires more complicated recombinant DNA engineering and has a high likelihood of interfering
   with the proper folding, desired function, or other properties of the target protein of interest, and is
   therefore generally less preferred. A target protein of interest that may be used to make a fusion
   protein of a modified arrangement according to the invention may be any protein or polypeptide that
35 has a desirable property, including soluble proteins that normally reside in an intracellular location;
   membrane-associated proteins (including transmembrane proteins); secreted proteins; and genetically
                                                         50

   engineered, non-naturally occurring, proteins. Such engineered, non-naturally occurring proteins may
   include, but are not limited to, recombinant soluble forms of natural membrane-associated proteins,
   for example, the extracellular domain of a transmembrane protein (for example, integrins,
   complement regulatory proteins). Another example of engineered, non-naturally occurring proteins
 5 that may be used as a target protein component of a fusion protein in a modified arrangement are
   recombinant fusion proteins comprising a recombinant soluble receptor molecule in which an
   extracellular binding domain of a cell surface receptor is fused to an immunoglobulin Fc domain or
   immunoglobulin scaffold. A non-limiting example of such a non-naturally occurring fusion protein is
   etanercept in which the extracellular domain of the p75 human TNFa receptor molecule is linked to
10 the hinge and Fc domain of an IgG1 immunoglobulin. Other proteins that may be used as a target
   protein of interest in a fusion protein of a modified arrangement of the invention include, but are not
   limited to, antibodies and antigen-binding portions thereof, cytokines, peptide hormones, enzymes
   (e.g., thrombin, lactase, proteases, transferases, kinases, etc.), and morphogenetic proteins.
    Fusion Proteins Comprising a Protein Enhancing Expression Polypeptide and a Target Protein
15 Bindin2 Domain in an Unmodified Arran2ement
             A protein expression enhancing polypeptide (comprising an isolated J domain, active J
   domain polypeptide fragment, or J domain analog polypeptide as described herein) may also be used
   in an unmodified arrangement to enhance expression of a target protein of interest at its intended
   location. In an unmodified arrangement according to this invention, a fusion protein comprises a
20 protein expression enhancing polypeptide linked to a target protein binding domain that has an
   affinity for and binds a target protein of interest. Thus, in an unmodified arrangement of the
   invention, the target protein of interest is not a component of a fusion protein and therefore retains its
   unaltered primary structure (amino acid sequence). While not intending to be bound by any particular
   mechanism, the binding of a target protein of interest to a target protein binding domain of the fusion
25 protein appears to bring the target protein of interest into relatively close proximity to the protein
   expression enhancing polypeptide (also present in the fusion protein) to provide an enhanced level of
   expression of the target protein at its intended cellular or extracellular location as compared to the
   level of expression of the target protein in the absence of the fusion protein. This may involve
   increased recruitment of chaperone proteins or other post-translational cellular mechanisms involved
30 in protein folding, compartmentalization, or secretion, or may involve increase avoidance of cellular
   degradation pathways. The effect is evidenced by a significant increase in the appearance of
   expressed protein in the desired intracellular or extracellular location.
   Target Protein Binding Domains Useful in an Unmodified Arrangement
             A fusion protein in an unmodified arrangement of the invention comprises a target protein
35 binding domain that binds a target protein of interest for which an elevation of expression in its proper
   cellular or extracellular location is desired. A target protein binding domain of a target protein
                                                        51

   binding fusion protein of the invention may be any protein or binding domain thereof that is known to
   bind to a target protein. The more specific the binding affinity of a protein or binding domain thereof
   is for a target protein, the less likely other proteins may potentially interfere with the enhancement in
   the level of expression desired for the target protein of interest.
 5           Examples of target protein binding domains include antigen binding sites isolated from
   natural and genetically engineered antibodies and antigen binding fragments thereof, wherein the
   antigen binding site of an antibody or antigen binding fragment binds a target protein for which an
   elevation of expression is desired. In this context, antibodies and antigen binding fragments can
   easily be raised that bind a target protein of interest using standard methods available in the art. A
10 variety of genetically engineered antibody formats are known in the art that may be used as a source
   of a target protein binding domain of a fusion protein in an unmodified arrangement of the invention.
   Such formats include, but not limited to, Fab fragments, F(ab') 2 fragments, single chain Fv (scFv)
   antibodies, and single domain antibodies (dAb). See, for example, a review of the variety of
   functional genetically engineered antibody binding formats available in the art in Marvin et al., Acta
15 Pharmacol.Sin., 26(6): 649-658 (2005); Kufer et al, Trends Biotechnol., 22(5): 238-244 (2004);
   Kontermann, Acta PharmacoL Sin., 26(1): 1-9 (2005), and Chan et al., Nat. Rev, 10: 301-316 (2010).
             Particularly useful in the invention are antibody molecules or fragments in which an antigen
   binding domain directed to a target protein is provided in a single polypeptide because such
   polypeptides can be easily linked to a protein expression enhancing polypeptide to form a fusion
20 protein of the invention using standard in vitro DNA methods. For example, a single chain Fv
   antibody (scFv) comprises both VH and VL domains of an antigen binding site linked in a single
   polypeptide. Another source of a single chain antigen binding site is a single domain antibody (dAb)
   in which the entire antigen binding site is present in a single heavy chain variable domain. See, for
   example, Ward et al., Nature, 341: 544-546 (1989); Muyldermans et al., ProteinEng., 7: 1129-1135
25 (1994); Vu et al., Mol. Immunol., 34: 1121-1131 (1997); Muyldermans et al., Trends Biochem. Sci.,
   26: 230-235 (2001); Nguyen et al., Immunogenetics, 54: 39-47 (2002).
             For a target protein that possesses an immunoglobulin Fc domain, a target protein binding
   domain may be an antibody or antigen (Fc domain) binding fragment thereof as discussed above. An
   alternative to an antibody or antigen binding domain thereof is any of a variety of non
30 immunoglobulin proteins and polypeptides that are known to specifically bind Fc domains. Proteins
   that possess Fc binding domains include, but are not limited to, Protein A, Protein G, gE protein of
   herpes simplex virus type 1 (HSV-1), and the like. A number of synthetic peptides also have been
   identified that bind Fc domains. See, for example, DeLano et al., Science, 287:1279-1283 (2000);
   Yang et al., I Peptide Res., 66(Suppl. 1): 120-137 (2006). As shown in the Examples below, such
35 Fc-binding proteins and peptides are readily employed as target binding domains for fusion proteins
   of the invention directed to target proteins of interest comprising an Fc domain.
                                                          52

            In the case in which a target protein of interest is a receptor or functional portion thereof that
   binds a protein ligand, the protein ligand may be used as a target binding domain in a fusion protein of
   the invention. Functional portions of receptors include, but are not limited to, the extracellular
   domain of a membrane-associated receptor that includes a functional ligand binding domain.
 5 Typically, such extracellular portions comprising a functional ligand binding domain are referred to as
   "truncated receptors" because the transmembrane and cytoplasmic domains of the receptor have been
   removed. According to the invention, the expression of such truncated receptor molecules may be
   elevated by co-expression with a fusion protein of the invention comprising a protein ligand of the
   receptor. Accordingly, particularly suited for use as a target binding domain of a fusion protein in a
10 modified arrangement of the invention are ligand proteins that are single polypeptides, such as certain
   cytokine polypeptides (for example, IL8, IL13, and the like) as shown in the Examples below. Other
   protein ligands that may be used in a fusion protein to bind a target receptor protein or ligand binding
   portion thereof, include polypeptide co-receptors, polypeptide co-repressors, and polypeptide co
   factors.
15          In the case in which the target protein is a protein ligand (for example, a cytokine) that is
   bound by a known receptor molecule, a target protein binding domain of a fusion protein in an
   unmodified arrangement of the invention may comprise the cognate receptor or extracellular ligand
   binding portion of the receptor that binds the target protein.
            BAG domains have been suggested in the art as fusion partners for enhancement of
20 expression of target proteins. BAG domains of a variety of BAG proteins have been determined.
   See, for example, Takayama et al., Nat. Cell Biol., 3: E237-E241 (2001). A BAG domain has the key
   defining features of a BAG domain of any member of the BAG protein family. Accordingly, a BAG
   domain comprises a polypeptide domain of a BAG protein that is typically 85-124 amino acids in
   length, binds the ATPase domain of Hsp70 chaperone proteins, and is characterized by three anti
25 parallel a-helices (I, II, III, IV), wherein helices III and IV interact with the ATPase domain of Hsp70
   chaperone proteins. Recently, it has been reported that when desired recombinant proteins are linked
   to a BAG domain, the resulting fusion proteins are expressed at levels that are greater than those of
   the protein alone. See, International Publication No. WO 2012/087835 A2.
            From the Examples, below, BAG domains employed in an unmodified arrangement did not
30 provide significant enhancement of the level of expression of target proteins of interest. In contrast,
   the protein expression enhancing polypeptides described herein significantly enhance levels of
   expression of target proteins of interest in both modified and unmodified arrangements. As shown in
   the Examples below, fusion proteins comprising a protein expression enhancing polypeptide (such as
   an isolated J domain, an active J domain fragment, or a J domain analog polypeptide, e.g., of formula
35 I or particular 10-12 amino acid cognates thereof disclosed herein) linked to a target protein of interest
   (in a modified arrangement of the invention) were expressed at significantly greater levels than that of
                                                          53

   control cells (no fusion protein). Other studies showed that fusion proteins comprising a protein
   expression enhancing polypeptide described herein linked to target protein binding domains (in an
   unmodified arrangement) were effective in providing significantly greater levels of expression of
   unmodified target proteins of interest as compared to the levels in the absence of such fusion proteins
 5 (control) or fusion proteins comprising a BAG domain linked to a target protein binding domain.
   Accordingly, protein expression enhancing polypeptides as described herein provide a new family of
   polypeptides for use in enhancing expression of target proteins of interest in both modified and
   unmodified arrangements.
    Gene Therapy Approaches for Treatin2 Cystic Fibrosis
10          Cystic fibrosis (CF) is an autosomal recessive disorder caused by mutations in the gene
   encoding the cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance regulator (CFTR) protein, a cAMP-regulated
   chloride channel and channel regulator. The deletion of phenylalanine at position 508 (A508F) in
   CFTR is the most common mutation that changes the conformation of the CFTR protein, which is
   then rapidly degraded by the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) quality systems. A general consensus is
15 that only partial recovery of the wild-type CFTR protein function is required to provide a beneficial
   treatment to CF patients. Therefore, a number of gene therapy trials with CFTR have been attempted,
   but have not yet been successful owing to inefficient delivery of a gene for CFTR and to
   immunogenicity of the vehicle (e.g., viral vector). In view of the fact that proper protein folding of
   wild-type CFTR is known to be difficult, it would be very useful if protein folding of the CFTR
20 protein could be improved.
            Over twenty clinical trials of a gene therapy to treat cystic fibrosis (CF) have been conducted
   since the identity and isolation of the CFTR gene over twenty years ago. See a review of gene therapy
   for cystic fibrosis in Davies et al., Proc.Am. Thor. Soc., 7: 408-414 (2010). Such clinical trials have
   already established proof of concept to provide replacement cystic fibrosis transmembrane
25 conductance regulator (CFTR) protein, however the sustainability of effective levels of expression of
   the replacement CFTR protein in the cells of human subjects remains among the most persistent
   challenges in the development of an effective gene therapy to treat CF. The CFTR wild-type protein
   is a protein well-known for its instability. Over 90% of CF patients possess at least one copy of a
   mutated gene for CFTR (CFTRA508F) in which the absence of a phenylalanine at position 508 results
30 in a highly unstable protein that is rapidly degraded in cells. This suggests a fusion gene therapy
   approach for treating CF that would lead to increased CFTR function or restored CFTR function to
   those afflicted with CF. Such a gene therapy provides a nucleic acid encoding a fusion protein in
   either a modified or unmodified arrangement of the invention.
            As shown in the Examples below, fusion proteins in which either a wild-type CFTR protein
35 or the CFTRA508F protein is fused to a protein expression enhancing polypeptide (such as J domain)
   in a modified arrangement were expressed in significantly higher levels than either unfused protein.
                                                        54

   This suggests that a J domain fusion gene therapy approach for treating CF that would lead to
   increased CFTR function or restored CFTR function to those afflicted with CF. Accordingly, the
   modified arrangement of the invention provides new forms of gene therapies that use fusion proteins
   that are expressed at significantly higher levels and therefore are more effective than past therapies to
 5 replace or restore missing or lost protein functions that are associated with various diseases.
            For an unmodified arrangement, a fusion protein comprises a protein expression enhancing
   polypeptide linked to a binding domain that binds the wild-type CFTR protein or the CFTRA508F
   protein. A number of proteins are known to contain PDZ domains that bind to the highly conserved,
   carboxy terminal, PDZ binding region of CFTR. A protein that can be used as a source of a PDZ
10 domain for use as a target protein binding domain in a fusion protein in an unmodified arrangement of
   the invention includes, but is not limited to, any of the members of the NHERF family of PDZ adapter
   proteins including, but not limited to, of NHERF1 (also known as NHERF, EBP50, or SLC9A3R1),
   NHERF2 (also known as E3KARP or SLC9A3R2), and PDZK1 (also known as CAP70 or
   NHERF3).See, for example, Haggie et al., J. Biol. Chem., 279(7): 5494-5500 (2004); Guggino, W.B.,
15 Proc. Am. Thorac. Soc., 1: 28-32 (2004); and Singh et al., J. Clin. Investig., 119(3): 540-550 (2009).
   Accordingly, a PDZ domain of a PDZ protein may be particularly useful as a target protein binding
   domain in a fusion protein designed to target either or both CFTRA508F and wild-type CFTR proteins
   in a gene therapy of the invention.
            Accordingly, the invention provides new forms of gene therapies that provide fusion proteins
20 that significantly elevate the levels of expression of an endogenous unstable protein (such as the
   unstable CFTRA508F) and/or the levels of expression of a desired heterologous protein (such as a
   wild-type CFTR) and therefore are more effective than past therapies to replace or restore missing or
   lost protein functions that are associated with various diseases.
            Additional embodiments and features of the invention will be apparent from the following
25 non-limiting examples.
   Examples
   Example 1. Compositions and Methods for Enhancing Expression of Target Proteins of Interest
   Using a Modified Arran2ement
            Expression vector plasmids were constructed for expressing a target protein of interest linked
30 to protein expression enhancing polypeptide described herein, which in turn may be linked to an
   standard epitope tag, which is usually attached at the carboxy (C) terminus or amino (N) terminus of
   the protein construct for easy identification or isolation using a corresponding anti-tag antibody and
   standard immunoblot assays.
            A DNA linker molecule having a nucleotide sequence containing various restriction enzyme
35 sites was produced by annealing two single-stranded DNA molecules having the sequences shown
   below (5' to 3'):
                                                        55

   AGCTTGGTACCGGATCCGAATTCGATATCGCGGCCGCTCTCGAGTCTAGAGGGCC (SEQ
   ID NO:187) and
   CTCTAGACTCGAGAGCGGCCGCGATATCGAATTCGGATCCGGTACCA (SEQ ID NO: 188).
   The annealed linker molecule was then inserted into plasmid pcDNA3 (catalogue no. V790-20,
 5 Invitrogen) digested with HindIJI and Apal to yield plasmid pcDNA'.
           DNA molecules encoding the V5 epitope tag (GKPIPNPLLGLDST (SEQ ID NO:47)) or the
   Flag epitope tag (DYKDDDDK (SEQ ID NO: 111)) were inserted into plasmid pcDNA'. A double
   stranded DNA molecule having the coding sequence for the V5 epitope tag along with an N-terminal
   methionine, i.e., ATGGGTAAGCCTATCCCTAACCCTCTCCTCGGTCTCGATTCTACG (SEQ ID
10 NO:189), was inserted into pcDNA' digested with XhoI and XbaI to yield plasmid V5(C)-pcDNA' or
   with HindIII and KpnI to yield plasmid V5(N)-pcDNA'.
           A DNA molecule having the coding sequence for the Flag epitope tag, i.e.,
   GATTACAAGGATGACGATGACAAG (SEQ ID NO: 190), was inserted into plasmid pcDNA'
   digested with XhoI and XbaI to yield plasmid Flag(N)-pcDNA'.
15 Preparation of DNA molecules
           DNA molecules encoding protein sequences were obtained by polymerase chain reaction
   (PCR), gene synthesis, or annealing of complementary DNA molecules using standard protocols. A
   DNA molecule encoding the amino acid sequence of an immunoglobulin Fc region was produced by
   standard oligonucleotide synthesis. A DNA molecule having a DNA sequence
20 GGAGGCGGAAGTGGT GGGAGCGGTGGAAGCGGAGGC (SEQ ID NO:191) encoding the
   glycine-serine linker sequence GGGSGGSGGSGG (SEQ ID NO:121), was produced by annealing
   complementary single strands synthesized by standard methods.
   Preparation of expression vector plasmids for expressing J domain fusion proteins
           To express C-terminally V5-tagged IL13Ra2 receptor protein (see, Fig. 1A), a DNA molecule
25 encoding an IL13Ra2 receptor protein was inserted into plasmid V5(C)-pcDNA' digested with
   HindIll and KpnI.
           To express the fusion protein in which a J domain or BAG domain is attached to the N
   terminus of IL13Ra2 receptor protein (see, Fig. 3A), a truncated IL13Ra2 receptor protein with its
   signal sequence deleted was inserted into plasmid V5(C)-pcDNA' digested with NotI and XhoI.
30         To express a V5-tagged, truncated TNR1 receptor protein (see, Fig. 5A), a DNA molecule
   encoding a truncated (extracellular domain only) TNR1 receptor protein was inserted into plasmid
   V5(C)-pcDNA' digested with HindIll and KpnI.
           To express a V5-tagged al anti-trypsin ("a1AT") (see, Fig. 4A), a DNA molecule encoding
   an al anti-trypsin was inserted into plasmid V5(C)-pcDNA' digested with HindIll and KpnI
35         To express an N-terminally V5-tagged p53 protein (see, Fig. 7A), a DNA molecule encoding
   a p53 protein was inserted into plasmid V5 (N) -pcDNA' digested with NotI and XhoI.
                                                     56

            To express V-tagged CFTR and V5-tagged mutant CFTRA508F (see, Fig. 8A), a DNA
   molecule encoding a CFTR protein or a CFTRA508F protein was inserted into plasmid V5(N)
   pcDNA' digested with NotI and XhoJ.
            For expressing fusion proteins comprising a protein of interest fused to a J domain, DNA
 5 molecules encoding J domains were subcloned into the EcoRI site of plasmid V5(C)-pcDNA' or the
   EcoRV plasmid V5(N)-pcDNA' to yield plasmid vectors J-V5(C)-pcDNA' or V5(N)-J-pcDNA',
   respectively. Fusion proteins were produced using Hsp40, SV40, and CSP J domains.
            To express fusion proteins comprising a protein of interest fused to a BAG domain, DNA
   molecules encoding a BAG domain were subcloned into EcoRI and EcoRV sites of plasmid V5(C)
10 pcDNA' or plasmid V5(N)-pcDNA' to yield plasmid vectors BAG-V5(C)-pcDNA' or V5(N)-BAG
   pcDNA', respectively. Fusion proteins were produced using BAG3, BAG4, BAG5, and BAG6
   domains as indicated below.
            DNA molecules encoding IL13Ra2, TNFR1, alAT, p53, or CFTR (wild type or A508F
   mutant) were then inserted in frame with the J domain (or, in some instances, a BAG domain)
15 sequence in one or more of the expression vectors to express the resulting fusion protein, which also
   possessed an N-terminal or C-terminal V5 epitope tag for convenient identification of the encoded
   protein.
   Expression and detection of proteins in HEK293 cells
            Expression vector plasmids encoding various protein constructs were transfected into
20 HEK293 cells with X-tremeGENE HP transfection reagent (catalogue no. 06365752001, Roche). As
   indicated in the examples below, a separate plasmid expressing the green fluorescent protein (GFP)
   was co-transfected with each expression vector plasmid encoding a fusion protein of the invention to
   monitor the transfection efficiency. Cultures of transfectant cells were incubated for two days, and
   culture medium and/or cell lysates were analyzed for expressed proteins using dot blot or Western
25 immunoblot assays. Samples of culture media were centrifuged to remove debris prior to analysis.
   For cell lysates, cells were lysed in lysis buffer (10 mM Tris-HCl, pH8.0, 150 mM NaCl, 10 mM
   EDTA, 2% SDS) containing 2 mM PMSF. After brief sonication, the sample was analyzed for
   express proteins using dot blot or Western immunoblot assays. For Western blot analysis, samples
   were boiled in SDS-sample buffer and run on polyacrylamide electrophoresis, followed by transfer of
30 separated protein bands to membrane (PVDF membrane).
            The expression of GFP as an internal transfection control was detected using an anti-GFP
   antibody. Expressed proteins in dot blots and Western blots were detected using a chemiluminescent
   signal. Briefly, blots were reacted with a primary antibody that binds the particular epitope tag (e.g.,
   V5 or Flag) carried by the proteins. After rinsing away unreacted primary antibody, a secondary,
35 enzyme-linked antibody (e.g., horse radish peroxidase linked anti-IgG antibody) was allowed to react
   with primary antibody molecules bound to the blots. After rinsing, manufacturer's chemiluminescent
                                                         57

   reagent was added. Chemiluminescent signals in blots were captured on x-ray film. Where indicated,
   the images of the chemiluminescent signals were scanned with a densitometer and analyzed using the
   NIH ImageJ image processing program.
   Assays for protein activities
 5          Standard assays are available for detecting activities of the proteins of interest used in
   preparing J domain fusion proteins described herein.
            A binding assay for IL13Ra2 binding function is described in "Identification of distinct roles
   for a dileucine and a tyrosine internalization motif in the interleukin (IL)- 13 binding
   component IL13 receptor alpha 2 chain," J. Biol. Chem., 276(27): 25114-25120 (2001).
10          A binding assay for TNFR binding function is described in "Recombinant 55-kDa tumor
   necrosis factor (TNF) receptor: Stoichiometry of binding to TNF alpha and TNF beta and inhibition of
   TNF activity," J.BioL Chem., 266(27): 18324-18329 (1991)
            An assay for al-antitrypsin (alAT) activity is described in "Alpha 1-antitrypsin and protease
   complexation is induced by lipopolysaccharide, interleukin-1beta, and tumor necrosis factor-alpha in
15 monocytes," Am. J. Respir. Crit. Care Med., 157(1): 246-255 (1998).
            An assay for p53 activity is described in "Influenza virus infection increases p53 activity: role
   of p53 activity in cell death and viral replication," J. Virol., 79(14): 8802-8811 (2005).
            An assay for CFTR activity is described in "Pharmacology of CFTR chloride channel
   activity," Physiol. Rev., 79(1 Suppl.): S109-S144 (1999).
20 Example 2. Enhancement of Expression of Tar2et Proteins in a Modified Arrangement
            Figure 1A shows general diagrams of constructs for a C-terminally V5 epitope-tagged, full
   length IL13Ra2 protein ("IL13Ra2WT") and for a C-terminally V5 epitope-tagged fusion protein
   comprising IL13Ra2 fused to a BAG or to a J domain.
            The V5-tagged IL1 3Ra2WT protein comprises an amino acid sequence for a full-length
25 IL13Ra2 protein linked at the C terminus to a V5 epitope tag, which in turn is linked to twelve C
   terminal amino acid residues from the cloning site of the expression vector. The amino acid sequence
   for the V5-tagged IL13Ra2WT is shown in the table below.
   Table 2. Amino Acid Sequence of a V5-Tagged IL13Ra2WT Protein.
        Protein Region                   Sequence                       Amino Acid Sequence
             (N- to C-                 Identifier
             terminal)                                         123456789012345678901234567890
       IL13Ra2WT domain             SEQ ID NO:192             MAFVCLAIGCLYTFLISTTFGCTSSSDTEI
          (full-length)                                        KVNPPQDFEIVDPGYLGYLYLQWQPPLSLD
                                                               HFKECTVEYELKYRNIGSETWKTIITKNLH
                                                               YKDGFDLNKGIEAKIHTLLPWQCTNGSEVQ
                                                               SSWAETTYWISPQGIPETKVQDMDCVYYNW
                                                               QYLLCSWKPGIGVLLDTNYNLFYWYEGLDH
                                                              ALQCVDYIKADGQNIGCRFPYLEASDYKDF
                                                               YICVNGSSENKPIRSSYFTFQLQNIVKPLP
                                                               PVYLTFTRESSCEIKLKWSIPLGPIPARCF
                                                         58

       Protein Region                   Sequence                    Amino Acid Sequence
            (N- to C-                 Identifier
           terminal)                                       123456789012345678901234567890
                                                           DYEIEIREDDTTLVTATVENETYTLKTTNE
                                                           TRQLCFVVRSKVNIYCSDDGIWSEWSDKQC
                                                           WEGEDLSKKTLLRFWLPFGFILILVIFVTG
                                                           LLLRKPNTYPKMIPEFFCDTGTGSEFDIAA
                                                           ALEGKPIPNPLLGLDSTSRGPYSIVSPKC
           IL13Ra2FL               residues 1-380          MAFVCLAIGCLYTFLISTTFGCTSSSDTEI
                                      of SEQ ID            KVNPPQDFEIVDPGYLGYLYLQWQPPLSLD
                                         NO:192            HFKECTVEYELKYRNIGSETWKTIITKNLH
                                                           YKDGFDLNKGIEAKIHTLLPWQCTNGSEVQ
                                                           SSWAETTYWISPQGIPETKVQDMDCVYYNW
                                                           QYLLCSWKPGIGVLLDTNYNLFYWYEGLDH
                                                           ALQCVDYIKADGQNIGCRFPYLEASDYKDF
                                                           YICVNGSSENKPIRSSYFTFQLQNIVKPLP
                                                           PVYLTFTRESSCEIKLKWSIPLGPIPARCF
                                                           DYEIEIREDDTTLVTATVENETYTLKTTNE
                                                           TRQLCFVVRSKVNIYCSDDGIWSEWSDKQC
                                                           WEGEDLSKKTLLRFWLPFGFILILVIFVTG
                                                           LLLRKPNTYPKMIPEFFCDT
             Linker                 residues 381-          GTGSEFDIAAALE
                                    393 of SEQ ID
                                         NO:192
          V5 epitope                residues 394-          GKPIPNPLLGLDST
             domain                 407 of SEQ ID
                                         NO:192
          C-terminal                residues 408-          SRGPYSIVSPKC
      vector residues               419 of SEQ ID
                                         NO:192
           The V5-tagged IL13Ra2WT-BAG3 domain fusion protein comprises an amino (N)-terminal
  amino acid sequence for a full-length IL13Ra2 protein linked to a BAG domain from the BAG3
  protein, which in turn is linked to a V5 epitope tag, which in turn is linked to twelve C-terminal amino
5 acid residues from the cloning site of the expression vector. The amino acid sequence for the
  IL13Ra2WT-BAG3 domain fusion protein is shown in the table below.
  Table 3. Amino Acid Sequence of an IL13Ra2WT-BAG3 Domain Fusion Protein.
       Protein Region                   Sequence                    Amino Acid Sequence
            (N- to C-                 Identifier
           terminal)                                       123456789012345678901234567890
       IL13Ra2WT-BAG3               SEQ ID NO:193          MAFVCLAIGCLYTFLISTTFGCTSSSDTEI
       fusion protein                                      KVNPPQDFEIVDPGYLGYLYLQWQPPLSLD
                                                           HFKECTVEYELKYRNIGSETWKTIITKNLH
                                                           YKDGFDLNKGIEAKIHTLLPWQCTNGSEVQ
                                                           SSWAETTYWISPQGIPETKVQDMDCVYYNW
                                                           QYLLCSWKPGIGVLLDTNYNLFYWYEGLDH
                                                           ALQCVDYIKADGQNIGCRFPYLEASDYKDF
                                                           YICVNGSSENKPIRSSYFTFQLQNIVKPLP
                                                           PVYLTFTRESSCEIKLKWSIPLGPIPARCF
                                                           DYEIEIREDDTTLVTATVENETYTLKTTNE
                                                           TRQLCFVVRSKVNIYCSDDGIWSEWSDKQC
                                                      59

       Protein Region                   Sequence                    Amino Acid Sequence
            (N- to C-                 Identifier
           terminal)                                       123456789012345678901234567890
                                                           WEGEDLSKKTLLRFWLPFGFILILVIFVTG
                                                           LLLRKPNTYPKMIPEFFCDTGTGSEFHPGV
                                                           LKVEAILEKVQGLEQAVDNFEGKKTDKKYL
                                                           MIEEYLTKELLALDSVDPEGRADVRQARRD
                                                           GVRKVQTILEKLEQKAIDDIAAALEGKPIP
                                                           NPLLGLDSTSRGPYSIVSPKC
      IL13Ra2WT domain             residues 1-380          MAFVCLAIGCLYTFLISTTFGCTSSSDTEI
        (full-length)                 of SEQ ID            KVNPPQDFEIVDPGYLGYLYLQWQPPLSLD
                                         NO:193            HFKECTVEYELKYRNIGSETWKTIITKNLH
                                                           YKDGFDLNKGIEAKIHTLLPWQCTNGSEVQ
                                                           SSWAETTYWISPQGIPETKVQDMDCVYYNW
                                                           QYLLCSWKPGIGVLLDTNYNLFYWYEGLDH
                                                           ALQCVDYIKADGQNIGCRFPYLEASDYKDF
                                                           YICVNGSSENKPIRSSYFTFQLQNIVKPLP
                                                           PVYLTFTRESSCEIKLKWSIPLGPIPARCF
                                                           DYEIEIREDDTTLVTATVENETYTLKTTNE
                                                           TRQLCFVVRSKVNIYCSDDGIWSEWSDKQC
                                                           WEGEDLSKKTLLRFWLPFGFILILVIFVTG
                                                           LLLRKPNTYPKMIPEFFCDT
             Linker                 residues 381-          GTGSEF
                                    386 of SEQ ID
                                         NO:193
          BAG domain                residues 387-          HPGVLKVEAILEKVQGLEQAVDNFEGKKTD
          (from BAG3)               468 of SEQ ID          KKYLMIEEYLTKELLALDSVDPEGRADVRQ
                                         NO:193            ARRDGVRKVQTILEKLEQKAID
             Linker                 residues 469-          DIAAALE
                                    475 of SEQ ID
                                         NO:193
          V5 epitope                residues 476-          GKPIPNPLLGLDST
             domain                 489 of SEQ ID
                                         NO:193
          C-terminal                residues 490-          SRGPYSIVSPKC
      vector residues               501 of SEQ ID
                                         NO:193
           The V5-tagged IL13Ra2WT-BAG4 domain fusion protein comprises an amino (N)-terminal
  amino acid sequence for a full-length IL13Ra2 protein linked to a BAG domain from the BAG4
  protein, which in turn is linked to a V5 epitope tag, which in turn is linked to twelve C-terminal amino
5 acid residues from the cloning site of the expression vector. The amino acid sequence for the
  IL13Ra2WT-BAG4 domain fusion protein is shown in the table below.
  Table 4. Amino Acid Sequence of an IL13Ra2WT-BAG4 Domain Fusion Protein.
       Protein Region                   Sequence                    Amino Acid Sequence
            (N- to C-                 Identifier
           terminal)                                       123456789012345678901234567890
           IL13Ra2WT-               SEQ ID NO:194          MAFVCLAIGCLYTFLISTTFGCTSSSDTEI
         BAG4 Domain                                       KVNPPQDFEIVDPGYLGYLYLQWQPPLSLD
       Fusion Protein                                      HFKECTVEYELKYRNIGSETWKTIITKNLH
                                                           YKDGFDLNKGIEAKIHTLLPWQCTNGSEVQ
                                                      60

       Protein Region                   Sequence                    Amino Acid Sequence
            (N- to C-                 Identifier
           terminal)                                       123456789012345678901234567890
                                                           SSWAETTYWISPQGIPETKVQDMDCVYYNW
                                                           QYLLCSWKPGIGVLLDTNYNLFYWYEGLDH
                                                           ALQCVDYIKADGQNIGCRFPYLEASDYKDF
                                                           YICVNGSSENKPIRSSYFTFQLQNIVKPLP
                                                           PVYLTFTRESSCEIKLKWSIPLGPIPARCF
                                                           DYEIEIREDDTTLVTATVENETYTLKTTNE
                                                           TRQLCFVVRSKVNIYCSDDGIWSEWSDKQC
                                                           WEGEDLSKKTLLRFWLPFGFILILVIFVTG
                                                           LLLRKPNTYPKMIPEFFCDTGTGSEFESTP
                                                           PSIKKIIHVLEKVQYLEQEVEEFVGKKTDK
                                                           AYWLLEEMLTKELLELDSVETGGQDSVRQA
                                                           RKEAVCKIQAILEKLEKKGLDIAAALEGKP
                                                           IPNPLLGLDSTSRGPYSIVSPKC
           IL13Ra2WT               residues 1-380          MAFVCLAIGCLYTFLISTTFGCTSSSDTEI
        (full-length)                 of SEQ ID            KVNPPQDFEIVDPGYLGYLYLQWQPPLSLD
                                         NO:194            HFKECTVEYELKYRNIGSETWKTIITKNLH
                                                           YKDGFDLNKGIEAKIHTLLPWQCTNGSEVQ
                                                           SSWAETTYWISPQGIPETKVQDMDCVYYNW
                                                           QYLLCSWKPGIGVLLDTNYNLFYWYEGLDH
                                                           ALQCVDYIKADGQNIGCRFPYLEASDYKDF
                                                           YICVNGSSENKPIRSSYFTFQLQNIVKPLP
                                                           PVYLTFTRESSCEIKLKWSIPLGPIPARCF
                                                           DYEIEIREDDTTLVTATVENETYTLKTTNE
                                                           TRQLCFVVRSKVNIYCSDDGIWSEWSDKQC
                                                           WEGEDLSKKTLLRFWLPFGFILILVIFVTG
                                                           LLLRKPNTYPKMIPEFFCDT
             Linker                 residues 381-          GTGSEF
                                    386 of SEQ ID
                                         NO:194
          BAG domain                residues 387-          ESTPPSIKKIIHVLEKVQYLEQEVEEFVGK
          (from BAG4)               470 of SEQ ID          KTDKAYWLLEEMLTKELLELDSVETGGQDS
                                         NO:194            VRQARKEAVCKIQAILEKLEKKGL
             Linker                 residues 471-          DIAAALE
                                    477 of SEQ ID
                                         NO:194
          V5 epitope                residues 478-          GKPIPNPLLGLDST
             domain                 491 of SEQ ID
                                         NO:194
          C-terminal                residues 492-          SRGPYSIVSPKC
      vector residues               503 of SEQ ID
                                         NO:194
           The V5-tagged IL13Ra2WT-BAG5 domain fusion protein comprises an amino (N)-terminal
  amino acid sequence for a full-length IL13Ra2 protein linked to a BAG domain from the BAG5
  protein, which in turn is linked to a V5 epitope tag, which in turn is linked to twelve C-terminal amino
5 acid residues from the cloning site of the expression vector. The amino acid sequence for the
  IL13Ra2WT-BAG5 domain fusion protein is shown in the table below.
                                                      61

Table 5. Amino Acid Sequence of an IL13Ra2WT-BAG5 Domain Fusion Protein.
    Protein Region                  Sequence                   Amino Acid Sequence
         (N- to C-                 Identifier
         terminal)                                     123456789012345678901234567890
        IL13Ra2WT-              SEQ ID NO:195         MAFVCLAIGCLYTFLISTTFGCTSSSDTEI
       BAG5 domain                                     KVNPPQDFEIVDPGYLGYLYLQWQPPLSLD
     fusion protein                                    HFKECTVEYELKYRNIGSETWKTIITKNLH
                                                       YKDGFDLNKGIEAKIHTLLPWQCTNGSEVQ
                                                       SSWAETTYWISPQGIPETKVQDMDCVYYNW
                                                       QYLLCSWKPGIGVLLDTNYNLFYWYEGLDH
                                                      ALQCVDYIKADGQNIGCRFPYLEASDYKDF
                                                       YICVNGSSENKPIRSSYFTFQLQNIVKPLP
                                                       PVYLTFTRESSCEIKLKWSIPLGPIPARCF
                                                       DYEIEIREDDTTLVTATVENETYTLKTTNE
                                                       TRQLCFVVRSKVNIYCSDDGIWSEWSDKQC
                                                      WEGEDLSKKTLLRFWLPFGFILILVIFVTG
                                                       LLLRKPNTYPKMIPEFFCDTGTGSEFEHPS
                                                       HKAVWNVLGNLSEIQGEVLSFDGNRTDKNY
                                                       IRLEELLTKQLLALDAVDPQGEEKCKAARK
                                                       QAVRLAQNILSYLDLKSDEDIAAALEGKPI
                                                       PNPLLGLDSTSRGPYSIVSPKC
         IL13Ra2WT             residues 1-380         MAFVCLAIGCLYTFLISTTFGCTSSSDTEI
      (full-length)                of SEQ ID           KVNPPQDFEIVDPGYLGYLYLQWQPPLSLD
                                     NO:195            HFKECTVEYELKYRNIGSETWKTIITKNLH
                                                       YKDGFDLNKGIEAKIHTLLPWQCTNGSEVQ
                                                       SSWAETTYWISPQGIPETKVQDMDCVYYNW
                                                       QYLLCSWKPGIGVLLDTNYNLFYWYEGLDH
                                                      ALQCVDYIKADGQNIGCRFPYLEASDYKDF
                                                       YICVNGSSENKPIRSSYFTFQLQNIVKPLP
                                                       PVYLTFTRESSCEIKLKWSIPLGPIPARCF
                                                       DYEIEIREDDTTLVTATVENETYTLKTTNE
                                                       TRQLCFVVRSKVNIYCSDDGIWSEWSDKQC
                                                      WEGEDLSKKTLLRFWLPFGFILILVIFVTG
                                                       LLLRKPNTYPKMIPEFFCDT
           Linker               residues 381-          GTGSEF
                                386 of SEQ ID
                                     NO:195
        BAG domain              residues 387-         EHPSHKAVWNVLGNLSEIQGEVLSFDGNRT
       (from BAG5)              469 of SEQ ID          DKNYIRLEELLTKQLLALDAVDPQGEEKCK
                                     NO:195           AARKQAVRLAQNILSYLDLKSDE
           Linker               residues 470-          DIAAALE
                                 476 of SEQ ID
                                     NO:195
        V5 epitope              residues 477-          GKPIPNPLLGLDST
          domain                 490 of SEQ ID
                                     NO:195
        C-terminal              residues 491-          SRGPYSIVSPKC
         residues               502 of SEQ ID
                                     NO:195
        The V5-tagged IL13Ra2WT-BAG6 domain fusion protein comprises an amino (N)-terminal
amino acid sequence for a full-length IL13Ra2 protein linked to a BAG domain from the BAG6
                                                62

protein, which in turn is linked to a V5 epitope tag, which in turn is linked to twelve C-terminal amino
acid residues from the cloning site of the expression vector. The amino acid sequence for the
IL13Ra2WT-BAG6 domain fusion protein is shown in the table below.
Table 6. Amino Acid Sequence of an ILl3Ra2WT-BAG6 Domain Fusion Protein.
     Protein Region                   Sequence                    Amino Acid Sequence
          (N- to C-                 Identifier
         terminal)                                       123456789012345678901234567890
     IL13Ra2WT-BAG6               SEQ ID NO:196          MAFVCLAIGCLYTFLISTTFGCTSSSDTEI
      domain fusion                                      KVNPPQDFEIVDPGYLGYLYLQWQPPLSLD
           protein                                       HFKECTVEYELKYRNIGSETWKTIITKNLH
                                                         YKDGFDLNKGIEAKIHTLLPWQCTNGSEVQ
                                                         SSWAETTYWISPQGIPETKVQDMDCVYYNW
                                                         QYLLCSWKPGIGVLLDTNYNLFYWYEGLDH
                                                         ALQCVDYIKADGQNIGCRFPYLEASDYKDF
                                                         YICVNGSSENKPIRSSYFTFQLQNIVKPLP
                                                         PVYLTFTRESSCEIKLKWSIPLGPIPARCF
                                                         DYEIEIREDDTTLVTATVENETYTLKTTNE
                                                         TRQLCFVVRSKVNIYCSDDGIWSEWSDKQC
                                                         WEGEDLSKKTLLRFWLPFGFILILVIFVTG
                                                         LLLRKPNTYPKMIPEFFCDTGTGSEFMPAK
                                                         RRKTMQGEGPQLLLSEAVSRAAKAAGARPL
                                                         TSPESLSRDLEAPEVQESYRQQLRSDIQKR
                                                         LQEDPNYSPQRFPNAQRAFADDPDIAAALE
                                                         GKPIPNPLLGLDSTSRGPYSIVSPKC
         IL13Ra2WT               residues 1-380          MAFVCLAIGCLYTFLISTTFGCTSSSDTEI
      (full-length)                 of SEQ ID            KVNPPQDFEIVDPGYLGYLYLQWQPPLSLD
                                       NO:196            HFKECTVEYELKYRNIGSETWKTIITKNLH
                                                         YKDGFDLNKGIEAKIHTLLPWQCTNGSEVQ
                                                         SSWAETTYWISPQGIPETKVQDMDCVYYNW
                                                         QYLLCSWKPGIGVLLDTNYNLFYWYEGLDH
                                                         ALQCVDYIKADGQNIGCRFPYLEASDYKDF
                                                         YICVNGSSENKPIRSSYFTFQLQNIVKPLP
                                                         PVYLTFTRESSCEIKLKWSIPLGPIPARCF
                                                         DYEIEIREDDTTLVTATVENETYTLKTTNE
                                                         TRQLCFVVRSKVNIYCSDDGIWSEWSDKQC
                                                         WEGEDLSKKTLLRFWLPFGFILILVIFVTG
                                                         LLLRKPNTYPKMIPEFFCDT
           Linker                 residues 381-          GTGSEF
                                  386 of SEQ ID
                                       NO:196
        BAG domain                residues 387-          MPAKRRKTMQGEGPQLLLSEAVSRAAKAAG
        (from BAG6)               473 of SEQ ID          ARPLTSPESLSRDLEAPEVQESYRQQLRSD
                                       NO:196            IQKRLQEDPNYSPQRFPNAQRAFADDP
           Linker                 residues 474-          DIAAALE
                                  480 of SEQ ID
                                       NO:196
        V5 epitope                residues 481-          GKPIPNPLLGLDST
           domain                 494 of SEQ ID
                                       NO:196
        C-terminal                residues 495-          SRGPYSIVSPKC
    vector residues               506 of SEQ ID
                                       NO:196
                                                    63

          The V5-tagged IL13Ra2WT-Hsp4O J domain fusion protein comprises an amino (N)-terminal
  amino acid sequence for a full-length IL13Ra2 protein linked to a J domain from the Hsp40 protein,
  which in turn is linked to a V5 epitope tag, which in turn is linked to twelve C-terminal amino acid
5 residues from the cloning site of the expression vector. The amino acid sequence for the IL13Ra2
  Hsp40 J domain fusion protein is shown in the table below.
  Table 7. Amino Acid Sequence of an IL13Ra2WT-Hsp4O J Domain Fusion Protein.
       Protein Region                  Sequence                      Amino Acid Sequence
           (N- to C-                  Identifier
           terminal)
                                                           123456789012345678901234567890
       IL13Ra2WT-Hsp4O             SEQ ID NO:197           MAFVCLAIGCLYTFLISTTFGCTSSSDTEI
       J domain fusion                                     KVNPPQDFEIVDPGYLGYLYLQWQPPLSLD
            protein                                        HFKECTVEYELKYRNIGSETWKTIITKNLH
                                                           YKDGFDLNKGIEAKIHTLLPWQCTNGSEVQ
                                                           SSWAETTYWISPQGIPETKVQDMDCVYYNW
                                                           QYLLCSWKPGIGVLLDTNYNLFYWYEGLDH
                                                           ALQCVDYIKADGQNIGCRFPYLEASDYKDF
                                                           YICVNGSSENKPIRSSYFTFQLQNIVKPLP
                                                           PVYLTFTRESSCEIKLKWSIPLGPIPARCF
                                                           DYEIEIREDDTTLVTATVENETYTLKTTNE
                                                           TRQLCFVVRSKVNIYCSDDGIWSEWSDKQC
                                                           WEGEDLSKKTLLRFWLPFGFILILVIFVTG
                                                           LLLRKPNTYPKMIPEFFCDTGTGSEFMGKD
                                                           YYQTLGLARGASDEEIKRAYRRQALRYHPD
                                                           KNKEPGAEEKFKEIAEAYDVLSDPRKREIF
                                                           DRYDIAAALEGKPIPNPLLGLDSTSRGPYS
                                                           IVSPKC
      IL13Ra2WT domain            residues 1-380           MAFVCLAIGCLYTFLISTTFGCTSSSDTEI
         (full-length)                of SEQ ID            KVNPPQDFEIVDPGYLGYLYLQWQPPLSLD
                                        NO:197             HFKECTVEYELKYRNIGSETWKTIITKNLH
                                                           YKDGFDLNKGIEAKIHTLLPWQCTNGSEVQ
                                                           SSWAETTYWISPQGIPETKVQDMDCVYYNW
                                                           QYLLCSWKPGIGVLLDTNYNLFYWYEGLDH
                                                           ALQCVDYIKADGQNIGCRFPYLEASDYKDF
                                                           YICVNGSSENKPIRSSYFTFQLQNIVKPLP
                                                           PVYLTFTRESSCEIKLKWSIPLGPIPARCF
                                                           DYEIEIREDDTTLVTATVENETYTLKTTNE
                                                           TRQLCFVVRSKVNIYCSDDGIWSEWSDKQC
                                                           WEGEDLSKKTLLRFWLPFGFILILVIFVTG
                                                           LLLRKPNTYPKMIPEFFCDT
             Linker                residues 381-           GTGSEF
                                   386 of SEQ ID
                                        NO:197
        Hsp40 J domain             residues 387-           MGKDYYQTLGLARGASDEEIKRAYRRQALR
                                   453 of SEQ ID           YHPDKNKEPGAEEKFKEIAEAYDVLSDPRK
                                        NO:197             REIFDRY
             Linker                residues 454-           DIAAALE
                                   460 of SEQ ID
                                        NO:197
                                                     64

       Protein Region                  Sequence                      Amino Acid Sequence
           (N- to C-                  Identifier
           terminal)
                                                           123456789012345678901234567890
          V5 epitope               residues 461-           GKPIPNPLLGLDST
                                   474 of SEQ ID
                                        NO:197
          C-terminal               residues 475-           SRGPYSIVSPKC
      vector residues              486 of SEQ ID
                                        NO:197
          The V5-tagged IL13Ra2WT-SV40 J domain fusion protein comprises an amino (N)-terminal
  amino acid sequence for a full-length IL13Ra2 protein linked to a J domain from the SV40 J protein,
  which in turn is linked to a V5 epitope tag, which in turn is linked to twelve C-terminal amino acid
5 residues from the cloning site of the expression vector. The amino acid sequence for the ILl3Ra2
  SV40 J domain fusion protein is shown in the table below.
  Table 8. Amino Acid Sequence of an IL13Ra2WT-SV40 J Domain Fusion Protein.
       Protein Region                  Sequence                      Amino Acid Sequence
           (N- to C-                  Identifier
           terminal)
                                                           123456789012345678901234567890
      IL13Ra2WT-SV40 J             SEQ ID NO:198           MAFVCLAIGCLYTFLISTTFGCTSSSDTEI
        domain fusion                                      KVNPPQDFEIVDPGYLGYLYLQWQPPLSLD
            protein                                        HFKECTVEYELKYRNIGSETWKTIITKNLH
                                                           YKDGFDLNKGIEAKIHTLLPWQCTNGSEVQ
                                                           SSWAETTYWISPQGIPETKVQDMDCVYYNW
                                                           QYLLCSWKPGIGVLLDTNYNLFYWYEGLDH
                                                           ALQCVDYIKADGQNIGCRFPYLEASDYKDF
                                                           YICVNGSSENKPIRSSYFTFQLQNIVKPLP
                                                           PVYLTFTRESSCEIKLKWSIPLGPIPARCF
                                                           DYEIEIREDDTTLVTATVENETYTLKTTNE
                                                           TRQLCFVVRSKVNIYCSDDGIWSEWSDKQC
                                                           WEGEDLSKKTLLRFWLPFGFILILVIFVTG
                                                           LLLRKPNTYPKMIPEFFCDTGTGSEFMDKV
                                                           LNREESLQLMDLLGLERSAWGNIPLMRKAY
                                                           LKKCKEFHPDKGGDEEKMKKMNTLYKKMED
                                                           GVKYAHQPDFGGFWDADIAAALEGKPIPNP
                                                           LLGLDSTSRGPYSIVSPKC
      IL13Ra2WT domain            residues 1-380           MAFVCLAIGCLYTFLISTTFGCTSSSDTEI
        (full-length)                 of SEQ ID            KVNPPQDFEIVDPGYLGYLYLQWQPPLSLD
                                        NO:198             HFKECTVEYELKYRNIGSETWKTIITKNLH
                                                           YKDGFDLNKGIEAKIHTLLPWQCTNGSEVQ
                                                           SSWAETTYWISPQGIPETKVQDMDCVYYNW
                                                           QYLLCSWKPGIGVLLDTNYNLFYWYEGLDH
                                                           ALQCVDYIKADGQNIGCRFPYLEASDYKDF
                                                           YICVNGSSENKPIRSSYFTFQLQNIVKPLP
                                                           PVYLTFTRESSCEIKLKWSIPLGPIPARCF
                                                           DYEIEIREDDTTLVTATVENETYTLKTTNE
                                                           TRQLCFVVRSKVNIYCSDDGIWSEWSDKQC
                                                           WEGEDLSKKTLLRFWLPFGFILILVIFVTG
                                                           LLLRKPNTYPKMIPEFFCDT
                                                     65

       Protein Region                  Sequence                      Amino Acid Sequence
           (N- to C-                  Identifier
           terminal)
                                                           123456789012345678901234567890
             Linker                residues 381-           GTGSEF
                                   386 of SEQ ID
                                        NO:198
        SV40 J domain              residues 387-           MDKVLNREESLQLMDLLGLERSAWGNIPLM
                                   466 of SEQ ID           RKAYLKKCKEFHPDKGGDEEKMKKMNTLYK
                                        NO:198             KMEDGVKYAHQPDFGGFWDA
             Linker                residues 467-           DIAAALE
                                   473 of SEQ ID
                                        NO:198
          V5 epitope               residues 474-           GKPIPNPLLGLDST
                                   487 of SEQ ID
                                        NO:198
          C-terminal               residues 488-           SRGPYSIVSPKC
      vector residues              499 of SEQ ID
                                        NO:198
          The V5-tagged IL13Ra2WT-CSP J domain fusion protein comprises an amino (N)-terminal
  amino acid sequence for a full-length IL13Ra2 protein linked to a J domain from the CSP protein,
  which in turn is linked to a V5 epitope tag, which in turn is linked to twelve C-terminal amino acid
5 residues from the cloning site of the expression vector. The amino acid sequence for the
  IL13Ra2WT-CSP J domain fusion protein is shown in the table below.
  Table 9. Amino Acid Sequence of an IL13Ra2WT-CSP J Domain Fusion Protein.
       Protein Region                  Sequence                      Amino Acid Sequence
           (N- to C-                  Identifier
           terminal)
                                                           123456789012345678901234567890
       IL13Ra2WT-CSP J             SEQ ID NO:199           MAFVCLAIGCLYTFLISTTFGCTSSSDTEI
        domain fusion                                      KVNPPQDFEIVDPGYLGYLYLQWQPPLSLD
            protein                                        HFKECTVEYELKYRNIGSETWKTIITKNLH
                                                           YKDGFDLNKGIEAKIHTLLPWQCTNGSEVQ
                                                           SSWAETTYWISPQGIPETKVQDMDCVYYNW
                                                           QYLLCSWKPGIGVLLDTNYNLFYWYEGLDH
                                                           ALQCVDYIKADGQNIGCRFPYLEASDYKDF
                                                           YICVNGSSENKPIRSSYFTFQLQNIVKPLP
                                                           PVYLTFTRESSCEIKLKWSIPLGPIPARCF
                                                           DYEIEIREDDTTLVTATVENETYTLKTTNE
                                                           TRQLCFVVRSKVNIYCSDDGIWSEWSDKQC
                                                           WEGEDLSKKTLLRFWLPFGFILILVIFVTG
                                                           LLLRKPNTYPKMIPEFFCDTGTGSEFMADQ
                                                           RQRSLSTSGESLYHVLGLDKNATSDDIKKS
                                                           YRKLALKYHPDKNPDNPEAADKFKEINNAH
                                                           AILTDATKRNIYDKYGSLGLYVDIAAALEG
                                                           KPIPNPLLGLDSTSRGPYSIVSPKC
       IL13Ra2 domain             residues 1-380           MAFVCLAIGCLYTFLISTTFGCTSSSDTEI
                                      of SEQ ID            KVNPPQDFEIVDPGYLGYLYLQWQPPLSLD
                                        NO:199             HFKECTVEYELKYRNIGSETWKTIITKNLH
                                                           YKDGFDLNKGIEAKIHTLLPWQCTNGSEVQ
                                                     66

         Protein Region                 Sequence                      Amino Acid Sequence
             (N- to C-                 Identifier
             terminal)
                                                             123456789012345678901234567890
                                                             SSWAETTYWISPQGIPETKVQDMDCVYYNW
                                                             QYLLCSWKPGIGVLLDTNYNLFYWYEGLDH
                                                             ALQCVDYIKADGQNIGCRFPYLEASDYKDF
                                                             YICVNGSSENKPIRSSYFTFQLQNIVKPLP
                                                             PVYLTFTRESSCEIKLKWSIPLGPIPARCF
                                                             DYEIEIREDDTTLVTATVENETYTLKTTNE
                                                             TRQLCFVVRSKVNIYCSDDGIWSEWSDKQC
                                                             WEGEDLSKKTLLRFWLPFGFILILVIFVTG
                                                             LLLRKPNTYPKMIPEFFCDT
               Linker               residues 381-            GTGSEF
                                    386 of SEQ ID
                                         NO:199
          CSP J domain              residues 387-            MADQRQRSLSTSGESLYHVLGLDKNATSDD
                                    472 of SEQ ID            IKKSYRKLALKYHPDKNPDNPEAADKFKEI
                                         NO:199              NNAHAILTDATKRNIYDKYGSLGLYV
               Linker               residues 473-            DIAAALE
                                    479 of SEQ ID
                                         NO:199
         V5 epitope tag             residues 480-            GKPIPNPLLGLDST
                                    493 of SEQ ID
                                         NO:199
            C-terminal              residues 494-            SRGPYSIVSPKC
        vector residues             505 of SEQ ID
                                         NO:199
            Using the expression vectors described above, the level of expression IL13Ra2-V5 was
   compared with that of various IL13Ra2 fusion proteins comprising a BAG domain or J domain in
   transfected HEK293 cells. The expression level of various fusion proteins in cells are shown in the
 5 Western blot in Figure 1B. The first row shows lanes of the gel loaded with equal amounts of cell
   lysate protein. The second row shows expression of GFP as an internal transfection control. As
   shown in the first row of Figure 1B, only a faint band was detected for the V5-tagged IL13Ra2, which
   was used to represent expression of the wild-type (WT) IL1 3Ra2 protein, indicating poor expression.
   Fusion proteins comprising IL13Ra2 and a BAG domain (BAG3, BAG4, BAG5, BAG6) were
10 expressed at slightly higher levels. In contrast, fusion proteins comprising IL13Ra2 and any of the J
   domains were all expressed at dramatically higher levels than either the V5 tagged IL13Ra2 or the
   fusion proteins comprising IL13Ra2 and a BAG domain. The results of a densitometry analysis of
   the signals in Figure 1B are shown in Figure 1C. The fusion proteins comprising IL13Ra2 and any of
   the J domains were expressed at a level as much as 25-fold higher than the V5 epitope tagged
15 ILl3Ra2 (taken as 100%). See, bar graphs in Figure 1C.
   Truncated form of IL13Ra2 expression and secretion
            ILl3Ra2 is a membrane receptor protein that binds to interleukin-13 (IL13) and mediates
   allergic inflammation. Binding of IL13 to the membrane-associated ILl3Ra2 receptor transduces a
                                                       67

   signal to the cytoplasm that sets off an inflammatory response. Such a response is particularly
   detrimental in the case of asthma. A portion of the expressed, membrane-associated IL13Ra2
   molecules is cleaved on the cell surface, releasing a soluble truncated form of IL13Ra2 (IL13Ra2TF)
   into the extracellular space. The truncated form of IL13Ra2 retains the ability to bind IL13 but
 5 cannot transmit a signal to the cell due to the absence of the transmembrane and cytoplasmic regions
   found in the full-length, membrane-associates protein. Accordingly, the truncated form of IL13Ra2
   has been employed as a decoy receptor to treat asthma by binding to IL13 molecules without
   transducing a signal to the cell to set off an inflammatory response. For such therapeutic applications,
   a genetically engineered, truncated form of IL13Ra2 has been expressed in mammalian cells and
10 purified as a secreted protein from culture medium. However, the production of the truncated form of
   IL13Ra2 is inefficient due to difficulties in expression and secretion of the protein.
            The ability of a J domain to enhance expression of a soluble, truncated form of IL13Ra2
   (IL13Ra2TF) was studied. In order to confirm if conjugation of a J domain to a truncated form of
   IL13Ra2 enhances expression of the secreted protein, plasmids that expressed an IL13Ra2TF or a
15 fusion protein comprising IL13Ra2TF and an N-terminal J domain from Erdj3 were constructed. The
   proteins also possessed the V5 epitope tag for easy identification. See, diagrams of constructs in
   Figure 2A.
            The amino acid sequence for a V5 tagged IL1 3Ra2TF used in this experiment is shown in the
   table below.
20 Table 10. Amino Acid Sequence of a V5-Tagged IL13Ra2TF Fusion Protein.
        Protein Region                   Sequence                     Amino Acid Sequence
             (N- to C-                  Identifier
            terminal)                                        123456789012345678901234567890
             IL13Ra2TF               SEQ ID NO:200           MAFVCLAIGCLYTFLISTTFGCTSSSDTEI
              protein                                        KVNPPQDFEIVDPGYLGYLYLQWQPPLSLD
                                                             HFKECTVEYELKYRNIGSETWKTIITKNLH
                                                             YKDGFDLNKGIEAKIHTLLPWQCTNGSEVQ
                                                             SSWAETTYWISPQGIPETKVQDMDCVYYNW
                                                             QYLLCSWKPGIGVLLDTNYNLFYWYEGLDH
                                                             ALQCVDYIKADGQNIGCRFPYLEASDYKDF
                                                             YICVNGSSENKPIRSSYFTFQLQNIVKPLP
                                                             PVYLTFTRESSCEIKLKWSIPLGPIPARCF
                                                             DYEIEIREDDTTLVTATVENETYTLKTTNE
                                                             TRQLCFVVRSKVNIYCSDDGIWSEWSDKQC
                                                             WEGEDLSKKGTGSEFDIAAALEGKPIPNPL
                                                             LGLDSTSRGPYSIVSPKC
             IL13Ra2TF              residues 1-339           MAFVCLAIGCLYTFLISTTFGCTSSSDTEI
                                        of SEQ ID            KVNPPQDFEIVDPGYLGYLYLQWQPPLSLD
                                           NO:200            HFKECTVEYELKYRNIGSETWKTIITKNLH
                                                             YKDGFDLNKGIEAKIHTLLPWQCTNGSEVQ
                                                             SSWAETTYWISPQGIPETKVQDMDCVYYNW
                                                             QYLLCSWKPGIGVLLDTNYNLFYWYEGLDH
                                                             ALQCVDYIKADGQNIGCRFPYLEASDYKDF
                                                             YICVNGSSENKPIRSSYFTFQLQNIVKPLP
                                                        68

       Protein Region                   Sequence                    Amino Acid Sequence
           (N- to C-                   Identifier
           terminal)                                        123456789012345678901234567890
                                                            PVYLTFTRESSCEIKLKWSIPLGPIPARCF
                                                            DYEIEIREDDTTLVTATVENETYTLKTTNE
                                                            TRQLCFVVRSKVNIYCSDDGIWSEWSDKQC
                                                            WEGEDLSKK
             Linker                 residues 340-           GTGSEFDIAAALE
                                    352 of SEQ ID
                                         NO:200
          V5 epitope                residues 353-           GKPIPNPLLGLDST
             domain                 366 of SEQ ID
                                         NO:200
             Linker                 residues 367-           SRGPYSIVSPKC
                                    378 of SEQ ID
                                         NO:200
          The amino acid sequence for a J domain fusion protein comprising an N-terminal J domain of
  the Erdj3 J protein, a mature (i.e., no signal sequence) and truncated IL13Ra2 (JL13Ra2TF), and the
  V5 epitope tag is shown in the table below.
5 Table 11. Amino Acid Sequence of a V5-Tagged Erdj3 J domain-IL1 3Ra2TF Protein.
       Protein Region                   Sequence                    Amino Acid Sequence
           (N- to C-                   Identifier
           terminal)                                        123456789012345678901234567890
      Erdj3     J  domain-          SEQ    ID  NO:201       MAPQNLSTFCLLLLYLIGAVIAGRDFYKIL
      IL13Ra2TF fusion                                      GVPRSASIKDIKKAYRKLALQLHPDRNPDD
            protein                                         PQAQEKFQDLGAAYEVLSDSEKRDIAAASD
                                                            TEIKVNPPQDFEIVDPGYLGYLYLQWQPPL
                                                            SLDHFKECTVEYELKYRNIGSETWKTIITK
                                                            NLHYKDGFDLNKGIEAKIHTLLPWQCTNGS
                                                            EVQSSWAETTYWISPQGIPETKVQDMDCVY
                                                            YNWQYLLCSWKPGIGVLLDTNYNLFYWYEG
                                                            LDHALQCVDYIKADGQNIGCRFPYLEASDY
                                                            KDFYICVNGSSENKPIRSSYFTFQLQNIVK
                                                            PLPPVYLTFTRESSCEIKLKWSIPLGPIPA
                                                            RCFDYEIEIREDDTTLVTATVENETYTLKT
                                                            TNETRQLCFVVRSKVNIYCSDDGIWSEWSD
                                                            KQCWEGEDLSKKLEGKPIPNPLLGLDSTSR
                                                            GPYSIVSPKC
       Erdj3 J domain               residues 1-83           MAPQNLSTFCLLLLYLIGAVIAGRDFYKIL
                                       of SEQ ID            GVPRSASIKDIKKAYRKLALQLHPDRNPDD
                                         NO: 201            PQAQEKFQDLGAAYEVLSDSEKR
             Linker                residues 84-88           DIAAA
                                       of SEQ ID
                                         NO:201
           IL13Ra2TF              residues 89-402           SDTEIKVNPPQDFEIVDPGYLGYLYLQWQP
       (with mature N-                 of SEQ ID            PLSLDHFKECTVEYELKYRNIGSETWKTII
           terminus)                     NO:201             TKNLHYKDGFDLNKGIEAKIHTLLPWQCTN
                                                            GSEVQSSWAETTYWISPQGIPETKVQDMDC
                                                            VYYNWQYLLCSWKPGIGVLLDTNYNLFYWY
                                                            EGLDHALQCVDYIKADGQNIGCRFPYLEAS
                                                            DYKDFYICVNGSSENKPIRSSYFTFQLQNI
                                                       69

       Protein Region                 Sequence                 Amino Acid Sequence
           (N- to C-                Identifier
           terminal)                                  123456789012345678901234567890
                                                      VKPLPPVYLTFTRESSCEIKLKWSIPLGPI
                                                      PARCFDYEIEIREDDTTLVTATVENETYTL
                                                      KTTNETRQLCFVVRSKVNIYCSDDGIWSEW
                                                      SDKQCWEGEDLSKK
             Linker               residues 403-       LE
                                  404 of SEQ ID
                                       NO:201
          V5 epitope              residues 405-       GKPIPNPLLGLDST
             domain               418 of SEQ ID
                                       NO:201
          C-terminal              residues 419-       SRGPYSIVSPKC
      vector residues             430 of SEQ ID
                                       NO:201
          The amino acid sequence for a BAG domain fusion protein comprising a signal sequence, a
  BAG domain of BAG3, a mature (i.e., no signal sequence) and truncated IL13Ra2 (IL13Ra2TF), and
  the V5 epitope tag is shown in the table below.
5 Table 12. Amino Acid Sequence of a V5-Tagged BAG domain-IL13Ra2TF Fusion Protein.
       Protein Region                 Sequence                 Amino Acid Sequence
           (N- to C-                Identifier
           terminal)                                  123456789012345678901234567890
         BAG domain-              SEQ ID NO:202       MGVKVLFALICIAVAEAGTGSEFHPGVLKV
      IL13Ra2TF fusion                                EAILEKVQGLEQAVDNFEGKKTDKKYLMIE
            protein                                   EYLTKELLALDSVDPEGRADVRQARRDGVR
                                                      KVQTILEKLEQKAIDDIAAASDTEIKVNPP
                                                      QDFEIVDPGYLGYLYLQWQPPLSLDHFKEC
                                                      TVEYELKYRNIGSETWKTIITKNLHYKDGF
                                                      DLNKGIEAKIHTLLPWQCTNGSEVQSSWAE
                                                      TTYWISPQGIPETKVQDMDCVYYNWQYLLC
                                                      SWKPGIGVLLDTNYNLFYWYEGLDHALQCV
                                                      DYIKADGQNIGCRFPYLEASDYKDFYICVN
                                                      GSSENKPIRSSYFTFQLQNIVKPLPPVYLT
                                                      FTRESSCEIKLKWSIPLGPIPARCFDYEIE
                                                      IREDDTTLVTATVENETYTLKTTNETRQLC
                                                      FVVRSKVNIYCSDDGIWSEWSDKQCWEGED
                                                      LSKKLEGKPIPNPLLGLDSTSRGPYSIVSP
                                                      KC
       Signal Sequence            residues 1-17       MGVKVLFALICIAVAEA
                                     of SEQ ID
                                       NO:202
             Linker              residues 18-23       GTGSEF
                                     of SEQ ID
                                       NO:202
          BAG domain            residues 24-105       HPGVLKVEAILEKVQGLEQAVDNFEGKKTD
         (from BAG3)                 of SEQ ID        KKYLMIEEYLTKELLALDSVDPEGRADVRQ
                                       NO:202         ARRDGVRKVQTILEKLEQKAID
             Linker               residues 106-       DIAAA
                                  110 of SEQ ID
                                       NO:202
                                                  70

         Protein Region                 Sequence                     Amino Acid Sequence
             (N- to C-                 Identifier
             terminal)                                      123456789012345678901234567890
             IL13Ra2TF              residues 111-           SDTEIKVNPPQDFEIVDPGYLGYLYLQWQP
         (with mature N-            424 of SEQ ID           PLSLDHFKECTVEYELKYRNIGSETWKTII
             terminus)                   NO:202             TKNLHYKDGFDLNKGIEAKIHTLLPWQCTN
                                                            GSEVQSSWAETTYWISPQGIPETKVQDMDC
                                                            VYYNWQYLLCSWKPGIGVLLDTNYNLFYWY
                                                            EGLDHALQCVDYIKADGQNIGCRFPYLEAS
                                                            DYKDFYICVNGSSENKPIRSSYFTFQLQNI
                                                            VKPLPPVYLTFTRESSCEIKLKWSIPLGPI
                                                            PARCFDYEIEIREDDTTLVTATVENETYTL
                                                            KTTNETRQLCFVVRSKVNIYCSDDGIWSEW
                                                            SDKQCWEGEDLSKK
               Linker               residues 425-           LE
                                    426 of SEQ ID
                                         NO:202
            V5 epitope              residues 427-           GKPIPNPLLGLDST
               domain               440 of SEQ ID
                                         NO:202
            C-terminal              residues 441-           SRGPYSIVSPKC
        vector residues             452 of SEQ ID
                                         NO:202
            The expression plasmids were transfected into HEK293 cells. Samples of cell lysates and
   culture media from two-day cultures of the transfected cells were analyzed by immunoblotting with
   anti-V5 antibody for expression of IL13Ra2TF or IL13Ra2TF-J domain fusion protein. As shown in
 5 Figure 2B, the expression of the IL13Ra2TF protein was barely detected in cell lysates (lane 2), and
   no detection was observed in the medium. In contrast, the level of expression of the IL13Ra2TF-J
   domain fusion protein was dramatically higher both inside the cell (cell lysate samples) and also as
   secreted into the medium. See, Figure 2B. A similar effect was observed when the J domain was
   attached to the C-terminus of the truncated form of IL1 3Ra2 (data not shown).
10          Another experiment was performed to better quantify the secreted proteins using a dot blot
   immunoassay. HEK293 cells were transfected with an expression vector plasmid for expressing
   IL13Ra2TF, a BAG domain fused to IL13Ra2TF (BAG-JL13RaTF), or a J domain fused to
   IL13Ra2TF (J-IL13RaTF). Transfected cells were cultured for two days, and samples of cell culture
   media were analyzed for secreted proteins using a dot blot immunoassay. The results are shown in
15 Figure 3A and 3B. Figure 3A shows x-ray film images of chemiluminescent signals for V5-tagged
   proteins secreted into culture media. As shown in Figure 3A, although the fusion protein comprising
   a BAG domain linked to IL13Ra2TF (lane 3) may have provided some minor enhancement in the
   level of secreted protein compared to the unfused IL13Ra2TF (lane 2), a fusion protein comprising a J
   domain linked to IL13Ra2TF (lane 3) exhibited a significantly enhanced level of secreted protein
20 relative to either the unfused IL13Ra2TF (lane 2) or the or the BAG domain-IL13Ra2TF fusion
   protein (lane 3). The results of a densitometry analysis of the signals of the dot blots in Figure 3A
                                                      71

   using the NIH- ImageJ image processing program are shown in Figure 3B. The bar graphs in Figure
   3B clearly show the significantly higher level of expression of secreted J domain-IL13Ra2TF fusion
   protein (bar graph 4) compared to either the IL13Ra2TF (bar graph 2) or the BAG domain
   IL13Ra2TF fusion protein (bar graph 3). Use of the J domain fusion resulted in an approximate 3.5
 5 fold increase in the amount of IL13Ra2TF being secreted by the transformed cells, compared to the
   expression level of cells transformed to express the IL1 3Ra2TF protein alone.
   J domain-al Anti-Trypsin Fusion Protein in a Modified Arrangement in Human Cells
            The al anti-trypsin (alAT) protein is secreted from the liver, and circulates in blood vessels.
   The function of alAT is to protect tissues, particularly lung tissue, from excess proteases. The lung is
10 damaged by proteases in a disease called al anti-trypsin deficiency. Subjects affected by al anti
   trypsin deficiency may develop emphysema, asthma, and/or chronic obstructive pulmonary disease
   (COPD). Currently alAT (purified from human serum) is used for the treatment of patients with al
   anti-trypsin deficiency. This treatment is expensive, and subjects that receive the human serum are at
   risk of contracting pathogens present in the human serum.
15          The effect of fusing a J domain to an al anti-trypsin (alAT) was studied as a possible
   strategy for enhancing the levels of expression and secretion of a desired therapeutically useful protein
   in transfected cells. As shown in Figure 4A, DNA constructs were prepared encoding a V5-tagged
   alAT, a V5-tagged alAT-BAG domain fusion protein, and a V5-tagged alAT-J domain fusion
   protein.
20          The amino acid sequence of a V5-tagged alAT protein is shown in the table below.
   Table 13. Amino Acid Sequence of a V5-Tagged alAT Protein.
         Protein Region                 Sequence                     Amino Acid Sequence
             (N- to C-                 Identifier
             terminal)                                       123456789012345678901234567890
          alAT protein               SEQ ID NO:203           MPSSVSWGILLLAGLCCLVPVSLAEDPQGD
                                                             AAQKTDTSHHDQDHPTFNKITPNLAEFAFS
                                                             LYRQLAHQSNSTNIFFSPVSIATAFAMLSL
                                                             GTKADTHDEILEGLNFNLTEIPEAQIHEGF
                                                             QELLRTLNQPDSQLQLTTGNGLFLSEGLKL
                                                             VDKFLEDVKKLYHSEAFTVNFGDTEEAKKQ
                                                             INDYVEKGTQGKIVDLVKELDRDTVFALVN
                                                             YIFFKGKWERPFEVKDTEEEDFHVDQVTTV
                                                             KVPMMKRLGMFNIQHCKKLSSWVLLMKYLG
                                                             NATAIFFLPDEGKLQHLENELTHDIITKFL
                                                             ENEDRRSASLHLPKLSITGTYDLKSVLGQL
                                                             GITKVFSNGADLSGVTEEAPLKLSKAVHKA
                                                             VLTIDEKGTEAAGAMFLEAIPMSIPPEVKF
                                                             NKPFVFLMIEQNTKSPLFMGKVVNPTQKGT
                                                             GSEFDIAAALEGKPIPNPLLGLDSTSRGPY
                                                             SIVSPKC
                 alAT               residues 1-418           MPSSVSWGILLLAGLCCLVPVSLAEDPQGD
                                       of SEQ ID             AAQKTDTSHHDQDHPTFNKITPNLAEFAFS
                                         NO: 203             LYRQLAHQSNSTNIFFSPVSIATAFAMLSL
                                                             GTKADTHDEILEGLNFNLTEIPEAQIHEGF
                                                       72

    Protein Region               Sequence                     Amino Acid Sequence
         (N- to C-              Identifier
        terminal)                                    123456789012345678901234567890
                                                     QELLRTLNQPDSQLQLTTGNGLFLSEGLKL
                                                     VDKFLEDVKKLYHSEAFTVNFGDTEEAKKQ
                                                     INDYVEKGTQGKIVDLVKELDRDTVFALVN
                                                     YIFFKGKWERPFEVKDTEEEDFHVDQVTTV
                                                     KVPMMKRLGMFNIQHCKKLSSWVLLMKYLG
                                                     NATAIFFLPDEGKLQHLENELTHDIITKFL
                                                     ENEDRRSASLHLPKLSITGTYDLKSVLGQL
                                                     GITKVFSNGADLSGVTEEAPLKLSKAVHKA
                                                     VLTIDEKGTEAAGAMFLEAIPMSIPPEVKF
                                                     NKPFVFLMIEQNTKSPLFMGKVVNPTQK
          Linker              residues 419-          GTGSEFDIAAALE
                              431 of SEQ ID
                                   NO:203
       V5 epitope             residues 432-          GKPIPNPLLGLDST
          domain              445 of SEQ ID
                                   NO:203
       C-terminal             residues 446-          SRGPYSIVSPKC
   vector residues            457 of SEQ ID
                                   NO:203
        The amino acid sequence of a BAG domain fusion protein comprising alAT, the BAG
domain of BAG3, and the V5 epitope tag is shown in the table below.
Table 14. Amino Acid Sequence of alAT-BAG Fusion Protein.
    Protein Region               Sequence                     Amino Acid Sequence
         (N- to C-              Identifier
        terminal)                                    123456789012345678901234567890
   alAT-BAG domain            SEQ ID NO:204          MPSSVSWGILLLAGLCCLVPVSLAEDPQGD
     fusion protein                                  AAQKTDTSHHDQDHPTFNKITPNLAEFAFS
                                                     LYRQLAHQSNSTNIFFSPVSIATAFAMLSL
                                                     GTKADTHDEILEGLNFNLTEIPEAQIHEGF
                                                     QELLRTLNQPDSQLQLTTGNGLFLSEGLKL
                                                     VDKFLEDVKKLYHSEAFTVNFGDTEEAKKQ
                                                     INDYVEKGTQGKIVDLVKELDRDTVFALVN
                                                     YIFFKGKWERPFEVKDTEEEDFHVDQVTTV
                                                     KVPMMKRLGMFNIQHCKKLSSWVLLMKYLG
                                                     NATAIFFLPDEGKLQHLENELTHDIITKFL
                                                     ENEDRRSASLHLPKLSITGTYDLKSVLGQL
                                                     GITKVFSNGADLSGVTEEAPLKLSKAVHKA
                                                     VLTIDEKGTEAAGAMFLEAIPMSIPPEVKF
                                                     NKPFVFLMIEQNTKSPLFMGKVVNPTQKGT
                                                     GSEFHPGVLKVEAILEKVQGLEQAVDNFEG
                                                     KKTDKKYLMIEEYLTKELLALDSVDPEGRA
                                                     DVRQARRDGVRKVQTILEKLEQKAIDDIAA
                                                     ALEGKPIPNPLLGLDSTSRGPYSIVSPKC
            alAT             residues 1-418          MPSSVSWGILLLAGLCCLVPVSLAEDPQGD
                                of SEQ ID            AAQKTDTSHHDQDHPTFNKITPNLAEFAFS
                                   NO:204            LYRQLAHQSNSTNIFFSPVSIATAFAMLSL
                                                     GTKADTHDEILEGLNFNLTEIPEAQIHEGF
                                                     QELLRTLNQPDSQLQLTTGNGLFLSEGLKL
                                               73

     Protein Region                 Sequence                  Amino Acid Sequence
         (N- to C-                Identifier
         terminal)                                   123456789012345678901234567890
                                                     VDKFLEDVKKLYHSEAFTVNFGDTEEAKKQ
                                                     INDYVEKGTQGKIVDLVKELDRDTVFALVN
                                                     YIFFKGKWERPFEVKDTEEEDFHVDQVTTV
                                                     KVPMMKRLGMFNIQHCKKLSSWVLLMKYLG
                                                     NATAIFFLPDEGKLQHLENELTHDIITKFL
                                                     ENEDRRSASLHLPKLSITGTYDLKSVLGQL
                                                     GITKVFSNGADLSGVTEEAPLKLSKAVHKA
                                                     VLTIDEKGTEAAGAMFLEAIPMSIPPEVKF
                                                     NKPFVFLMIEQNTKSPLFMGKVVNPTQK
           Linker              residues 419-         GTGSEF
                               424 of SEQ ID
                                     NO:204
        BAG domain             residues 425-         HPGVLKVEAILEKVQGLEQAVDNFEGKKTD
        (from BAG3)            506 of SEQ ID         KKYLMIEEYLTKELLALDSVDPEGRADVRQ
                                     NO:204          ARRDGVRKVQTILEKLEQKAID
           Linker              residues 507-         DIAAALE
                               513 of SEQ ID
                                     NO:204
        V5 epitope             residues 514-         GKPIPNPLLGLDST
          domain               527 of SEQ ID
                                     NO:204
        C-terminal             residues 528-         SRGPYSIVSPKC
    vector residues            539 of SEQ ID
                                     NO:204
        The amino acid sequence of a J domain fusion protein comprising alAT, the Erdj3 J domain,
and the V5 epitope tag is shown in the table below.
Table 15. Amino Acid Sequence of alAT-J Domain Protein.
     Protein Region                 Sequence                  Amino Acid Sequence
         (N- to C-                Identifier
         terminal)                                   123456789012345678901234567890
       alAT-Erdj3 J            SEQ ID NO:205         MPSSVSWGILLLAGLCCLVPVSLAEDPQGD
      domain fusion                                  AAQKTDTSHHDQDHPTFNKITPNLAEFAFS
          protein                                    LYRQLAHQSNSTNIFFSPVSIATAFAMLSL
                                                     GTKADTHDEILEGLNFNLTEIPEAQIHEGF
                                                     QELLRTLNQPDSQLQLTTGNGLFLSEGLKL
                                                     VDKFLEDVKKLYHSEAFTVNFGDTEEAKKQ
                                                     INDYVEKGTQGKIVDLVKELDRDTVFALVN
                                                     YIFFKGKWERPFEVKDTEEEDFHVDQVTTV
                                                     KVPMMKRLGMFNIQHCKKLSSWVLLMKYLG
                                                     NATAIFFLPDEGKLQHLENELTHDIITKFL
                                                     ENEDRRSASLHLPKLSITGTYDLKSVLGQL
                                                     GITKVFSNGADLSGVTEEAPLKLSKAVHKA
                                                     VLTIDEKGTEAAGAMFLEAIPMSIPPEVKF
                                                     NKPFVFLMIEQNTKSPLFMGKVVNPTQKGT
                                                     GSEFGRDFYKILGVPRSASIKDIKKAYRKL
                                                     ALQLHPDRNPDDPQAQEKFQDLGAAYEVLS
                                                     DSEKRDIAAALEGKPIPNPLLGLDSTSRGP
                                                     YSIVSPKC
                                                  74

         Protein Region                 Sequence                    Amino Acid Sequence
             (N- to C-                 Identifier
             terminal)                                     123456789012345678901234567890
                 alAT               residues 1-418         MPSSVSWGILLLAGLCCLVPVSLAEDPQGD
                                       of SEQ ID           AAQKTDTSHHDQDHPTFNKITPNLAEFAFS
                                         NO: 205           LYRQLAHQSNSTNIFFSPVSIATAFAMLSL
                                                           GTKADTHDEILEGLNFNLTEIPEAQIHEGF
                                                           QELLRTLNQPDSQLQLTTGNGLFLSEGLKL
                                                           VDKFLEDVKKLYHSEAFTVNFGDTEEAKKQ
                                                           INDYVEKGTQGKIVDLVKELDRDTVFALVN
                                                           YIFFKGKWERPFEVKDTEEEDFHVDQVTTV
                                                           KVPMMKRLGMFNIQHCKKLSSWVLLMKYLG
                                                           NATAIFFLPDEGKLQHLENELTHDIITKFL
                                                           ENEDRRSASLHLPKLSITGTYDLKSVLGQL
                                                           GITKVFSNGADLSGVTEEAPLKLSKAVHKA
                                                           VLTIDEKGTEAAGAMFLEAIPMSIPPEVKF
                                                           NKPFVFLMIEQNTKSPLFMGKVVNPTQK
               Linker               residues 419-          GTGSEF
                                     424 of SEQ ID
                                         NO:205
         Erdj3 J domain             residues 425-          GRDFYKILGVPRSASIKDIKKAYRKLALQL
                                     485 of SEQ ID         HPDRNPDDPQAQEKFQDLGAAYEVLSDSEK
                                         NO:205            R
               Linker               residues 486-          DIAAALE
                                     492 of SEQ ID
                                         NO:205
            V5 epitope              residues 493-          GKPIPNPLLGLDST
               domain               506 of SEQ ID
                                         NO:205
            C-terminal              residues 507-          SRGPYSIVSPKC
        vector residues             518 of SEQ ID
                                         NO:205
            Expression vector plasmids encoding the above three recombinant alAT protein constructs
   were transfected into HEK293 cells. Culture media from two-day cultures of transfected cells were
   harvested, and the level of the recombinant alAT proteins secreted into the media determined by dot
 5 blot immunoassays. Figure 4B shows x-ray film chemiluminescent signals of the dot blot assays.
   Although detectable amounts of both unfused alAT (lane 2) and alAT-BAG domain fusion protein
   (lane 3) were secreted into culture media, an even higher level of expression was obtained for secreted
   alAT-J domain fusion protein (lane 3). The results of a densitometry analysis of the signals of the
   dot blots in Figure 4B using the NIH JmageJ image processing program are shown in Figure 4C. The
10 bar graphs in Figure 4C clearly show the significantly higher level of expression of secreted alAT-J
   domain fusion protein (bar graph 4) compared to the level of expression of either alAT (bar graph 2)
   or the alAT-BAG domain fusion protein (bar graph 3). Use of the J domain fusion resulted in greater
   than a 1.5-fold increase in the amount of IL1 3Ra2TF being secreted by the transformed cells,
   compared to the expression level of cells transformed to express the alAT protein alone or an alAT
15 BAG fusion protein.
                                                      75

   Truncated Form of TNFR1 Protein in a Modified Arrangement
            One format for designing therapeutically active fusion proteins combines a binding domain,
   which specifically binds a desired target molecule, linked to an immunoglobulin Fc region, which
   endues the fusion protein with an enhanced in vivo half-life. An example of this class of drugs is
 5 etanercept, which binds and inhibits the effect of tumor necrosis factor (TNFa), which is a key protein
   of the immune system involved in a number of autoimmune diseases. For example, etanercept
   possesses a truncated form of a tumor necrosis factor a receptor (TNFR1TF) linked to an
   immunoglobulin Fc domain. The TNFR1 TF portion of etanercept provides specificity for the drug
   target (TNFa), and the Fc domain is believed to add stability and deliverability of the drug in vivo.
10 Nevertheless, the Fc domain is also known to possess certain effector functions that may not be
   desired in treatment protocols for some diseases.
            The effect of fusing a J domain to a truncated form of a receptor molecule was studied as a
   possible strategy for enhancing levels of expression and secretion of a desired receptor-based
   molecule. Such a J domain fusion protein may provide a possible alternative to prior drug designs
15 involving truncated forms of receptor molecules linked to immunoglobulin Fc domains. The
   expression of a truncated form of a tumor necrosis factor receptor (TNFR1TF) with or without a J
   domain was studied using expression vector plasmids TNFR1TF-V5-pcDNA' and TNFR1TF-J
   domain-V5-pcDNA'. The expression vectors add a V5 epitope tag to both proteins for easy detection
   with an anti-V5 antibody. See, diagrams of constructs in Figure 5A.
20          The amino acid sequence of a V5-tagged TNFR1TF is shown in the table below.
   Table 16. Amino Acid Sequence of a V5-Tagged TNFR1TF Protein.
        Protein Region                  Sequence                     Amino Acid Sequence
             (N- to C-                 Identifier
            terminal)                                        123456789012345678901234567890
        TNFR1TF protein              SEQ ID NO:206          MGLSTVPDLLLPLVLLELLVGIYPSGVIGL
                                                            VPHLGDREKRDSVCPQGKYIHPQNNSICCT
                                                             KCHKGTYLYNDCPGPGQDTDCRECESGSFT
                                                            ASENHLRHCLSCSKCRKEMGQVEISSCTVD
                                                             RDTVCGCRKNQYRHYWSENLFQCFNCSLCL
                                                            NGTVHLSCQEKQNTVCTCHAGFFLRENECV
                                                             SCSNCKKSLECTKLCLPQIENVKGTEDSGT
                                                             TGTGSEFDIAAALEGKPIPNPLLGLDSTSR
                                                             GPYSIVSPKC
              TNFR1TF               residues 1-211          MGLSTVPDLLLPLVLLELLVGIYPSGVIGL
                                       of SEQ ID            VPHLGDREKRDSVCPQGKYIHPQNNSICCT
                                         NO:206              KCHKGTYLYNDCPGPGQDTDCRECESGSFT
                                                            ASENHLRHCLSCSKCRKEMGQVEISSCTVD
                                                             RDTVCGCRKNQYRHYWSENLFQCFNCSLCL
                                                            NGTVHLSCQEKQNTVCTCHAGFFLRENECV
                                                             SCSNCKKSLECTKLCLPQIENVKGTEDSGT
                                                             T
               Linker                residues 212-           GTGSEFDIAAALE
                                     224 of SEQ ID
                                         NO:206
                                                       76

          V5 epitope             residues 225-            GKPIPNPLLGLDST
            domain               238 of SEQ ID
                                       NO:206
          C-terminal             residues 239-            SRGPYSIVSPKC
      vector residues            250 of SEQ ID
                                       NO:206
          The amino acid sequence of a J domain fusion protein comprising TNFR1TF, the Erdj3 J
  domain, and the V5 epitope tag is shown in the table below.
  Table 17. Amino Acid Sequence of a V5-Tagged TNFR1TF-Erdj3 J Domain Fusion Protein.
       Protein Region                 Sequence                   Amino Acid Sequence
           (N- to C-                Identifier
           terminal)                                      123456789012345678901234567890
      TNFR1TF-J domain           SEQ ID NO:207            MGLSTVPDLLLPLVLLELLVGIYPSGVIGL
       fusion protein                                     VPHLGDREKRDSVCPQGKYIHPQNNSICCT
                                                          KCHKGTYLYNDCPGPGQDTDCRECESGSFT
                                                          ASENHLRHCLSCSKCRKEMGQVEISSCTVD
                                                          RDTVCGCRKNQYRHYWSENLFQCFNCSLCL
                                                          NGTVHLSCQEKQNTVCTCHAGFFLRENECV
                                                          SCSNCKKSLECTKLCLPQIENVKGTEDSGT
                                                          TGTGSEFGRDFYKILGVPRSASIKDIKKAY
                                                          RKLALQLHPDRNPDDPQAQEKFQDLGAAYE
                                                          VLSDSEKRDIAAALEGKPIPNPLLGLDSTS
                                                          RGPYSIVSPKC
            TNFR1TF             residues 1-211            MGLSTVPDLLLPLVLLELLVGIYPSGVIGL
                                     of SEQ ID            VPHLGDREKRDSVCPQGKYIHPQNNSICCT
                                       NO:207             KCHKGTYLYNDCPGPGQDTDCRECESGSFT
                                                          ASENHLRHCLSCSKCRKEMGQVEISSCTVD
                                                          RDTVCGCRKNQYRHYWSENLFQCFNCSLCL
                                                          NGTVHLSCQEKQNTVCTCHAGFFLRENECV
                                                          SCSNCKKSLECTKLCLPQIENVKGTEDSGT
                                                          T
             Linker              residues 212-            GTGSEF
                                 217 of SEQ ID
                                       NO:207
       Erdj3 J domain            residues 218-            GRDFYKILGVPRSASIKDIKKAYRKLALQL
                                 278 of SEQ ID            HPDRNPDDPQAQEKFQDLGAAYEVLSDSEK
                                       NO:207             R
             Linker              residues 279-            DIAAALE
                                 285 of SEQ ID
                                       NO:207
          V5 epitope             residues 286-            GKPIPNPLLGLDST
            domain               299 of SEQ ID
                                       NO:207
          C-terminal             residues 300-            SRGPYSIVSPKC
      vector residues            311 of SEQ ID
                                       NO:207
5
          The expression plasmids were transfected into HEK293 cells. Samples of cell lysates and
  culture media from two-day cultures of transfected cells were analyzed by immunoblotting with anti
  V5 antibody for expression of TNFR1TF or the TNFR1TF-J domain fusion protein. As shown in the
                                                    77

   dot blots in Figure 5B, some TNFR1TF was detected in medium (lane 2), however, the level of the
   TNFR1TF-J domain fusion protein detected in the medium was significantly greater (lane 3). The
   results of a densitometry analysis of the signals of the dot blots in Figure 5B using the NIH ImageJ
   image processing program are shown in Figure 5C. Clearly, the level of expression of secreted
 5 TNFR1TF-J domain fusion protein (bar graph 3) was significantly higher than that of the (unfused)
   TNFR1TF protein (bar graph 2) , i.e., about a 6-fold increase over the level of TNFR1TF alone.
   Secretion of Fc-Fusion Proteins in a Modified Arrangement
            In view of the above results showing that the level of expression of secreted truncated form of
   TNFR1 was enhanced by the conjugation of J domain (Figures 5B and 5C), it was of interest to
10 examine whether a J domain would enhance expression of a protein of interest fused to an
   immunoglobulin Fc domain, such as a TNF1TF-Fc fusion protein. Such Fc-fusion molecules are a
   type of drug format illustrated by the drug etanercept (commercially available as ENBREL), which
   is a TNF1TF-Fc fusion protein approved for treating a number of autoimmune diseases, such as
   severe rheumatoid arthritis, polyarticular juvenile idiopathic arthritis (JIA), psoriatic arthritis,
15 ankylosing spondylitis, and plaque psoriasis.
            For this study, a cDNA encoding each protein of interest (TNFR1TF, IL13Ra2TF, or alAT)
   was augmented with a segment encoding a V5 epitope tag at the 3' end, which was linked in turn to a
   segment encoding the constant domains of an immunoglobulin Fc region. For J-domain fusions, a
   cDNA encoding a J domain was linked in frame between the cDNA encoding each protein of interest
20 and the segment encoding a V5 epitope tag. See, illustration of constructs in Figure 6A. The
   corresponding expression vector plasmids were transfected into HEK293 cells. Culture media were
   assayed for secreted proteins by dot blot assay.
            The amino acid sequence of the TNFR1TF-Fc fusion protein is shown in the table below.
   Table 18. Amino Acid Sequence of a V5-Tagged TNFR1TF-Fc Fusion Protein.
        Protein Region                  Sequence                      Amino Acid Sequence
             (N- to C-                Identifier
             terminal)                                       123456789012345678901234567890
            TNFR1TF Fc              SEQ ID NO:208            MGLSTVPDLLLPLVLLELLVGIYPSGVIGL
         fusion protein                                      VPHLGDREKRDSVCPQGKYIHPQNNSICCT
                                                             KCHKGTYLYNDCPGPGQDTDCRECESGSFT
                                                             ASENHLRHCLSCSKCRKEMGQVEISSCTVD
                                                             RDTVCGCRKNQYRHYWSENLFQCFNCSLCL
                                                             NGTVHLSCQEKQNTVCTCHAGFFLRENECV
                                                             SCSNCKKSLECTKLCLPQIENVKGTEDSGT
                                                             TGTGSEFDIAAALEGKPIPNPLLGLDSTSR
                                                             PKSCDKTHTCPPCPAPELLGGPSVFLFPPK
                                                             PKDTLMISRTPEVTCVVVDVSHEDPEVKFN
                                                             WYVDGVEVHNAKTKPREEQYNSTYRVVSVL
                                                             TVLHQDWLNGKEYKCKVSNKALPAPIEKTI
                                                             SKAKGQPREPQVYTLPPSRDELTKNQVSLT
                                                             CLVKGFYPSDIAVEWESNGQPENNYKTTPP
                                                             VLDSDGSFFLYSKLTVDKSRWQQGNVFSCS
                                                       78

     Protein Region              Sequence                 Amino Acid Sequence
         (N- to C-              Identifier
        terminal)                                 123456789012345678901234567890
                                                  VMHEALHNHYTQKSLSLSPGK
          TNFR1TF            residues 1-211       MGLSTVPDLLLPLVLLELLVGIYPSGVIGL
                                of SEQ ID         VPHLGDREKRDSVCPQGKYIHPQNNSICCT
                                   NO:208         KCHKGTYLYNDCPGPGQDTDCRECESGSFT
                                                  ASENHLRHCLSCSKCRKEMGQVEISSCTVD
                                                  RDTVCGCRKNQYRHYWSENLFQCFNCSLCL
                                                  NGTVHLSCQEKQNTVCTCHAGFFLRENECV
                                                  SCSNCKKSLECTKLCLPQIENVKGTEDSGT
                                                  T
           Linker             residues 212-       GTGSEFDIAAALE
                              224 of SEQ ID
                                   NO:208
       V5 epitope             residues 225-       GKPIPNPLLGLDST
          domain              238 of SEQ ID
                                   NO:208
           Linker             residues 239-       SR
                              240 of SEQ ID
                                   NO:208
        Fc domain             residues 241-       PKSCDKTHTCPPCPAPELLGGPSVFLFPPK
                              471 of SEQ ID       PKDTLMISRTPEVTCVVVDVSHEDPEVKFN
                                   NO:208         WYVDGVEVHNAKTKPREEQYNSTYRVVSVL
                                                  TVLHQDWLNGKEYKCKVSNKALPAPIEKTI
                                                  SKAKGQPREPQVYTLPPSRDELTKNQVSLT
                                                  CLVKGFYPSDIAVEWESNGQPENNYKTTPP
                                                  VLDSDGSFFLYSKLTVDKSRWQQGNVFSCS
                                                  VMHEALHNHYTQKSLSLSPGK
        The amino acid sequence of a TNFR1TF-J domain-Fc fusion protein is shown in the table
below.
Table 19. Amino Acid Sequence of a V5-Tagged TNFR1TF-Erdj3 J Domain-Fc Protein.
     Protein Region              Sequence                 Amino Acid Sequence
         (N- to C-              Identifier
        terminal)                                 123456789012345678901234567890
    TNFR1TF-J domain          SEQ ID NO:209       MGLSTVPDLLLPLVLLELLVGIYPSGVIGL
        Fc fusion                                 VPHLGDREKRDSVCPQGKYIHPQNNSICCT
          protein                                 KCHKGTYLYNDCPGPGQDTDCRECESGSFT
                                                  ASENHLRHCLSCSKCRKEMGQVEISSCTVD
                                                  RDTVCGCRKNQYRHYWSENLFQCFNCSLCL
                                                  NGTVHLSCQEKQNTVCTCHAGFFLRENECV
                                                  SCSNCKKSLECTKLCLPQIENVKGTEDSGT
                                                  TGTGSEFGRDFYKILGVPRSASIKDIKKAY
                                                  RKLALQLHPDRNPDDPQAQEKFQDLGAAYE
                                                  VLSDSEKRDIAAALEGKPIPNPLLGLDSTS
                                                  RPKSCDKTHTCPPCPAPELLGGPSVFLFPP
                                                  KPKDTLMISRTPEVTCVVVDVSHEDPEVKF
                                                  NWYVDGVEVHNAKTKPREEQYNSTYRVVSV
                                                  LTVLHQDWLNGKEYKCKVSNKALPAPIEKT
                                                  ISKAKGQPREPQVYTLPPSRDELTKNQVSL
                                                  TCLVKGFYPSDIAVEWESNGQPENNYKTTP
                                             79

    Protein Region               Sequence                  Amino Acid Sequence
         (N- to C-              Identifier
        terminal)                                  123456789012345678901234567890
                                                   PVLDSDGSFFLYSKLTVDKSRWQQGNVFSC
                                                   SVMHEALHNHYTQKSLSLSPGK
          TNFR1TF            residues 1-211        MGLSTVPDLLLPLVLLELLVGIYPSGVIGL
                                of SEQ ID          VPHLGDREKRDSVCPQGKYIHPQNNSICCT
                                   NO:209          KCHKGTYLYNDCPGPGQDTDCRECESGSFT
                                                   ASENHLRHCLSCSKCRKEMGQVEISSCTVD
                                                   RDTVCGCRKNQYRHYWSENLFQCFNCSLCL
                                                   NGTVHLSCQEKQNTVCTCHAGFFLRENECV
                                                   SCSNCKKSLECTKLCLPQIENVKGTEDSGT
                                                   T
           Linker             residues 212-        GTGSEF
                              217 of SEQ ID
                                   NO:209
     Erdj3 J domain           residues 218-        GRDFYKILGVPRSASIKDIKKAYRKLALQL
                              278 of SEQ ID        HPDRNPDDPQAQEKFQDLGAAYEVLSDSEK
                                   NO:209          R
           Linker             residues 279-        DIAAALE
                              285 of SEQ ID
                                   NO:209
       V5 epitope             residues 286-        GKPIPNPLLGLDST
          domain              299 of SEQ ID
                                   NO:209
           Linker             residues 300-        SR
                              301 of SEQ ID
                                   NO:209
        Fc domain             residues 302-        PKSCDKTHTCPPCPAPELLGGPSVFLFPPK
                              532 of SEQ ID        PKDTLMISRTPEVTCVVVDVSHEDPEVKFN
                                   NO:209          WYVDGVEVHNAKTKPREEQYNSTYRVVSVL
                                                   TVLHQDWLNGKEYKCKVSNKALPAPIEKTI
                                                   SKAKGQPREPQVYTLPPSRDELTKNQVSLT
                                                   CLVKGFYPSDIAVEWESNGQPENNYKTTPP
                                                   VLDSDGSFFLYSKLTVDKSRWQQGNVFSCS
                                                   VMHEALHNHYTQKSLSLSPGK
        The amino acid sequence of an IL13Ra2TF-Fc fusion protein is shown in the table below.
Table 20. Amino Acid Sequence of a V5-Tagged IL13Ra2TF-Fc Fusion Protein.
    Protein Region               Sequence                  Amino Acid Sequence
         (N- to C-              Identifier
        terminal)                                  123456789012345678901234567890
      IL13Ra2TF-Fc            SEQ ID NO:210        MAFVCLAIGCLYTFLISTTFGCTSSSDTEI
     fusion protein                                KVNPPQDFEIVDPGYLGYLYLQWQPPLSLD
                                                   HFKECTVEYELKYRNIGSETWKTIITKNLH
                                                   YKDGFDLNKGIEAKIHTLLPWQCTNGSEVQ
                                                   SSWAETTYWISPQGIPETKVQDMDCVYYNW
                                                   QYLLCSWKPGIGVLLDTNYNLFYWYEGLDH
                                                   ALQCVDYIKADGQNIGCRFPYLEASDYKDF
                                                   YICVNGSSENKPIRSSYFTFQLQNIVKPLP
                                                   PVYLTFTRESSCEIKLKWSIPLGPIPARCF
                                                   DYEIEIREDDTTLVTATVENETYTLKTTNE
                                                   TRQLCFVVRSKVNIYCSDDGIWSEWSDKQC
                                              80

     Protein Region              Sequence                 Amino Acid Sequence
         (N- to C-              Identifier
         terminal)                                 123456789012345678901234567890
                                                   WEGEDLSKKGTGSEFDIAAALEGKPIPNPL
                                                   LGLDSTSRPKSCDKTHTCPPCPAPELLGGP
                                                   SVFLFPPKPKDTLMISRTPEVTCVVVDVSH
                                                   EDPEVKFNWYVDGVEVHNAKTKPREEQYNS
                                                   TYRVVSVLTVLHQDWLNGKEYKCKVSNKAL
                                                   PAPIEKTISKAKGQPREPQVYTLPPSRDEL
                                                   TKNQVSLTCLVKGFYPSDIAVEWESNGQPE
                                                   NNYKTTPPVLDSDGSFFLYSKLTVDKSRWQ
                                                   QGNVFSCSVMHEALHNHYTQKSLSLSPGK
         IL13Ra2TF           residues 1-339        MAFVCLAIGCLYTFLISTTFGCTSSSDTEI
                                of SEQ ID          KVNPPQDFEIVDPGYLGYLYLQWQPPLSLD
                                   NO:210          HFKECTVEYELKYRNIGSETWKTIITKNLH
                                                   YKDGFDLNKGIEAKIHTLLPWQCTNGSEVQ
                                                   SSWAETTYWISPQGIPETKVQDMDCVYYNW
                                                   QYLLCSWKPGIGVLLDTNYNLFYWYEGLDH
                                                   ALQCVDYIKADGQNIGCRFPYLEASDYKDF
                                                   YICVNGSSENKPIRSSYFTFQLQNIVKPLP
                                                   PVYLTFTRESSCEIKLKWSIPLGPIPARCF
                                                   DYEIEIREDDTTLVTATVENETYTLKTTNE
                                                   TRQLCFVVRSKVNIYCSDDGIWSEWSDKQC
                                                   WEGEDLSKK
           Linker             residues 340-        GTGSEFDIAAALE
                              352 of SEQ ID
                                   NO:210
        V5 epitope            residues 353-        GKPIPNPLLGLDST
           domain             366 of SEQ ID
                                   NO:210
           Linker             residues 367-        SR
                              368 of SEQ ID
                                   NO:210
         Fc domain            residues 369-        PKSCDKTHTCPPCPAPELLGGPSVFLFPPK
                              599 of SEQ ID        PKDTLMISRTPEVTCVVVDVSHEDPEVKFN
                                   NO:210          WYVDGVEVHNAKTKPREEQYNSTYRVVSVL
                                                   TVLHQDWLNGKEYKCKVSNKALPAPIEKTI
                                                   SKAKGQPREPQVYTLPPSRDELTKNQVSLT
                                                   CLVKGFYPSDIAVEWESNGQPENNYKTTPP
                                                   VLDSDGSFFLYSKLTVDKSRWQQGNVFSCS
                                                   VMHEALHNHYTQKSLSLSPGK
        The amino acid sequence of an IL13Ra2TF-J domain-Fc fusion protein is shown in the table
below.
Table 21. Amino Acid Sequence of a V5-Tagged IL13Ra2TF-Erdj3 J Domain-Fc Protein.
     Protein Region              Sequence                 Amino Acid Sequence
         (N- to C-              Identifier
         terminal)                                 123456789012345678901234567890
       IL13Ra2TF-J            SEQ ID NO:211        MAFVCLAIGCLYTFLISTTFGCTSSSDTEI
   domain-Fc fusion                                KVNPPQDFEIVDPGYLGYLYLQWQPPLSLD
          protein                                  HFKECTVEYELKYRNIGSETWKTIITKNLH
                                                   YKDGFDLNKGIEAKIHTLLPWQCTNGSEVQ
                                              81

Protein Region     Sequence           Amino Acid Sequence
   (N- to C-      Identifier
   terminal)                    123456789012345678901234567890
                                SSWAETTYWISPQGIPETKVQDMDCVYYNW
                                QYLLCSWKPGIGVLLDTNYNLFYWYEGLDH
                                ALQCVDYIKADGQNIGCRFPYLEASDYKDF
                                YICVNGSSENKPIRSSYFTFQLQNIVKPLP
                                PVYLTFTRESSCEIKLKWSIPLGPIPARCF
                                DYEIEIREDDTTLVTATVENETYTLKTTNE
                                TRQLCFVVRSKVNIYCSDDGIWSEWSDKQC
                                WEGEDLSKKGTGSEFGRDFYKILGVPRSAS
                                IKDIKKAYRKLALQLHPDRNPDDPQAQEKF
                                QDLGAAYEVLSDSEKRDIAAALEGKPIPNP
                                LLGLDSTSRPKSCDKTHTCPPCPAPELLGG
                                PSVFLFPPKPKDTLMISRTPEVTCVVVDVS
                                HEDPEVKFNWYVDGVEVHNAKTKPREEQYN
                                STYRVVSVLTVLHQDWLNGKEYKCKVSNKA
                                LPAPIEKTISKAKGQPREPQVYTLPPSRDE
                                LTKNQVSLTCLVKGFYPSDIAVEWESNGQP
                                ENNYKTTPPVLDSDGSFFLYSKLTVDKSRW
                                QQGNVFSCSVMHEALHNHYTQKSLSLSPGK
   IL13Ra2TF   residues 1-339   MAFVCLAIGCLYTFLISTTFGCTSSSDTEI
                  of SEQ ID     KVNPPQDFEIVDPGYLGYLYLQWQPPLSLD
                    NO:211      HFKECTVEYELKYRNIGSETWKTIITKNLH
                                YKDGFDLNKGIEAKIHTLLPWQCTNGSEVQ
                                SSWAETTYWISPQGIPETKVQDMDCVYYNW
                                QYLLCSWKPGIGVLLDTNYNLFYWYEGLDH
                                ALQCVDYIKADGQNIGCRFPYLEASDYKDF
                                YICVNGSSENKPIRSSYFTFQLQNIVKPLP
                                PVYLTFTRESSCEIKLKWSIPLGPIPARCF
                                DYEIEIREDDTTLVTATVENETYTLKTTNE
                                TRQLCFVVRSKVNIYCSDDGIWSEWSDKQC
                                WEGEDLSKK
     Linker    residues 340-    GTGSEF
               345 of SEQ ID
                    NO:211
Erdj3 J domain residues 346-    GRDFYKILGVPRSASIKDIKKAYRKLALQL
                406 of SEQ ID   HPDRNPDDPQAQEKFQDLGAAYEVLSDSEK
                    NO:211      R
     Linker    residues 407-    DIAAALE
                413 of SEQ ID
                    NO:211
  V5 epitope   residues 414-    GKPIPNPLLGLDST
     domain     427 of SEQ ID
                    NO:211
     Linker    residues 428-    SR
                429 of SEQ ID
                    NO:211
   Fc domain   residues 430-    PKSCDKTHTCPPCPAPELLGGPSVFLFPPK
               660 of SEQ ID    PKDTLMISRTPEVTCVVVDVSHEDPEVKFN
                    NO:211      WYVDGVEVHNAKTKPREEQYNSTYRVVSVL
                                TVLHQDWLNGKEYKCKVSNKALPAPIEKTI
                                SKAKGQPREPQVYTLPPSRDELTKNQVSLT
                                CLVKGFYPSDIAVEWESNGQPENNYKTTPP
                             82

    Protein Region               Sequence                   Amino Acid Sequence
         (N- to C-              Identifier
        terminal)                                   123456789012345678901234567890
                                                    VLDSDGSFFLYSKLTVDKSRWQQGNVFSCS
                                                    VMHEALHNHYTQKSLSLSPGK
        The amino acid sequence of an alAT-Fc fusion protein is shown in the table below.
Table 22. Amino Acid Sequence of V5-Tagged alAT-Fc Protein.
    Protein Region               Sequence                   Amino Acid Sequence
         (N- to C-              Identifier
        terminal)                                   123456789012345678901234567890
   alAT protein-Fc            SEQ ID NO:212         MPSSVSWGILLLAGLCCLVPVSLAEDPQGD
     fusion protein                                 AAQKTDTSHHDQDHPTFNKITPNLAEFAFS
                                                    LYRQLAHQSNSTNIFFSPVSIATAFAMLSL
                                                    GTKADTHDEILEGLNFNLTEIPEAQIHEGF
                                                    QELLRTLNQPDSQLQLTTGNGLFLSEGLKL
                                                    VDKFLEDVKKLYHSEAFTVNFGDTEEAKKQ
                                                    INDYVEKGTQGKIVDLVKELDRDTVFALVN
                                                    YIFFKGKWERPFEVKDTEEEDFHVDQVTTV
                                                    KVPMMKRLGMFNIQHCKKLSSWVLLMKYLG
                                                    NATAIFFLPDEGKLQHLENELTHDIITKFL
                                                    ENEDRRSASLHLPKLSITGTYDLKSVLGQL
                                                    GITKVFSNGADLSGVTEEAPLKLSKAVHKA
                                                    VLTIDEKGTEAAGAMFLEAIPMSIPPEVKF
                                                    NKPFVFLMIEQNTKSPLFMGKVVNPTQKGT
                                                    GSEFDIAAALEGKPIPNPLLGLDSTSRPKS
                                                    CDKTHTCPPCPAPELLGGPSVFLFPPKPKD
                                                    TLMISRTPEVTCVVVDVSHEDPEVKFNWYV
                                                    DGVEVHNAKTKPREEQYNSTYRVVSVLTVL
                                                    HQDWLNGKEYKCKVSNKALPAPIEKTISKA
                                                    KGQPREPQVYTLPPSRDELTKNQVSLTCLV
                                                    KGFYPSDIAVEWESNGQPENNYKTTPPVLD
                                                    SDGSFFLYSKLTVDKSRWQQGNVFSCSVMH
                                                    EALHNHYTQKSLSLSPGK
            alAT             residues 1-418         MPSSVSWGILLLAGLCCLVPVSLAEDPQGD
                                of SEQ ID           AAQKTDTSHHDQDHPTFNKITPNLAEFAFS
                                   NO:212           LYRQLAHQSNSTNIFFSPVSIATAFAMLSL
                                                    GTKADTHDEILEGLNFNLTEIPEAQIHEGF
                                                    QELLRTLNQPDSQLQLTTGNGLFLSEGLKL
                                                    VDKFLEDVKKLYHSEAFTVNFGDTEEAKKQ
                                                    INDYVEKGTQGKIVDLVKELDRDTVFALVN
                                                    YIFFKGKWERPFEVKDTEEEDFHVDQVTTV
                                                    KVPMMKRLGMFNIQHCKKLSSWVLLMKYLG
                                                    NATAIFFLPDEGKLQHLENELTHDIITKFL
                                                    ENEDRRSASLHLPKLSITGTYDLKSVLGQL
                                                    GITKVFSNGADLSGVTEEAPLKLSKAVHKA
                                                    VLTIDEKGTEAAGAMFLEAIPMSIPPEVKF
                                                    NKPFVFLMIEQNTKSPLFMGKVVNPTQK
           Linker             residues 419-         GTGSEFDIAAALE
                              431 of SEQ ID
                                   NO:212
       V5 epitope             residues 432-         GKPIPNPLLGLDST
           domain             445 of SEQ ID
                                               83

    Protein Region               Sequence                   Amino Acid Sequence
         (N- to C-              Identifier
        terminal)                                  123456789012345678901234567890
                                   NO:212
          Linker              residues 446-        SR
                              447 of SEQ ID
                                   NO:212
        Fc domain             residues 448-        PKSCDKTHTCPPCPAPELLGGPSVFLFPPK
                              678 of SEQ ID        PKDTLMISRTPEVTCVVVDVSHEDPEVKFN
                                   NO:212          WYVDGVEVHNAKTKPREEQYNSTYRVVSVL
                                                   TVLHQDWLNGKEYKCKVSNKALPAPIEKTI
                                                   SKAKGQPREPQVYTLPPSRDELTKNQVSLT
                                                   CLVKGFYPSDIAVEWESNGQPENNYKTTPP
                                                   VLDSDGSFFLYSKLTVDKSRWQQGNVFSCS
                                                   VMHEALHNHYTQKSLSLSPGK
        The amino acid sequence of an alAT-J domain-Fc fusion protein is shown in the table below.
Table 23. Amino Acid Sequence of a V5-Tagged alAT-Erdj3 J Domain-Fc Protein.
    Protein Region               Sequence                   Amino Acid Sequence
         (N- to C-              Identifier
        terminal)                                  123456789012345678901234567890
   alAT-J domain-Fc           SEQ ID NO:213        MPSSVSWGILLLAGLCCLVPVSLAEDPQGD
     fusion protein                                AAQKTDTSHHDQDHPTFNKITPNLAEFAFS
                                                   LYRQLAHQSNSTNIFFSPVSIATAFAMLSL
                                                   GTKADTHDEILEGLNFNLTEIPEAQIHEGF
                                                   QELLRTLNQPDSQLQLTTGNGLFLSEGLKL
                                                   VDKFLEDVKKLYHSEAFTVNFGDTEEAKKQ
                                                   INDYVEKGTQGKIVDLVKELDRDTVFALVN
                                                   YIFFKGKWERPFEVKDTEEEDFHVDQVTTV
                                                   KVPMMKRLGMFNIQHCKKLSSWVLLMKYLG
                                                   NATAIFFLPDEGKLQHLENELTHDIITKFL
                                                   ENEDRRSASLHLPKLSITGTYDLKSVLGQL
                                                   GITKVFSNGADLSGVTEEAPLKLSKAVHKA
                                                   VLTIDEKGTEAAGAMFLEAIPMSIPPEVKF
                                                   NKPFVFLMIEQNTKSPLFMGKVVNPTQKGT
                                                   GSEFGRDFYKILGVPRSASIKDIKKAYRKL
                                                   ALQLHPDRNPDDPQAQEKFQDLGAAYEVLS
                                                   DSEKRDIAAALEGKPIPNPLLGLDSTSRPK
                                                   SCDKTHTCPPCPAPELLGGPSVFLFPPKPK
                                                   DTLMISRTPEVTCVVVDVSHEDPEVKFNWY
                                                   VDGVEVHNAKTKPREEQYNSTYRVVSVLTV
                                                   LHQDWLNGKEYKCKVSNKALPAPIEKTISK
                                                   AKGQPREPQVYTLPPSRDELTKNQVSLTCL
                                                   VKGFYPSDIAVEWESNGQPENNYKTTPPVL
                                                   DSDGSFFLYSKLTVDKSRWQQGNVFSCSVM
                                                   HEALHNHYTQKSLSLSPGK
            alAT             residues 1-418        MPSSVSWGILLLAGLCCLVPVSLAEDPQGD
                                of SEQ ID          AAQKTDTSHHDQDHPTFNKITPNLAEFAFS
                                   NO:213          LYRQLAHQSNSTNIFFSPVSIATAFAMLSL
                                                   GTKADTHDEILEGLNFNLTEIPEAQIHEGF
                                                   QELLRTLNQPDSQLQLTTGNGLFLSEGLKL
                                                   VDKFLEDVKKLYHSEAFTVNFGDTEEAKKQ
                                                   INDYVEKGTQGKIVDLVKELDRDTVFALVN
                                               84

          Protein Region                 Sequence                    Amino Acid Sequence
              (N- to C-                Identifier
             terminal)                                      123456789012345678901234567890
                                                            YIFFKGKWERPFEVKDTEEEDFHVDQVTTV
                                                            KVPMMKRLGMFNIQHCKKLSSWVLLMKYLG
                                                            NATAIFFLPDEGKLQHLENELTHDIITKFL
                                                            ENEDRRSASLHLPKLSITGTYDLKSVLGQL
                                                            GITKVFSNGADLSGVTEEAPLKLSKAVHKA
                                                            VLTIDEKGTEAAGAMFLEAIPMSIPPEVKF
                                                            NKPFVFLMIEQNTKSPLFMGKVVNPTQK
                Linker               residues 419-          GTGSEF
                                     424 of SEQ ID
                                          NO:213
          Erdj3 J domain             residues 425-          GRDFYKILGVPRSASIKDIKKAYRKLALQL
                                     485 of SEQ ID          HPDRNPDDPQAQEKFQDLGAAYEVLSDSEK
                                          NO:213            R
                Linker               residues 486-          DIAAALE
                                     492 of SEQ ID
                                          NO:213
            V5 epitope               residues 493-          GKPIPNPLLGLDST
               domain                506 of SEQ ID
                                          NO:213
                Linker               residues 507-          SR
                                     508 of SEQ ID
                                          NO:213
             Fc domain               residues 509-          PKSCDKTHTCPPCPAPELLGGPSVFLFPPK
                                     739 of SEQ ID          PKDTLMISRTPEVTCVVVDVSHEDPEVKFN
                                          NO: 213           WYVDGVEVHNAKTKPREEQYNSTYRVVSVL
                                                            TVLHQDWLNGKEYKCKVSNKALPAPIEKTI
                                                            SKAKGQPREPQVYTLPPSRDELTKNQVSLT
                                                            CLVKGFYPSD IAVEWESNGQPENNYKTTPP
                                                            VLDSDGSFFLYSKLTVDKSRWQQGNVFSCS
                                                            VMHEALHNHYTQKSLSLSPGK
             Each of the Fc fusion proteins (TNFRI-V5-Fc, IL13Ra2TF-Fc, alAT-Fc) were expressed in
   culture media as shown in the dot blots in the middle lane of each panel in Figure 6B. This level of
   expression of the Fc fusion proteins was greater than that for each of the proteins of interest alone
 5 (i.e., without fusion to an Fc domain; data not shown). However, significantly higher levels of
   expression were obtained in each case when a J domain was linked to the protein of interest segment
   within the Fc fusion proteins as shown in the dot blots in the right lane of each panel in Figure 6B.
   The results of a densitometry analysis of the chemiluminescent signals of the dot blots in Figure 6B
   are shown in the corresponding panels of Figure 6C, where the significantly higher level of expression
10 of the J domain fusion proteins is clearly evident.
   Enhanced Expression of p53 Protein in a Modified Arrangement in Human Cells
             Proteins such as IL13Ra2, TNFR, and alAT are synthesized in the endoplasmic reticulum
   (ER) for delivery to the cell membrane or secretion from the cell. To determine the effect of the
   presence of a J domain on the expression of cytoplasmic proteins, the expression of a fusion of the
                                                       85

   p53 protein and J domain was studied. The p53 protein is a transcription factor that plays pivotal
   roles in genomic stability. More than half of cancer patients have some abnormalities in the pathway
   involving p53. Therefore, overexpression of p53 in a cancer patient has been attempted as a treatment
   for cancer.
 5          A cDNA encoding p53 was inserted into expression plasmid V5(N)-pcDNA' to yield plasmid
   V5(N)-p53-pcDNA' to express a p53 protein containing an N-terminal V5 epitope tag. To express the
   p53-J domain fusion protein, a cDNA encoding a J domain of the SV40 large T antigen was then
   inserted into the V5(N)-p53-pcDNA' vector between the V5 and p53 coding regions. See, diagrams
   of constructs in Figure 7A.
10          The amino acid sequence of a V5-tagged p53 protein is shown in the table below.
   Table 24. Amino Acid Sequence of a V5-Tagged p53 Protein.
        Protein Region                 Sequence                     Amino Acid Sequence
             (N- to C-               Identifier
            terminal)                                      123456789012345678901234567890
           p53 protein            SEQ ID NO:214            MGKPIPNPLLGLDSTGTGSEFDIAAAMEEP
                                                           QSDPSVEPPLSQETFSDLWKLLPENNVLSP
                                                           LPSQAMDDLMLSPDDIEQWFTEDPGPDEAP
                                                           RMPEAAPPVAPAPAAPTPAAPAPAP SWPL S
                                                           SSVPSQKTYQGSYGFRLGFLHSGTAKSVTC
                                                           TYSPALNKMFCQLAKTCPVQLWVDSTPPPG
                                                           TRVRAMAIYKQSQHMTEVVRRCPHHERCSD
                                                           SDGLAPPQHLIRVEGNLRVEYLDDRNTFRH
                                                           SVVVPYEPPEVGSDCTTIHYNYMCNSSCMG
                                                           GMNRRPILTIITLEDSSGNLLGRNSFEVRV
                                                           CACPGRDRRTEEENLRKKGEPHHELPPGST
                                                           KRALPNNTSSSPQPKKKPLDGEYFTLQIRG
                                                           RERFEMFRELNEALELKDAQAGKEPGGSRA
                                                           HSSHLKSKKGQSTSRHKKLMFKTEGPDSDA
                                                           AALESRGPYSIVSPKC
            V5 epitope            residues 1-15            MGKPIPNPLLGLDST
               domain                 of SEQ ID
                                        NO:214
               Linker             residues 16-26           GTGSEFDIAAA
                                      of SEQ ID
                                        NO:214
                 p53             residues 27-422           MEEPQSDPSVEPPLSQETFSDLWKLLPENN
                                      of SEQ ID            VLSPLPSQAMDDLMLSPDDIEQWFTEDPGP
                                        NO: 214            DEAPRMPEAAPPVAPAPAAPTPAAPAPAPS
                                                           WPLSSSVPSQKTYQGSYGFRLGFLHSGTAK
                                                           SVT C TYSPALNKMF CQLAKT CPVQLWVD S T
                                                           PPPGTRVRAMAIYKQSQHMTEVVRRCPHHE
                                                           RCSDSDGLAPPQHLIRVEGNLRVEYLDDRN
                                                           TFRHSVVVPYEPPEVGSDCTTIHYNYMCNS
                                                           SCMGGMNRRPILTIITLEDSSGNLLGRNSF
                                                           EVRVCACPGRDRRTEEENLRKKGEPHHELP
                                                           PGSTKRALPNNTSSSPQPKKKPLDGEYFTL
                                                           QIRGRERFEMFRELNEALELKDAQAGKEPG
                                                           GSRAHSSHLKSKKGQSTSRHKKLMFKTEGP
                                                           DSDAAA
                                                     86

    Protein Region                Sequence                     Amino Acid Sequence
         (N- to C-              Identifier
        terminal)                                     123456789012345678901234567890
       C-terminal             residues 423-           LESRGPYSIVSPKC
   vector residues            436 of SEQ ID
                                   NO:214
        The amino acid sequence of a J domain fusion protein comprising the V5 epitope tag, the
SV40 J domain, and the p53 protein is shown in the table below.
Table 25. Amino Acid Sequence of a V5-Tagged SV40 J Domain-p53 Fusion Protein.
    Protein Region                Sequence                     Amino Acid Sequence
         (N- to C-              Identifier
        terminal)                                     123456789012345678901234567890
       p53-SV40     J         SEQ ID NO:215           MGKPIPNPLLGLDSTGTGSEFMDKVLNREE
     domain fusion                                    SLQLMDLLGLERSAWGNIPLMRKAYLKKCK
          protein                                     EFHPDKGGDEEKMKKMNTLYKKMEDGVKYA
                                                      HQPDFGGFWDADIAAAMEEPQSDPSVEPPL
                                                      SQETFSDLWKLLPENNVLSPLPSQAMDDLM
                                                      LSPDDIEQWFTEDPGPDEAPRMPEAAPPVA
                                                      PAPAAPTPAAPAPAPSWPLSSSVPSQKTYQ
                                                      GSYGFRLGFLHSGTAKSVTCTYSPALNKMF
                                                      CQLAKTCPVQLWVDSTPPPGTRVRAMAIYK
                                                      QSQHMTEVVRRCPHHERCSDSDGLAPPQHL
                                                      IRVEGNLRVEYLDDRNTFRHSVVVPYEPPE
                                                      VGSDCTTIHYNYMCNSSCMGGMNRRPILTI
                                                      ITLEDSSGNLLGRNSFEVRVCACPGRDRRT
                                                      EEENLRKKGEPHHELPPGSTKRALPNNTSS
                                                      SPQPKKKPLDGEYFTLQIRGRERFEMFREL
                                                      NEALELKDAQAGKEPGGSRAHSSHLKSKKG
                                                      QSTSRHKKLMFKTEGPDSDAAALESRGPYS
                                                      IVSPKC
       V5 epitope             residues 1-15           MGKPIPNPLLGLDST
          domain                 of SEQ ID
                                   NO:215
           Linker            residues 16-21           GTGSEF
                                 of SEQ ID
                                   NO:215
     SV40    J domain       residues 22-101           MDKVLNREESLQLMDLLGLERSAWGNIPLM
                                 of SEQ ID            RKAYLKKCKEFHPDKGGDEEKMKKMNTLYK
                                   NO:215             KMEDGVKYAHQPDFGGFWDA
           Linker             residues 102-           DIAAA
                              106 of SEQ ID
                                   NO:215
             p53              residues 107-           MEEPQSDPSVEPPLSQETFSDLWKLLPENN
                              502    of SEQ ID        VLSPLPSQAMDDLMLSPDDIEQWFTEDPGP
                                   NO:215             DEAPRMPEAAPPVAPAPAAPTPAAPAPAPS
                                                      WPLSSSVPSQKTYQGSYGFRLGFLHSGTAK
                                                      SVTCTYSPALNKMFCQLAKTCPVQLWVDST
                                                      PPPGTRVRAMAIYKQSQHMTEVVRRCPHHE
                                                      RCSDSDGLAPPQHLIRVEGNLRVEYLDDRN
                                                      TFRHSVVVPYEPPEVGSDCTTIHYNYMCNS
                                                      SCMGGMNRRPILTIITLEDSSGNLLGRNSF
                                                 87

         Protein Region                   Sequence                     Amino Acid Sequence
              (N- to C-                 Identifier
             terminal)                                         123456789012345678901234567890
                                                               EVRVCACPGRDRRTEEENLRKKGEPHHELP
                                                               PGSTKRALPNNTSSSPQPKKKPLDGEYFTL
                                                               QIRGRERFEMFRELNEALELKDAQAGKEPG
                                                               GSRAHSSHLKSKKGQSTSRHKKLMFKTEGP
                                                               DSDAAA
                 Linker               residues 503-            LESRGPYSIVSPKC
                                      516 of SEQ ID
                                           NO: 215
             Plasmids V5(N)-p53-pcDNA' and V5(N)-J-p53-pcDNA' were transfected into MCF cells, and
   incubated for two days. Cells were lysed in lysis buffer, and protein was detected by Western
   immunoblot assay using anti-V5 antibody. As shown in Figure 7B, the level of expression of the p53
 5 J domain fusion protein (lane 3) was significantly greater than that of the p53 protein without a J
   domain. Accordingly, the results indicate that fusion with a J domain can enhance not only
   membrane-associated and secreted proteins, but cytoplasmic proteins as well.
   CFTR Expression in a Modified Arrangement in Human Cells
             Cystic fibrosis (CF) is an autosomal recessive disorder caused by mutations in the gene
10 encoding the cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance regulator (CFTR) protein, a cAMP-regulated
   chloride channel and channel regulator. The deletion of phenylalanine at position 508 (A508F) in
   CFTR is the most common mutation that changes the conformation of the CFTR protein, which is
   then rapidly degraded by the ER quality systems. A general consensus is that only partial recovery of
   the wild-type CFTR protein function is required to provide a beneficial treatment to CF patients.
15 Therefore, a number of gene therapy trials with CFTR have been attempted, but have not yet been
   successful owing to inefficient delivery of a gene for CFTR and to immunogenicity of the vehicle
   (e.g., viral vector). In view of the fact that proper protein folding of wild-type CFTR is known to be
   difficult, it would be very useful if protein folding of the CFTR protein could be improved.
             The cftr gene or its Phe508 deletion mutant (cftrA508F) was inserted into plasmid V5(N)
20 pcDNA'. A DNA coding for the BAG domain of the BAG3 protein or a DNA coding for the J
   domain from the Hsp40 J protein was inserted in the plasmids between V5 and the cftr coding
   sequences to yield plasmids to express a wild-type CFTR or mutant CFTR(A508F) protein linked to
   an N-terminal V5 epitope tag or to express a wild-type or mutant CFTR protein fused at its N
   terminus to a BAG or J domain, which in turn was fused to an N-terminal V5 epitope tag. Diagrams
25 of the various constructs used in this experiment are shown in Figure 8A.
             The amino acid sequence a V5-tagged wild-type CFTR (CFTR WT) is shown in the table
   below.
                                                         88

Table 26. Amino Acid Sequence of a V5-Tagged CFTR Protein.
    Protein Region              Sequence                Amino Acid Sequence
         (N- to C-            Identifier
        terminal)                               123456789012345678901234567890
    V5-tagged CFTR          SEQ ID NO:216       MGKPIPNPLLGLDSTGTGSEFDIAAAMQRS
          protein                               PLEKASVVSKLFFSWTRPILRKGYRQRLEL
                                                SDIYQIPSVDSADNLSEKLEREWDRELASK
                                                KNPKLINALRRCFFWRFMFYGIFLYLGEVT
                                                KAVQPLLLGRIIASYDPDNKEERSIAIYLG
                                                IGLCLLFIVRTLLLHPAIFGLHHIGMQMRI
                                                AMFSLIYKKTLKLSSRVLDKISIGQLVSLL
                                                SNNLNKFDEGLALAHFVWIAPLQVALLMGL
                                                IWELLQASAFCGLGFLIVLALFQAGLGRMM
                                                MKYRDQRAGKISERLVITSEMIENIQSVKA
                                                YCWEEAMEKMIENLRQTELKLTRKAAYVRY
                                                FNSSAFFFSGFFVVFLSVLPYALIKGIILR
                                                KIFTTISFCIVLRMAVTRQFPWAVQTWYDS
                                                LGAINKIQDFLQKQEYKTLEYNLTTTEVVM
                                                ENVTAFWEEGFGELFEKAKQNNNNRKTSNG
                                                DDSLFFSNFSLLGTPVLKDINFKIERGQLL
                                                AVAGSTGAGKTSLLMVIMGELEPSEGKIKH
                                                SGRISFCSQFSWIMPGTIKENIIFGVSYDE
                                                YRYRSVIKACQLEEDISKFAEKDNIVLGEG
                                                GITLSGGQRARISLARAVYKDADLYLLDSP
                                                FGYLDVLTEKEIFESCVCKLMANKTRILVT
                                                SKMEHLKKADKILILHEGSSYFYGTFSELQ
                                                NLQPDFSSKLMGCDSFDQFSAERRNSILTE
                                                TLHRFSLEGDAPVSWTETKKQSFKQTGEFG
                                                EKRKNSILNPINSIRKFSIVQKTPLQMNGI
                                                EEDSDEPLERRLSLVPDSEQGEAILPRISV
                                                ISTGPTLQARRRQSVLNLMTHSVNQGQNIH
                                                RKTTASTRKVSLAPQANLTELDIYSRRLSQ
                                                ETGLEISEEINEEDLKECFFDDMESIPAVT
                                                TWNTYLRYITVHKSLIFVLIWCLVIFLAEV
                                                AASLVVLWLLGNTPLQDKGNSTHSRNNSYA
                                                VIITSTSSYYVFYIYVGVADTLLAMGFFRG
                                                LPLVHTLITVSKILHHKMLHSVLQAPMSTL
                                                NTLKAGGILNRFSKDIAILDDLLPLTIFDF
                                                IQLLLIVIGAIAVVAVLQPYIFVATVPVIV
                                                AFIMLRAYFLQTSQQLKQLESEGRSPIFTH
                                                LVTSLKGLWTLRAFGRQPYFETLFHKALNL
                                                HTANWFLYLSTLRWFQMRIEMIFVIFFIAV
                                                TFISILTTGEGEGRVGIILTLAMNIMSTLQ
                                                WAVNSSIDVDSLMRSVSRVFKFIDMPTEGK
                                                PTKSTKPYKNGQLSKVMIIENSHVKKDDIW
                                                PSGGQMTVKDLTAKYTEGGNAILENISFSI
                                                SPGQRVGLLGRTGSGKSTLLSAFLRLLNTE
                                                GEIQIDGVSWDSITLQQWRKAFGVIPQKVF
                                                IFSGTFRKNLDPYEQWSDQEIWKVADEVGL
                                                RSVIEQFPGKLDFVLVDGGCVLSHGHKQLM
                                                CLARSVLSKAKILLLDEPSAHLDPVTYQII
                                                RRTLKQAFADCTVILCEHRIEAMLECQQFL
                                                VIEENKVRQYDSIQKLLNERSLFRQAISPS
                                                DRVKLFPHRNSSKCKSKPQIAALKEETEEE
                                             89

Protein Region     Sequence           Amino Acid Sequence
   (N- to C-     Identifier
   terminal)                    123456789012345678901234567890
                                VQDTRL
  V5 epitope   residues 1-15    MGKPIPNPLLGLDST
    domain        of SEQ ID
                    NO:216
     Linker    residues 16-26   GTGSEFDIAAA
                  of SEQ ID
                    NO:216
      CFTR      residues 27-    MQRSPLEKASVVSKLFFSWTRPILRKGYRQ
               1506 of SEQ ID   RLELSDIYQIPSVDSADNLSEKLEREWDRE
                    NO:216      LASKKNPKLINALRRCFFWRFMFYGIFLYL
                                GEVTKAVQPLLLGRIIASYDPDNKEERSIA
                                IYLGIGLCLLFIVRTLLLHPAIFGLHHIGM
                                QMRIAMFSLIYKKTLKLSSRVLDKISIGQL
                                VSLLSNNLNKFDEGLALAHFVWIAPLQVAL
                                LMGLIWELLQASAFCGLGFLIVLALFQAGL
                                GRMMMKYRDQRAGKISERLVITSEMIENIQ
                                SVKAYCWEEAMEKMIENLRQTELKLTRKAA
                                YVRYFNSSAFFFSGFFVVFLSVLPYALIKG
                                IILRKIFTTISFCIVLRMAVTRQFPWAVQT
                                WYDSLGAINKIQDFLQKQEYKTLEYNLTTT
                                EVVMENVTAFWEEGFGELFEKAKQNNNNRK
                                TSNGDDSLFFSNFSLLGTPVLKDINFKIER
                                GQLLAVAGSTGAGKTSLLMVIMGELEPSEG
                                KIKHSGRISFCSQFSWIMPGTIKENIIFGV
                                SYDEYRYRSVIKACQLEEDISKFAEKDNIV
                                LGEGGITLSGGQRARISLARAVYKDADLYL
                                LDSPFGYLDVLTEKEIFESCVCKLMANKTR
                                ILVTSKMEHLKKADKILILHEGSSYFYGTF
                                SELQNLQPDFSSKLMGCDSFDQFSAERRNS
                                ILTETLHRFSLEGDAPVSWTETKKQSFKQT
                                GEFGEKRKNSILNPINSIRKFSIVQKTPLQ
                                MNGIEEDSDEPLERRLSLVPDSEQGEAILP
                                RISVISTGPTLQARRRQSVLNLMTHSVNQG
                                QNIHRKTTASTRKVSLAPQANLTELDIYSR
                                RLSQETGLEISEEINEEDLKECFFDDMESI
                                PAVTTWNTYLRYITVHKSLIFVLIWCLVIF
                                LAEVAASLVVLWLLGNTPLQDKGNSTHSRN
                                NSYAVIITSTSSYYVFYIYVGVADTLLAMG
                                FFRGLPLVHTLITVSKILHHKMLHSVLQAP
                                MSTLNTLKAGGILNRFSKDIAILDDLLPLT
                                IFDFIQLLLIVIGAIAVVAVLQPYIFVATV
                                PVIVAFIMLRAYFLQTSQQLKQLESEGRSP
                                IFTHLVTSLKGLWTLRAFGRQPYFETLFHK
                                ALNLHTANWFLYLSTLRWFQMRIEMIFVIF
                                FIAVTFISILTTGEGEGRVGIILTLAMNIM
                                STLQWAVNSSIDVDSLMRSVSRVFKFIDMP
                                TEGKPTKSTKPYKNGQLSKVMIIENSHVKK
                                DDIWPSGGQMTVKDLTAKYTEGGNAILENI
                                SFSISPGQRVGLLGRTGSGKSTLLSAFLRL
                                LNTEGEIQIDGVSWDSITLQQWRKAFGVIP
                                QKVFIFSGTFRKNLDPYEQWSDQEIWKVAD
                                EVGLRSVIEQFPGKLDFVLVDGGCVLSHGH
                             90

     Protein Region               Sequence                Amino Acid Sequence
          (N- to C-              Identifier
         terminal)                                  123456789012345678901234567890
                                                    KQLMCLARSVLSKAKILLLDEPSAHLDPVT
                                                    YQIIRRTLKQAFADCTVILCEHRIEAMLEC
                                                    QQFLVIEENKVRQYDSIQKLLNERSLFRQA
                                                    ISPSDRVKLFPHRNSSKCKSKPQIAALKEE
                                                    TEEEVQDTRL
         The amino acid sequence of a V5-tagged BAG-CFTR (wild-type) protein is shown in the
table below.
Table 27. Amino Acid Sequence of a V5-Tagged BAG Domain-CFTR Protein.
     Protein Region               Sequence                Amino Acid Sequence
          (N- to C-              Identifier
         terminal)                                  123456789012345678901234567890
      V5-tagged BAG            SEQ ID NO:217        MGKPIPNPLLGLDSTGTGSEFHPGVLKVEA
       domain-CFTR                                  ILEKVQGLEQAVDNFEGKKTDKKYLMIEEY
     fusion protein                                 LTKELLALDSVDPEGRADVRQARRDGVRKV
                                                    QTILEKLEQKAIDDIAAAMQRSPLEKASVV
                                                    SKLFFSWTRPILRKGYRQRLELSDIYQIPS
                                                    VDSADNLSEKLEREWDRELASKKNPKLINA
                                                    LRRCFFWRFMFYGIFLYLGEVTKAVQPLLL
                                                    GRIIASYDPDNKEERSIAIYLGIGLCLLFI
                                                    VRTLLLHPAIFGLHHIGMQMRIAMFSLIYK
                                                    KTLKLSSRVLDKISIGQLVSLLSNNLNKFD
                                                    EGLALAHFVWIAPLQVALLMGLIWELLQAS
                                                    AFCGLGFLIVLALFQAGLGRMMMKYRDQRA
                                                    GKISERLVITSEMIENIQSVKAYCWEEAME
                                                    KMIENLRQTELKLTRKAAYVRYFNSSAFFF
                                                    SGFFVVFLSVLPYALIKGIILRKIFTTISF
                                                    CIVLRMAVTRQFPWAVQTWYDSLGAINKIQ
                                                    DFLQKQEYKTLEYNLTTTEVVMENVTAFWE
                                                    EGFGELFEKAKQNNNNRKTSNGDDSLFFSN
                                                    FSLLGTPVLKDINFKIERGQLLAVAGSTGA
                                                    GKTSLLMVIMGELEPSEGKIKHSGRISFCS
                                                    QFSWIMPGTIKENIIFGVSYDEYRYRSVIK
                                                    ACQLEEDISKFAEKDNIVLGEGGITLSGGQ
                                                    RARISLARAVYKDADLYLLDSPFGYLDVLT
                                                    EKEIFESCVCKLMANKTRILVTSKMEHLKK
                                                    ADKILILHEGSSYFYGTFSELQNLQPDFSS
                                                    KLMGCDSFDQFSAERRNSILTETLHRFSLE
                                                    GDAPVSWTETKKQSFKQTGEFGEKRKNSIL
                                                    NPINSIRKFSIVQKTPLQMNGIEEDSDEPL
                                                    ERRLSLVPDSEQGEAILPRISVISTGPTLQ
                                                    ARRRQSVLNLMTHSVNQGQNIHRKTTASTR
                                                    KVSLAPQANLTELDIYSRRLSQETGLEISE
                                                    EINEEDLKECFFDDMESIPAVTTWNTYLRY
                                                    ITVHKSLIFVLIWCLVIFLAEVAASLVVLW
                                                    LLGNTPLQDKGNSTHSRNNSYAVIITSTSS
                                                    YYVFYIYVGVADTLLAMGFFRGLPLVHTLI
                                                    TVSKILHHKMLHSVLQAPMSTLNTLKAGGI
                                                    LNRFSKDIAILDDLLPLTIFDFIQLLLIVI
                                                91

Protein Region      Sequence           Amino Acid Sequence
   (N- to C-       Identifier
   terminal)                     123456789012345678901234567890
                                 GAIAVVAVLQPYIFVATVPVIVAFIMLRAY
                                 FLQTSQQLKQLESEGRSPIFTHLVTSLKGL
                                 WTLRAFGRQPYFETLFHKALNLHTANWFLY
                                 LSTLRWFQMRIEMIFVIFFIAVTFISILTT
                                 GEGEGRVGIILTLAMNIMSTLQWAVNSSID
                                 VDSLMRSVSRVFKFIDMPTEGKPTKSTKPY
                                 KNGQLSKVMIIENSHVKKDDIWPSGGQMTV
                                 KDLTAKYTEGGNAILENISFSISPGQRVGL
                                 LGRTGSGKSTLLSAFLRLLNTEGEIQIDGV
                                 SWDSITLQQWRKAFGVIPQKVFIFSGTFRK
                                 NLDPYEQWSDQEIWKVADEVGLRSVIEQFP
                                 GKLDFVLVDGGCVLSHGHKQLMCLARSVLS
                                 KAKILLLDEPSAHLDPVTYQIIRRTLKQAF
                                 ADCTVILCEHRIEAMLECQQFLVIEENKVR
                                 QYDSIQKLLNERSLFRQAISPSDRVKLFPH
                                 RNSSKCKSKPQIAALKEETEEEVQDTRL
  V5 epitope    residues 1-15    MGKPIPNPLLGLDST
    domain         of SEQ ID
                     NO:217
     Linker    residues 16-21    GTGSEF
                   of SEQ ID
                     NO:217
  BAG domain   residues 22-103   HPGVLKVEAILEKVQGLEQAVDNFEGKKTD
  (from BAG3)      of SEQ ID     KKYLMIEEYLTKELLALDSVDPEGRADVRQ
                     NO:217      ARRDGVRKVQTILEKLEQKAID
     Linker     residues 104-    DIAAA
                 108 of SEQ ID
                     NO:217
      CFTR      residues 109-    MQRSPLEKASVVSKLFFSWTRPILRKGYRQ
                1588 of SEQ ID   RLELSDIYQIPSVDSADNLSEKLEREWDRE
                     NO:217      LASKKNPKLINALRRCFFWRFMFYGIFLYL
                                 GEVTKAVQPLLLGRIIASYDPDNKEERSIA
                                 IYLGIGLCLLFIVRTLLLHPAIFGLHHIGM
                                 QMRIAMFSLIYKKTLKLSSRVLDKISIGQL
                                 VSLLSNNLNKFDEGLALAHFVWIAPLQVAL
                                 LMGLIWELLQASAFCGLGFLIVLALFQAGL
                                 GRMMMKYRDQRAGKISERLVITSEMIENIQ
                                 SVKAYCWEEAMEKMIENLRQTELKLTRKAA
                                 YVRYFNSSAFFFSGFFVVFLSVLPYALIKG
                                 IILRKIFTTISFCIVLRMAVTRQFPWAVQT
                                 WYDSLGAINKIQDFLQKQEYKTLEYNLTTT
                                 EVVMENVTAFWEEGFGELFEKAKQNNNNRK
                                 TSNGDDSLFFSNFSLLGTPVLKDINFKIER
                                 GQLLAVAGSTGAGKTSLLMVIMGELEPSEG
                                 KIKHSGRISFCSQFSWIMPGTIKENIIFGV
                                 SYDEYRYRSVIKACQLEEDISKFAEKDNIV
                                 LGEGGITLSGGQRARISLARAVYKDADLYL
                                 LDSPFGYLDVLTEKEIFESCVCKLMANKTR
                                 ILVTSKMEHLKKADKILILHEGSSYFYGTF
                                 SELQNLQPDFSSKLMGCDSFDQFSAERRNS
                                 ILTETLHRFSLEGDAPVSWTETKKQSFKQT
                                 GEFGEKRKNSILNPINSIRKFSIVQKTPLQ
                              92

    Protein Region                Sequence                    Amino Acid Sequence
         (N- to C-               Identifier
        terminal)                                     123456789012345678901234567890
                                                     MNGIEEDSDEPLERRLSLVPDSEQGEAILP
                                                      RISVISTGPTLQARRRQSVLNLMTHSVNQG
                                                      QNIHRKTTASTRKVSLAPQANLTELDIYSR
                                                      RLSQETGLEISEEINEEDLKECFFDDMESI
                                                      PAVTTWNTYLRYITVHKSLIFVLIWCLVIF
                                                      LAEVAASLVVLWLLGNTPLQDKGNSTHSRN
                                                     NSYAVIITSTSSYYVFYIYVGVADTLLAMG
                                                      FFRGLPLVHTLITVSKILHHKMLHSVLQAP
                                                     MSTLNTLKAGGILNRFSKDIAILDDLLPLT
                                                      IFDFIQLLLIVIGAIAVVAVLQPYIFVATV
                                                      PVIVAFIMLRAYFLQTSQQLKQLESEGRSP
                                                      IFTHLVTSLKGLWTLRAFGRQPYFETLFHK
                                                     ALNLHTANWFLYLSTLRWFQMRIEMIFVIF
                                                      FIAVTFISILTTGEGEGRVGIILTLAMNIM
                                                      STLQWAVNSSIDVDSLMRSVSRVFKFIDMP
                                                      TEGKPTKSTKPYKNGQLSKVMIIENSHVKK
                                                      DDIWPSGGQMTVKDLTAKYTEGGNAILENI
                                                      SFSISPGQRVGLLGRTGSGKSTLLSAFLRL
                                                      LNTEGEIQIDGVSWDSITLQQWRKAFGVIP
                                                      QKVFIFSGTFRKNLDPYEQWSDQEIWKVAD
                                                      EVGLRSVIEQFPGKLDFVLVDGGCVLSHGH
                                                      KQLMCLARSVLSKAKILLLDEPSAHLDPVT
                                                      YQIIRRTLKQAFADCTVILCEHRIEAMLEC
                                                      QQFLVIEENKVRQYDSIQKLLNERSLFRQA
                                                      ISPSDRVKLFPHRNSSKCKSKPQIAALKEE
                                                      TEEEVQDTRL
         The amino acid sequences a J domain fusion comprising the V5 epitope tag, the SV40 J
domain, and the CFTR wild-type protein is shown in the table below.
Table 28. Amino Acid Sequence of a V5-Tagged SV40 J Domain-CFTR Protein.
    Protein Region                Sequence                    Amino Acid Sequence
         (N- to C-               Identifier
        terminal)                                     123456789012345678901234567890
   V5-tagged SV40 J           SEQ ID NO:218          MGKPIPNPLLGLDSTGTGSEFMDKVLNREE
       domain-CFTR                                    SLQLMDLLGLERSAWGNIPLMRKAYLKKCK
     fusion protein                                   EFHPDKGGDEEKMKKMNTLYKKMEDGVKYA
                                                      HQPDFGGFWDADIAAAMQRSPLEKASVVSK
                                                      LFFSWTRPILRKGYRQRLELSDIYQIPSVD
                                                      SADNLSEKLEREWDRELASKKNPKLINALR
                                                      RCFFWRFMFYGIFLYLGEVTKAVQPLLLGR
                                                      IIASYDPDNKEERSIAIYLGIGLCLLFIVR
                                                      TLLLHPAIFGLHHIGMQMRIAMFSLIYKKT
                                                      LKLSSRVLDKISIGQLVSLLSNNLNKFDEG
                                                      LALAHFVWIAPLQVALLMGLIWELLQASAF
                                                      CGLGFLIVLALFQAGLGRMMMKYRDQRAGK
                                                      ISERLVITSEMIENIQSVKAYCWEEAMEKM
                                                      IENLRQTELKLTRKAAYVRYFNSSAFFFSG
                                                      FFVVFLSVLPYALIKGIILRKIFTTISFCI
                                                     VLRMAVTRQFPWAVQTWYDSLGAINKIQDF
                                                      LQKQEYKTLEYNLTTTEVVMENVTAFWEEG
                                                93

Protein Region      Sequence           Amino Acid Sequence
    (N- to C-      Identifier
    terminal)                    123456789012345678901234567890
                                 FGELFEKAKQNNNNRKTSNGDDSLFFSNFS
                                 LLGTPVLKDINFKIERGQLLAVAGSTGAGK
                                 TSLLMVIMGELEPSEGKIKHSGRISFCSQF
                                 SWIMPGTIKENIIFGVSYDEYRYRSVIKAC
                                 QLEEDISKFAEKDNIVLGEGGITLSGGQRA
                                 RISLARAVYKDADLYLLDSPFGYLDVLTEK
                                 EIFESCVCKLMANKTRILVTSKMEHLKKAD
                                 KILILHEGSSYFYGTFSELQNLQPDFSSKL
                                 MGCDSFDQFSAERRNSILTETLHRFSLEGD
                                 APVSWTETKKQSFKQTGEFGEKRKNSILNP
                                 INSIRKFSIVQKTPLQMNGIEEDSDEPLER
                                 RLSLVPDSEQGEAILPRISVISTGPTLQAR
                                 RRQSVLNLMTHSVNQGQNIHRKTTASTRKV
                                 SLAPQANLTELDIYSRRLSQETGLEISEEI
                                 NEEDLKECFFDDMESIPAVTTWNTYLRYIT
                                 VHKSLIFVLIWCLVIFLAEVAASLVVLWLL
                                 GNTPLQDKGNSTHSRNNSYAVIITSTSSYY
                                 VFYIYVGVADTLLAMGFFRGLPLVHTLITV
                                 SKILHHKMLHSVLQAPMSTLNTLKAGGILN
                                 RFSKDIAILDDLLPLTIFDFIQLLLIVIGA
                                 IAVVAVLQPYIFVATVPVIVAFIMLRAYFL
                                 QTSQQLKQLESEGRSPIFTHLVTSLKGLWT
                                 LRAFGRQPYFETLFHKALNLHTANWFLYLS
                                 TLRWFQMRIEMIFVIFFIAVTFISILTTGE
                                 GEGRVGIILTLAMNIMSTLQWAVNSSIDVD
                                 SLMRSVSRVFKFIDMPTEGKPTKSTKPYKN
                                 GQLSKVMIIENSHVKKDDIWPSGGQMTVKD
                                 LTAKYTEGGNAILENISFSISPGQRVGLLG
                                 RTGSGKSTLLSAFLRLLNTEGEIQIDGVSW
                                 DSITLQQWRKAFGVIPQKVFIFSGTFRKNL
                                 DPYEQWSDQEIWKVADEVGLRSVIEQFPGK
                                 LDFVLVDGGCVLSHGHKQLMCLARSVLSKA
                                 KILLLDEPSAHLDPVTYQIIRRTLKQAFAD
                                 CTVILCEHRIEAMLECQQFLVIEENKVRQY
                                 DSIQKLLNERSLFRQAISPSDRVKLFPHRN
                                 SSKCKSKPQIAALKEETEEEVQDTRL
   V5 epitope   residues 1-15    MGKPIPNPLLGLDST
     domain        of SEQ ID
                     NO:218
      Linker    residues 16-21   GTGSEF
                   of SEQ ID
                     NO:218
 SV40 J domain residues 22-101   MDKVLNREESLQLMDLLGLERSAWGNIPLM
                   of SEQ ID     RKAYLKKCKEFHPDKGGDEEKMKKMNTLYK
                     NO:218      KMEDGVKYAHQPDFGGFWDA
      Linker    residues 102-    DIAAA
                 106 of SEQ ID
                     NO:218
       CFTR     residues 107-    MQRSPLEKASVVSKLFFSWTRPILRKGYRQ
                1586 of SEQ ID   RLELSDIYQIPSVDSADNLSEKLEREWDRE
                     NO:218      LASKKNPKLINALRRCFFWRFMFYGIFLYL
                                 GEVTKAVQPLLLGRIIASYDPDNKEERSIA
                              94

Protein Region             Sequence                 Amino Acid Sequence
   (N- to C-              Identifier
   terminal)                                 123456789012345678901234567890
                                             IYLGIGLCLLFIVRTLLLHPAIFGLHHIGM
                                             QMRIAMFSLIYKKTLKLSSRVLDKISIGQL
                                             VSLLSNNLNKFDEGLALAHFVWIAPLQVAL
                                             LMGLIWELLQASAFCGLGFLIVLALFQAGL
                                             GRMMMKYRDQRAGKISERLVITSEMIENIQ
                                             SVKAYCWEEAMEKMIENLRQTELKLTRKAA
                                             YVRYFNSSAFFFSGFFVVFLSVLPYALIKG
                                             IILRKIFTTISFCIVLRMAVTRQFPWAVQT
                                             WYDSLGAINKIQDFLQKQEYKTLEYNLTTT
                                             EVVMENVTAFWEEGFGELFEKAKQNNNNRK
                                             TSNGDDSLFFSNFSLLGTPVLKDINFKIER
                                             GQLLAVAGSTGAGKTSLLMVIMGELEPSEG
                                             KIKHSGRISFCSQFSWIMPGTIKENIIFGV
                                             SYDEYRYRSVIKACQLEEDISKFAEKDNIV
                                             LGEGGITLSGGQRARISLARAVYKDADLYL
                                             LDSPFGYLDVLTEKEIFESCVCKLMANKTR
                                             ILVTSKMEHLKKADKILILHEGSSYFYGTF
                                             SELQNLQPDFSSKLMGCDSFDQFSAERRNS
                                             ILTETLHRFSLEGDAPVSWTETKKQSFKQT
                                             GEFGEKRKNSILNPINSIRKFSIVQKTPLQ
                                             MNGIEEDSDEPLERRLSLVPDSEQGEAILP
                                             RISVISTGPTLQARRRQSVLNLMTHSVNQG
                                             QNIHRKTTASTRKVSLAPQANLTELDIYSR
                                             RLSQETGLEISEEINEEDLKECFFDDMESI
                                             PAVTTWNTYLRYITVHKSLIFVLIWCLVIF
                                             LAEVAASLVVLWLLGNTPLQDKGNSTHSRN
                                             NSYAVIITSTSSYYVFYIYVGVADTLLAMG
                                             FFRGLPLVHTLITVSKILHHKMLHSVLQAP
                                             MSTLNTLKAGGILNRFSKDIAILDDLLPLT
                                             IFDFIQLLLIVIGAIAVVAVLQPYIFVATV
                                             PVIVAFIMLRAYFLQTSQQLKQLESEGRSP
                                             IFTHLVTSLKGLWTLRAFGRQPYFETLFHK
                                             ALNLHTANWFLYLSTLRWFQMRIEMIFVIF
                                             FIAVTFISILTTGEGEGRVGIILTLAMNIM
                                             STLQWAVNSSIDVDSLMRSVSRVFKFIDMP
                                             TEGKPTKSTKPYKNGQLSKVMIIENSHVKK
                                             DDIWPSGGQMTVKDLTAKYTEGGNAILENI
                                             SFSISPGQRVGLLGRTGSGKSTLLSAFLRL
                                             LNTEGEIQIDGVSWDSITLQQWRKAFGVIP
                                             QKVFIFSGTFRKNLDPYEQWSDQEIWKVAD
                                             EVGLRSVIEQFPGKLDFVLVDGGCVLSHGH
                                             KQLMCLARSVLSKAKILLLDEPSAHLDPVT
                                             YQIIRRTLKQAFADCTVILCEHRIEAMLEC
                                             QQFLVIEENKVRQYDSIQKLLNERSLFRQA
                                             ISPSDRVKLFPHRNSSKCKSKPQIAALKEE
                                             TEEEVQDTRL
  The amino acid sequence of a V5-tagged CFTR(A508F) protein is shown in the table below.
                                         95

Table 29. Amino Acid Sequence of a V5-Tagged CFTR(A508F) Protein.
    Protein Region              Sequence               Amino Acid Sequence
         (N- to C-            Identifier
        terminal)                               123456789012345678901234567890
        V5-tagged           SEQ ID NO:219       MGKPIPNPLLGLDSTGTGSEFDIAAAMQRS
       CFTR(A508F)                              PLEKASVVSKLFFSWTRPILRKGYRQRLEL
          protein                               SDIYQIPSVDSADNLSEKLEREWDRELASK
                                                KNPKLINALRRCFFWRFMFYGIFLYLGEVT
                                                KAVQPLLLGRIIASYDPDNKEERSIAIYLG
                                                IGLCLLFIVRTLLLHPAIFGLHHIGMQMRI
                                                AMFSLIYKKTLKLSSRVLDKISIGQLVSLL
                                                SNNLNKFDEGLALAHFVWIAPLQVALLMGL
                                                IWELLQASAFCGLGFLIVLALFQAGLGRMM
                                                MKYRDQRAGKISERLVITSEMIENIQSVKA
                                                YCWEEAMEKMIENLRQTELKLTRKAAYVRY
                                                FNSSAFFFSGFFVVFLSVLPYALIKGIILR
                                                KIFTTISFCIVLRMAVTRQFPWAVQTWYDS
                                                LGAINKIQDFLQKQEYKTLEYNLTTTEVVM
                                                ENVTAFWEEGFGELFEKAKQNNNNRKTSNG
                                                DDSLFFSNFSLLGTPVLKDINFKIERGQLL
                                                AVAGSTGAGKTSLLMVIMGELEPSEGKIKH
                                                SGRISFCSQFSWIMPGTIKENIIGVSYDEY
                                                RYRSVIKACQLEEDISKFAEKDNIVLGEGG
                                                ITLSGGQRARISLARAVYKDADLYLLDSPF
                                                GYLDVLTEKEIFESCVCKLMANKTRILVTS
                                                KMEHLKKADKILILHEGSSYFYGTFSELQN
                                                LQPDFSSKLMGCDSFDQFSAERRNSILTET
                                                LHRFSLEGDAPVSWTETKKQSFKQTGEFGE
                                                KRKNSILNPINSIRKFSIVQKTPLQMNGIE
                                                EDSDEPLERRLSLVPDSEQGEAILPRISVI
                                                STGPTLQARRRQSVLNLMTHSVNQGQNIHR
                                                KTTASTRKVSLAPQANLTELDIYSRRLSQE
                                                TGLEISEEINEEDLKECFFDDMESIPAVTT
                                                WNTYLRYITVHKSLIFVLIWCLVIFLAEVA
                                                ASLVVLWLLGNTPLQDKGNSTHSRNNSYAV
                                                IITSTSSYYVFYIYVGVADTLLAMGFFRGL
                                                PLVHTLITVSKILHHKMLHSVLQAPMSTLN
                                                TLKAGGILNRFSKDIAILDDLLPLTIFDFI
                                                QLLL IVIGAIAVVAVLQPYIFVATVPVIVA
                                                FIMLRAYFLQTSQQLKQLESEGRSPIFTHL
                                                VTSLKGLWTLRAFGRQPYFETLFHKALNLH
                                                TANWFLYLSTLRWFQMRIEMIFVIFFIAVT
                                                FISILTTGEGEGRVGIILTLAMNIMSTLQW
                                                AVNSSIDVDSLMRSVSRVFKFIDMPTEGKP
                                                TKSTKPYKNGQLSKVMIIENSHVKKDDIWP
                                                SGGQMTVKDLTAKYTEGGNAILENISFSIS
                                                PGQRVGLLGRTGSGKSTLLSAFLRLLNTEG
                                                EIQIDGVSWDSITLQQWRKAFGVIPQKVFI
                                                FSGTFRKNLDPYEQWSDQEIWKVADEVGLR
                                                SVIEQFPGKLDFVLVDGGCVLSHGHKQLMC
                                                LARSVLSKAKILLLDEPSAHLDPVTYQIIR
                                                RTLKQAFADCTVILCEHRIEAMLECQQFLV
                                                IEENKVRQYDSIQKLLNERSLFRQAISPSD
                                                RVKLFPHRNSSKCKSKPQIAALKEETEEEV
                                             96

Protein Region    Sequence            Amino Acid Sequence
   (N- to C-     Identifier
   terminal)                    123456789012345678901234567890
                                QDTRL
  V5 epitope   residues 1-15    MGKPIPNPLLGLDST
    domain       of SEQ ID
                   NO:219
     Linker    residues 16-26   GTGSEFDIAAA
                 of SEQ ID
                   NO:219
  CFTR(A508F)   residues 27-    MQRSPLEKASVVSKLFFSWTRPILRKGYRQ
               1505 of SEQ ID   RLELSDIYQIPSVDSADNLSEKLEREWDRE
                   NO:219       LASKKNPKLINALRRCFFWRFMFYGIFLYL
                                GEVTKAVQPLLLGRIIASYDPDNKEERSIA
                                IYLGIGLCLLFIVRTLLLHPAIFGLHHIGM
                                QMRIAMFSLIYKKTLKLSSRVLDKISIGQL
                                VSLLSNNLNKFDEGLALAHFVWIAPLQVAL
                                LMGLIWELLQASAFCGLGFLIVLALFQAGL
                                GRMMMKYRDQRAGKISERLVITSEMIENIQ
                                SVKAYCWEEAMEKMIENLRQTELKLTRKAA
                                YVRYFNSSAFFFSGFFVVFLSVLPYALIKG
                                IILRKIFTTISFCIVLRMAVTRQFPWAVQT
                                WYDSLGAINKIQDFLQKQEYKTLEYNLTTT
                                EVVMENVTAFWEEGFGELFEKAKQNNNNRK
                                TSNGDDSLFFSNFSLLGTPVLKDINFKIER
                                GQLLAVAGSTGAGKTSLLMVIMGELEPSEG
                                KIKHSGRISFCSQFSWIMPGTIKENIIGVS
                                YDEYRYRSVIKACQLEEDISKFAEKDNIVL
                                GEGGITLSGGQRARISLARAVYKDADLYLL
                                DSPFGYLDVLTEKEIFESCVCKLMANKTRI
                                LVTSKMEHLKKADKILILHEGSSYFYGTFS
                                ELQNLQPDFSSKLMGCDSFDQFSAERRNSI
                                LTETLHRFSLEGDAPVSWTETKKQSFKQTG
                                EFGEKRKNSILNPINSIRKFSIVQKTPLQM
                                NGIEEDSDEPLERRLSLVPDSEQGEAILPR
                                ISVISTGPTLQARRRQSVLNLMTHSVNQGQ
                                NIHRKTTASTRKVSLAPQANLTELDIYSRR
                                LSQETGLEISEEINEEDLKECFFDDMESIP
                                AVTTWNTYLRYITVHKSLIFVLIWCLVIFL
                                AEVAASLVVLWLLGNTPLQDKGNSTHSRNN
                                SYAVIITSTSSYYVFYIYVGVADTLLAMGF
                                FRGLPLVHTLITVSKILHHKMLHSVLQAPM
                                STLNTLKAGGILNRFSKDIAILDDLLPLTI
                                FDFIQLLLIVIGAIAVVAVLQPYIFVATVP
                                VIVAFIMLRAYFLQTSQQLKQLESEGRSPI
                                FTHLVTSLKGLWTLRAFGRQPYFETLFHKA
                                LNLHTANWFLYLSTLRWFQMRIEMIFVIFF
                                IAVTFISILTTGEGEGRVGIILTLAMNIMS
                                TLQWAVNSSIDVDSLMRSVSRVFKFIDMPT
                                EGKPTKSTKPYKNGQLSKVMIIENSHVKKD
                                DIWPSGGQMTVKDLTAKYTEGGNAILENIS
                                FSISPGQRVGLLGRTGSGKSTLLSAFLRLL
                                NTEGEIQIDGVSWDSITLQQWRKAFGVIPQ
                                KVFIFSGTFRKNLDPYEQWSDQEIWKVADE
                                VGLRSVIEQFPGKLDFVLVDGGCVLSHGHK
                             97

    Protein Region               Sequence                 Amino Acid Sequence
         (N- to C-              Identifier
        terminal)                                  123456789012345678901234567890
                                                   QLMCLARSVLSKAKILLLDEPSAHLDPVTY
                                                   QIIRRTLKQAFADCTVILCEHRIEAMLECQ
                                                   QFLVIEENKVRQYDSIQKLLNERSLFRQAI
                                                   SPSDRVKLFPHRNSSKCKSKPQIAALKEET
                                                   EEEVQDTRL
        The amino acid sequence of a V5-tagged BAG domain-CFTR(A508F) fusion protein is
shown in the table below.
Table 30. Amino Acid Sequence of a V5-Tagged BAG Domain-CFTR(A508F) Fusion Protein.
    Protein Region               Sequence                 Amino Acid Sequence
         (N- to C-              Identifier
        terminal)                                  123456789012345678901234567890
     V5-tagged BAG            SEQ ID NO:220        MGKPIPNPLLGLDSTGTGSEFHPGVLKVEA
          domain-                                  ILEKVQGLEQAVDNFEGKKTDKKYLMIEEY
       CFTR(A508F)                                 LTKELLALDSVDPEGRADVRQARRDGVRKV
     fusion protein                                QTILEKLEQKAIDDIAAAMQRSPLEKASVV
                                                   SKLFFSWTRPILRKGYRQRLELSDIYQIPS
                                                   VDSADNLSEKLEREWDRELASKKNPKLINA
                                                   LRRCFFWRFMFYGIFLYLGEVTKAVQPLLL
                                                   GRIIASYDPDNKEERSIAIYLGIGLCLLFI
                                                   VRTLLLHPAIFGLHHIGMQMRIAMFSLIYK
                                                   KTLKLSSRVLDKISIGQLVSLLSNNLNKFD
                                                   EGLALAHFVWIAPLQVALLMGLIWELLQAS
                                                   AFCGLGFLIVLALFQAGLGRMMMKYRDQRA
                                                   GKISERLVITSEMIENIQSVKAYCWEEAME
                                                   KMIENLRQTELKLTRKAAYVRYFNSSAFFF
                                                   SGFFVVFLSVLPYALIKGIILRKIFTTISF
                                                   CIVLRMAVTRQFPWAVQTWYDSLGAINKIQ
                                                   DFLQKQEYKTLEYNLTTTEVVMENVTAFWE
                                                   EGFGELFEKAKQNNNNRKTSNGDDSLFFSN
                                                   FSLLGTPVLKDINFKIERGQLLAVAGSTGA
                                                   GKTSLLMVIMGELEPSEGKIKHSGRISFCS
                                                   QFSWIMPGTIKENIIGVSYDEYRYRSVIKA
                                                   CQLEEDISKFAEKDNIVLGEGGITLSGGQR
                                                   ARISLARAVYKDADLYLLDSPFGYLDVLTE
                                                   KEIFESCVCKLMANKTRILVTSKMEHLKKA
                                                   DKILILHEGSSYFYGTFSELQNLQPDFSSK
                                                   LMGCDSFDQFSAERRNSILTETLHRFSLEG
                                                   DAPVSWTETKKQSFKQTGEFGEKRKNSILN
                                                   PINSIRKFSIVQKTPLQMNGIEEDSDEPLE
                                                   RRLSLVPDSEQGEAILPRISVISTGPTLQA
                                                   RRRQSVLNLMTHSVNQGQNIHRKTTASTRK
                                                   VSLAPQANLTELDIYSRRLSQETGLEISEE
                                                   INEEDLKECFFDDMESIPAVTTWNTYLRYI
                                                   TVHKSLIFVLIWCLVIFLAEVAASLVVLWL
                                                   LGNTPLQDKGNSTHSRNNSYAVIITSTSSY
                                                   YVFYIYVGVADTLLAMGFFRGLPLVHTLIT
                                                   VSKILHHKMLHSVLQAPMSTLNTLKAGGIL
                                                   NRFSKDIAILDDLLPLTIFDFIQLLLIVIG
                                               98

Protein Region      Sequence           Amino Acid Sequence
   (N- to C-       Identifier
   terminal)                     123456789012345678901234567890
                                 AIAVVAVLQPYIFVATVPVIVAFIMLRAYF
                                 LQTSQQLKQLESEGRSPIFTHLVTSLKGLW
                                 TLRAFGRQPYFETLFHKALNLHTANWFLYL
                                 STLRWFQMRIEMIFVIFFIAVTFISILTTG
                                 EGEGRVGIILTLAMNIMSTLQWAVNSSIDV
                                 DSLMRSVSRVFKFIDMPTEGKPTKSTKPYK
                                 NGQLSKVMIIENSHVKKDDIWPSGGQMTVK
                                 DLTAKYTEGGNAILENISFSISPGQRVGLL
                                 GRTGSGKSTLLSAFLRLLNTEGEIQIDGVS
                                 WDSITLQQWRKAFGVIPQKVFIFSGTFRKN
                                 LDPYEQWSDQEIWKVADEVGLRSVIEQFPG
                                 KLDFVLVDGGCVLSHGHKQLMCLARSVLSK
                                 AKILLLDEPSAHLDPVTYQIIRRTLKQAFA
                                 DCTVILCEHRIEAMLECQQFLVIEENKVRQ
                                 YDSIQKLLNERSLFRQAISPSDRVKLFPHR
                                 NSSKCKSKPQIAALKEETEEEVQDTRL
  V5 epitope    residues 1-15    MGKPIPNPLLGLDST
    domain         of SEQ ID
                     NO:220
     Linker    residues 16-21    GTGSEF
                   of SEQ ID
                     NO:220
  BAG domain   residues 22-103   HPGVLKVEAILEKVQGLEQAVDNFEGKKTD
  (from BAG3)      of SEQ ID     KKYLMIEEYLTKELLALDSVDPEGRADVRQ
                     NO:220      ARRDGVRKVQTILEKLEQKAID
     Linker     residues 104-    DIAAA
                 108 of SEQ ID
                     NO:220
  CFTR(A508F)   residues 109-    MQRSPLEKASVVSKLFFSWTRPILRKGYRQ
                1587 of SEQ ID   RLELSDIYQIPSVDSADNLSEKLEREWDRE
                     NO:220      LASKKNPKLINALRRCFFWRFMFYGIFLYL
                                 GEVTKAVQPLLLGRIIASYDPDNKEERSIA
                                 IYLGIGLCLLFIVRTLLLHPAIFGLHHIGM
                                 QMRIAMFSLIYKKTLKLSSRVLDKISIGQL
                                 VSLLSNNLNKFDEGLALAHFVWIAPLQVAL
                                 LMGLIWELLQASAFCGLGFLIVLALFQAGL
                                 GRMMMKYRDQRAGKISERLVITSEMIENIQ
                                 SVKAYCWEEAMEKMIENLRQTELKLTRKAA
                                 YVRYFNSSAFFFSGFFVVFLSVLPYALIKG
                                 IILRKIFTTISFCIVLRMAVTRQFPWAVQT
                                 WYDSLGAINKIQDFLQKQEYKTLEYNLTTT
                                 EVVMENVTAFWEEGFGELFEKAKQNNNNRK
                                 TSNGDDSLFFSNFSLLGTPVLKDINFKIER
                                 GQLLAVAGSTGAGKTSLLMVIMGELEPSEG
                                 KIKHSGRISFCSQFSWIMPGTIKENIIGVS
                                 YDEYRYRSVIKACQLEEDISKFAEKDNIVL
                                 GEGGITLSGGQRARISLARAVYKDADLYLL
                                 DSPFGYLDVLTEKEIFESCVCKLMANKTRI
                                 LVTSKMEHLKKADKILILHEGSSYFYGTFS
                                 ELQNLQPDFSSKLMGCDSFDQFSAERRNSI
                                 LTETLHRFSLEGDAPVSWTETKKQSFKQTG
                                 EFGEKRKNSILNPINSIRKFSIVQKTPLQM
                              99

     Protein Region               Sequence                Amino Acid Sequence
         (N- to C-               Identifier
        terminal)                                  123456789012345678901234567890
                                                   NGIEEDSDEPLERRLSLVPDSEQGEAILPR
                                                   ISVISTGPTLQARRRQSVLNLMTHSVNQGQ
                                                   NIHRKTTASTRKVSLAPQANLTELDIYSRR
                                                   LSQETGLEISEEINEEDLKECFFDDMESIP
                                                   AVTTWNTYLRYITVHKSLIFVLIWCLVIFL
                                                   AEVAASLVVLWLLGNTPLQDKGNSTHSRNN
                                                   SYAVIITSTSSYYVFYIYVGVADTLLAMGF
                                                   FRGLPLVHTLITVSKILHHKMLHSVLQAPM
                                                   STLNTLKAGGILNRFSKDIAILDDLLPLTI
                                                   FDFIQLLLIVIGAIAVVAVLQPYIFVATVP
                                                   VIVAFIMLRAYFLQTSQQLKQLESEGRSPI
                                                   FTHLVTSLKGLWTLRAFGRQPYFETLFHKA
                                                   LNLHTANWFLYLSTLRWFQMRIEMIFVIFF
                                                   IAVTFISILTTGEGEGRVGIILTLAMNIMS
                                                   TLQWAVNSSIDVDSLMRSVSRVFKFIDMPT
                                                   EGKPTKSTKPYKNGQLSKVMIIENSHVKKD
                                                   DIWPSGGQMTVKDLTAKYTEGGNAILENIS
                                                   FSISPGQRVGLLGRTGSGKSTLLSAFLRLL
                                                   NTEGEIQIDGVSWDSITLQQWRKAFGVIPQ
                                                   KVFIFSGTFRKNLDPYEQWSDQEIWKVADE
                                                   VGLRSVIEQFPGKLDFVLVDGGCVLSHGHK
                                                   QLMCLARSVLSKAKILLLDEPSAHLDPVTY
                                                   QIIRRTLKQAFADCTVILCEHRIEAMLECQ
                                                   QFLVIEENKVRQYDSIQKLLNERSLFRQAI
                                                   SPSDRVKLFPHRNSSKCKSKPQIAALKEET
                                                   EEEVQDTRL
        The amino acid of a V5-tagged J domain-CFTR(A508F) fusion protein is shown in the table
below.
Table 31. Amino Acid Sequence of a V5-Tagged SV40 J Domain-CFTR(A508F) Fusion Protein.
     Protein Region               Sequence                Amino Acid Sequence
         (N- to C-               Identifier
        terminal)                                  123456789012345678901234567890
    V5-tagged, SV40           SEQ ID NO:221        MGKPIPNPLLGLDSTGTGSEFMDKVLNREE
        J domain-                                  SLQLMDLLGLERSAWGNIPLMRKAYLKKCK
       CFTR(A508F)                                 EFHPDKGGDEEKMKKMNTLYKKMEDGVKYA
     fusion protein                                HQPDFGGFWDADIAAAMQRSPLEKASVVSK
                                                   LFFSWTRPILRKGYRQRLELSDIYQIPSVD
                                                   SADNLSEKLEREWDRELASKKNPKLINALR
                                                   RCFFWRFMFYGIFLYLGEVTKAVQPLLLGR
                                                   IIASYDPDNKEERSIAIYLGIGLCLLFIVR
                                                   TLLLHPAIFGLHHIGMQMRIAMFSLIYKKT
                                                   LKLSSRVLDKISIGQLVSLLSNNLNKFDEG
                                                   LALAHFVWIAPLQVALLMGLIWELLQASAF
                                                   CGLGFLIVLALFQAGLGRMMMKYRDQRAGK
                                                   ISERLVITSEMIENIQSVKAYCWEEAMEKM
                                                   IENLRQTELKLTRKAAYVRYFNSSAFFFSG
                                                   FFVVFLSVLPYALIKGIILRKIFTTISFCI
                                                   VLRMAVTRQFPWAVQTWYDSLGAINKIQDF
                                               100

Protein Region      Sequence            Amino Acid Sequence
    (N- to C-      Identifier
    terminal)                     123456789012345678901234567890
                                  LQKQEYKTLEYNLTTTEVVMENVTAFWEEG
                                  FGELFEKAKQNNNNRKTSNGDDSLFFSNFS
                                  LLGTPVLKDINFKIERGQLLAVAGSTGAGK
                                  TSLLMVIMGELEPSEGKIKHSGRISFCSQF
                                  SWIMPGTIKENIIGVSYDEYRYRSVIKACQ
                                  LEEDISKFAEKDNIVLGEGGITLSGGQRAR
                                  ISLARAVYKDADLYLLDSPFGYLDVLTEKE
                                  IFESCVCKLMANKTRILVTSKMEHLKKADK
                                  ILILHEGSSYFYGTFSELQNLQPDFSSKLM
                                  GCDSFDQFSAERRNSILTETLHRFSLEGDA
                                  PVSWTETKKQSFKQTGEFGEKRKNSILNPI
                                  NSIRKFSIVQKTPLQMNGIEEDSDEPLERR
                                  LSLVPDSEQGEAILPRISVISTGPTLQARR
                                  RQSVLNLMTHSVNQGQNIHRKTTASTRKVS
                                  LAPQANLTELDIYSRRLSQETGLEISEEIN
                                  EEDLKECFFDDMESIPAVTTWNTYLRYITV
                                  HKSLIFVLIWCLVIFLAEVAASLVVLWLLG
                                  NTPLQDKGNSTHSRNNSYAVIITSTSSYYV
                                  FYIYVGVADTLLAMGFFRGLPLVHTLITVS
                                  KILHHKMLHSVLQAPMSTLNTLKAGGILNR
                                  FSKDIAILDDLLPLTIFDFIQLLLIVIGAI
                                  AVVAVLQPYIFVATVPVIVAFIMLRAYFLQ
                                  TSQQLKQLESEGRSPIFTHLVTSLKGLWTL
                                  RAFGRQPYFETLFHKALNLHTANWFLYLST
                                  LRWFQMRIEMIFVIFFIAVTFISILTTGEG
                                  EGRVGIILTLAMNIMSTLQWAVNSSIDVDS
                                  LMRSVSRVFKFIDMPTEGKPTKSTKPYKNG
                                  QLSKVMIIENSHVKKDDIWPSGGQMTVKDL
                                  TAKYTEGGNAILENISFSISPGQRVGLLGR
                                  TGSGKSTLLSAFLRLLNTEGEIQIDGVSWD
                                  SITLQQWRKAFGVIPQKVFIFSGTFRKNLD
                                  PYEQWSDQEIWKVADEVGLRSVIEQFPGKL
                                  DFVLVDGGCVLSHGHKQLMCLARSVLSKAK
                                  ILLLDEPSAHLDPVTYQIIRRTLKQAFADC
                                  TVILCEHRIEAMLECQQFLVIEENKVRQYD
                                  SIQKLLNERSLFRQAISPSDRVKLFPHRNS
                                  SKCKSKPQIAALKEETEEEVQDTRL
   V5 epitope   residues 1-15     MGKPIPNPLLGLDST
     domain        of SEQ ID
                     NO:221
      Linker    residues 16-21    GTGSEF
                   of SEQ ID
                     NO:221
 SV40 J domain residues 22-101    MDKVLNREESLQLMDLLGLERSAWGNIPLM
                   of SEQ ID      RKAYLKKCKEFHPDKGGDEEKMKKMNTLYK
                     NO:221       KMEDGVKYAHQPDFGGFWDA
      Linker    residues 102-     DIAAA
                 106 of SEQ ID
                     NO:221
  CFTR(A508F)   residues 107-     MQRSPLEKASVVSKLFFSWTRPILRKGYRQ
                1585 of SEQ ID    RLELSDIYQIPSVDSADNLSEKLEREWDRE
                     NO:221       LASKKNPKLINALRRCFFWRFMFYGIFLYL
                              101

     Protein Region                 Sequence                   Amino Acid Sequence
          (N- to C-                Identifier
         terminal)                                     123456789012345678901234567890
                                                       GEVTKAVQPLLLGRIIASYDPDNKEERSIA
                                                       IYLGIGLCLLFIVRTLLLHPAIFGLHHIGM
                                                       QMRIAMFSLIYKKTLKLSSRVLDKISIGQL
                                                       VSLLSNNLNKFDEGLALAHFVWIAPLQVAL
                                                       LMGLIWELLQASAFCGLGFLIVLALFQAGL
                                                       GRMMMKYRDQRAGKISERLVITSEMIENIQ
                                                       SVKAYCWEEAMEKMIENLRQTELKLTRKAA
                                                       YVRYFNSSAFFFSGFFVVFLSVLPYALIKG
                                                       IILRKIFTTISFCIVLRMAVTRQFPWAVQT
                                                       WYDSLGAINKIQDFLQKQEYKTLEYNLTTT
                                                       EVVMENVTAFWEEGFGELFEKAKQNNNNRK
                                                       TSNGDDSLFFSNFSLLGTPVLKDINFKIER
                                                       GQLLAVAGSTGAGKTSLLMVIMGELEPSEG
                                                       KIKHSGRISFCSQFSWIMPGTIKENIIGVS
                                                       YDEYRYRSVIKACQLEEDISKFAEKDNIVL
                                                       GEGGITLSGGQRARISLARAVYKDADLYLL
                                                       DSPFGYLDVLTEKEIFESCVCKLMANKTRI
                                                       LVTSKMEHLKKADKILILHEGSSYFYGTFS
                                                       ELQNLQPDFSSKLMGCDSFDQFSAERRNSI
                                                       LTETLHRFSLEGDAPVSWTETKKQSFKQTG
                                                       EFGEKRKNSILNPINSIRKFSIVQKTPLQM
                                                       NGIEEDSDEPLERRLSLVPDSEQGEAILPR
                                                       ISVISTGPTLQARRRQSVLNLMTHSVNQGQ
                                                       NIHRKTTASTRKVSLAPQANLTELDIYSRR
                                                       LSQETGLEISEEINEEDLKECFFDDMESIP
                                                       AVTTWNTYLRYITVHKSLIFVLIWCLVIFL
                                                       AEVAASLVVLWLLGNTPLQDKGNSTHSRNN
                                                       SYAVIITSTSSYYVFYIYVGVADTLLAMGF
                                                       FRGLPLVHTLITVSKILHHKMLHSVLQAPM
                                                       STLNTLKAGGILNRFSKDIAILDDLLPLTI
                                                       FDFIQLLLIVIGAIAVVAVLQPYIFVATVP
                                                       VIVAFIMLRAYFLQTSQQLKQLESEGRSPI
                                                       FTHLVTSLKGLWTLRAFGRQPYFETLFHKA
                                                       LNLHTANWFLYLSTLRWFQMRIEMIFVIFF
                                                       IAVTFISILTTGEGEGRVGIILTLAMNIMS
                                                       TLQWAVNSSIDVDSLMRSVSRVFKFIDMPT
                                                       EGKPTKSTKPYKNGQLSKVMIIENSHVKKD
                                                       DIWPSGGQMTVKDLTAKYTEGGNAILENIS
                                                       FSISPGQRVGLLGRTGSGKSTLLSAFLRLL
                                                       NTEGEIQIDGVSWDSITLQQWRKAFGVIPQ
                                                       KVFIFSGTFRKNLDPYEQWSDQEIWKVADE
                                                       VGLRSVIEQFPGKLDFVLVDGGCVLSHGHK
                                                       QLMCLARSVLSKAKILLLDEPSAHLDPVTY
                                                       QIIRRTLKQAFADCTVILCEHRIEAMLECQ
                                                       QFLVIEENKVRQYDSIQKLLNERSLFRQAI
                                                       SPSDRVKLFPHRNSSKCKSKPQIAALKEET
                                                       EEEVQDTRL
         To study the expression of the various CFTR protein constructs, the plasmids were
transfected to HEK293 cells. Samples of cell lysates from two-day cultures of transfected cells were
                                                  102

   analyzed by immunoblotting with anti-V5 antibody. As shown in Figure 8B, neither the wild-type
   CFTR protein nor the mutant CFTR(A508F) protein expressed well in transfected cells. Fusion of
   either protein with a BAG3 domain (BAG-CFTR WT, BAG-CFTR A508F) provided some
   enhancement of expression. In contrast, fusion with a J domain significantly enhanced the level of
 5 expression of both wild-type and mutant proteins (J-CFTR WT, J-CFTR A508F). See, Figure 8B
   Conclusion of Results
            The results of the above experiments clearly show that fusion with a J domain significantly
   enhances the level of expression of a protein of interest, including therapeutically useful proteins.
   Example 3. Compositions and Methods for Enhancing Expression of Target Proteins of Interest
10 Using an Unmodified Arran2ement
            Expression vector plasmids were constructed for expressing fusion proteins for enhancing
   expression of specific proteins (target proteins). As described below, fusion proteins were usually
   linked to a standard epitope tag for easy identification or isolation using a corresponding anti-tag
   antibody and standard immunoblot (such as dot blot, Western blot) assays.
15          A DNA linker molecule having a nucleotide sequence containing various restriction enzyme
   sites for cloning heterologous DNA molecules was produced by annealing two single-stranded DNA
   molecules having the sequences shown below (5' to 3'):
   AGCTTGGTACCGGATCCGAATTCGATATCGCGGCCGCTCTCGAGTCTAGAGGGCC (SEQ
   ID NO:187) and
20 CTCTAGACTCGAGAGCGGCCGCGATATCGAATTCGGATCCGGTACCA (SEQ ID NO:188).
   The annealed linker molecule was then inserted into plasmid pcDNA3 (catalogue no. V790-20,
   Invitrogen) digested with HindIJI and Apal downstream of a CMV promoter to yield the expression
   vector plasmid pcDNA' for use in mammalian host cells.
            DNA molecules encoding the V5 epitope tag (GKPIPNPLLGLDST; SEQ ID NO: 110) or the
25 Flag epitope tag (DYKDDDDK; SEQ ID NO:111) were synthesized and inserted into plasmid
   pcDNA' digested with HindIll and KpnI. A double-stranded DNA molecule having the coding
   sequence for the V5 epitope tag with an N-terminal methionine, i.e.,
   ATGGGTAAGCCTATCCCTAACCCTCTCCTCGGTCTCGATTCTACG (SEQ ID NO:189), was
   inserted into pcDNA' digested with XhoI and XbaI to yield plasmid V5-pcDNA'.
30          A DNA molecule having the coding sequence for the Flag epitope tag, i.e.,
   GATTACAAGGATGACGATGACAAG (SEQ ID NO: 190), was inserted into plasmid pcDNA'
   digested with XhoI and XbaI to yield plasmid Flag-pcDNA'.
            To express IL13Ra2 receptor protein, a DNA molecule encoding an IL13Ra2 receptor protein
   was inserted into plasmid V5-pcDNA' digested with HindIll and KpnI.
35          To express TNR1 receptor protein, a DNA molecule encoding a TNRI receptor protein was
   inserted into plasmid V5-pcDNA' digested with HindIll and KpnI.
                                                       103

            To express al anti-trypsin ("alAT"), a DNA molecule encoding an al anti-trypsin was
   inserted into plasmid V5-pcDNA' digested with HindIll and KpnI.
            A DNA molecule encoding an Fc region polypeptide of a human IgG1 molecule was
   synthesized and inserted into V5-pcDNA' digested with XbaI and Apal.
 5          Unless indicated otherwise, a DNA molecule encoding a particular protein expression
   enhancing polypeptide was cloned into plasmid Flag-pcDNA' digested with EcoRI and EcoRV to
   insert a DNA segment encoding the J domain of an Erdj3 J protein, or digested with KpnI and BamHl
   to insert a DNA segment encoding the J domain of an Erdj5 J protein, to yield plasmid (J domain)
   Flag-pcDNA', wherein "(J domain)" refers to the particular protein expression enhancing polypeptide
10 specified in the examples below.
            Unless indicated otherwise, each DNA molecule encoding a target binding domain for a
   corresponding target protein in the examples below was inserted into plasmid Flag-pcDNA' digested
   with NotI and XhoI.
   Expression and Detection of Target Proteins in HEK293 cells
15          Expression vector plasmids encoding various protein constructs were transfected into
   HEK293 cells with X-tremeGENE HP transfection reagent (catalogue no. 06365752001, Roche). As
   indicated in the examples below, a separate plasmid expressing the green fluorescent protein (GFP)
   was co-transfected with each expression vector plasmid encoding a fusion protein of the invention to
   monitor the transfection efficiency. Cultures of transfectant cells were incubated for two days, and
20 cells were lysed in lysis buffer (10 mM Tris-HCl, pH8.0, 150 mM NaCl, 10 mM EDTA, 2% SDS)
   containing 2 mM PMSF. After brief sonication, the sample was analyzed for express proteins using
   dot blot or Western immunoblot assays. For Western blot analysis, samples were boiled in SDS
   sample buffer and run on polyacrylamide electrophoresis, followed by transfer of separated protein
   bands to membrane (PVDF membrane). The expression of GFP as an internal transfection control
25 was detected using an anti-GFP antibody.
            Expressed proteins in dot and Western blots were detected using a chemiluminescent signal.
   Briefly, blots were reacted with a primary antibody that binds the particular epitope tag (e.g., V5 or
   Flag) carried by the proteins. After rinsing away unreacted primary antibody, a secondary, enzyme
   linked antibody (e.g., horse radish peroxidase linked anti-IgG antibody) was allowed to react with
30 primary antibody molecules bound to the blots. After rinsing, manufacturer's chemiluminescent
   reagent was added. Chemiluminescent signals in blots were captured on x-ray film. Where indicated,
   the images of the chemiluminescent signals were scanned with a densitometer and analyzed using the
   NIH ImageJ image processing program.
            Cells expressing humanized anti-IL-8 antibody (CHO DP-12 clone, clone No. 1933; catalog
35 No. CRL-12444) and plasmid p6G425V1 1N35A.choSD (catalog No. 209552) were purchased from
   the American Type Culture Collection (Manassas, Virginia).
                                                      104

   Example 4. Enhanced Expression of Secreted IL13Ra2TF Protein in an Unmodified
   Arrangement
            The IL13 receptor, IL13Ra2 is a membrane protein that binds to interleukin-13 (IL13) and
   mediates allergic inflammation. The IL1 3Ra2 receptor protein is known to be an unstable protein in a
 5 mammalian cell due to the difficulties of protein folding (Genetic Engineering & Biotechnology
   News, 28(5) (2008)). Part of the expressed IL13Ra2 proteins is digested on the cell surface and shed
   into the extracellular space. This truncated form of IL13Ra2 (also referred to as "IL13Ra2TF") still
   possesses the ability to bind IL13, but cannot transmit a signal to the cell owing to the absence of
   transmembrane and cytoplasmic regions of the full-length IL13Ra2 protein. Therefore, the truncated
10 form of IL13Ra2 has been used as a type of decoy receptor to treat asthma by binding IL13 molecules
   without transducing a signal to the cell to set off an inflammatory response (Zhang, et al., J. Biol.
   Chem., 272(14): 9474-80 (1997)). A genetically engineered truncated form of IL13Ra2 has been
   expressed in bacteria, however the protein aggregated into inclusion bodies, from which the protein
   was purified (Tang et al., Molec. Immunol. 39: 719-727 (2003)). However, it is known that one
15 limitation to the expression of the IL13Ra2TF protein by transfected cells has been ascribed to
   inefficient folding of into their proper functional conformations. When proteins cannot fold into their
   proper conformation they are ushered to the proteasome for degradation and scavenging of amino
   acids. Accordingly, production of IL13Ra2TF molecules in transfected cells has recognized
   attendant limitations of expression and secretion of the protein (Lee et al., Cell Technol.for Cell
20 Products, 29-39 (2007)).
            This experiment studied the enhancement in the level of and secretion of the
   IL13Ra2TF protein using an alternative arrangement to the "modified" arrangement
   described in Examples 1-3 in which a target protein of interest is modified by fusion to a
   protein expression enhancing polypeptide of the invention. In an "unmodified" arrangement,
25 a target protein of interest is "unmodified" in that it is not fused to a protein expression
   enhancing polypeptide of the invention, but instead is co-expressed with a fusion protein
   comprising a protein expression enhancing polypeptide linked to a target protein binding
   domain. Figure 9A shows a schematic diagram of this unmodified arrangement for
   enhancing expression of a target protein of interest. According to this scheme, a target
30 protein of interest is bound by a target protein binding domain of the fusion protein, which
   also comprises a protein expression enhancing polypeptide domain. Presumably, binding of
   the target protein to the fusion protein brings the target protein into close proximity to the
   protein expression enhancing polypeptide domain, which in turn leads to enhanced
   expression of the target protein of interest.
                                                        105

            Figure 9B shows a diagram of a nucleic acid construct in which a cDNA encoding an
   IL13Ra2TF protein is augmented at its 3' end with a nucleic acid encoding a V5 epitope tag. Figure
   9C shows a diagram of a nucleic acid construct for a fusion protein of the invention. For this
   experiment, the fusion protein according to the invention comprised a J domain of the Erdj3 J protein
 5 as a protein expression enhancing polypeptide linked to an IL13 protein as a target binding domain.
            The amino acid sequence of the V5-tagged IL13Ra2TF protein is shown in the table below.
   Table 32. Amino Acid Sequence of a V5-Tagged IL13Ra2TF Protein.
        Protein Region                  Sequence                   Amino Acid Sequence
             (N- to C-                Identifier
            terminal)                                       123456789012345678901234567890
            V5-tagged               SEQ ID NO:222           MAFVCLAIGCLYTFLISTTFGCTSSSDTEI
             IL13Ra2TF                                      KVNPPQDFEIVDPGYLGYLYLQWQPPLSLD
              protein                                       HFKECTVEYELKYRNIGSETWKTIITKNLH
                                                            YKDGFDLNKGIEAKIHTLLPWQCTNGSEVQ
                                                            SSWAETTYWISPQGIPETKVQDMDCVYYNW
                                                            QYLLCSWKPGIGVLLDTNYNLFYWYEGLDH
                                                            ALQCVDYIKADGQNIGCRFPYLEASDYKDF
                                                            YICVNGSSENKPIRSSYFTFQLQNIVKPLP
                                                            PVYLTFTRESSCEIKLKWSIPLGPIPARCF
                                                            DYEIEIREDDTTLVTATVENETYTLKTTNE
                                                            TRQLCFVVRSKVNIYCSDDGIWSEWSDKQC
                                                            WEGEDLSKKGTGSEFDIAAALEGKPIPNPL
                                                            LGLDSTSRGPYSIVSPKC
             IL13Ra2TF             residues 1-339           MAFVCLAIGCLYTFLISTTFGCTSSSDTEI
                                      of SEQ ID             KVNPPQDFEIVDPGYLGYLYLQWQPPLSLD
                                         NO:222             HFKECTVEYELKYRNIGSETWKTIITKNLH
                                                            YKDGFDLNKGIEAKIHTLLPWQCTNGSEVQ
                                                            SSWAETTYWISPQGIPETKVQDMDCVYYNW
                                                            QYLLCSWKPGIGVLLDTNYNLFYWYEGLDH
                                                            ALQCVDYIKADGQNIGCRFPYLEASDYKDF
                                                            YICVNGSSENKPIRSSYFTFQLQNIVKPLP
                                                            PVYLTFTRESSCEIKLKWSIPLGPIPARCF
                                                            DYEIEIREDDTTLVTATVENETYTLKTTNE
                                                            TRQLCFVVRSKVNIYCSDDGIWSEWSDKQC
                                                            WEGEDLSKK
               Linker               residues 340-           GTGSEFDIAAALE
                                    352 of SEQ ID
                                         NO:222
           V5 epitope               residues 353-           GKPIPNPLLGLDST
               domain               366 of SEQ ID
                                         NO:222
           C-terminal               residues 367-           SRGPYSIVSPKC
       vector residues              378 of SEQ ID
                                         NO:222
            The amino acid sequence of the IL13 protein as used in this experiment included a Flag
10 epitope tag, a signal sequence, and 13 additional C-terminal amino acid residues from the expression
   vector used to express the protein as shown in the table below.
                                                     106

  Table 33. Amino Acid Sequence of a Flag-Tagged IL13 Protein.
      Protein Region                Sequence                   Amino Acid Sequence
           (N- to C-               Identifier
           terminal)                                   123456789012345678901234567890
          Flag-tagged           SEQ ID NO:223          MGVKVLFALICIAVAEAGTGSEFDIAAALT
         IL13 protein                                  CLGGFASPGPVPPSTALRELIEELVNITQN
                                                       QKAPLCNGSMVWSINLTAGMYCAALESLIN
                                                       VSGCSAIEKTQRMLSGFCPHKVSAGQFSSL
                                                       HVRDTKIEVAQFVKDLLLHLKKLFREGQFN
                                                       LEGDYKDDDDKGSRGPYSIVSPKC
      Signal Sequence           residues 1-17          MGVKVLFALICIAVAEA
                                   of SEQ ID
                                     NO:223
             Linker             residues 18-28         GTGSEFDIAAA
                                   of SEQ ID
                                     NO:223
              IL13             residues 29-150         LTCLGGFASPGPVPPSTALRELIEELVNIT
                                   of SEQ ID           QNQKAPLCNGSMVWSINLTAGMYCAALESL
                                     NO:223            INVSGCSAIEKTQRMLSGFCPHKVSAGQFS
                                                       SLHVRDTKIEVAQFVKDLLLHLKKLFREGQ
                                                       FN
             Linker             residues 151-          LEG
                                 153 of SEQ ID
                                     NO:223
         Flag epitope           residues 154-          DYKDDDDK
            domain               161 of SEQ ID
                                     NO:223
          C-terminal            residues 162-          GSRGPYSIVSPKC
     vector residues             174 of SEQ ID
                                     NO:223
           The amino acid sequence of a J domain-IL13 fusion protein included a Flag epitope tag as
  shown in the table below.
5 Table 34. Amino Acid Sequence of a Flag-Tagged Erdj3 J Domain-IL13 Fusion Protein.
      Protein Region                Sequence                   Amino Acid Sequence
           (N- to C-               Identifier
           terminal)                                   123456789012345678901234567890
          Flag-tagged           SEQ ID NO:224          MAPQNLSTFCLLLLYLIGAVIAGRDFYKIL
        J domain-IL13                                  GVPRSASIKDIKKAYRKLALQLHPDRNPDD
       fusion protein                                  PQAQEKFQDLGAAYEVLSDSEKRDIGGGSG
                                                       GSGGSGGAAALTCLGGFASPGPVPPSTALR
                                                       ELIEELVNITQNQKAPLCNGSMVWSINLTA
                                                       GMYCAALESLINVSGCSAIEKTQRMLSGFC
                                                       PHKVSAGQFSSLHVRDTKIEVAQFVKDLLL
                                                       HLKKLFREGQFNLEGDYKDDDDKGSRGPYS
                                                       IVSPKC
       Erdj3 J domain           residues 1-83          MAPQNLSTFCLLLLYLIGAVIAGRDFYKIL
                                   of SEQ ID           GVPRSASIKDIKKAYRKLALQLHPDRNPDD
                                     NO: 224           PQAQEKFQDLGAAYEVLSDSEKR
             Linker            residues 84-100         DIGGGSGGSGGSGGAAA
                                   of SEQ ID
                                     NO:224
                                                  107

         Protein Region                 Sequence                       Amino Acid Sequence
             (N- to C-                 Identifier
            terminal)                                         123456789012345678901234567890
                 IL13                residues 101-            LTCLGGFASPGPVPPSTALRELIEELVNIT
                                     222 of SEQ ID            QNQKAPLCNGSMVWSINLTAGMYCAALESL
                                          NO:224              INVSGCSAIEKTQRMLSGFCPHKVSAGQFS
                                                              SLHVRDTKIEVAQFVKDLLLHLKKLFREGQ
                                                              FN
               Linker                residues 223-            LEG
                                     225 of SEQ ID
                                          NO:224
          Flag epitope               residues 226-            DYKDDDDK
              domain                 233 of SEQ ID
                                          NO:224
           C-terminal                residues 234-            GSRGPYSIVSPKC
        vector residues              246 of SEQ ID
                                          NO:224
            HEK293 cells were co-transfected with expression vectors for expressing the V5-tagged
   IL13Ra2TF and for expressing the J domain-IL13 fusion protein. Transfected cells were cultured for
   two days, and cell lysates and samples of cell media were harvested and analyzed by Western blot
 5 (immunoblot) assay using an anti-V5 antibody to detect secreted V5-tagged IL13Ra2TF. As shown
   in Figure 10, cells transfected with an expression vector for expressing the IL13Ra2TF protein alone
   expressed some protein in the cells (middle panel, lane 2, from the left) but only a very little, if any,
   IL13Ra2TF protein was detected in culture medium (top panel, lane 2, from the left). Co-expression
   of the IL13Ra2TF protein and its IL13 protein ligand resulted in some detectable expression of
10 IL13Ra2TF protein in the transfected cells (middle panel, lane 3, from the left) and in culture medium
   (top panel, lane 3, from the left). This result is consistent with earlier reports that co-expression of
   IL13Ra2TF with its IL13 ligand improves secretion of the IL13Ra2TF (Lee et al., Cell Technol. for
   Cell Products, 29-39 (2007)). However, co-expression IL13Ra2TF with a J domain-IL13 fusion
   protein according to the invention further enhanced the level of expression of IL13Ra2TF within the
15 cells (middle panel, lane 4, from the left) and dramatically enhanced the level of expression of
   secreted IL13Ra2TF protein (top panel, lane 4, from the left) as compared to expression of
   IL13Ra2TF alone (top panel, lane 2, from the left) or co-expression of IL13Ra2TF and IL13 ligand
   (top panel, lane 3, from the left). The results indicate that both stability and secretion of the
   IL13Ra2TF protein were improved by co-expression with a J domain-IL13 fusion protein of the
20 invention.
   Example 5. Enhanced Expression of Secreted IL13Ra2TF-Fe Fusion Protein in an Unmodified
   Arrangement
            As noted above, a truncated form of IL13Ra2 (IL13Ra2TF) comprises the extracellular
   domain of the IL13Ra2 receptor protein, including a functional IL13 ligand binding domain.
25 However, the production of IL13Ra2TF is also inefficient owing to difficulties in expression and
                                                        108

   secretion of the protein. One strategy that has been employed to generate more stable forms of
   therapeutically relevant proteins, and especially receptor proteins, is to prepare a fusion protein in
   which all or a functional portion of a protein of interest is linked to the constant domains of an
   immunoglobulin Fc domain. Such an Fc fusion protein format has been used to design a family of
 5 potentially useful drugs that provide a desired therapeutically relevant activity and, owing to the Fc
   domain, also exhibit an increased in vivo serum half-life, which in turn should reduce dosing
   frequencies. Within such Fc fusion proteins, a "protein of interest" domain (for example, the
   extracellular, ligand-binding domain of a receptor protein) retains its desired functional property (for
   example, ligand binding).
10          This experiment examined the effect on the level of expression of an Fc fusion protein (target
   protein) when the Fc fusion protein was co-expressed with a fusion protein of the invention in an
   unmodified arrangement. An IL13Ra2TF-Fc fusion protein was used as a representative example of
   an Fc fusion protein drug. The IL13Ra2TF-Fc fusion protein also possessed a V5 epitope tag
   between the IL13Ra2TF ("protein of interest") domain and the Fc domain for easy identification with
15 an anti-V5 epitope antibody. See, an illustration of a DNA construct for the IL13Ra2TF-Fc fusion
   protein in Figure 1 1A. For this experiment, examples of fusion proteins according to the invention
   comprised a J domain of a J protein as a protein expression enhancing polypeptide domain linked to
   Protein A, which binds immunoglobulin Fc domains, as a target binding domain. See, Figure 1 1B.
            The amino acid sequence for the V5-tagged IL13Ra2TF-Fc fusion protein used in this
20 experiment is shown in the table below.
   Table 35. Amino Acid Sequence of a V5-Tagged IL13Ra2TF-Fc Fusion Protein.
        Protein Region                  Sequence                       Amino Acid Sequence
             (N- to C-                 Identifier
            terminal)                                         123456789012345678901234567890
            V5-tagged               SEQ ID NO:225             MAFVCLAIGCLYTFLISTTFGCTSSSDTEI
          IL13Ra2TF-Fc                                        KVNPPQDFEIVDPGYLGYLYLQWQPPLSLD
        fusion protein                                        HFKECTVEYELKYRNIGSETWKTIITKNLH
                                                              YKDGFDLNKGIEAKIHTLLPWQCTNGSEVQ
                                                              SSWAETTYWISPQGIPETKVQDMDCVYYNW
                                                              QYLLCSWKPGIGVLLDTNYNLFYWYEGLDH
                                                              ALQCVDYIKADGQNIGCRFPYLEASDYKDF
                                                              YICVNGSSENKPIRSSYFTFQLQNIVKPLP
                                                              PVYLTFTRESSCEIKLKWSIPLGPIPARCF
                                                              DYEIEIREDDTTLVTATVENETYTLKTTNE
                                                              TRQLCFVVRSKVNIYCSDDGIWSEWSDKQC
                                                              WEGEDLSKKGTGSEFDIAAALEGKPIPNPL
                                                              LGLDSTSRPKSCDKTHTCPPCPAPELLGGP
                                                              SVFLFPPKPKDTLMISRTPEVTCVVVDVSH
                                                              EDPEVKFNWYVDGVEVHNAKTKPREEQYNS
                                                              TYRVVSVLTVLHQDWLNGKEYKCKVSNKAL
                                                              PAPIEKTISKAKGQPREPQVYTLPPSRDEL
                                                              TKNQVSLTCLVKGFYPSDIAVEWESNGQPE
                                                              NNYKTTPPVLDSDGSFFLYSKLTVDKSRWQ
                                                              QGNVFSCSVMHEALHNHYTQKSLSLSPGK
                                                       109

       Protein Region                  Sequence                     Amino Acid Sequence
           (N- to C-                 Identifier
           terminal)                                        123456789012345678901234567890
           IL13Ra2TF              residues 1-339            MAFVCLAIGCLYTFLISTTFGCTSSSDTEI
                                      of SEQ ID             KVNPPQDFEIVDPGYLGYLYLQWQPPLSLD
                                        NO:225              HFKECTVEYELKYRNIGSETWKTIITKNLH
                                                            YKDGFDLNKGIEAKIHTLLPWQCTNGSEVQ
                                                            SSWAETTYWISPQGIPETKVQDMDCVYYNW
                                                            QYLLCSWKPGIGVLLDTNYNLFYWYEGLDH
                                                            ALQCVDYIKADGQNIGCRFPYLEASDYKDF
                                                            YICVNGSSENKPIRSSYFTFQLQNIVKPLP
                                                            PVYLTFTRESSCEIKLKWSIPLGPIPARCF
                                                            DYEIEIREDDTTLVTATVENETYTLKTTNE
                                                            TRQLCFVVRSKVNIYCSDDGIWSEWSDKQC
                                                            WEGEDLSKK
             Linker                residues 340-            GTGSEFDIAAALE
                                   352 of SEQ ID
                                        NO:225
          V5 epitope               residues 353-            GKPIPNPLLGLDST
             domain                366 of SEQ ID
                                        NO:225
             Linker                residues 367-            SR
                                   368 of SEQ ID
                                        NO:225
           Fc domain               residues 369-            PKSCDKTHTCPPCPAPELLGGPSVFLFPPK
                                   599 of SEQ ID            PKDTLMISRTPEVTCVVVDVSHEDPEVKFN
                                        NO: 225             WYVDGVEVHNAKTKPREEQYNSTYRVVSVL
                                                            TVLHQDWLNGKEYKCKVSNKALPAPIEKTI
                                                            SKAKGQPREPQVYTLPPSRDELTKNQVSLT
                                                            CLVKGFYPSD IAVEWESNGQPENNYKTTPP
                                                            VLDSDGSFFLYSKLTVDKSRWQQGNVFSCS
                                                            VMHEALHNHYTQKSLSLSPGK
          In one aspect of this experiment, the level of expression of an IL13Ra2TF-Fc fusion protein
  was examined when co-expressed with a Protein A molecule. The Protein A molecule was tagged
  with a Flag epitope tag for easy identification with a standard anti-Flag antibody. The amino acid
5 sequence for a Flag-tagged Protein A is shown in the table below.
  Table 36. Amino Acid Sequence of a Flag-Tagged Protein A.
       Protein Region                  Sequence                     Amino Acid Sequence
           (N- to C-                 Identifier
           terminal)                                        123456789012345678901234567890
         Flag-tagged               SEQ ID NO:226            MGVKVLFALICIAVAEAGTGSEFDIAAAAD
           Protein A                                        NKFNKEQQNAFYEILNMPNLNEEQRNGFIQ
            protein                                         SLKDDPSQSANVLGEAKKLNDSQAPKLEGD
                                                            YKDDDDKGSRGPYSIVSPKC
      Signal Sequence              residues 1-17            MGVKVLFALICIAVAEA
                                      of SEQ ID
                                        NO:226
             Linker               residues 18-28            GTGSEFDIAAA
                                      of SEQ ID
                                        NO:226
                                                      110

       Protein Region                Sequence                    Amino Acid Sequence
            (N- to C-               Identifier
           terminal)                                     123456789012345678901234567890
           Protein A             residues 29-86          ADNKFNKEQQNAFYEILNMPNLNEEQRNGF
                                    of SEQ ID            IQSLKDDPSQSANVLGEAKKLNDSQAPK
                                      NO:226
              Linker             residues 87-89          LEG
                                    of SEQ ID
                                      NO:226
         Flag epitope            residues 90-97          DYKDDDDK
             domain                 of SEQ ID
                                      NO:226
          C-terminal            residues 98-110          GSRGPYSIVSPKC
      vector residues               of SEQ ID
                                      NO:226
           An example of a fusion protein for enhancing expression of the IL13Ra2TF-Fc fusion protein
  possessed the J domain from the Erdj3 protein linked to Protein A. A Flag epitope tag was linked to
  the C-terminus of the Protein A domain. See illustration of DNA construct in Figure 11B. The amino
5 acid sequence for the J domain-Protein A fusion protein is shown in the table below.
  Table 37. Amino Acid Sequence of a Flag-Tagged Erdj3 J domain-Protein A Fusion Protein.
       Protein Region                Sequence                    Amino Acid Sequence
            (N- to C-               Identifier
           terminal)                                     123456789012345678901234567890
          Flag-tagged            SEQ ID NO:227           MAPQNLSTFCLLLLYLIGAVIAGRDFYKIL
      Erdj3 J domain-                                    GVPRSASIKDIKKAYRKLALQLHPDRNPDD
      Protein A fusion                                   PQAQEKFQDLGAAYEVLSDSEKRDIGGGSG
             protein                                     GSGGSGGAAAADNKFNKEQQNAFYEILNMP
                                                         NLNEEQRNGFIQSLKDDPSQSANVLGEAKK
                                                         LNDSQAPKLEGDYKDDDDKGSRGPYSIVSP
                                                         KC
            J domain             residues 1-83           MAPQNLSTFCLLLLYLIGAVIAGRDFYKIL
         (from Erdj3)               of SEQ ID            GVPRSASIKDIKKAYRKLALQLHPDRNPDD
                                      NO: 227            PQAQEKFQDLGAAYEVLSDSEKR
              Linker            residues 84-100          DIGGGSGGSGGSGGAAA
                                    of SEQ ID
                                      NO:227
           Protein A             residues 101-           ADNKFNKEQQNAFYEILNMPNLNEEQRNGF
                                  158 of SEQ ID          IQSLKDDPSQSANVLGEAKKLNDSQAPK
                                      NO:227
              Linker             residues 159-           LEG
                                  161 of SEQ ID
                                      NO:227
         Flag epitope            residues 162-           DYKDDDDK
             domain               169 of SEQ ID
                                      NO:227
          C-terminal             residues 170-           GSRGPYSIVSPKC
      vector residues             182 of SEQ ID
                                      NO:227
                                                   111

            Another example of a fusion protein for enhancing expression of the IL13Ra2TF-Fc fusion
   protein possessed the J domain from the Erdj5 protein linked to Protein A. A Flag epitope tag was
   linked to the C-terminus of the Protein A domain. See illustration of DNA construct in Figure 11B.
   The amino acid sequence for the Flag-tagged Erdj5 J domain-Protein A fusion protein is shown in the
 5 table below.
   Table 38. Amino Acid Sequence of a Flag-Tagged Erdj5 J domain-Protein A Fusion Protein.
         Protein Region                 Sequence                     Amino Acid Sequence
             (N- to C-                 Identifier
            terminal)                                        123456789012345678901234567890
           Flag-tagged               SEQ ID NO:228          MGVWLNKDDYIRDLKRIILCFLIVYMAILV
        Erdj5 J domain-                                      GTDQDFYSLLGVSKTASSREIRQAFKKLAL
       Protein A fusion                                      KLHPDKNPNNPNAHGDFLKINRAYEVLKDE
              protein                                        DGSEFDIGGGSGGSGGSGGAAAADNKFNKE
                                                             QQNAFYEILNMPNLNEEQRNGFIQSLKDDP
                                                             SQSANVLGEAKKLNDSQAPKLEGDYKDDDD
                                                             KGSRGPYSIVSPKC
             J domain                residues 1-91          MGVWLNKDDYIRDLKRIILCFLIVYMAILV
          (from Erdj5)                 of SEQ ID             GTDQDFYSLLGVSKTASSREIRQAFKKLAL
                                         NO:228             KLHPDKNPNNPNAHGDFLKINRAYEVLKDE
                                                             D
               Linker              residues 92-112           GSEFDIGGGSGGSGGSGGAAA
                                       of SEQ ID
                                         NO:228
            Protein A                residues 113-          ADNKFNKEQQNAFYEILNMPNLNEEQRNGF
                                     170 of SEQ ID           IQSLKDDPSQSANVLGEAKKLNDSQAPK
                                         NO:228
               Linker                residues 171-           LEG
                                     173 of SEQ ID
                                         NO:228
          Flag epitope               residues 174-           DYKDDDDK
               domain                181 of SEQ ID
                                         NO:228
           C-terminal                residues 182-           GSRGPYSIVSPKC
        vector residues              194 of SEQ ID
                                         NO:228
            HEK293 cells were transfected with expression vector plasmids to compare levels of
   expression in culture medium of IL13Ra2TF-Fc fusion protein expressed alone, IL13Ra2TF-Fc
10 fusion protein co-expressed with Protein A ("Protein A Only"), IL13Ra2TF-Fc fusion protein co
   expressed with the Erdj3 J domain-Protein A fusion protein ("J-Protein A"), and IL13Ra2TF-Fc
   fusion protein co-expressed with the Erdj5 J domain-Protein A fusion protein ("J2-Protein A").
   Transfected cells were cultured for two days, and samples of cell media were harvested and analyzed
   by Western blot (immunoblot) assay using an anti-V5 antibody to detect secreted V5-tagged
15 IL13Ra2TF-Fc fusion protein. Figure 12A shows x-ray film images of chemiluminescent signals of
   the Western blot analysis of culture media. Lane 1 of Figure 12A is culture medium of a "mock"
   culture of cells transfected with expression vector lacking a structural gene for expressing any protein
                                                      112

   (empty vector). When expressed alone (lane 2), some IL13Ra2TF-Fc fusion protein was detected in
   the medium. As shown in lane 3 of the Figure 12A, co-expression with Protein A (Protein A Only)
   provided no significant enhancement in the level of IL13Ra2TF-Fc fusion protein secreted to the
   medium. However, co-expression with the either J domain-Protein A fusion protein significantly
 5 enhanced the level of expression of IL13Ra2TF-Fc fusion protein secreted into the medium (lanes 4
   and 5 of Figure 12A). Importantly, the fact that co-expression of IL13Ra2TF-Fc with Protein A alone
   did not affect the secretion of IL13Ra2TF-Fc (lane 3) indicates that: (1) the J domain of a J domain
   Protein A fusion protein is essential for enhancing the level of expression of secreted IL13Ra2TF-Fc
   and (2) the Protein A domain of the J domain-Protein A fusion protein is essential for providing the
10 target specificity for enhancing the level of expression of the secreted IL13Ra2TF-Fc target protein.
            The results of a densitometry analysis of the chemiluminescent signals in the lanes of Figure
   12A using the NIH ImageJ image processing program are shown in the respective bar graphs in
   Figure 12B. The bar graphs in Figure 12B clearly show that co-expression of IL13Ra2TF-Fc with
   either J domain-Protein A fusion protein (bar graphs 4 and 5) significantly enhanced the level of
15 expression of secreted IL13Ra2TF-Fc as compared to expression of IL13Ra2TF-Fc alone (bar graph
   2) or co-expression of IL13Ra2TF-Fc with Protein A alone (bar graph 3).
            That the enhanced level of expression of secreted IL13Ra2TF-Fc protein in Figures 12A and
   12B was dependent on the specificity of the target binding domain of the J domain-Protein A fusion
   protein for the Fc domain is supported by the results shown in Figure 12C. As shown in the Western
20 blot analysis of culture media in the left panel of Figure 12C, no significant expression of secreted
   IL13Ra2TF (no Fc domain) was detected in culture media when transfected cells expressed the
   IL13Ra2TF protein alone (lane 1), co-expressed the IL13Ra2TF protein with the J-Protein A fusion
   protein (lane 2), or co-expressed the IL13Ra2TF protein with Protein A alone (Protein A Only, lane
   3). The results of a densitometry analysis of the chemiluminescent signals in the lanes of the left
25 panel of Figure 12C using the NIH ImageJ image processing program are shown in the respective bar
   graphs in the right panel of Figure 12C.
   Example 6. Enhanced Expression of an Additional Secreted Fe Fusion Proteins in an
   Unmodified Arran2ement
            A series of experiments were performed to test and compare the effectiveness of a J domain
30 Protein A fusion protein of the invention to enhance several different Fc fusion proteins. The results
   are of a Western blot analysis of culture media from cultures of transfected cells are shown in
   Figure 13.
   Example 6.1. Enhanced Expression of a Secreted IL13Ra2TF-Fe Fusion Protein
            Consistent with above results in Example 5, co-expression of the IL13Ra2TF-Fc protein with
35 the Erdj3 J domain-Protein A fusion protein in transfected cells significantly enhanced the level of
   expression of IL13Ra2TF-Fc protein secreted into the culture medium (see, lane 2 of left panel of
                                                       113

   Figure 13A) as compared to that observed for transfected cells expressing the IL13Ra2TF-Fc protein
   alone (lane 1 of left panel of Figure 13A). The significant enhancement in the level of expression of
   secreted IL13Ra2TF-Fc protein is also clear from the results of a densitometry analysis of the
   chemiluminescent signals in the left panel of Figure 13A using the NIH JmageJ image processing
 5 program are shown in the respective bar graphs in the right panel of Figure 13A.
   Example 6.2. Enhanced Expression of a Secreted TNFRITF-Fe Fusion Protein
            Tumor necrosis factor-a (TNF-a) is a major cytokine that binds the TNF-a receptor (TNFR1)
   and induces an inflammatory response that is involved in a number of autoimmune diseases, such as
   rheumatoid arthritis, Crohn's disease, and psoriasis. The truncated protein of the TNF-a receptor
10 (TNFR1TF) is used as a decoy receptor to bind to TNF-a and thereby inhibit TNF-a activity.
   Etanercept (commercially available as ENBREL, Amgen) is a TNF-a blocker in which a truncated
   form of TNFR is fused to an Fc domain (TNFR1TF-Fc). The TNFR1TF domain of the molecule
   provides the desired TNF-a binding specificity, and the immunoglobulin Fc domain is believed to add
   in vivo stability to the drug circulating in a patient.
15          The TNFR1TF-Fc fusion target protein used in this experiment also possessed a V5 epitope
   tag between the TNFR1 and Fc domains. The amino acid sequence for the TNFR1TF- Fc fusion
   protein used in this experiment is shown in the table below.
   Table 39. Amino Acid Sequence of TNFR1TF-Fc Protein.
        Protein Region                    Sequence                  Amino Acid Sequence
             (N- to C-                  Identifier
            terminal)                                        123456789012345678901234567890
            V5-tagged                 SEQ ID NO:229          MGLSTVPDLLLPLVLLELLVGIYPSGVIGL
        TNFR1TF protein                                      VPHLGDREKRDSVCPQGKYIHPQNNSICCT
                                                             KCHKGTYLYNDCPGPGQDTDCRECESGSFT
                                                             ASENHLRHCLSCSKCRKEMGQVEISSCTVD
                                                             RDTVCGCRKNQYRHYWSENLFQCFNCSLCL
                                                             NGTVHLSCQEKQNTVCTCHAGFFLRENECV
                                                             SCSNCKKSLECTKLCLPQIENVKGTEDSGT
                                                             TGTGSEFDIAAALEGKPIPNPLLGLDSTSR
                                                             PKSCDKTHTCPPCPAPELLGGPSVFLFPPK
                                                             PKDTLMISRTPEVTCVVVDVSHEDPEVKFN
                                                             WYVDGVEVHNAKTKPREEQYNSTYRVVSVL
                                                             TVLHQDWLNGKEYKCKVSNKALPAPIEKTI
                                                             SKAKGQPREPQVYTLPPSRDELTKNQVSLT
                                                             CLVKGFYPSDIAVEWESNGQPENNYKTTPP
                                                             VLDSDGSFFLYSKLTVDKSRWQQGNVFSCS
                                                             VMHEALHNHYTQKSLSLSPGK
              TNFRITF                residues 1-211          MGLSTVPDLLLPLVLLELLVGIYPSGVIGL
                                         of SEQ ID           VPHLGDREKRDSVCPQGKYIHPQNNSICCT
                                           NO:229            KCHKGTYLYNDCPGPGQDTDCRECESGSFT
                                                             ASENHLRHCLSCSKCRKEMGQVEISSCTVD
                                                             RDTVCGCRKNQYRHYWSENLFQCFNCSLCL
                                                             NGTVHLSCQEKQNTVCTCHAGFFLRENECV
                                                             SCSNCKKSLECTKLCLPQIENVKGTEDSGT
                                                             T
                                                         114

        Protein Region                   Sequence                      Amino Acid Sequence
             (N- to C-                 Identifier
             terminal)                                        123456789012345678901234567890
               Linker               residues 212-             GTGSEFDIAAALE
                                    224 of SEQ ID
                                          NO:229
            V5 epitope              residues 225-             GKPIPNPLLGLDST
               domain               238 of SEQ ID
                                          NO:229
               Linker               residues 239-             SR
                                    240 of SEQ ID
                                          NO:229
             Fc domain              residues 241-             PKSCDKTHTCPPCPAPELLGGPSVFLFPPK
                                    471 of SEQ ID             PKDTLMISRTPEVTCVVVDVSHEDPEVKFN
                                          NO: 229             WYVDGVEVHNAKTKPREEQYNSTYRVVSVL
                                                              TVLHQDWLNGKEYKCKVSNKALPAPIEKTI
                                                              SKAKGQPREPQVYTLPPSRDELTKNQVSLT
                                                              CLVKGFYPSD IAVEWESNGQPENNYKTTPP
                                                              VLDSDGSFFLYSKLTVDKSRWQQGNVFSCS
                                                              VMHEALHNHYTQKSLSLSPGK
            The left panel of Figure 13B shows x-ray film images of chemiluminescent signals of a
   Western blot analysis of culture media from transfected cells expressing TNFR1TF-Fc fusion protein
   alone (lane 1) or co-expressing TNFR1TF-Fc fusion protein and the Erdj3 J domain-Protein A fusion
 5 protein described above (lane 2). The results show a significant enhancement in the level of
   expression of secreted TNFR1TF-Fc fusion protein in transfected cells co-expressing TNFR1TF-Fc
   fusion protein and the Erdj3 J domain-Protein A fusion protein as compared to the level of TNFR1TF
   Fc fusion protein expressed in the absence of the J domain-Protein A fusion protein. The significant
   enhancement in the level of expression of secreted TNFR1TF-Fc fusion protein is also clear from the
10 results of a densitometry analysis of the signals in the lanes in the left panel of Figure 13B using the
   NIH hnageJ image processing program as shown in the respective bar graphs in the right panel of
   Figure 13B.
   Example 6.3. Enhanced Expression of a Secreted alAT-Fe Fusion Protein
            The al anti-trypsin protein (alAT) is secreted from the liver into the circulatory system. The
15 function of alAT is to protect tissues, particularly lung tissue, from excessive protease activities. The
   lung tissue of patients with al anti-trypsin deficiency can become severely damaged by proteases.
   Such patients may develop emphysema, asthma, and/or chronic obstructive pulmonary disease
   (COPD). Currently alAT (purified from human serum) is used for the treatment of patients with al
   anti-trypsin deficiency. This treatment is expensive, and patients that receive the purified alAT may
20 be at risk of contracting pathogens present in the human serum.
            The target alAT-Fc fusion protein used in this experiment also possessed a V5 epitope tag
   between the alAT and Fc domains. The amino acid sequence for the alAT-Fc fusion protein (alAT
   Fc) used in this experiment is shown in the table below.
                                                       115

Table 40. Amino Acid Sequence of a V5-Tagged xlAT-Fc Fusion Protein.
    Protein Region              Sequence                Amino Acid Sequence
         (N- to C-            Identifier
        terminal)                                123456789012345678901234567890
   V5-tagged alAT-          SEQ ID NO:230       MPSSVSWGILLLAGLCCLVPVSLAEDPQGD
        Fc fusion                               AAQKTDTSHHDQDHPTFNKITPNLAEFAFS
          protein                                LYRQLAHQSNSTNIFFSPVSIATAFAMLSL
                                                 GTKADTHDEILEGLNFNLTEIPEAQIHEGF
                                                 QELLRTLNQPDSQLQLTTGNGLFLSEGLKL
                                                VDKFLEDVKKLYHSEAFTVNFGDTEEAKKQ
                                                 INDYVEKGTQGKIVDLVKELDRDTVFALVN
                                                 YIFFKGKWERPFEVKDTEEEDFHVDQVTTV
                                                 KVPMMKRLGMFNIQHCKKLSSWVLLMKYLG
                                                NATAIFFLPDEGKLQHLENELTHDIITKFL
                                                 ENEDRRSASLHLPKLSITGTYDLKSVLGQL
                                                 GITKVFSNGADLSGVTEEAPLKLSKAVHKA
                                                VLTIDEKGTEAAGAMFLEAIPMSIPPEVKF
                                                NKPFVFLMIEQNTKSPLFMGKVVNPTQKGT
                                                 GSEFDIAAALEGKPIPNPLLGLDSTSRPKS
                                                 CDKTHTCPPCPAPELLGGPSVFLFPPKPKD
                                                 TLMISRTPEVTCVVVDVSHEDPEVKFNWYV
                                                 DGVEVHNAKTKPREEQYNSTYRVVSVLTVL
                                                 HQDWLNGKEYKCKVSNKALPAPIEKTISKA
                                                 KGQPREPQVYTLPPSRDELTKNQVSLTCLV
                                                 KGFYPSDIAVEWESNGQPENNYKTTPPVLD
                                                 SDGSFFLYSKLTVDKSRWQQGNVFSCSVMH
                                                 EALHNHYTQKSLSLSPGK
            alAT           residues 1-418       MPSSVSWGILLLAGLCCLVPVSLAEDPQGD
                               of SEQ ID        AAQKTDTSHHDQDHPTFNKITPNLAEFAFS
                                 NO:230          LYRQLAHQSNSTNIFFSPVSIATAFAMLSL
                                                 GTKADTHDEILEGLNFNLTEIPEAQIHEGF
                                                 QELLRTLNQPDSQLQLTTGNGLFLSEGLKL
                                                VDKFLEDVKKLYHSEAFTVNFGDTEEAKKQ
                                                 INDYVEKGTQGKIVDLVKELDRDTVFALVN
                                                 YIFFKGKWERPFEVKDTEEEDFHVDQVTTV
                                                 KVPMMKRLGMFNIQHCKKLSSWVLLMKYLG
                                                NATAIFFLPDEGKLQHLENELTHDIITKFL
                                                 ENEDRRSASLHLPKLSITGTYDLKSVLGQL
                                                 GITKVFSNGADLSGVTEEAPLKLSKAVHKA
                                                VLTIDEKGTEAAGAMFLEAIPMSIPPEVKF
                                                NKPFVFLMIEQNTKSPLFMGKVVNPTQK
           Linker           residues 419-        GTGSEFDIAAALE
                            431 of SEQ ID
                                NO: 230
       V5 epitope           residues 432-        GKPIPNPLLGLDST
          domain            445 of SEQ ID
                                 NO:230
           Linker           residues 446-        SR
                            447 of SEQ ID
                                 NO:230
        Fc domain           residues 448-        PKSCDKTHTCPPCPAPELLGGPSVFLFPPK
                            678 of SEQ ID        PKDTLMISRTPEVTCVVVDVSHEDPEVKFN
                                 NO:230         WYVDGVEVHNAKTKPREEQYNSTYRVVSVL
                                                 TVLHQDWLNGKEYKCKVSNKALPAPIEKTI
                                            116

        Protein Region                   Sequence                     Amino Acid Sequence
             (N- to C-                 Identifier
             terminal)                                         123456789012345678901234567890
                                                               SKAKGQPREPQVYTLPPSRDELTKNQVSLT
                                                               CLVKGFYPSDIAVEWESNGQPENNYKTTPP
                                                               VLDSDGSFFLYSKLTVDKSRWQQGNVFSCS
                                                               VMHEALHNHYTQKSLSLSPGK
            The left panel of Figure 13C shows X-ray film images of chemiluminescent signals of a
   Western blot analysis of culture media from transfected cells expressing alAT-Fc fusion protein alone
   (lane 1) or co-expressing alAT-Fc fusion protein and the Erdj3 J domain-Protein A fusion protein
 5 described above (lane 2). The results show a significant enhancement in the level of secreted alAT
   Fc fusion protein (lane 2) as compared to the level of alAT-Fc fusion protein expressed in the
   absence of the J domain-Protein A fusion protein (lane 1). The significant enhancement in the level
   of expression of secreted alAT-Fc fusion protein is also clear from the results of a densitometry
   analysis of the signals in the lanes in the left panel of Figure 13C using the NIH- ImageJ image
10 processing program as shown in the respective bar graphs in the right panel of Figure 13C.
   Example 7. Enhancement of Expression of Secreted IgGi Antibody Molecules in an
   Unmodified Arran2ement
            The above studies showed that expression and secretion of Fc-fusion proteins were
   significantly enhanced by co-expression of a J domain-Protein A fusion protein. Protein A is a well
15 known example of a protein that binds to immunoglobulin Fc regions. This study examined whether
   fusion of other proteins that are known to bind immunoglobulin domains with a J domain of a J
   protein can enhance the expression level of a secreted target antibody.
            In this study, a humanized IgG1 anti-IL8 antibody was used as a target antibody protein. The
   expression levels of the secreted anti-IL8 antibody were examined in the presence and absence of
20 various J domain fusion proteins as explained below.
            In one aspect of this experiment, the level of expression of the anti-IL8 antibody was
   examined when co-expressed with a Protein A molecule, which is known to bind the immunoglobulin
   Fc domain. The Protein A molecule was the same Flag-tagged Protein A described in Example 5,
   above.
25          In another aspect of this experiment, the level of expression of the anti-IL8 antibody was
   examined when co-expressed with a Protein L molecule, which is known to bind antibody light
   chains. As with the Protein A molecule described above, the Protein L molecule used in this
   experiment was tagged with a Flag epitope tag for easy identification with a standard anti-Flag
   antibody. The amino acid sequence for a Flag-tagged Protein L is shown in the table below.
                                                        117

  Table 41. Amino Acid Sequence of a Flag-Tagged Protein L.
       Protein Region                 Sequence                  Amino Acid Sequence
            (N- to C-                Identifier
           terminal)                                    123456789012345678901234567890
          Flag-tagged             SEQ ID NO:231         MGVKVLFALICIAVAEAGTGSEFDIAAAVT
           Protein L                                    IKANLIFADGKTQTAEFKGTFEEATAEAYR
             protein                                    YADLLAKENGEYTADLEDGGYTINIKFAKE
                                                        TPETPEEPKEELEGDYKDDDDKGSRGPYSI
                                                        VSPKC
       Signal Sequence            residues 1-17         MGVKVLFALICIAVAEA
                                     of SEQ ID
                                        NO:231
              Linker             residues 18-28         GTGSEFDIAAA
                                     of SEQ ID
                                        NO:231
           Protein L            residues 29-101         VTIKANLIFADGKTQTAEFKGTFEEATAEA
                                     of SEQ ID          YRYADLLAKENGEYTADLEDGGYTINIKFA
                                        NO:231          KETPETPEEPKEE
              Linker              residues 102-         LEG
                                   104 of SEQ ID
                                        NO:231
         Flag epitope             residues 105-         DYKDDDDK
             domain                112 of SEQ ID
                                        NO:231
          C-terminal              residues 113-         GSRGPYSIVSPKC
      vector residues              125 of SEQ ID
                                        NO:231
           The amino acid sequence of an Erjd3 J domain-Protein L fusion protein included a Flag
  epitope tag as shown in the table below.
5 Table 42. Amino Acid Sequence of a Flag-Tagged Erdj3 J domain-Protein L Fusion Protein.
       Protein Region                 Sequence                  Amino Acid Sequence
            (N- to C-                Identifier
           terminal)                                    123456789012345678901234567890
          Flag-tagged             SEQ ID NO:232         MAPQNLSTFCLLLLYLIGAVIAGRDFYKIL
      Erdj3 J domain-                                   GVPRSASIKDIKKAYRKLALQLHPDRNPDD
      Protein L fusion                                  PQAQEKFQDLGAAYEVLSDSEKRDIGGGSG
             protein                                    GSGGSGGAAAVTIKANLIFADGKTQTAEFK
                                                        GTFEEATAEAYRYADLLAKENGEYTADLED
                                                        GGYTINIKFAKETPETPEEPKEELEGDYKD
                                                        DDDKGSRGPYSIVSPKC
            J domain              residues 1-83         MAPQNLSTFCLLLLYLIGAVIAGRDFYKIL
         (from Erdj3)                of SEQ ID          GVPRSASIKDIKKAYRKLALQLHPDRNPDD
                                        NO: 232         PQAQEKFQDLGAAYEVLSDSEKR
              Linker            residues 84-100         DIGGGSGGSGGSGGAAA
                                     of SEQ ID
                                        NO:232
           Protein L              residues 101-         VTIKANLIFADGKTQTAEFKGTFEEATAEA
                                   173 of SEQ ID        YRYADLLAKENGEYTADLEDGGYTINIKFA
                                        NO:232          KETPETPEEPKEE
              Linker              residues 174-         LEG
                                   176 of SEQ ID
                                                   118

        Protein Region                Sequence                     Amino Acid Sequence
             (N- to C-               Identifier
            terminal)                                      123456789012345678901234567890
                                        NO:232
          Flag epitope             residues 177-           DYKDDDDK
              domain               184 of SEQ ID
                                        NO:232
           C-terminal              residues 185-           GSRGPYSIVSPKC
       vector residues             197 of SEQ ID
                                        NO:232
            The amino acid sequence of the IL8 protein used in this experiment included a Flag epitope
  tag, a signal sequence, and 13 additional C-terminal amino acid residues from the expression vector
  used to express the protein as shown in the table below.
5 Table 43. Amino Acid Sequence of a Flag-Tagged IL8 Protein.
        Protein Region                Sequence                     Amino Acid Sequence
             (N- to C-               Identifier
            terminal)                                      123456789012345678901234567890
       Flag-tagged IL8             SEQ ID NO:233           MGVKVLFALICIAVAEAGTGSEFDIAAASA
              protein                                      KELRCQCIKTYSKPFHPKFIKELRVIESGP
                                                           HCANTEIIVKLSDGRELCLDPKENWVQRVV
                                                           EKFLKRAENSLEGDYKDDDDKGSRGPYSIV
                                                           SPKC
       Signal Sequence             residues 1-17           MGVKVLFALICIAVAEA
                                     of SEQ ID
                                        NO:233
               Linker             residues 18-28           GTGSEFDIAAA
                                     of SEQ ID
                                        NO:233
                 IL8             residues 29-100           SAKELRCQCIKTYSKPFHPKFIKELRVIES
                                     of SEQ ID             GPHCANTEIIVKLSDGRELCLDPKENWVQR
                                        NO:233             VVEKFLKRAENS
               Linker              residues 101-           LEG
                                   103 of SEQ ID
                                        NO:233
          Flag epitope             residues 104-           DYKDDDDK
              domain               111 of SEQ ID
                                        NO:233
           C-terminal              residues 112-           GSRGPYSIVSPKC
       vector residues             124 of SEQ ID
                                        NO:233
            The amino acid sequence of an Erdj3 J domain-IL8 fusion protein included a Flag epitope tag
  as shown in the table below.
  Table 44. Amino Acid Sequence of a Flag-Tagged Erdj3 J domain-IL8 Fusion Protein.
        Protein Region                Sequence                     Amino Acid Sequence
             (N- to C-               Identifier
            terminal)                                      123456789012345678901234567890
           Flag-tagged             SEQ ID NO:234           MAPQNLSTFCLLLLYLIGAVIAGRDFYKIL
       Erdj3     J domain-                                 GVPRSASIKDIKKAYRKLALQLHPDRNPDD
                                                     119

            IL8 fusion                                       PQAQEKFQDLGAAYEVLSDSEKRDIGGGSG
              protein                                        GSGGSGGAAASAKELRCQCIKTYSKPFHPK
                                                             FIKELRVIESGPHCANTEIIVKLSDGRELC
                                                             LDPKENWVQRVVEKFLKRAENSLEGDYKDD
                                                             DDKGSRGPYSIVSPKC
              J domain               residues 1-83          MAPQNLSTFCLLLLYLIGAVIAGRDFYKIL
           (from Erdj3)                 of SEQ ID            GVPRSASIKDIKKAYRKLALQLHPDRNPDD
                                          NO: 234           PQAQEKFQDLGAAYEVLSDSEKR
               Linker              residues 84-100           DI GGGSGGSGGSGG AAA
                                        of SEQ ID
                                          NO:234
                 IL8                 residues 101-           SAKELRCQCIKTYSKPFHPKFIKELRVIES
                                     172 of SEQ ID           GPHCANTEIIVKLSDGRELCLDPKENWVQR
                                          NO:234            VVEKFLKRAENS
               Linker                residues 173-           LEG
                                     175 of SEQ ID
                                          NO:234
          Flag epitope               residues 176-           DYKDDDDK
               domain                183 of SEQ ID
                                          NO:234
            C-terminal               residues 184-           GSRGPYSIVSPKC
        vector residues              196 of SEQ ID
                                          NO:234
            HEK293 cells were transfected with an expression plasmid for expressing anti-IL8 antibody
   alone, co-expressing anti-IL8 antibody and Protein A (Protein A Only), co-expressing anti-IL8
   antibody and an Erdj3 J domain-Protein A fusion protein of the invention (J-Protein A), co-expressing
 5 anti-IL8 antibody and Protein L (Protein L Only), co-expressing anti-IL8 antibody and an Erdj3 J
   domain-Protein L fusion protein of the invention (J-Protein L), co-expressing anti-IL8 antibody and
   its IL8 ligand (IL8), co-expressing an Erdj3 J domain-IL8 ligand fusion protein of the invention (J
   IL8), expressing the Erdj3 J-Protein A fusion protein of the invention alone (J-Protein A), expressing
   the Erdj3 J domain-Protein L fusion protein of the invention alone (J-Protein L), and expressing the
10 Erdj3 J domain-IL8 ligand fusion protein of the invention alone (J-IL8). Expression of the anti-IL8
   antibody in culture media was analyzed by dot blot assay using an anti-human IgG antibody (anti
   hIgG antibody, catalog no. AP1 12P, Millipore).
            As shown in the dot blots of culture media in Figure 14A, co-expression in transfected cells of
   the anti-IL8 antibody with a J domain-Protein A fusion protein (lane 4), with a J domain-Protein L
15 fusion protein (lane 6), or with a J domain-IL8 fusion protein (lane 8) significantly enhanced the level
   of expression of anti-IL8 antibody secreted into the culture medium as compared to the level of the
   antibody expressed in transfected cells expressing the anti-IL8 antibody alone (lane 2), co-expressing
   with Protein A alone (lane 3, Protein A Only), co-expressing Protein L alone (lane 5, Protein L Only),
   or co-expressing IL8 ligand alone (lane 7). No signal was detected in culture media of transfected
20 cells expressing the J domain-Protein A fusion protein alone (lane 9, J-Protein A), the J domain
   Protein L fusion protein alone (lane 10, J-Protein L), or expressing the J domain-IL8 fusion protein
                                                      120

   alone (lane 10, J-IL8), indicating that all three fusion proteins specifically targeted and enhanced the
   co-expressed anti-IL8 antibody.
            The results of a densitometry analysis of the signals in the lanes in Figure 14A using the NIH
   ImageJ image processing program are shown in the respective bar graphs in Figure 14B. The results
 5 of this series of experiments clearly show that co-expression of the targeted anti-IL8 antibody with a
   fusion protein of the invention comprising a protein expression enhancing polypeptide (here: Erdj3 J
   domain) linked to a target binding domain (here: Protein A, Protein L, or IL8) significantly enhanced
   the expression of secreted anti-IL8 antibody as compared to co-expression of the antibody with the
   unfused target binding domain protein alone (Protein G only, Protein L only, or IL8 only).
10 Example 8. Enhancement of Established Expression in CHO-DP12 Producing Cell Line Using
   an Unmodified Arran2ement
            This example examined whether a fusion protein of the invention could be used to improve
   the level of expression of a target protein already being produced in an established commercially
   relevant production cell line. For this experiment a CHO-DP12 cell line was used that stably
15 expresses a humanized anti-IL8 IgG1 antibody as obtained from the American Type Culture
   Collection (accession no. CRL-124444, American Type Culture Collection, Manassas, Virginia)
   along with an expression vector plasmid for expressing the anti-IL8 antibody (accession no. 209552,
   ATCC, Manassas, Virginia). The fusion protein of the invention was that Erdj3 J domain-Protein A
   fusion protein described above. Cells of the CHO-DP12 production cell line were transfected with an
20 expression vector carrying an operably linked structural gene encoding the Erdj3 J domain-Protein A
   fusion protein. The transfection efficiency was not as high with the CHO-DP12 cells as compared
   with HEK293 cells. Nevertheless, as shown in the dot blot assays in Figure 15A, co-expression of the
   humanized antibody with the J domain-Protein A fusion protein significantly enhanced the level of
   expression of the antibody secreted into the culture medium (lane 3) as compared to the level of the
25 antibody expressed in the absence of the J domain-Protein A fusion protein (lane 2, none).
            The results of a densitometry analysis of the chemiluminescent signals in the dot blots in the
   lanes in Figure 15A using the NIH ImageJ image processing program are shown in the respective bar
   graphs in Figure 15B. The results indicate that co-expression of the antibody with the J domain
   Protein A fusion protein (bar graph 3) significantly enhanced expression of the secreted antibody,
30 providing an approximately four to five-fold greater enhancement in the level of expression, as
   compared to that obtained when the antibody was expressed in the absence of the J domain-Protein A
   fusion protein (bar graph 2).
            The results indicate that a fusion protein of the invention can be employed to significantly
   enhance the level of production of a protein that is already being stably expressed in an established
35 production cell line.
                                                        121

   Example 9. Other Fusion Proteins for Enhancing Expression of Secreted Fe-Containing
   Molecules in an Unmodified Arran2ement
   Example 9.1. Fusion Proteins Comprising Fe Binding Domains from Additional Protein Species
            This example provides a series of experiments to test various fusion proteins comprising a J
 5 domain (as a protein expression enhancing polypeptide domain) linked to any of a variety of
   polypeptides (as the target binding domain) that have been reported to bind the Fc region of antibody
   molecules. The various J domain fusion proteins were then tested and compared for their ability to
   enhance levels of expression of the IL13Ra2TF-Fc fusion protein as described in Example 5 above
   that was secreted into medium of transfected HEK293 cells.
10          The J-Protein A fusion protein of the invention used in this example is the Erdj3-Protein A
   fusion protein described in Example 5 above.
            In another fusion protein used in the experiments described herein, the J domain from the
   Erdj3 J protein was linked to Protein G, which is known to bind certain immunoglobulin Fc domains.
   A Flag epitope tag was linked to the C-terminus of the Protein G domain as shown for the J-Protein A
15 fusion protein in Example 5 and Figure 1 1B. The amino acid sequence for a Flag-tagged J domain
   Protein G fusion protein of the invention is shown in the table below.
   Table 45. Amino Acid Sequence of a Flag-Tagged Erdj3 J domain-Protein G Fusion Protein.
         Protein Region                 Sequence                    Amino Acid Sequence
             (N- to C-                 Identifier
             terminal)                                      123456789012345678901234567890
           Flag-tagged              SEQ ID NO:235           MAPQNLSTFCLLLLYLIGAVIAGRDFYKIL
        Erdj3 J domain-                                     GVPRSASIKDIKKAYRKLALQLHPDRNPDD
       Protein G fusion                                     PQAQEKFQDLGAAYEVLSDSEKRDIGGGSG
              protein                                       GSGGSGGAAATYKLVINGKTLKGETTTEAV
                                                            DAATAEKVFKQYANDNGVDGEWTYDDATKT
                                                            FTVTEKPEVIDASELTPAVTLEGDYKDDDD
                                                            KGSRGPYSIVSPKC
              J domain              residues 1-83           MAPQNLSTFCLLLLYLIGAVIAGRDFYKIL
          (from Erdj3)                 of SEQ ID            GVPRSASIKDIKKAYRKLALQLHPDRNPDD
                                         NO: 235            PQAQEKFQDLGAAYEVLSDSEKR
               Linker             residues 84-100           DIGGGSGGSGGSGGAAA
                                       of SEQ ID
                                         NO:235
             Protein G              residues 101-           TYKLVINGKTLKGETTTEAVDAATAEKVFK
                                    170 of SEQ ID           QYANDNGVDGEWTYDDATKTFTVTEKPEVI
                                         NO:235             DASELTPAVT
               Linker               residues 171-           LEG
                                    173 of SEQ ID
                                         NO:235
          Flag epitope              residues 174-           DYKDDDDK
               domain               181 of SEQ ID
                                         NO:235
           C-terminal               residues 182-           GSRGPYSIVSPKC
        vector residues             194 of SEQ ID
                                         NO:235
                                                      122

            In another fusion protein used in the experiments described herein, the J domain from the
   Erdj3 J protein was linked to a human FcR (hFcR) receptor protein, which is a receptor that binds
   certain immunoglobulin Fc domains. A Flag epitope tag was linked to the C-terminus of the hFcR
   domain as shown for the J-Protein A fusion protein in Example 5 and Figure 11B. The amino acid
 5 sequence for a Flag-tagged J domain-hFcR fusion protein is shown in the table below.
   Table 46. Amino Acid Sequence of a Flag-Tagged Erdj3 J Domain-hFcR Fusion Protein.
        Protein Region                  Sequence                    Amino Acid Sequence
             (N- to C-                 Identifier
             terminal)                                      123456789012345678901234567890
           Flag-tagged              SEQ ID NO:236          MAPQNLSTFCLLLLYLIGAVIAGRDFYKIL
       Erdj3 J domain-                                      GVPRSASIKDIKKAYRKLALQLHPDRNPDD
           hFcR fusion                                      PQAQEKFQDLGAAYEVLSDSEKRDIGGGSG
              protein                                       GSGGSGGAAAAVITLQPPWVSVFQEETVTL
                                                            HCEVLHLPGSSSTQWFLNGTATQTSTPSYR
                                                            ITSASVNDSGEYRCQRGLSGRSDPIQLEIH
                                                            RGWLLLQVSSRVFTEGEPLALRCHAWKDKL
                                                           VYNVLYYRNGKAFKFFHWNSNLTILKTNIS
                                                            HNGTYHCSGMGKLEGDYKDDDDKGSRGPYS
                                                            IVSPKC
              J domain              residues 1-83          MAPQNLSTFCLLLLYLIGAVIAGRDFYKIL
          (from Erdj3)                 of SEQ ID            GVPRSASIKDIKKAYRKLALQLHPDRNPDD
                                         NO: 236           PQAQEKFQDLGAAYEVLSDSEKR
               Linker              residues 84-100          DIGGGSGGSGGSGGAAA
                                       of SEQ ID
                                         NO:236
                hFcR                residues 101-          AVITLQPPWVSVFQEETVTLHCEVLHLPGS
                                    252 of SEQ ID           SSTQWFLNGTATQTSTPSYRITSASVNDSG
                                         NO:236             EYRCQRGLSGRSDPIQLEIHRGWLLLQVSS
                                                            RVFTEGEPLALRCHAWKDKLVYNVLYYRNG
                                                            KAFKFFHWNSNLTILKTNISHNGTYHCSGM
                                                            GK
               Linker               residues 253-           LEG
                                    255 of SEQ ID
                                         NO:236
          Flag epitope              residues 256-           DYKDDDDK
               domain               263 of SEQ ID
                                         NO:236
            C-terminal              residues 264-           GSRGPYSIVSPKC
       vector residues              276 of SEQ ID
                                         NO:236
            In another fusion protein used in the experiments described herein, the J domain from the
   Erdj3 J protein was linked to the Macaca mulatta rhadinovirus FcR receptor protein (vFcR), which is
10 a receptor that binds certain immunoglobulin Fc domains. A Flag epitope tag was linked to the C
   terminus of the vFcR domain as shown for the J-Protein A fusion protein in Example 5 and Figure
   11B. The amino acid sequence for a Flag-tagged J domain-vFcR fusion protein is shown in the table
   below.
                                                      123

  Table 47. Amino Acid Sequence of a Flag-Tagged Erdj3 J domain-vFcR Fusion Protein.
       Protein Region                 Sequence                     Amino Acid Sequence
           (N- to C-                 Identifier
           terminal)                                      123456789012345678901234567890
         Flag-tagged               SEQ ID NO:237          MAPQNLSTFCLLLLYLIGAVIAGRDFYKIL
      Erdj3 J domain-                                     GVPRSASIKDIKKAYRKLALQLHPDRNPDD
        vFcR protein                                      PQAQEKFQDLGAAYEVLSDSEKRDIGGGSG
                                                          GSGGSGGAAAAKLTSVPTWCPPHPGDTYLL
                                                          TCRGTSTARDQRSTQWFRNNTLMRGSNFYG
                                                          RLVSVTPNATISDRYACQTKTTTRSNNIDF
                                                          RVSSSRLTLQERCSSYGYTYANNTRVLRCY
                                                          SGGNVTLRNVVFHLNGTAVINGTTTNIHTF
                                                          VLTEKTGGTYFCSAFLEGDYKDDDDKGSRG
                                                          PYSIVSPKC
       Erdj3 J domain              residues 1-83          MAPQNLSTFCLLLLYLIGAVIAGRDFYKIL
                                     of SEQ ID            GVPRSASIKDIKKAYRKLALQLHPDRNPDD
                                       NO: 237            PQAQEKFQDLGAAYEVLSDSEKR
             Linker             residues 84-100           DI GGGSGGSGGSGG AAA
                                     of SEQ ID
                                       NO:237
              vFcR                 residues 101-          AKLTSVPTWCPPHPGDTYLLTCRGTSTARD
                                   255 of SEQ ID          QRSTQWFRNNTLMRGSNFYGRLVSVTPNAT
                                       NO:237             ISDRYACQTKTTTRSNNIDFRVSSSRLTLQ
                                                          ERCSSYGYTYANNTRVLRCYSGGNVTLRNV
                                                          VFHLNGTAVINGTTTNIHTFVLTEKTGGTY
                                                          FCSAF
             Linker                residues 256-          LEG
                                   258 of SEQ ID
                                       NO:237
        Flag epitope               residues 259-          DYKDDDDK
             domain                266 of SEQ ID
                                       NO:237
          C-terminal               residues 267-          GSRGPYSIVSPKC
      vector residues              279 of SEQ ID
                                       NO:237
          In another fusion protein used in the experiments described herein, the J domain from the
  Erdj3 J protein was linked to a herpes simplex virus type 1 gI protein, which has no significant Fc
5 binding activity. A Flag epitope tag was linked to the C-terminus of the gI domain as shown for the J
  Protein A fusion protein in Example 5 and Figure 11 B. The amino acid sequence for a Flag-tagged J
  domain-gI fusion protein is shown in the table below.
  Table 48. Amino Acid Sequence of a Flag-Tagged Erdj3 J Domain-gI Fusion Protein.
       Protein Region                 Sequence                     Amino Acid Sequence
           (N- to C-                 Identifier
           terminal)                                      123456789012345678901234567890
         Flag-tagged               SEQ ID NO:238          MAPQNLSTFCLLLLYLIGAVIAGRDFYKIL
      Erdj3 J domain-                                     GVPRSASIKDIKKAYRKLALQLHPDRNPDD
          gI protein                                      PQAQEKFQDLGAAYEVLSDSEKRDIGGGSG
                                                          GSGGSGGAAALVVRGPTVSLVSNSFVDAGA
                                                          LGPDGVVEEDLLILGELRFVGDQVPHTTYY
                                                    124

                                                           DGVVELWHYPMGHKCPRVVHVVTVTACPRR
                                                           PAVAFALCRATDSTHSPAYPTLELNLAQQP
                                                           LLRVRRATRDYAGVYVLRVWVGDAPNASLF
                                                          VLGMAIAAEGTLAYNGSAHGSCDPKLLPYS
                                                          APRLAPASVYQPAPNPASTPSTTIPAPQAS
                                                           TTPFPTGDPKPQLEGDYKDDDDKGSRGPYS
                                                           IVSPKC
             J domain              residues 1-83          MAPQNLSTFCLLLLYLIGAVIAGRDFYKIL
          (from Erdj3)                of SEQ ID            GVPRSASIKDIKKAYRKLALQLHPDRNPDD
                                        NO: 238           PQAQEKFQDLGAAYEVLSDSEKR
              Linker             residues 84-100           DIGGGSGGSGGSGGAAA
                                      of SEQ ID
                                        NO:238
                  gI               residues 101-           LVVRGPTVSLVSNSFVDAGALGPDGVVEED
                                   312 of SEQ ID           LLILGELRFVGDQVPHTTYYDGVVELWHYP
                                        NO: 238           MGHKCPRVVHVVTVTACPRRPAVAFALCRA
                                                           TDSTHSPAYPTLELNLAQQPLLRVRRATRD
                                                           YAGVYVLRVWVGDAPNASLFVLGMAIAAEG
                                                           TLAYNGSAHGSCDPKLLPYSAPRLAPASVY
                                                           QPAPNPASTPSTTIPAPQASTTPFPTGDPK
                                                           PQ
              Linker               residues 313-           LEG
                                   315 of SEQ ID
                                        NO:238
         Flag epitope              residues 316-           DYKDDDDK
              domain               323 of SEQ ID
                                        NO:238
           C-terminal              residues 324-           GSRGPYSIVSPKC
      vector residues              336 of SEQ ID
                                        NO:238
           In another fusion protein used in the experiments described herein, the J domain from the
  Erdj3 J protein was linked to a herpes simplex virus type 1 gE protein, which has a relatively weak
  affinity for the immunoglobulin Fc domain. A Flag epitope tag was linked to the C-terminus of the
5 gE domain as shown for the J-Protein A fusion protein in Example 5 and Figure 1 1B. The amino acid
  sequence for a Flag-tagged J domain-gE fusion protein is shown in the table below.
  Table 49. Amino Acid Sequence of a Flag-Tagged Erdj3 J domain-gE Fusion Protein.
       Protein Region                  Sequence                    Amino Acid Sequence
            (N- to C-                 Identifier
            terminal)                                      123456789012345678901234567890
          Flag-tagged              SEQ ID NO:239          MAPQNLSTFCLLLLYLIGAVIAGRDFYKIL
      Erdj3 J domain-                                      GVPRSASIKDIKKAYRKLALQLHPDRNPDD
            gE fusion                                      PQAQEKFQDLGAAYEVLSDSEKRDIGGGSG
             protein                                       GSGGSGGAAAGTPKTSWRRVSVGEDVSLLP
                                                          APGPTGRGPTQKLLWAVEPLDGCGPLHPSW
                                                          VSLMPPKQVPETVVDAACMRAPVPLAMAYA
                                                           PPAPSATGGLRTDFVWQERAAVVNRSLVIH
                                                           GVRETDSGLYTLSVGDIKDPARQVASVVLV
                                                          VQPAPVPTPPPTPADYDEDDNDEGEDESLA
                                                           GTPASGTPRLPPPPAPPRSWPSAPEVSHVR
                                                           GVTVRMETPEAILFSPGETFSTNVSIHAIA
                                                     125

                                                            HDDQTYSMDVVWLRFDVPTSCAEMRIYESC
                                                            LYHPQLPECLSPADAPCAASTWTSRLAVRS
                                                            YAGCSRTNPPPRCSAEAHMEPVPGLAWQAA
                                                            SVNLEFRDASPQHSGLYLCVVYVNDHIHAW
                                                            GHITISTAAQYRNAVVEQPLPQRGADLAEL
                                                            EGDYKDDDDKGSRGPYSIVSPKC
         Erdj3 J domain             residues 1-83          MAPQNLSTFCLLLLYLIGAVIAGRDFYKIL
                                       of SEQ ID            GVPRSASIKDIKKAYRKLALQLHPDRNPDD
                                         NO: 239            PQAQEKFQDLGAAYEVLSDSEKR
               Linker             residues 84-100           DIGGGSGGSGGSGGAAA
                                       of   SEQ ID
                                         NO:239
                  gE                residues 101-           GTPKTSWRRVSVGEDVSLLPAPGPTGRGPT
                                    479 of SEQ ID           QKLLWAVEPLDGCGPLHPSWVSLMPPKQVP
                                         NO: 239            ETVVDAACMRAPVPLAMAYAPPAPSATGGL
                                                            RTDFVWQERAAVVNRSLVIHGVRETDSGLY
                                                            TLSVGDIKDPARQVASVVLVVQPAPVPTPP
                                                            PTPADYDEDDNDEGEDESLAGTPASGTPRL
                                                            PPPPAPPRSWPSAPEVSHVRGVTVRMETPE
                                                           AILFSPGETFSTNVSIHAIAHDDQTYSMDV
                                                           VWLRFDVPTSCAEMRIYESCLYHPQLPECL
                                                            SPADAPCAASTWTSRLAVRSYAGCSRTNPP
                                                            PRCSAEAHMEPVPGLAWQAASVNLEFRDAS
                                                            PQHSGLYLCVVYVNDHIHAWGHITISTAAQ
                                                            YRNAVVEQPLPQRGADLAE
               Linker               residues 480-           LEG
                                    482 of SEQ ID
                                         NO:239
          Flag epitope              residues 483-           DYKDDDDK
              domain                490 of SEQ ID
                                         NO:239
           C-terminal               residues 491-           GSRGPYSIVSPKC
        vector residues             503 of SEQ ID
                                         NO:239
            HEK293 cells were transfected with expression vector plasmids to compare levels of
   expression in culture medium of the IL13Ra2TF-Fc fusion protein expressed alone, co-expressed with
   a J domain-Protein A fusion protein (as described above in Example 5), co-expressed with Protein A
 5 ("Protein A Only", as described in Example 5), co-expressed with a J domain-Protein G fusion protein
   (J-Protein G), co-expressed with a J domain fusion protein in which a J domain is linked to a human
   FcR receptor protein ("J-hFcR"), co-expressed with a J domain fusion protein in which a J domain is
   linked to a viral FcR receptor protein ("J-vFcR"), co-expressed with a J domain fusion protein in
   which a J domain is linked to a herpes simplex virus type 1 gI protein ("J-gJ"), co-expressed with a J
10 domain fusion protein in which a J domain is linked to a herpes simplex virus type 1 gE protein ("J
   gE"), and co-expressed with both J-gJ and J-gE fusion proteins ("J-gJ + J-gE"). Transfected cells
   were cultured for two days, and samples of cell media were harvested and analyzed by Western blot
   (immunoblot) assay using an anti-V5 antibody to detect secreted V5-tagged IL13Ra2TF.
                                                      126

            Figure 16A shows X-ray film images of chemiluminescent signals of a Western blot analysis
   of culture media from cultures of transfected cells. Lane 1 of Figure 16A is medium from a culture of
   cells transfected with an expression vector to express the IL13Ra2TF-Fc fusion protein alone. When
   expressed alone, some IL13Ra2TF-Fc fusion protein was detected in the medium (lane 1 of Figure
 5 16A). Some IL13Ra2TF-Fc protein was also detected when expressed with Protein A only (lane 3 of
   Figure 16A), as previously noted above with respect to the results described in Example 5 and Figure
   12A. Also as previously described in Example 5 and Figure 12A above, co-expression of
   IL13Ra2TF-Fc fusion protein with a J domain-Protein A fusion protein significantly enhanced the
   level of expression of IL13Ra2TF-Fc fusion protein secreted into culture medium (lane 2 of Figure
10 16A) as compared to the level of expression of IL13Ra2TF alone (lane 1 of Figure 16A) or co
   expression of IL13Ra2TF-Fc with Protein A alone (lane 3 of Figure 16A). Co-expression of the
   IL13Ra2TF-Fc protein with a J domain-Protein G fusion protein also significantly enhanced the level
   of expression of secreted IL13Ra2TF-Fc protein (lane 4 of Figure 16A) as compared to the level of
   expression of IL13Ra2TF alone (lane 1 of Figure 16A) or co-expression of IL13Ra2TF-Fc with
15 Protein A alone (lane 3 of Figure 16A).
            Viral proteins gI and gE from herpes simplex virus type 1 are known to form a heterodimer,
   wherein the gE protein weakly binds antibody molecules. In addition, whereas the gE protein alone
   weakly binds to antibody molecules, gI alone does not bind antibody molecules. Consistent with
   these prior findings, co-expression of the IL13Ra2TF-Fc fusion protein with a J domain-gI fusion
20 protein (lane 7 of Figure 16A) resulted in a relatively low level of expression of secreted IL13Ra2TF
   Fc that was similar to that observed in cells expressing the IL13Ra2TF-Fc alone (lane 1 of Figure
   16A). In contrast, co-expression of the IL13Ra2TF-Fc fusion protein with a J domain-gE fusion
   protein significantly enhanced the level of expression of secreted IL13Ra2TF-Fc (lane 8 of Figure
   16A). A similar enhancement in the level of secreted IL13Ra2TF-Fc was observed when
25 IL13Ra2TF-Fc was co-expressed with both J-gI and J-gE fusion proteins (lane 9 of Figure 16A),
   indicating that the J-gI fusion protein does not significantly enhance the level of expression of
   secreted IL13Ra2TF-Fc, consistent with the previous finding that the gI protein does not bind Fc
   domains.
            The human Fc binding receptor (hFcR) and the Macaca mulatta rhadinovirus Fc binding
30 receptor (vFcR) are well characterized receptors for binding Fc regions of antibody molecules. J
   domain fusions comprising these FcR molecules were prepared and tested for the ability to enhance
   expression of the IL13Ra2TF-Fc fusion protein. As shown in Figure 16A, co-expression of the
   IL13Ra2TF-Fc protein with either a J domain-hFcR fusion protein or a J domain-vFcR fusion protein
   not only failed to enhance expression of secreted IL13Ra2TF-Fc (lanes 5 and 6 of Figure 16A), but
35 actually appeared to suppress even a low level of expression of secreted protein observed in cells
   expressing the IL13Ra2TF-Fc protein alone (lane 1 of Figure 16A). One possible explanation for
                                                       127

   such apparent suppression of even baseline secretion may be that the J domain-FcR fusion proteins
   employed in these experiments becomes caught in the endoplasmic reticulum (ER). Further work is
   required to find functional constructs containing FcR regions to target and enhance expression of
   proteins that possess an Fc region.
 5          The results of a densitometry analysis of the chemiluminescent signals in the Western blot in
   Figure 16A using the NIH ImageJ image processing program are shown in the respective bar graphs
   in Figure 16B.
   Example 9.2. Fusion Proteins Comprising Fe Targeting Peptides for Use in Enhancing
   Expression of Target Proteins in an Unmodified Arrangement
10          A variety of peptides are known that bind the Fc domain of immunoglobulin molecules. This
   experiment tested various fusion proteins comprising a J domain (as a protein expression enhancing
   polypeptide) linked to each of several representative Fc-binding peptides (as a target binding domain)
   for use in enhancing the level of expression of proteins that possess an Fc domain. The six peptides
   used to construct fusion proteins are shown in the table below.
15 Table 50. Amino Acid Sequences of Representative Peptides that Bind Fc Domains.
          Peptide
        Designation       Amino Acid Sequence                            Reference
           FcBP1          DCAWHLGELVWCT               DeLano et al., Science, 287: 1279-1283 (2000)
                             (SEQ ID NO:240)
           FcBP2                HWRGWV                Yang et al., J.Peptide Res., 66(Suppl. 1): 120
                             (SEQ ID NO:241)          137 (2006)
           FcBP3                HVHYYW                Yang et al., J. Peptide Res., 66(Suppl. 1): 120
                             (SEQ ID NO:242)          137 (2006)
           FcBP4                YYWLHH                Yang et al., J. Peptide Res., 66(Suppl. 1): 120
                             (SEQ ID NO:243)          137 (2006)
           FcBP5                 HVHYY                Yang et al., J. Peptide Res., 66(Suppl. 1): 120
                             (SEQ ID NO:244)          137 (2006)
           FcBP6                  YYWL                Yang et al., J. Peptide Res., 66(Suppl. 1): 120
                             (SEQ ID NO:245)          137 (2006)
            Expression vector plasmids were prepared for expressing J domain fusion proteins comprising
   a J domain (from the Erdj3 protein) linked to each of the six peptides. The IL13Ra2TF-Fc fusion
   protein was used as a representative target protein comprising an Fc domain.
20          The amino acid sequence for a J domain fusion protein comprising a J domain of the Erdj3 J
   protein linked to the FcBP1 peptide used in this experiment included a Flag epitope tag and 13
   additional C-terminal amino acid residues from the expression vector used to express the protein as
   shown in the table below.
                                                      128

  Table 51. Amino Acid Sequence of a Flag-Tagged Erdj3 J Domain-FcBP1 Fusion Protein.
       Protein Region                Sequence                     Amino Acid Sequence
            (N- to C-               Identifier
            terminal)                                     123456789012345678901234567890
          Flag-tagged            SEQ ID NO:246            MAPQNLSTFCLLLLYLIGAVIAGRDFYKIL
      Erdj3 J domain-                                     GVPRSASIKDIKKAYRKLALQLHPDRNPDD
         FcBP1 fusion                                     PQAQEKFQDLGAAYEVLSDSEKRDIGGGSG
             protein                                      GSGGSGGAAADCAWHLGELVWCTLEGDYKD
                                                          DDDKGSRGPYSIVSPKC
             J domain            residues 1-83            MAPQNLSTFCLLLLYLIGAVIAGRDFYKIL
         (from Erdj3)               of SEQ ID             GVPRSASIKDIKKAYRKLALQLHPDRNPDD
                                       NO: 246            PQAQEKFQDLGAAYEVLSDSEKR
              Linker            residues 84-100           DIGGGSGGSGGSGGAAA
                                    of SEQ ID
                                       NO:246
               FcBP1             residues 101-            DCAWHLGELVWCT
                                 113 of SEQ ID
                                       NO:246
              Linker             residues 114-            LEG
                                 116 of SEQ ID
                                       NO:246
         Flag epitope            residues 117-            DYKDDDDK
              domain             124 of SEQ ID
                                       NO:246
          C-terminal             residues 125-            GSRGPYSIVSPKC
      vector residues            137 of SEQ ID
                                       NO:246
           The amino acid sequence for a J domain fusion protein comprising a J domain of the Erdj3 J
  protein linked to the FcBP2 peptide used in this experiment included a Flag epitope tag and 13
5 additional C-terminal amino acid residues from the expression vector used to express the protein as
  shown in the table below.
   Table 52. Amino Acid Sequence of a Flag-Tagged Erdj3 J Domain-FcBP2 Fusion Protein.
       Protein Region                Sequence                     Amino Acid Sequence
            (N- to C-               Identifier
            terminal)                                     123456789012345678901234567890
          Flag-tagged            SEQ ID NO:247            MAPQNLSTFCLLLLYLIGAVIAGRDFYKIL
      Erdj3 J domain-                                     GVPRSASIKDIKKAYRKLALQLHPDRNPDD
         FcBP2 fusion                                     PQAQEKFQDLGAAYEVLSDSEKRDIGGGSG
             protein                                      GSGGSGGAAAHWRGWVLEGDYKDDDDKGSR
                                                          GPYSIVSPKC
             J domain            residues 1-83            MAPQNLSTFCLLLLYLIGAVIAGRDFYKIL
         (from Erdj3)               of SEQ ID             GVPRSASIKDIKKAYRKLALQLHPDRNPDD
                                       NO: 247            PQAQEKFQDLGAAYEVLSDSEKR
              Linker            residues 84-100           DIGGGSGGSGGSGGAAA
                                    of SEQ ID
                                       NO:247
               FcBP2             residues 101-            HWRGWV
                                 106 of SEQ ID
                                       NO:247
              Linker             residues 107-            LEG
                                                    129

                                  109 of SEQ ID
                                        NO:247
          Flag epitope            residues 110-            DYKDDDDK
               domain             117 of SEQ ID
                                        NO:247
           C-terminal             residues 118-            GSRGPYSIVSPKC
       vector residues            130 of SEQ ID
                                        NO:247
            The amino acid sequence for a J domain fusion protein comprising a J domain of the Erdj3 J
   protein linked to the FcBP3 peptide used in this experiment included a Flag epitope tag and 13
   additional C-terminal amino acid residues from the expression vector used to express the protein as
 5 shown in the table below.
   Table 53. Amino Acid Sequence of a Flag-Tagged Erdj3 J Domain-FcBP3 Fusion Protein.
        Protein Region                Sequence                     Amino Acid Sequence
             (N- to C-               Identifier
             terminal)                                     123456789012345678901234567890
           Flag-tagged            SEQ ID NO:248            MAPQNLSTFCLLLLYLIGAVIAGRDFYKIL
       Erdj3 J domain-                                     GVPRSASIKDIKKAYRKLALQLHPDRNPDD
          FcBP3 fusion                                     PQAQEKFQDLGAAYEVLSDSEKRDIGGGSG
              protein                                      GSGGSGGAAAHVHYYWLEGDYKDDDDKGSR
                                                           GPYSIVSPKC
              J domain            residues 1-83            MAPQNLSTFCLLLLYLIGAVIAGRDFYKIL
          (from Erdj3)               of SEQ ID             GVPRSASIKDIKKAYRKLALQLHPDRNPDD
                                        NO: 248            PQAQEKFQDLGAAYEVLSDSEKR
               Linker            residues 84-100           DI GGGSGGSGGSGG AAA
                                     of SEQ ID
                                        NO:248
                FcBP3             residues 101-            HVHYYW
                                  106 of SEQ ID
                                        NO:248
               Linker             residues 107-            LEG
                                  109 of SEQ ID
                                        NO:248
          Flag epitope            residues 110-            DYKDDDDK
               domain             117 of SEQ ID
                                        NO:248
           C-terminal             residues 118-            GSRGPYSIVSPKC
       vector residues            130 of SEQ ID
                                        NO:248
            The amino acid sequence for a J domain fusion protein comprising a J domain of the Erdj3 J
   protein linked to the FcBP4 peptide used in this experiment included a Flag epitope tag and 13
10 additional C-terminal amino acid residues from the expression vector used to express the protein as
   shown in the table below.
                                                     130

  Table 54. Amino Acid Sequence of a Flag-Tagged Erdj3 J domain-FcBP4 Fusion Protein.
       Protein Region                Sequence                     Amino Acid Sequence
            (N- to C-               Identifier
            terminal)                                     123456789012345678901234567890
          Flag-tagged            SEQ ID NO:249            MAPQNLSTFCLLLLYLIGAVIAGRDFYKIL
      Erdj3 J domain-                                     GVPRSASIKDIKKAYRKLALQLHPDRNPDD
         FcBP4 fusion                                     PQAQEKFQDLGAAYEVLSDSEKRDIGGGSG
             protein                                      GSGGSGGAAAYYWLHHLEGDYKDDDDKGSR
                                                          GPYSIVSPKC
             J domain            residues 1-83            MAPQNLSTFCLLLLYLIGAVIAGRDFYKIL
         (from Erdj3)               of SEQ ID             GVPRSASIKDIKKAYRKLALQLHPDRNPDD
                                       NO: 249            PQAQEKFQDLGAAYEVLSDSEKR
              Linker            residues 84-100           DIGGGSGGSGGSGGAAA
                                    of SEQ ID
                                       NO:249
               FcBP4             residues 101-            YYWLHH
                                 106 of SEQ ID
                                       NO:249
              Linker             residues 107-            LEG
                                 109 of SEQ ID
                                       NO:249
         Flag epitope            residues 110-            DYKDDDDK
              domain             117 of SEQ ID
                                       NO:249
          C-terminal             residues 118-            GSRGPYSIVSPKC
      vector residues            130 of SEQ ID
                                       NO:249
           The amino acid sequence for a J domain fusion protein comprising a J domain of the Erdj3 J
  protein linked to the FcBP5 peptide used in this experiment included a Flag epitope tag and 13
5 additional C-terminal amino acid residues from the expression vector used to express the protein as
  shown in the table below.
  Table 55. Amino Acid Sequence of a Flag-Tagged Erdj3 J domain-FcBP5 Fusion Protein.
       Protein Region                Sequence                     Amino Acid Sequence
            (N- to C-               Identifier
            terminal)                                     123456789012345678901234567890
          Flag-tagged            SEQ ID NO:250            MAPQNLSTFCLLLLYLIGAVIAGRDFYKIL
      Erdj3 J domain-                                     GVPRSASIKDIKKAYRKLALQLHPDRNPDD
         FcBP5 fusion                                     PQAQEKFQDLGAAYEVLSDSEKRDIGGGSG
             protein                                      GSGGSGGAAAHVHYYLEGDYKDDDDKGSRG
                                                          PYSIVSPKC
             J domain            residues 1-83            MAPQNLSTFCLLLLYLIGAVIAGRDFYKIL
         (from Erdj3)               of SEQ ID             GVPRSASIKDIKKAYRKLALQLHPDRNPDD
                                       NO: 250            PQAQEKFQDLGAAYEVLSDSEKR
              Linker            residues 84-100           DI GGGSGGSGGSGG AAA
                                    of SEQ ID
                                       NO:250
               FcBP5             residues 101-            HVHYY
                                 105 of SEQ ID
                                       NO:250
              Linker             residues 106-            LEG
                                                    131

                                    108 of SEQ ID
                                         NO:250
          Flag epitope              residues 109-          DYKDDDDK
               domain               116 of SEQ ID
                                         NO:250
            C-terminal              residues 117-          GSRGPYSIVSPKC
       vector residues              129 of SEQ ID
                                         NO:250
            The amino acid sequence for a J domain fusion protein comprising a J domain of the Erdj3 J
   protein linked to the FcBP6 peptide used in this experiment included a Flag epitope tag and 13
   additional C-terminal amino acid residues from the expression vector used to express the protein as
 5 shown in the table below.
   Table 56. Amino Acid Sequence of a Flag-Tagged Erdj3 J domain-FcBP6 Fusion Protein.
        Protein Region                  Sequence                    Amino Acid Sequence
             (N- to C-                Identifier
             terminal)                                     123456789012345678901234567890
           Flag-tagged              SEQ ID NO:251          MAPQNLSTFCLLLLYLIGAVIAGRDFYKIL
       Erdj3 J domain-                                     GVPRSASIKDIKKAYRKLALQLHPDRNPDD
          FcBP6 fusion                                     PQAQEKFQDLGAAYEVLSDSEKRDIGGGSG
              protein                                      GSGGSGGAAAYYWLLEGDYKDDDDKGSRGP
                                                           YSIVSPKC
              J domain              residues 1-83          MAPQNLSTFCLLLLYLIGAVIAGRDFYKIL
          (from Erdj3)                 of SEQ ID           GVPRSASIKDIKKAYRKLALQLHPDRNPDD
                                         NO: 251           PQAQEKFQDLGAAYEVLSDSEKR
               Linker              residues 84-100         DIGGGSGGSGGSGGAAA
                                       of SEQ ID
                                         NO:251
                FcBP6               residues 101-          YYWL
                                    104 of SEQ ID
                                         NO:251
               Linker               residues 105-          LEG
                                    107 of SEQ ID
                                         NO:251
          Flag epitope              residues 108-          DYKDDDDK
               domain               115 of SEQ ID
                                         NO:251
            C-terminal              residues 116-          GSRGPYSIVSPKC
       vector residues              128 of SEQ ID
                                         NO:251
            Transfected cells were cultured for two days, and samples of cell media were harvested and
   analyzed by Western blot assay using an anti-V5 antibody to detect secreted V5-tagged IL13Ra2TF
10 Fc fusion protein. Figure 17A shows X-ray film images of chemiluminescent signals of the Western
   blot analysis of culture media. As shown in Figure 17A, co-expression of the IL13Ra2TF-Fc fusion
   protein with each of the six J domain-peptide fusion proteins in HEK293 transfectants significantly
   enhanced the level of expression of secreted IL13Ra2TF-Fc fusion protein (lanes 4-9) as compared to
   the level of expression of IL13Ra2TF-Fc fusion protein alone (lanes 1 and 3). The experiment also
                                                     132

   included for comparison the effect of co-expression of IL13Ra2TF-Fc fusion protein with a J domain
   Protein A fusion protein (lane 2) or with a J domain-Protein G fusion protein (lane 10) on the
   expression of secreted IL13Ra2TF-Fc fusion protein. As shown in Figure 17A, co-expression of
   IL13Ra2TF-Fc fusion protein with either J domain-Protein A fusion protein (lane 2) or the J domain
 5 Protein G fusion protein (lane 10) significantly enhanced the level of expression of secreted the
   IL13Ra2TF-Fc fusion protein.
             The results of a densitometry analysis of the chemiluminescent signals in the Western blot in
   Figure 17A using the NIH ImageJ image processing program are shown in the respective bar graphs
   in Figure 17B.
10 Conclusion of Results of Experiments
            The results of the experiments described above indicate that co-expression of a target protein
   of interest and a fusion protein comprising a protein expression enhancing polypeptide domain linked
   to a target protein binding domain that binds the target protein significantly enhances the level of
   expression of the target protein in its proper cellular or extracellular location as compared to the level
15 of expression of the target protein in the absence of the fusion protein.
   Example 10. Minimal Sequence Requirements for Protein Expression Enhancing Polypeptides
            Further analysis was undertaken to determine the minimal amino acid sequence that is
   effective for enhancing the level of expression of a target protein of interest when employed in an
   unmodified or a modified arrangement.
20          Sequence homology analysis using BLAST was conducted on the existing library of J domain
   sequences to determine whether J domains shared a similar minimal "core" sequence that could
   enhance the level of protein expression. The analysis indicated that the J domain of the Erdj3 protein
   was typical of J domains of other J proteins. Since the J domain of Erdj3 was already known to be
   effective at enhancing protein expression in both the modified and unmodified arrangements (see,
25 examples above), it was chosen for further deletion and substitution mutation analysis to determine
   whether a minimal polypeptide sequence could be identified that retained protein expression
   enhancing activity.
            In this study, various deletion and substitution mutations of the J domain of Erdj3 were
   assessed for enhancing expression of an engineered IL13Ra2TF-V5-Fc protein as the target protein of
30 interest. This engineered protein possesses a V5 epitope tag between the IL13Ra2TF polypeptide and
   the Fc domain, permitting easy detection with an anti-V5 antibody. Fusion proteins were constructed
   comprising either the full length J domain of Erdj3 or the various mutated polypeptides linked to
   Protein A, which binds the Fc domain of the engineered IL13Ra2-Fc target protein (thus acting as a
   target protein binding domain). Thus, for each of the mutated polypeptides, the general formula of the
35 corresponding fusion proteins used in the study was:
                                                        133

   signal sequence-linker 1-(J domain, fragment or J domain analog polypeptide sequence-linker 2
   Protein A-linker 3-Flag epitope tag.
            The amino acid sequences of the domains of these fusion proteins, excluding the inserted J
   domain, J domain fragment, or J domain analog sequences, is shown in the table below.
 5 Table 57. Amino Acid Structure of Test Flag-Tagged Protein A Fusions.
        Protein Region               Sequence                 Amino Acid Sequence
                                    Identifier          123456789012345678901234567890
      signal sequence                  SEQ ID           MGVKVLFALICIAVAEA
                                      NO:251
      linker 1                         SEQ ID           GTGSGEF
                                      NO:252
      J domain,                                         (various polypeptide
      fragment or                                       sequences)
      analog
      sequence
      linker 2                         SEQ ID           DIGGGSGGSGGSGGAAA
                                      NO:122
      Protein A                        SEQ ID           ADNKFNKEQQNAFYEILNMPNLNEEQRNGF
                                      NO:254            IQSLKDDPSQSANVLGEAKKLNDSQAPK
      linker 3                         SEQ ID           LEG
                                      NO:255
      Flag epitope tag                 SEQ ID           DYKDDDDK
                                      NO:111
            The protein expression enhancing activity of each fusion protein was determined by dot blot
   assay using detectable anti-V5 antibody. The IL13Ra2-V5-Fc target protein was expressed with or
   without the fusion proteins containing each mutated polypeptide sequence, and the cell culture
10 medium was harvested and briefly spun to remove debris. The sample was blotted onto nitrocellulose
   membrane, and the dried membrane was processed for immunoblot assay. The deletion and
   substitution polypeptides tested for protein expression enhancement activity are shown in the table
   below along with the protein expression enhancing activity determined by immunoblotting.
   Table 58. Amino Acid Sequences of Polypeptides Tested for Protein Expression Enhancing Activity.
      Polypeptide        Sequence                Polypeptide Amino Acid Sequence          Activity*
          No.            Identifier
                                           123456789012345678901234567890
            3        SEQ ID NO:256        GRDFYKI.LGVPRSASIKDI.KKAYRKLALQL                   H-A
                                          HP1!DTR'NPDDPQA-QEKFQTLAAEVSDE
                                          R
           3-1       SEQ ID NO:257         TI , GV'   SASIK             ALQ L HPDRNP         HA
                                          DWPQAQEKFQ DLGAAYEVL          DSKR
                                                                       22
           3-2       SEQ ID NO:258              S IKD IKKAYRK AQ HPRNPPQ                     HA
           3-3       SEQ ID NO:259        G D YK.LGVPRSASIKDIKKAYRKLALQL                     HA
                                          HPDRANPDDPQAQEKFQDLG
           3-4       SEQ ID NO:260         ILGVPRSASTKDiKKAYRKLALQLHPDRNP                    HA
                                          D:TDPQAQ EKFQDLG
           3-5       SEQ ID NO:261         SASIKDiKKAYRKLALQLH-PNPDDPQAQ                     HA
                                                        134

Polypeptide    Sequence        Polypeptide Amino Acid Sequence  Activity*
    No.        Identifier
                          123456789012345678901234567890
                          EKFQDLG
     3-6    SEQ ID NO:262 KAYRKLALQLHPDRNPDDPQAQEKFQDLG           NA
     3-7    SEQ ID NO:263 KAYRKL ?LQLHBDRNPDDPQAQEKFQDLGA         NA
                                  0
                          AYEYLT    DSEKR
     3-8    SEQ ID NO:264  LLPRNPDDBQAQEKFQDLG                    NA
     3-9    SEQ ID NO:265 LQ HPD RNPDDPQAQEKFQDLGAAYEVL SD        NA
    3-10    SEQ ID NO:266 IKD I K AYRKLALQLHPDNPDDPQAQEKF         HA
                          CAS0    T
    3-11    SEQ ID NO:267        KD IKKAYRKL ALQL HP  RNPDDPQAQ   HA
                          E
    3-12    SEQ ID NO:268 S     I D KARKL ALQL                    HA
    3-13    SEQ ID NO:269 IKD KKAYRKL ALQLHP7 DNP     DDPQAQE       IHA
    3-14    SEQ ID NO:270 IK D IKYA        LQL HPDN               HA
    3-15    SEQ ID NO:271 DIKAYKLLQHDRNPD             PQAQE       HA
    3-16    SEQ ID NO:272 IKD 7IKKAYRKL ALQLHPD                   HA
    3-17    SEQ ID NO:273 IKD T KKAY RKLAQL                       HA
    3-18    SEQ ID NO:274 D IKKAY RLALQL                          HA
    3-19    SEQ ID NO:275 DIKKAYRKLALQ                            IHIA
    3-20    SEQ ID NO:276 D IKKAY R LA                              IA
    3-21    SEQ ID NO:277 DIKKAYRK                                HA
    3-22    SEQ ID NO:278 DIKKYPK                                 NA
    3-23    SEQ ID NO:279 D KKAKYRK                               NA
    3-24    SEQ ID NO:280 D KA Y R                                NA
    3-25    SEQ ID NO:281 I KKA YR KLL QL                          JA
    3-26    SEQ ID NO:282 KiKAYRKL ALL                             NA
    3-27    SEQ ID NO:283 IKAY          LQ                           A
    3-28    SEQ ID NO:284 IK KAYLRKLAL                            HA
    3-29    SEQ ID NO:48  IKKAYRKLA                               HIA
    3-30    SEQ ID NO:285 IKA PKL                                   A
    3-31    SEQ ID NO:286 KKYRKLQ                                 NA
    3-32    SEQ ID NO:287 KKAYRKLAL                               NA
    3-33    SEQ ID NO:288 KKYRKLA                                 NA
    3-34    SEQ ID NO:289 FAY'P LALD                              NA
    3-35    SEQ ID NO:290 IKKAYRK                                 NA
    3-36    SEQ ID NO:291 IKKY                                    NA
    3-37    SEQ ID NO:292 IKAYRKLALI                              NA
    3-38    SEQ ID NO:293 I KKYRKLAL                                A
    3-39    SEQ ID NO:294 IKKARKLALDO                             NA
    3-40    SEQ ID NO:49  IK AYKLALQ                              HA
    3-41    SEQ ID NO:50  TKKAYRLL                                HA
    3-42    SEQ ID NO:51  IKKAYRKALQ                              HA
    3-43    SEQ ID NO:52  TKKAYRKL LQ                             HA
    3-44    SEQ ID NO:295 IKAYRKLA                                NA
    3-45    SEQ ID NO:53  IKKYRLP                                   A
    3-46    SEQ ID NO:54  I'K KAtKLA                                A
    3-47    SEQ ID NO:55  I K YRA                                   A
    3-48    SEQ ID NO:56  IK KAY'RKA                                A
    3-49    SEQ ID NO:57  LKKAYRKLA                               VIA
                                      135

Polypeptide    Sequence       Polypeptide Amino Acid Sequence Activity*
    No.        Identifier
                          123456789012345678901234567890
    3-50    SEQ ID NO:58  VKKAYRKLA                             HA
    3-51    SEQ ID NO:59  MKKAYRK LA                            HA
    3-52    SEQ ID NO:60  AKK- RKLA                             IHA
    3-53    SEQ ID NO:296 SKKA YRKLA                            NA
    3-54    SEQ ID NO:297 FKKAYRKLA                             NA
    3-55    SEQ ID NO:298 I AQA 'KLA                            NA
    3-56    SEQ ID NO:299 I LAAY RKL A                          NA
    3-57    SEQ ID NO:61  TKA KLA                                 A
    3-58    SEQ ID NO:62  TAYiRKLA                                A
    3-59    SEQ ID NO:63  I KKR KLA                             HA
    3-60    SEQ ID NO:64  TIKY'R
                               'VPKLA                             A
    3-61    SEQ ID NO:65  I KKYRKLA                               A
    3-62    SEQ ID NO:66  IK KEY RKLA                             A
    3-63    SEQ ID NO:67  I K YRKLA                               A
    3-64    SEQ ID NO:68  I KCYKLA                                A
    3-65    SEQ ID NO:69  IKKAFIRKLA                            HA
    3-66    SEQ ID NO:300 IKKAHRKLA                             NA
    3-67    SEQ ID NO:301 IKJ ARKLA                             NA
    3-68    SEQ ID NO:70  IKWKLA                                HA
    3-69    SEQ ID NO:302 -TKKAKLA                              NA
    3-70    SEQ ID NO:303 IKKASRKL A                            NA
    3-71    SEQ ID NO:304 IKKAYHQ LA                            NA
    3-72    SEQ ID NO:305 I        Q                            NA
    3-73    SEQ ID NO:306 IKKA YFL LA                           NA
    3-74    SEQ ID NO:307 IKKARKS                               NA
    3-75    SEQ ID NO:308 IKKA RKQr-                            NA
    3-76    SEQ ID NO:309 IKJKAYRKDT                            NA
    3-77    SEQ ID NO:71  TKKAYKQA                              HA
    3-78    SEQ ID NO:72  IKKAY IRKMA                           HA
    3-79    SEQ ID NO:73  I KK'R KTA                              A
    3-80    SEQ ID NO:74  IFKAYRKA                                A
    3-81    SEQ ID NO:75  IK KAAKVA
    3-82    SEQ ID NO:76  IKKA YRKRA                              A
    3-83    SEQ ID NO:77  IKKAYRKLMl                            HA
    3-84    SEQ ID NO:78  I KAKKL I                             HA
    3-85    SEQ ID NO:79  IK KARKLV                             HA
    3-86    SEQ ID NO:80  I KKARKL ,                              A
    3-87    SEQ ID NO:81  IKJKAYRKLS                            HA
    3-88    SEQ ID NO:82  I KKAYRKLY                              A
    3-89    SEQ ID NO:83  TRKAYRKLSL T                            A
    3-90    SEQ ID NO:84  IKKYRL LSL KY                           A
    3-91    SEQ ID NO:85  IKKAFHKLAMKY                          HA
    3-92    SEQ ID NO:86  I RQA FKKL LKL                          A
    3-93    SEQ ID NO:87  I IKAYRKLALQW                           A
    3-94    SEQ ID NO:88  IARAYRQLARRY                          HA
    3-95    SEQ ID NO:89  IKRARRQALRY                           HA
    3-96    SEQ ID NO:90  -K KSY RT i A Y                       HA
    3-97    SEQ ID NO:91  I K KKRL MKY                          HA
    3-98    SEQ ID NO:310 MRKAYLKKC                             NA
                                      136

      Polypeptide         Sequence              Polypeptide Amino Acid Sequence               Activity*
          No.             Identifier
                                            123456789012345678901234567890
          3-99        SEQ ID NO:311         ILAEFKVRAL                                           NA
   * "HA"= high activity, i.e., protein expression enhancement activity is significantly enhanced, e.g.,
   similar to that provided by the full-length J domain of the Erdj3 protein, as compared to negative
   control (no fusion protein used); "A" = improved protein expression enhancement activity in
   comparison to negative control (no fusion protein used); level of protein production typically less than
 5 provided by the full-length J domain of Erdj3; "NA" = no activity compared to negative control.
            As indicated in the above table, each mutated polypeptide was assessed for expression
   enhancing activity when co-expressed with the IL13Ra2-V5-Fc target protein. The levels of
   expression were classified as high activity ("HA"), activity ("A"), or no activity ("NA"). Examples of
10 these levels of expression are shown in the immunoblot in Figure 18. The level of expression of the
   IL13Ra2-V5-Fc target protein in the absence of a fusion protein was taken as "no activity". See, lane
   2 (from the left) in Figure 18). Co-expression of a fusion protein comprising the complete J domain
   of Erdj3, designated polypeptide 3 in Table 58 above, linked to Protein A dramatically enhanced the
   level of expression of the secreted IL13Ra2-V5-Fc target protein. See, lane 3, from the left, in Figure
15 18. This level of expression enhancement is designated "High Activity". As shown in lane 4 of
   Figure 18, co-expression of a fusion protein comprising an internal deletion mutated polypeptide,
   designated 3-45, linked to Protein A clearly provided a significantly enhanced level of expression of
   the secreted IL13Ra2-V5-Fc target protein as compared to the control (no fusion protein, lane 2 of
   Figure 18), but the expression level was somewhat less than the high activity shown in lane 3 of
20 Figure 18. This level of expression enhancement is designated "Activity." In contrast, as shown in
   lane 5 of Figure 18, co-expression of a fusion protein comprising a substitution mutation within the
   minimal polypeptide sequence, designated 3-72, linked to Protein A provided no more than the level
   of expression detected for the control in lane 2 of Figure 18. This was designated "No Activity".
            The results of this analysis indicated that an internal polypeptide fragment of the J domain of
25 Erdj3, designated 3-29, has the minimal polypeptide sequence (IKKAYRKLA; SEQ ID NO:48) that
   provides a high activity for enhancing protein expression. The polypeptide 3-29 sequence is located
   within a helix II of the J domain, but does not include any residues of the adjacent (C-proximal) loop
   domain.
            Various mutations of the J domain fragment 3-29 sequence were made and assessed for
30 protein expression enhancing activity. The mutated sequences are shown in the table above, see
   polypeptide nos. 3-44 to 3-88.
            The J domains of other J proteins were also assessed for internal polypeptide sequences
   located in positions similar to that of the 3-29 polypeptide within the J domain of Erdj3. Such
   sequences are designated 3-89 to 3-99 in the table above. Most of these polypeptides provided
35 complete or partial activity in the assay for enhanced expression of the secreted IL13Ra2-V5-Fc
                                                        137

   target protein. However, two of the polypeptides, designated 3-98 and 3-99, possessed amino acid
   sequences that diverged considerably from that of polypeptide 3-29, and these polypeptides also
   lacked protein expression enhancing activity.
   Example 11. Structural Formula Defining a New Family of Protein Expression Enhancing
 5 Polypeptides
            Below is an overview of the analysis of the polypeptide sequence mutation data that led not
   only to the discovery of the minimal sequence of a polypeptide fragment of the J domain of Erdj3 that
   provides protein expression enhancing activity (polypeptide 3-29, SEQ ID NO:48), but also to a
   structural formula that defines a new family of protein expression enhancing polypeptides as shown
10 below.
            Figure 19 shows an alignment of the amino acid sequence for the J domain of Erdj3 with a
   series of deletion mutated polypeptides along with their protein expression enhancing activity
   determined using the unmodified arrangement in which each polypeptide was used to construct a
   Flag-tagged Protein A fusion protein as described above. The level of expression of secreted
15 IL13Ra2-V5-Fc target protein in the media of cultures of cells co-expressing each Flag-tagged
   Protein A fusion and the IL13Ra2-V5-Fc target protein was determined by immunoblot using an anti
   V5 antibody as described above.
            Deletion mutated polypeptides designated 3-6, 3-7, 3-8, and 3-9 in Figure 19 all lacked
   protein expression enhancing activity (no activity), indicating that helix II amino acid sequences are
20 essential for activity. Deletion mutated polypeptides designated 3-15 and 3-17 in Figure 19 retained
   high activity, indicating that the sequence DIKKAYRKLALQL (SEQ ID NO:274) was sufficient for
   providing high protein expression enhancing activity. This polypeptide was then subjected to further
   mutation analysis as shown in the table below.
   Table 59. Amino Acid Sequence and Protein Expression Enhancing Activity of Mutated
25 Polypeptides.
   PP No.     aa            sequence           Act
      3-18     13   DIKKAYRKLALQL              HA
      3-19     12   DIKKAYRKLALQ               HA
      3-20     11   DIKKAYRKLAL                HA
      3-21     10   DIKKAYRKLA                 HA
      3-22      9   DIKKAYRKL                  NA    The last amino acid isessential
      3-23      8   DIKKAYRK                   NA
      3-24      7   DIKKAYR                    NA
      3-25     12     IKKAYRKLALQL             HA 'l        .
      3-26     11       KKAYRKLALQL            NA 1The first amino acid is essential
      3-27     11     IKKAYRKLALQ              HA
      3-28     10     IKKAYRKLAL               HA
      3-29      9     IKKAYRKLA                HA +-     Identified Minimum Sequence
      3-30      8     IKKAYRKL                 A
      3-31     10       KKAYRKLALQ             NA
      3-32      9       KKAYRKLAL              NA
                                                      138

      3-33      8      KKAYRKLA                 NA
      3-34      9        KAYRKLALQ              NA
      3-35      7     IKKAYRK                   NA
      3-36      6     IKKAYR                    NA
            As noted above, the difference in activity between that of the polypeptide designated 3-21
   (high activity, HA) and that of the polypeptide designated 3-22 (no activity, NA) indicated that the C
   terminal leucine (L) residue is essential for protein expression enhancing activity. Similarly, the
 5 difference in activity between that of polypeptide 3-25 and that of polypeptide 3-26 indicated that the
   N-terminal isoleucine (I) is essential for activity. As noted previously, polypeptide 3-29 defines the
   minimal polypeptide sequence of the J domain of Erdj3 for providing complete protein expression
   enhancing activity.
            In addition to the results described above, additional analyses as outlined below led to the
10 identification of an essential amino acid consensus sequence for a protein expression enhancing
   polypeptide of the invention.
            To identify the essential amino acid sequence for providing protein expression enhancing
   activity, each amino acid of the 3-29 sequence was deleted and the polypeptide tested for protein
   expression enhancing activity using the IL13Ra2-V5-Fc target protein in the unmodified arrangement
15 described above.
            Starting with the minimum sequence of the polypeptide fragment of the J domain of Erdj3,
   the polypeptide 3-29 sequence (IKKAYRKLA; SEQ ID NO:48) was subjected to the following
   mutation analysis at each of the nine amino acid positions:
            (a) 3-29: IKKAYRKLA (SEQ ID NO:48), regarding position 1, see summary analysis               (1)
20          below,
            (b) 3-44: 1KAYRKLA (SEQ ID NO:295), no activity, regarding position 3, see summary
            analysis (2) below,
            (c) 3-45: IKK YRKLA (SEQ ID NO:53), some activity, regarding position 4, see summary
            analysis (3) below,
25          (d) 3-39: IKKARKLA (SEQ ID NO:294), no activity, regarding position 5, see summary
            analysis (4), below,
            (e) 3-46: IKKAYKLA (SEQ ID NO:54), some activity, regarding position 6, see summary
            analysis (5) below,
            (f) 3-47: IKKAYRLA (SEQ ID NO:55), some activity, regarding position 7, see summary
30          analysis (5) below,
            (g) 3-48: IKKAYRKA (SEQ ID NO:56), some activity, regarding position 8, see summary
            analysis (6) below,
                                                        139

           (h) 3-29: IKKAYRKLA (SEQ ID NO:48), high activity, regarding position 9, see summary
           analysis (6) below.
   Summary Analyses
   (1) IKKAYRKLA (SEQ ID NO:48)
 5         First amino acid is essential for the activity.
           The result for the comparison of the first amino acid among J members (47 J proteins)
   indicated the following incidences of amino acids at position 1:
           1 (34), L (6), V (4), M (1), A (1), R (1)
           All of these amino acids have a nonpolar side chain group, except Arg (R).
10         The following constructions derived from other J members were made and tested:
           3-49:     LKKAYRKLA (SEQ ID NO:57), high activity
           3-50:     VKKAYRKLA (SEQ ID NO:58), high activity
           3-51:     MKKAYRKLA (SEQ ID NO:59), high activity
           3-52:     AKKAYRKLA         (SEQ ID NO:60), high activity
15         3-53:     SKKAYRKLA         (SEQ ID NO:296), no activity
           3-54:     FKKAYRKLA (SEQ ID NO:297), no activity.
           Therefore, it the first position is preferably an amino acid with a nonpolar amino acid side
   group that is I, L, V, A, and M.
   (2) 1K_AYRKLA (SEQ ID NO:295); no activity
20         This implies two possibilities:
           a) two amino acids are required at this position
           3-55:     IAQAYRKLA (SEQ ID NO:298), no activity
           3-56:     ILAAYRKLA (SEQ ID NO:299), no activity
           indicating some specific amino acid is required,
25         b) two lysines are required or only one is enough.
           Through the comparison of these two positions among J members (47 J proteins), these two
   positions are well conserved as indicated by the following incidences:
           KK (26), KR (5), RK (3), AR (3), KA (2), KQ (2), KL (1), IK (1), NK (1), RQ (1), RD (1),
           LA (1)
30
           All of these harbor at least one amino acid with a basic amino acid side chain with one
   exception.
           Therefore, the following substitution mutations were made and tested:
           3-57:     IAKAYRKLA (SEQ ID NO:61), some activity
35         3-58:     IKAAYRKLA (SEQ ID NO:62), some activity.
                                                        140

            Therefore, it is concluded that at least one amino acid at positions 2 and 3 is a basic amino
   acid K or R.
   (3) IKKYRKLA (SEQ ID NO:53), some activity
            This result indicates that it is better to have some amino acid in this position but not
 5 absolutely necessary.
            Through a comparison of this position among J members (47 J proteins), this position is also
   well conserved as indicated by the following incidences:
            A (36), K (2), R (2), S (2),  Q (2), T (1), J (1), E (1)
            The following polypeptides were constructed and tested:
10          Basic amino acid                     3-59     IKKRYRKLA (SEQ ID NO:63); high activity
            Polar uncharged amino acid           3-60     IKKSYRKLA (SEQ ID NO:64); some activity
            Polar uncharged amino acid           3-61     IKKQYRKLA (SEQ ID NO:65); some activity
            Acidic amino acid                    3-62     IKKEYRKLA (SEQ ID NO:66); some activity
            Aromatic amino acid                  3-63     IKKFYRKLA (SEQ ID NO:67); some activity
15          Polar uncharged amino acid           3-64     IKKCYRKLA (SEQ ID NO:68); some activity.
            From the above substitution mutations, it is concluded that any of the 20 naturally occurring
   amino acids may occupy position 4 since deletion at this position still retains activity.
   (4) IKKARKLA (SEQ ID NO:312); no activity
            This result implies that some amino acid in position 5 is essential.
20          Through the comparison of this position among J members (47 J proteins), the amino acid
   distribution is given below.
            Y (34), F (10), H (2), I (1)
            Therefore the following polypeptides were made and tested:
            Aromatic amino acid                  3-65     IKKAFRKLA (SEQ ID NO:69), high activity
25          Positive charged amino acid          3-66     IKKAHRKLA (SEQ ID NO:300), no activity
            Nonpolar amino acid                  3-67     IKKAIRKLA (SEQ ID NO:301), no activity
            Aromatic amino acid                  3-68     IKKAWRKLA (SEQ ID NO:70), high activity
            Nonpolar amino acid                  3-69     IKKAARKLA (SEQ ID NO:302), no activity
            Nonpolar amino acid                  3-70     IKKASRKLA (SEQ ID NO:303), no activity.
30          Therefore, the amino acid at position 5 is an aromatic amino acid that is Y, F, or W.
   (5) IKKAYKLA (SEQ ID NO:313), some activity
        IKKAYRLA (SEQ ID NO:314) some activity
            Through the comparison of this position among J members (47 J proteins), the case that at
   least one amino acid is a basic amino acid is 43 out of 47 (both 23, and either one 20).
35          The following mutated polypeptides have two amino acids replaced at positions 6 and 7:
                                                          141

            3-71      IKKAYHQLA (SEQ ID NO:304), no activity
            3-72      IKKAYYQLA (SEQ ID NO:305), no activity
            3-73      IKKAYFSLA (SEQ ID NO:306), no activity.
            Therefore, at least one of the amino acids at positions 6 and 7 is a basic amino acid K or R.
 5 (6) IKKAYRKA (SEQ ID NO:56), some activity
        IKKAYRKL (SEQ ID NO:315), some activity
            Through the comparison of these positions among J members (47 J proteins), the case that
   two positions are occupied with L and A is 25 out of 47, in which all of them are L-A. The case that
   at least one amino acid at these positions is L or A is 14, and 8 cases indicates neither L nor A.
10          The following mutated polypeptides were made with two amino acids replaced and tested for
            activity:
            3-74      IKKAYRKQS (SEQ ID NO:307), no activity
            3-75      IKKAYRKQC (SEQ ID NO:308), no activity
            3-76      IKKAYRKD I (SEQ ID NO:309), no activity.
15
            The following mutated polypeptides have position 8 replaced as indicated:
            Polar amino acid          3-77    IKKAYRKQA (SEQ ID NO:71), high activity
            Nonpolar amino acid       3-78    IKKAYRKMA (SEQ ID NO:72), high activity
            Nonpolar amino acid       3-79    IKKAYRKIA (SEQ ID NO:73), some activity
20          Nonpolar amino acid       3-80    IKKAYRKAA (SEQ ID NO:74), some activity
            Nonpolar amino acid       3-81    IKKAYRKVA (SEQ ID NO:75), some activity
            Basic amino acid          3-82    IKKAYRKRA (SEQ ID NO:76), some activity.
            The following mutated polypeptides have position 9 replaced as indicated:
25          Nonpolar amino acid               3-83     IKKAYRKLM (SEQ ID NO:77), high activity
            Nonpolar amino acid               3-84     IKKAYRKL I (SEQ ID NO:78), high activity
            Nonpolar amino acid               3-85     IKKAYRKLV (SEQ ID NO:79), high activity
            Polar uncharged amino acid        3-86     IKKAYRKLC (SEQ ID NO:80), some activity
            Polar uncharged amino acid        3-87     IKKAYRKL S (SEQ ID NO:8 1), high activity
30          Aromatic amino acid               3-88     IKKAYRKLY (SEQ ID NO:82), some activity.
            Results of other mutated polypeptides:
            Replacement L and A               3-42     IKKAYRKALQ (SEQ ID NO:5 1), high activity
            Double L                          3-43     IKKAYRKLLQ (SEQ ID NO:52), high activity.
            Therefore, at least one of the amino acids at X8 and X9 is L or A.
                                                       142

            Through these studies, it is concluded that an isolated protein expression enhancing J domain
   analog polypeptide comprises the formula:
                     X1-X2-X3-X4-X5-X6-X7-X8-X9 (SEQ ID NO:47), wherein:
                     X1 is isoleucine (I), leucine (L), valine (V), alanine (A), or methionine (M);
 5                   X2 and X3 are each independently any amino acid with the proviso that one or both
                     are lysine (K) or arginine (R);
                     X4 is any amino acid or X4 may be absent when X1 through X3 are present and X5
                     through X9 are present;
                     X5 is tyrosine (Y), tryptophan (W), or phenylalanine (F);
10                   X6 and X7 are each independently any amino acid with the proviso that one or both
                     are lysine (K) or arginine (R); or either one of X6 and X7 may be absent when the
                     other is K or R and when X1 through X5 are present and X8 and X9 are present; and
                     X8 and X9 are any amino acid with the proviso that one or both are leucine (L) or
                     alanine (A); or one of X8 and X9 may be absent when the other is L or A and when
15                   X1 through X7 are present.
            The above formula is applicable to the sequence of the following polypeptide fragments from
   other J proteins, and all of these polypeptides have activity:
            Erdj1    3-89     IRKAYRKLSLTL (SEQ ID NO:83), some activity
            Erdj2    3-90     IKKQYRLLSLKY (SEQ ID NO:84), some activity
20          Erdj4    3-91     IKKAFHKLAMKY (SEQ ID NO:85), high activity
            Erdj5    3-92     IRQAFKKLALKL (SEQ ID NO:86), some activity
            Erdj6    3-93     IIKAYRKLALQW (SEQ ID NO:87), some activity
            Erdj7    3-94     IARAYRQLARRY (SEQ ID NO:88), high activity
            Hsp40 3-95        IKRAYRRQALRY (SEQ ID NO:89), high activity
25          CSP      3-96     IKKSYRKLALKY (SEQ ID NO:90), high activity
            DnaJ     3-97     IKKAYKRLAMKY (SEQ ID NO:91), high activity
            The sequences below from other J proteins do not match the above formula and these
   polypeptides do not have protein expression enhancing activity:
            From SV40 J protein       3-98     MRKAYLKKC (SEQ ID NO:310), no activity
30          From Dnaj homolog subfamily C member 12             3-99     ILAEFKVRAL (SEQ ID
            NO:311), no activity.
            The analyses and results summarized above indicate that the above formula defines a new
   family of polypeptides that provide protein expression enhancing activity.
   Example 12. Minimal Polypeptide of J Domain Enhances Target Protein Expression in a
35 Modified Arran2ement
                                                        143

            As explained above, the results of the mutation analysis of the J domain of Erdj3 indicated
   that an internal polypeptide sequence, designated 3-29, is the minimal sequence with the J domain for
   a polypeptide (IKKAYRKLA; SEQ ID NO:48) to provides high activity for enhancing protein
   expression using the above assay in an unmodified arrangement. The protein expression enhancing
 5 activity of the 3-29 polypeptide was also examined in a modified arrangement.
            In this experiment, a first fusion protein comprised IL13Ra2TF as the target protein of
   interest linked to the BSC1 polypeptide (SEQ ID NO:48), which in turn was linked to an V5 epitope
   tag. This fusion protein was designated IL13Ra2TF-BSC1 shown in the table below.
   Table 60. Amino Acid Sequence of a V5-Tagged IL13Ra2TF-BSC1 Fusion Protein.
        Protein Region                    Sequence                   Amino Acid Sequence
              (N- to C-                 Identifier
             terminal)                                       123456789012345678901234567890
        IL13Ra2TF-BSC1               SEQ ID NO:316           MAFVCLAIGCLYTFLISTTFGCTSSSDTEI
               protein                                       KVNPPQDFEIVDPGYLGYLYLQWQPPLSLD
                                                             HFKECTVEYELKYRNIGSETWKTIITKNLH
                                                             YKDGFDLNKGIEAKIHTLLPWQCTNGSEVQ
                                                             SSWAETTYWISPQGIPETKVQDMDCVYYNW
                                                             QYLLCSWKPGIGVLLDTNYNLFYWYEGLDH
                                                             ALQCVDYIKADGQNIGCRFPYLEASDYKDF
                                                             YICVNGSSENKPIRSSYFTFQLQNIVKPLP
                                                             PVYLTFTRESSCEIKLKWSIPLGPIPARCF
                                                             DYEIEIREDDTTLVTATVENETYTLKTTNE
                                                             TRQLCFVVRSKVNIYCSDDGIWSEWSDKQC
                                                             WEGEDLSKKGTGSEFIKKAYRKLADIGGGS
                                                             GGSGGSGGAAALEGKPIPNPLLGLDST
              IL13Ra2TF             residues 1-339           MAFVCLAIGCLYTFLISTTFGCTSSSDTEI
                                         of SEQ ID           KVNPPQDFEIVDPGYLGYLYLQWQPPLSLD
                                           NO:316            HFKECTVEYELKYRNIGSETWKTIITKNLH
                                                             YKDGFDLNKGIEAKIHTLLPWQCTNGSEVQ
                                                             SSWAETTYWISPQGIPETKVQDMDCVYYNW
                                                             QYLLCSWKPGIGVLLDTNYNLFYWYEGLDH
                                                             ALQCVDYIKADGQNIGCRFPYLEASDYKDF
                                                             YICVNGSSENKPIRSSYFTFQLQNIVKPLP
                                                             PVYLTFTRESSCEIKLKWSIPLGPIPARCF
                                                             DYEIEIREDDTTLVTATVENETYTLKTTNE
                                                             TRQLCFVVRSKVNIYCSDDGIWSEWSDKQC
                                                             WEGEDLSKK
                Linker               residues 340-           GTGSEF
                                     345 of SEQ ID
                                           NO: 316
                 BSC1                residues 346-           IKKAYRKLA
                                     354 of SEQ ID
                                           NO: 316
                Linker               residues 355-           DIGGGSGGSGGSGGAAALE
                                     373 of SEQ ID
                                           NO: 316
            V5 epitope               residues 374-           GKPIPNPLLGLDST
               domain                387 of SEQ ID
                                           NO: 316
10
                                                        144

  A second fusion protein comprised IL1 3Ra2TF as the target protein of interest linked to a mutated
  version of the BSC1 polypeptide, designated "IL13Ra2TF-BSC1MT" in which the second and third
  positions of the BSC1 polypeptide were mutated from K-K to A-Q as shown in the table below. The
  BSC1MT polypeptide is designated 3-55.
5 Table 61. Amino Acid Sequence of a V5-Tagged IL13Ra2TF-BSC1MT Fusion Protein.
       Protein Region                Sequence                   Amino Acid Sequence
            (N- to C-              Identifier
           terminal)                                   123456789012345678901234567890
      IL13Ra2TF-BSC1MT           SEQ ID NO:317         MAFVCLAIGCLYTFLISTTFGCTSSSDTEI
             protein                                   KVNPPQDFEIVDPGYLGYLYLQWQPPLSLD
                                                       HFKECTVEYELKYRNIGSETWKTIITKNLH
                                                       YKDGFDLNKGIEAKIHTLLPWQCTNGSEVQ
                                                       SSWAETTYWISPQGIPETKVQDMDCVYYNW
                                                       QYLLCSWKPGIGVLLDTNYNLFYWYEGLDH
                                                       ALQCVDYIKADGQNIGCRFPYLEASDYKDF
                                                       YICVNGSSENKPIRSSYFTFQLQNIVKPLP
                                                       PVYLTFTRESSCEIKLKWSIPLGPIPARCF
                                                       DYEIEIREDDTTLVTATVENETYTLKTTNE
                                                       TRQLCFVVRSKVNIYCSDDGIWSEWSDKQC
                                                       WEGEDLSKKGTGSEFIAQAYRKLADIGGGS
                                                       GGSGGSGGAAALEGKPIPNPLLGLDST
           IL13Ra2TF            residues 1-339         MAFVCLAIGCLYTFLISTTFGCTSSSDTEI
                                    of SEQ ID          KVNPPQDFEIVDPGYLGYLYLQWQPPLSLD
                                      NO:317           HFKECTVEYELKYRNIGSETWKTIITKNLH
                                                       YKDGFDLNKGIEAKIHTLLPWQCTNGSEVQ
                                                       SSWAETTYWISPQGIPETKVQDMDCVYYNW
                                                       QYLLCSWKPGIGVLLDTNYNLFYWYEGLDH
                                                       ALQCVDYIKADGQNIGCRFPYLEASDYKDF
                                                       YICVNGSSENKPIRSSYFTFQLQNIVKPLP
                                                       PVYLTFTRESSCEIKLKWSIPLGPIPARCF
                                                       DYEIEIREDDTTLVTATVENETYTLKTTNE
                                                       TRQLCFVVRSKVNIYCSDDGIWSEWSDKQC
                                                       WEGEDLSKK
              Linker             residues 340-         GTGSEF
                                 345 of SEQ ID
                                      NO:317
             BSC1MT              residues 346-         IAQAYRKLA
                                 354 of SEQ ID
                                      NO:317
              Linker             residues 355-         DIGGGSGGSGGSGGAAALE
                                 373 of SEQ ID
                                      NO:317
          V5 epitope             residues 374-         GKPIPNPLLGLDST
             domain              387 of SEQ ID
                                      NO:317
          Schematic diagrams of IL13Ra2TF (target protein alone), IL13Ra2TF-BSC1, and
  IL13Ra2TF-BSC1MT proteins are shown in Fig. 20A. Cells were transfected with vector comprising
  a recombinant gene encoding IL13Ra2TF (control), IL13Ra2TF-BSC1, or IL13Ra2TF-BSC1MT and
                                                  145

   grown in separate cultures as described above. Culture media from each culture was assayed for the
   presence of the proteins by immunoblot using an anti-V5 antibody as described above.
            As shown in Figure 20B, relatively little IL1 3Ra2TF protein was detected in culture medium
   of the control cell culture. See, lane 2 of Fig. 20B. In contrast, a significantly higher level of the
 5 IL13Ra2TF-BSC1 fusion protein was detected in culture medium of cells transfected with a vector
   comprising a gene encoding the IL13Ra2TF-BSC1 fusion protein. See, lane 3 of Fig. 20B. The
   amount of IL13Ra2TF-BSC1 fusion protein detected in the culture medium was also significantly
   higher than the level of protein detected in culture medium of cells transfected with a vector encoding
   the IL13Ra2TF-BSC1MT fusion protein. This latter protein was expressed at approximately the same
10 low level as detected for the IL13Ra2TF protein in control cells. See, lane 4 of Fig. 20B. The results
   show the BSC1 polypeptide (IKKAYRKLA; SEQ ID NO:48) is effective as a protein expression
   enhancing polypeptide in a modified arrangement of the invention and that alteration of the internal
   K-K dipeptide can destroy such activity.
   Example 13. BSC1-Protein A Fusion Protein Enhances Expression of IL13Ri2TF-V5-Fc
15 Tar2et Protein in an Unmodified Arran2ement
            The BSC1 polypeptide (IKKAYRKLA, SEQ ID NO:48), the minimal polypeptide fragment
   of the J domain of Erdj3 described above, was used to construct a BSC1-Protein A fusion protein
   shown in the table below to determine whether the BSC1-Protein A fusion protein could be used in an
   unmodified arrangement for enhancing expression of an IL13Ra2TF-V5-Fc target protein described
20 above.
   Table 62. Amino acid Sequence of a Flag-Tagged BSC1-Protein A Fusion Protein
         Protein Domain                    Sequence                     Amino Acid Sequence
                                         Identifier            123456789012345678901234567890
      Flag-tagged BSC1-              SEQ ID NO:318            MGVKVLFALICIAVAEAGTGSGEFIKKAYR
      Protein A Fusion                                        KLADIGGGSGGSGGSGGAAAADNKFNKEQQ
                                                              NAFYEILNMPNLNEEQRNGFIQSLKDDPSQ
                                                               SANVLGEAKKLNDSQAPKLEGDYKDDDDK
      signal sequence                residues 1-17            MGVKVLFALICIAVAEA
                                     of SEQ ID
                                     NO:318
      linker 1                       residues 18-24           GTGSGEF
                                     of SEQ ID
                                     NO:318
      BSC1 polypeptide               residues 25-33            IKKAYRKLA
                                     of SEQ ID
                                     NO:318
      linker 2                       residues 34-50           DIGGGSGGSGGSGGAAA
                                     of SEQ ID
                                     NO:318
      Protein A                      residues 51-108          ADNKFNKEQQNAFYEILNMPNLNEEQRNGF
                                     of SEQ ID                 IQSLKDDPSQSANVLGEAKKLNDSQAPK
                                     NO:318
      linker 3                       residues 109-            LEG
                                     111 of SEQ ID
                                                       146

                                     NO: 318
      Flag epitope tag                residues 112-              DYKDDDDK
                                      119 of SEQ ID
                                     NO:318
             The IL13Ra2TF-V5-Fc target protein was expressed with or without BSC1-Protein A fusion
   protein in HEK293 cells. Cultures were grown for two days, and the media were harvested and
   centrifuged to remove the debris. Expression of the IL13Ra2TF-V5-Fc target protein was
 5 significantly enhanced in the medium of cells co-expressing the target protein and the BSC1-Protein
   A fusion compared to level of expression of the target protein in the absence of the BSC 1-Protein A
   fusion protein (data not shown).
             To determine whether the IL13Ra2TF-V5-Fc target protein expressed in culture medium
   retained IL13 binding activity, the following binding assay was performed. Recombinant human IL13
10 was added to samples of the media from cultures of cells that did not express either of the proteins
   (control), that expressed only the IL13Ra2TF-V5-Fc target protein, and that co-expressed the
   IL13Ra2TF-V5-Fc target protein and the BSC1-Protein A fusion protein. The samples were
   incubated with the IL13 for 2 hours. The samples were used in an IL13 detection assay (RayBio
   Human IL13 ELISA Kit; ELH-IL13-001). In this assay, the detection of human IL13 decreases when
15 human IL13 is trapped by IL13Ra2TF-V5-Fc target protein. As shown in Figure 21B, the medium
   from a culture of cells expressing neither protein clearly did not bind IL13 as indicated by the high
   level absorbance (lane 1 of Fig. 21). Medium from a culture of cells expressing only the IL13Ra2TF
   V5-Fc target protein bound some IL13 (lane 2), but a significantly greater amount of IL13 was bound
   the medium from a culture of cells co-expressing the IL13Ra2TF-V5-Fc target protein and the BSC1
20 Protein A fusion protein (lane 3). The results clearly show that more human IL13 was bound in
   medium containing the enhanced level of expression of the IL13Ra2TF-V5-Fc target protein.
   Accordingly, the IL13Ra2TF-V5-Fc target protein expressed in culture medium at an enhanced level
   retained its IL13 binding activity.
   Example 14. BSC1-Protein G Fusion Protein Enhances Expression of a Factor VII-V5-Fe
25 Tar2et Protein in an Unmodified Arran2ement
             Factor VII (FVII) is the serine esterase of the extrinsic coagulation pathway and widely used
   to treat a variety of bleeding complications. See, Hedner, Semin. Hematol., 43(suppl 1): S105-S107
   (2006). A complex of FVII and tissue factor (TF) in the presence of phospholipids and calcium
   activates Factor X to Factor Xa.
30           A BSC1 polypeptide was used to construct a BSC1-Protein G fusion protein to determine
   whether the fusion protein was effective in enhancing an FVII-V5-Fc target protein in an unmodified
   arrangement.
             The amino acid sequence of the V5-tagged FVII-Fc target protein is shown in the table below.
   Table 63. Amino Acid Sequence of a V5-Tagged FVII-Fc Target Protein.
                                                        147

Protein Region      Sequence            Amino Acid Sequence
    (N- to C-      Identifier
    terminal)                     123456789012345678901234567890
V5-tagged FVII- SEQ ID NO:319     MVSQALRLLCLLLGLQGCLAAGGVAKASGG
    Fc target                     ETRDMPWKPGPHRVFVTQEEAHGVLHRRRR
     protein                      ANAFLEELRPGSLERECKEEQCSFEEAREI
                                  FKDAERTKLFWISYSDGDQCASSPCQNGGS
                                  CKDQLQSYICFCLPAFEGRNCETHKDDQLI
                                  CVNENGGCEQYCSDHTGTKRSCRCHEGYSL
                                  LADGVSCTPTVEYPCGKIPILEKRNASKPQ
                                  GRIVGGKVCPKGECPWQVLLLVNGAQLCGG
                                  TLINTIWVVSAAHCFDKIKNWRNLIAVLGE
                                  HDLSEHDGDEQSRRVAQVIIPSTYVPGTTN
                                  HDIALLRLHQPVVLTDHVVPLCLPERTFSE
                                  RTLAFVRFSLVSGWGQLLDRGATALELMVL
                                  NVPRLMTQDCLQQSRKVGDSPNITEYMFCA
                                  GYSDGSKDSCKGDSGGPHATHYRGTWYLTG
                                  IVSWGQGCATVGHFGVYTRVSQYIEWLQKL
                                  MRSEPRPGVLLRAPFPLEGKPIPNPLLGLD
                                  STSRPKSCDKTHTCPPCPAPELLGGPSVFL
                                  FPPKPKDTLMISRTPEVTCVVVDVSHEDPE
                                  VKFNWYVDGVEVHNAKTKPREEQYNSTYRV
                                  VSVLTVLHQDWLNGKEYKCKVSNKALPAPI
                                  EKTISKAKGQPREPQVYTLPPSRDELTKNQ
                                  VSLTCLVKGFYPSDIAVEWESNGQPENNYK
                                  TTPPVLDSDGSFFLYSKLTVDKSRWQQGNV
                                  FSCSVMHEALHNHYTQKSLSLSPGK
       FVII     residues 1-466    MVSQALRLLCLLLGLQGCLAAGGVAKASGG
                   of SEQ ID      ETRDMPWKPGPHRVFVTQEEAHGVLHRRRR
                     NO:319       ANAFLEELRPGSLERECKEEQCSFEEAREI
                                  FKDAERTKLFWISYSDGDQCASSPCQNGGS
                                  CKDQLQSYICFCLPAFEGRNCETHKDDQLI
                                  CVNENGGCEQYCSDHTGTKRSCRCHEGYSL
                                  LADGVSCTPTVEYPCGKIPILEKRNASKPQ
                                  GRIVGGKVCPKGECPWQVLLLVNGAQLCGG
                                  TLINTIWVVSAAHCFDKIKNWRNLIAVLGE
                                  HDLSEHDGDEQSRRVAQVIIPSTYVPGTTN
                                  HDIALLRLHQPVVLTDHVVPLCLPERTFSE
                                  RTLAFVRFSLVSGWGQLLDRGATALELMVL
                                  NVPRLMTQDCLQQSRKVGDSPNITEYMFCA
                                  GYSDGSKDSCKGDSGGPHATHYRGTWYLTG
                                  IVSWGQGCATVGHFGVYTRVSQYIEWLQKL
                                  MRSEPRPGVLLRAPFP
     Linker 1   residues 467-     LE
                 468 of SEQ ID
                     NO:319
   V5 epitope   residues 469-     GKPIPNPLLGLDST
      domain     482 of SEQ ID
                     NO:319
     Linker 2   residues 483-     SR
                 484 of SEQ ID
                     NO:319
    Fc domain   residues 485-     PKSCDKTHTCPPCPAPELLGGPSVFLFPPK
                 715 of SEQ ID    PKDTLMISRTPEVTCVVVDVSHEDPEVKFN
                     NO:319       WYVDGVEVHNAKTKPREEQYNSTYRVVSVL
                              148

        Protein Region                   Sequence                     Amino Acid Sequence
             (N- to C-                 Identifier
            terminal)                                         123456789012345678901234567890
                                                              TVLHQDWLNGKEYKCKVSNKALPAPIEKTI
                                                              SKAKGQPREPQVYTLPPSRDELTKNQVSLT
                                                              CLVKGFYPSDIAVEWESNGQPENNYKTTPP
                                                             VLDSDGSFFLYSKLTVDKSRWQQGNVFSCS
                                                             VMHEALHNHYTQKSLSLSPGK
            The amino acid sequence of the Flag-tagged BSC1-Protein G fusion protein is shown in the
   table below.
   Table 64. Amino Acid Sequence of a Flag-Tagged BSC1-Protein G Fusion Protein
         Protein Domain                   Sequence                      Amino Acid Sequence
                                         Identifier             123456789012345678901234567890
      Flag-tagged BSC1-              SEQ ID NO:320              MGVKVLFALICIAVAEAGTGSGEFIKKAYR
      Protein G Fusion                                          KLADIGGGSGGSGGSGGAAAATYKLVINGK
                                                                TLKGETTTEAVDAATAEKVFKQYANDNGVD
                                                                GEWTYDDATKTFTVTEKPEVIDASELTPAV
                                                                TLEGDYKDDDDK
      signal sequence                residues 1-17              MGVKVLFALICIAVAEA
                                     of SEQ ID
                                    NO:320
      linker 1                       residues 18-24             GTGSGEF
                                     of SEQ ID
                                    NO:320
      BSC1 polypeptide               residues 25-33             IKKAYRKLA
                                     of SEQ ID
                                    NO:320
      linker 2                       residues 34-50             DIGGGSGGSGGSGGAAA
                                     of SEQ ID
                                    NO:320
      Protein G                      residues 51-121            TYKLVINGKTLKGETTTEAVDAATAEKVFK
                                     of SEQ ID                  QYANDNGVDGEWTYDDATKTFTVTEKPEVI
                                    NO:320                      DASELTPAVT
      linker 3                       residues 122-              LEG
                                     124 of SEQ ID
                                    NO:320
      Flag epitope tag               residues 126-              DYKDDDDK
                                     132 of SEQ ID
                                    NO:320
 5
            The level of expression of the FVJJ-Fc target protein was determined by immunoblot assay
   using anti-Flag antibody in both culture media and lysates of cells expressing neither protein, of cells
   expressing only the FVJJ-Fc target protein, and of cells co-expressing the FVJJ-Fc target protein and
   the BSC1-Protein G fusion proteins. The results are shown in Figure 22A. As shown in the top panel
10 of Figure 22A, the level of expression of the FVJJ-Fc target protein secreted into the culture medium
   was significantly greater in a culture of cells co-expressing the FVJJ-Fc target protein and the BSC1
   Protein G fusion protein (lane 2) than in a culture of cells expressing the FVJJ-Fc target protein alone
                                                       149

   (lane 3). The middle panel of Figure 22A is an immunoblot of cell lysates using an anti-Flag
   antibody. The immunoblot shows that the BSC1-Protein G fusion protein was expressed in cells
   expressing both the FVJJ-Fc target protein and the BSC1-Protein G fusion protein. As shown in the
   bottom panel of Figure 22A, no significant amount of the BSC1-Protein G fusion protein was secreted
 5 into the medium with the FVJJ-Fc target protein (see, lane 3).
            Figure 22B shows bar graphs of a densitometry analysis of the signal of the for FVJJ-Fc target
   protein expression in culture media shown in the top immunoblot in Figure 22A. Bar graphs 1, 2, and
   3 of Figure 22B correspond to the signals of lanes 1, 2, and 3 in the top immunoblot in Figure 22A.
            The results show that the co-expression of the BSC1-Protein G fusion protein and the FVJJ-Fc
10 target protein significantly enhanced the level of expression of the target protein secreted into culture
   medium as compared to the level in that absence of the BSC1-Protein G fusion protein.
   Example 15. BSC1-Protein A Fusion Protein Enhances Expression of a Factor IX-V5-Fe Target
   Protein in an Unmodified Arran2ement
            Factor IX has been widely used for the treatment of hemophilia B, and its Fc fusion protein
15 (FIX-Fc) is currently in a clinical trial (phase III) with positive result (prolonged effect).
            In this experiment, the effect of the BSC1-Protein A fusion protein described above on the
   level of expression of an FIX-Fc target protein in an unmodified arrangement was determined.
            The amino acid sequence of the V5-tagged FIX-Fc target protein is shown in the table below.
   Table 65. Amino Acid Sequence of a V5-Tagged FIX-Fc Target Protein.
        Protein Region                   Sequence                       Amino Acid Sequence
             (N- to C-                 Identifier
             terminal)                                         123456789012345678901234567890
       V5-tagged FIX-Fc              SEQ ID NO:321             MQRVNMIMAESPGLITICLLGYLLSAECTV
        fusion molecule                                        FLDHENANKILNRPKRYNSGKLEEFVQGNL
                                                               ERECMEEKCSFEEAREVFENTERTTEFWKQ
                                                               YVDGDQCESNPCLNGGSCKDDINSYECWCP
                                                               FGFEGKNCELDVTCNIKNGRCEQFCKNSAD
                                                               NKVVCSCTEGYRLAENQKSCEPAVPFPCGR
                                                               VSVSQTSKLTRAETVFPDVDYVNSTEAETI
                                                               LDNITQSTQSFNDFTRVVGGEDAKPGQFPW
                                                               QVVLNGKVDAFCGGSIVNEKWIVTAAHCVE
                                                               TGVKITVVAGEHNIEETEHTEQKRNVIRII
                                                               PHHNYNAAINKYNHDIALLELDEPLVLNSY
                                                               VTPICIADKEYTNIFLKFGSGYVSGWGRVF
                                                               HKGRSALVLQYLRVPLVDRATCLRSTKFTI
                                                               YNNMFCAGFHEGGRDSCQGDSGGPHVTEVE
                                                               GTSFLTGIISWGEECAMKGKYGIYTKVSRY
                                                               VNWIKEKTKLTLEGKPIPNPLLGLDSTSRP
                                                               KSCDKTHTCPPCPAPELLGGPSVFLFPPKP
                                                               KDTLMISRTPEVTCVVVDVSHEDPEVKFNW
                                                               YVDGVEVHNAKTKPREEQYNSTYRVVSVLT
                                                               VLHQDWLNGKEYKCKVSNKALPAPIEKTIS
                                                               KAKGQPREPQVYTLPPSRDELTKNQVSLTC
                                                               LVKGFYPSDIAVEWESNGQPENNYKTTPPV
                                                               LDSDGSFFLYSKLTVDKSRWQQGNVFSCSV
                                                         150

        Protein Region                  Sequence                    Amino Acid Sequence
             (N- to C-                 Identifier
            terminal)                                       123456789012345678901234567890
                                                            MHEALHNHYTQKSLSLSPGK
                 FIX                residues 1-461          MQRVNMIMAESPGLITICLLGYLLSAECTV
                                       of SEQ ID            FLDHENANKILNRPKRYNSGKLEEFVQGNL
                                          NO:321            ERECMEEKCSFEEAREVFENTERTTEFWKQ
                                                            YVDGDQCESNPCLNGGSCKDDINSYECWCP
                                                            FGFEGKNCELDVTCNIKNGRCEQFCKNSAD
                                                            NKVVCSCTEGYRLAENQKSCEPAVPFPCGR
                                                            VSVSQTSKLTRAETVFPDVDYVNSTEAETI
                                                            LDNITQSTQSFNDFTRVVGGEDAKPGQFPW
                                                            QVVLNGKVDAFCGGSIVNEKWIVTAAHCVE
                                                            TGVKITVVAGEHNIEETEHTEQKRNVIRII
                                                            PHHNYNAAINKYNHDIALLELDEPLVLNSY
                                                            VTPICIADKEYTNIFLKFGSGYVSGWGRVF
                                                            HKGRSALVLQYLRVPLVDRATCLRSTKFTI
                                                            YNNMFCAGFHEGGRDSCQGDSGGPHVTEVE
                                                            GTSFLTGIISWGEECAMKGKYGIYTKVSRY
                                                            VNWIKEKTKLT
             Linker 1                residues 462-          LE
                                     463 of SEQ ID
                                          NO:321
           V5 epitope                residues 464-          GKPIPNPLLGLDST
               domain                477 of SEQ ID
                                          NO:321
             Linker 2                residues 478-          SR
                                     479 of SEQ ID
                                          NO:321
            Fc domain                residues 480-          PKSCDKTHTCPPCPAPELLGGPSVFLFPPK
                                     710 of SEQ ID          PKDTLMISRTPEVTCVVVDVSHEDPEVKFN
                                          NO: 321           WYVDGVEVHNAKTKPREEQYNSTYRVVSVL
                                                            TVLHQDWLNGKEYKCKVSNKALPAPIEKTI
                                                            SKAKGQPREPQVYTLPPSRDELTKNQVSLT
                                                            CLVKGFYPSD IAVEWESNGQPENNYKTTPP
                                                            VLDSDGSFFLYSKLTVDKSRWQQGNVFSCS
                                                            VMHEALHNHYTQKSLSLSPGK
   Figure 23A shows the expression of the FIX-Fc target protein secreted into the media of cultures of
   transfected cells expressing the FIX-Fc target protein alone (lane 2) and of transfected cells co
   expressing the FIX-Fc fusion protein and the BSC1-Protein A fusion protein (lane 3). Lane 1 of
 5 Figure 23A shows medium from a culture of non-expressing cells as a control. As shown in lane 2 of
   Figure 23A, some FIX-Fc target protein is secreted by cells expressing the FIX-Fc target protein
   alone. However, as clearly shown in lane 3 of Figure 23A, the level of expression of the target
   protein secreted into medium is significantly enhanced in cells expressing the FIX-Fc target protein
   and the BSC1-Protein A fusion protein. Figure 23B shows bar graphs of a densitometry analysis of
10 the signals in the immunoblot of Figure 23A. Bar graphs 1, 2, and 3 of Figure 23B correspond to the
   signals of lanes 1, 2, and 3 in Figure 23A.
                                                     151

            The results clearly show that the co-expression of the BSC1-Protein A fusion protein and the
   FIX-Fc target protein significantly enhanced the level of expression of the target protein secreted into
   culture medium as compared to the level in that absence of the BSC1-Protein A fusion protein.
   Example 16. BSC1-Protein G Fusion Protein Enhances Expression of a Factor VIII-V5-Fc
 5 Target Protein in an Unmodified Arran2ement
            The biological importance of Factor FVJJJ is demonstrated in hemophilia A, a congenital
   bleeding disorder occurring primarily in males that results from an X-chromosome-linked deficiency
   of FVJJJ. Standard treatment involves replacing the missing FVJJJ to stop the bleeding. A FVJJJ-Fc
   fusion protein was developed to provide a prolonged half-life of FVJJJ activity in hemophilia A
10 patients (Powell et al., Blood, 119(13): 3031-3037 (2012)). The fusion protein was approved by the
   United States Food and Drug Administration in 2013 (ELOCTATETM; Biogen Idec).
            This experiment examined the effect of the BSC1-Protein G fusion protein described above
   on the level of expression of a V5-tagged FVJJJ-Fc target protein in an unmodified arrangement. The
   amino acid sequence of the V5-tagged FVJJJ-Fc target protein is shown in the table below.
15 Table 66. Amino Acid Sequence of a V5-Tagged FVJJJ-Fc Target Protein.
        Protein Region                  Sequence                    Amino Acid Sequence
             (N- to C-                 Identifier
            terminal)                                       123456789012345678901234567890
       V5-tagged FVIII-             SEQ ID NO:322           MQIELSTCFFLCLLRFCFSATRRYYLGAVE
            Fc fusion                                       LSWDYMQSDLGELPVDARFPPRVPKSFPFN
             molecule                                       TSVVYKKTLFVEFTDHLFNIAKPRPPWMGL
                                                            LGPTIQAEVYDTVVITLKNMASHPVSLHAV
                                                            GVSYWKASEGAEYDDQTSQREKEDDKVFPG
                                                            GSHTYVWQVLKENGPMASDPLCLTYSYLSH
                                                            VDLVKDLNSGLIGALLVCREGSLAKEKTQT
                                                            LHKFILLFAVFDEGKSWHSETKNSLMQDRD
                                                            AASARAWPKMHTVNGYVNRSLPGLIGCHRK
                                                            SVYWHVIGMGTTPEVHSIFLEGHTFLVRNH
                                                            RQASLEISPITFLTAQTLLMDLGQFLLFCH
                                                            ISSHQHDGMEAYVKVDSCPEEPQLRMKNNE
                                                            EAEDYDDDLTDSEMDVVRFDDDNSPSFIQI
                                                            RSVAKKHPKTWVHYIAAEEEDWDYAPLVLA
                                                            PDDRSYKSQYLNNGPQRIGRKYKKVRFMAY
                                                            TDETFKTREAIQHESGILGPLLYGEVGDTL
                                                            LIIFKNQASRPYNIYPHGITDVRPLYSRRL
                                                            PKGVKHLKDFPILPGEIFKYKWTVTVEDGP
                                                            TKSDPRCLTRYYSSFVNMERDLASGLIGPL
                                                            LICYKESVDQRGNQIMSDKRNVILFSVFDE
                                                            NRSWYLTENIQRFLPNPAGVQLEDPEFQAS
                                                            NIMHSINGYVFDSLQLSVCLHEVAYWYILS
                                                            IGAQTDFLSVFFSGYTFKHKMVYEDTLTLF
                                                            PFSGETVFMSMENPGLWILGCHNSDFRNRG
                                                            MTALLKVSSCDKNTGDYYEDSYEDISAYLL
                                                            SKNNAIEPRSFSQNSRHPSTRQKQFNATTI
                                                            PENDIEKTDPWFAHRTPMPKIQNVSSSDLL
                                                            MLLRQSPTPHGLSLSDLQEAKYETFSDDPS
                                                            PGAIDSNNSLSEMTHFRPQLHHSGDMVFTP
                                                      152

Protein Region  Sequence            Amino Acid Sequence
   (N- to C-   Identifier
   terminal)                  123456789012345678901234567890
                              ESGLQLRLNEKLGTTAATELKKLDFKVSST
                              SNNLISTIPSDNLAAGTDNTSSLGPPSMPV
                              HYDSQLDTTLFGKKSSPLTESGGPLSLSEE
                              NNDSKLLESGLMNSQESSWGKNVSSTESGR
                              LFKGKRAHGPALLTKDNALFKVSISLLKTN
                              KTSNNSATNRKTHIDGPSLLIENSPSVWQN
                              ILESDTEFKKVTPLIHDRMLMDKNATALRL
                              NHMSNKTTSSKNMEMVQQKKEGPIPPDAQN
                              PDMSFFKMLFLPESARWIQRTHGKNSLNSG
                              QGPSPKQLVSLGPEKSVEGQNFLSEKNKVV
                              VGKGEFTKDVGLKEMVFPSSRNLFLTNLDN
                              LHENNTHNQEKKIQEEIEKKETLIQENVVL
                              PQIHTVTGTKNFMKNLFLLSTRQNVEGSYD
                              GAYAPVLQDFRSLNDSTNRTKKHTAHFSKK
                              GEEENLEGLGNQTKQIVEKYACTTRISPNT
                              SQQNFVTQRSKRALKQFRLPLEETELEKRI
                              IVDDTSTQWSKNMKHLTPSTLTQIDYNEKE
                              KGAITQSPLSDCLTRSHSIPQANRSPLPIA
                              KVSSFPSIRPIYLTRVLFQDNSSHLPAASY
                              RKKDSGVQESSHFLQGAKKNNLSLAILTLE
                              MTGDQREVGSLGTSATNSVTYKKVENTVLP
                              KPDLPKTSGKVELLPKVHIYQKDLFPTETS
                              NGSPGHLDLVEGSLLQGTEGAIKWNEANRP
                              GKVPFLRVATESSAKTPSKLLDPLAWDNHY
                              GTQIPKEEWKSQEKSPEKTAFKKKDTILSL
                              NACESNHAIAAINEGQNKPEIEVTWAKQGR
                              TERLCSQNPPVLKRHQREITRTTLQSDQEE
                              IDYDDTISVEMKKEDFDIYDEDENQSPRSF
                              QKKTRHYFIAAVERLWDYGMSSSPHVLRNR
                              AQSGSVPQFKKVVFQEFTDGSFTQPLYRGE
                              LNEHLGLLGPYIRAEVEDNIMVTFRNQASR
                              PYSFYSSLISYEEDQRQGAEPRKNFVKPNE
                              TKTYFWKVQHHMAPTKDEFDCKAWAYFSDV
                              DLEKDVHSGLIGPLLVCHTNTLNPAHGRQV
                              TVQEFALFFTIFDETKSWYFTENMERNCRA
                              PCNIQMEDPTFKENYRFHAINGYIMDTLPG
                              LVMAQDQRIRWYLLSMGSNENIHSIHFSGH
                              VFTVRKKEEYKMALYNLYPGVFETVEMLPS
                              KAGIWRVECLIGEHLHAGMSTLFLVYSNKC
                              QTPLGMASGHIRDFQITASGQYGQWAPKLA
                              RLHYSGSINAWSTKEPFSWIKVDLLAPMII
                              HGIKTQGARQKFSSLYISQFIIMYSLDGKK
                              WQTYRGNSTGTLMVFFGNVDSSGIKHNIFN
                              PPIIARYIRLHPTHYSIRSTLRMELMGCDL
                              NSCSMPLGMESKAISDAQITASSYFTNMFA
                              TWSPSKARLHLQGRSNAWRPQVNNPKEWLQ
                              VDFQKTMKVTGVTTQGVKSLLTSMYVKEFL
                              ISSSQDGHQWTLFFQNGKVKVFQGNQDSFT
                              PVVNSLDPPLLTRYLRIHPQSWVHQIALRM
                              EVLGCEAQDLYLEGKPIPNPLLGLDSTSRP
                              KSCDKTHTCPPCPAPELLGGPSVFLFPPKP
                              KDTLMISRTPEVTCVVVDVSHEDPEVKFNW
                          153

Protein Region     Sequence            Amino Acid Sequence
   (N- to C-      Identifier
   terminal)                     123456789012345678901234567890
                                 YVDGVEVHNAKTKPREEQYNSTYRVVSVLT
                                 VLHQDWLNGKEYKCKVSNKALPAPIEKTIS
                                 KAKGQPREPQVYTLPPSRDELTKNQVSLTC
                                 LVKGFYPSDIAVEWESNGQPENNYKTTPPV
                                 LDSDGSFFLYSKLTVDKSRWQQGNVFSCSV
                                 MHEALHNHYTQKSLSLSPGK
     FVIII     residues 1-2351   MQIELSTCFFLCLLRFCFSATRRYYLGAVE
                  of SEQ ID      LSWDYMQSDLGELPVDARFPPRVPKSFPFN
                    NO:322       TSVVYKKTLFVEFTDHLFNIAKPRPPWMGL
                                 LGPTIQAEVYDTVVITLKNMASHPVSLHAV
                                 GVSYWKASEGAEYDDQTSQREKEDDKVFPG
                                 GSHTYVWQVLKENGPMASDPLCLTYSYLSH
                                 VDLVKDLNSGLIGALLVCREGSLAKEKTQT
                                 LHKFILLFAVFDEGKSWHSETKNSLMQDRD
                                 AASARAWPKMHTVNGYVNRSLPGLIGCHRK
                                 SVYWHVIGMGTTPEVHSIFLEGHTFLVRNH
                                 RQASLEISPITFLTAQTLLMDLGQFLLFCH
                                 ISSHQHDGMEAYVKVDSCPEEPQLRMKNNE
                                 EAEDYDDDLTDSEMDVVRFDDDNSPSFIQI
                                 RSVAKKHPKTWVHYIAAEEEDWDYAPLVLA
                                 PDDRSYKSQYLNNGPQRIGRKYKKVRFMAY
                                 TDETFKTREAIQHESGILGPLLYGEVGDTL
                                 LIIFKNQASRPYNIYPHGITDVRPLYSRRL
                                 PKGVKHLKDFPILPGEIFKYKWTVTVEDGP
                                 TKSDPRCLTRYYSSFVNMERDLASGLIGPL
                                 LICYKESVDQRGNQIMSDKRNVILFSVFDE
                                 NRSWYLTENIQRFLPNPAGVQLEDPEFQAS
                                 NIMHSINGYVFDSLQLSVCLHEVAYWYILS
                                 IGAQTDFLSVFFSGYTFKHKMVYEDTLTLF
                                 PFSGETVFMSMENPGLWILGCHNSDFRNRG
                                 MTALLKVSSCDKNTGDYYEDSYEDISAYLL
                                 SKNNAIEPRSFSQNSRHPSTRQKQFNATTI
                                 PENDIEKTDPWFAHRTPMPKIQNVSSSDLL
                                 MLLRQSPTPHGLSLSDLQEAKYETFSDDPS
                                 PGAIDSNNSLSEMTHFRPQLHHSGDMVFTP
                                 ESGLQLRLNEKLGTTAATELKKLDFKVSST
                                 SNNLISTIPSDNLAAGTDNTSSLGPPSMPV
                                 HYDSQLDTTLFGKKSSPLTESGGPLSLSEE
                                 NNDSKLLESGLMNSQESSWGKNVSSTESGR
                                 LFKGKRAHGPALLTKDNALFKVSISLLKTN
                                 KTSNNSATNRKTHIDGPSLLIENSPSVWQN
                                 ILESDTEFKKVTPLIHDRMLMDKNATALRL
                                 NHMSNKTTSSKNMEMVQQKKEGPIPPDAQN
                                 PDMSFFKMLFLPESARWIQRTHGKNSLNSG
                                 QGPSPKQLVSLGPEKSVEGQNFLSEKNKVV
                                 VGKGEFTKDVGLKEMVFPSSRNLFLTNLDN
                                 LHENNTHNQEKKIQEEIEKKETLIQENVVL
                                 PQIHTVTGTKNFMKNLFLLSTRQNVEGSYD
                                 GAYAPVLQDFRSLNDSTNRTKKHTAHFSKK
                                 GEEENLEGLGNQTKQIVEKYACTTRISPNT
                                 SQQNFVTQRSKRALKQFRLPLEETELEKRI
                                 IVDDTSTQWSKNMKHLTPSTLTQIDYNEKE
                             154

Protein Region    Sequence            Amino Acid Sequence
   (N- to C-     Identifier
   terminal)                    123456789012345678901234567890
                                KGAITQSPLSDCLTRSHSIPQANRSPLPIA
                                KVSSFPSIRPIYLTRVLFQDNSSHLPAASY
                                RKKDSGVQESSHFLQGAKKNNLSLAILTLE
                                MTGDQREVGSLGTSATNSVTYKKVENTVLP
                                KPDLPKTSGKVELLPKVHIYQKDLFPTETS
                                NGSPGHLDLVEGSLLQGTEGAIKWNEANRP
                                GKVPFLRVATESSAKTPSKLLDPLAWDNHY
                                GTQIPKEEWKSQEKSPEKTAFKKKDTILSL
                                NACESNHAIAAINEGQNKPEIEVTWAKQGR
                                TERLCSQNPPVLKRHQREITRTTLQSDQEE
                                IDYDDTISVEMKKEDFDIYDEDENQSPRSF
                                QKKTRHYFIAAVERLWDYGMSSSPHVLRNR
                                AQSGSVPQFKKVVFQEFTDGSFTQPLYRGE
                                LNEHLGLLGPYIRAEVEDNIMVTFRNQASR
                                PYSFYSSLISYEEDQRQGAEPRKNFVKPNE
                                TKTYFWKVQHHMAPTKDEFDCKAWAYFSDV
                                DLEKDVHSGLIGPLLVCHTNTLNPAHGRQV
                                TVQEFALFFTIFDETKSWYFTENMERNCRA
                                PCNIQMEDPTFKENYRFHAINGYIMDTLPG
                                LVMAQDQRIRWYLLSMGSNENIHSIHFSGH
                                VFTVRKKEEYKMALYNLYPGVFETVEMLPS
                                KAGIWRVECLIGEHLHAGMSTLFLVYSNKC
                                QTPLGMASGHIRDFQITASGQYGQWAPKLA
                                RLHYSGSINAWSTKEPFSWIKVDLLAPMII
                                HGIKTQGARQKFSSLYISQFIIMYSLDGKK
                                WQTYRGNSTGTLMVFFGNVDSSGIKHNIFN
                                PPIIARYIRLHPTHYSIRSTLRMELMGCDL
                                NSCSMPLGMESKAISDAQITASSYFTNMFA
                                TWSPSKARLHLQGRSNAWRPQVNNPKEWLQ
                                VDFQKTMKVTGVTTQGVKSLLTSMYVKEFL
                                ISSSQDGHQWTLFFQNGKVKVFQGNQDSFT
                                PVVNSLDPPLLTRYLRIHPQSWVHQIALRM
                                EVLGCEAQDLY
     Linker    residues 2352-   LE
               2353 of SEQ ID
                   NO:322
  V5 epitope   residues 2354-   GKPIPNPLLGLDST
     domain    2367 of SEQ ID
                   NO:322
     Linker    residues 2368-   SR
               2369 of SEQ ID
                   NO:322
   Fc domain   residues 2370-   PKSCDKTHTCPPCPAPELLGGPSVFLFPPK
               2600 of SEQ ID   PKDTLMISRTPEVTCVVVDVSHEDPEVKFN
                   NO:322       WYVDGVEVHNAKTKPREEQYNSTYRVVSVL
                                TVLHQDWLNGKEYKCKVSNKALPAPIEKTI
                                SKAKGQPREPQVYTLPPSRDELTKNQVSLT
                                CLVKGFYPSDIAVEWESNGQPENNYKTTPP
                                VLDSDGSFFLYSKLTVDKSRWQQGNVFSCS
                                VMHEALHNHYTQKSLSLSPGK
                            155

            In this experiment, the level of expression of the FVIII-Fc target protein in the presence and
   absence of the BSC1-Protein G fusion protein. Media from cultures of cells (HEK293) expressing
   neither protein, of cells expressing only the FVIII-Fc target protein, and of cells co-expressing the
   BSC1-Protein G fusion protein and the FVIII-Fc target protein was assayed for FVIII using a
 5 commercially available, enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) (VisulizeTM FVIII Antigen
   Kit, Affinity Biologics Inc.). The results are shown as bar graphs of Absorbance at 450 nm in Figure
   24. Culture medium from cells transfected with an empty vector and expressing neither protein was
   used for a negative control (first bar graph from left in Figure 24), and human serum was used as a
   positive control (last bar graph on right of Figure 24). The results show that co-expression of the
10 BSC1-Protein G fusion protein with the FVIII-Fc target protein significantly enhanced the level of
   expression of the FVIII-Fc target protein secreted into the culture medium (third bar graph from left in
   Figure 24) as compared to the level of expression of the target protein in the absence of the BSC1
   Protein G fusion protein (second bar graph from left in Figure 24).
   Example 17. BSC1-Protein A Fusion Protein Enhances Expression of an Anti-IL-8 Antibody
15 Tar2et Protein in an Unmodified Arran2ement
            This experiment examined whether a BSC1-Protein A fusion protein as described above could
   be used in an unmodified arrangement to improve the level of expression of an anti-IL-8 antibody
   target protein expressed in transfected HEK293 cells.
            Expression of anti-IL-8 antibody in culture media was determined by immunodot blot using
20 an anti-IgG antibody. As shown in the immunodot blots in Figure 25A, co-expression of the anti-IL8
   antibody target protein with the BSC1-Protein A fusion protein significantly enhanced the level of
   expression of the antibody secreted into the culture medium (bottom row 3 of Figure 25A) as
   compared to the level of the antibody expressed in cells expressing the antibody alone (middle row 2
   of Figure 25A).    The top row of Figure 25A shows no antibody was secreted into medium from a
25 mock culture of control cells that expressed neither protein.
            The results of a densitometry analysis of the chemiluminescent signals in the dot blots in the
   rows in Figure 25A using the NIH ImageJ image processing program are shown in the respective bar
   graphs in Figure 25B. The bars of Figure 25B are numbered to correspond to the row numbers of
   Figure 25A. The results of this series of experiments clearly show that co-expression of the anti-IL8
30 antibody target protein with a fusion protein of the invention comprising the BSC1 polypeptide linked
   to a Protein A (target protein binding domain) significantly enhanced the expression of secreted anti
   IL8 antibody.
            Figure 25C shows the results of an ELISA assay. A 96-well plate was coated with
   recombinant purified human IL8, and incubated with the anti-IL-8 antibody (target protein) secreted
35 into the media of cultures of transfected cells expressing the anti-IL8 antibody alone (lane 2) and of
   cells co-expressing anti-IL8 antibody target protein and the BSC1-Protein A fusion protein (lane 3,
                                                       156

   BSC1-Protein A). Mock cultures contained cells transfected with expression vector lacking a
   structural gene for expressing any protein (no anti-IL8 antibody, first lane). The results clearly show
   that the secreted anti-IL8 antibody that was expressed at enhanced levels when co-expressed with
   BSC1-Protein A fusion protein retained its binding activity for human IL8.
 5 Example 18. BSC1-Protein A Fusion Protein Enhances Expression of a Therapeutic Anti
   VEGF Antibody (Bevacizumab) Tar2et Protein in an Unmodified Arran2ement
            This experiment examined whether a BSC1-Protein A fusion protein as described above could
   be used in an unmodified arrangement to improve the level of expression of a therapeutic antibody.
            Bevacizumab (Avastin, Genentech/Roche) is a humanized monoclonal antibody that
10 inhibits angiogenesis by inhibiting vascular endothelial growth factor A (VEGF-A). Sales of
   bevacizumab in 2010 were close to $7 billion and exceeded all other antibody drugs. The addition of
   bevacizumab to standard treatment can prolong the lives of breast and lung cancer patients by several
   months at a current cost of approximately $100,000 a year in the United States.
            The amino acid sequences for the light and heavy chains of bevacizumab are shown in the
15 table below.
   Table 67. Amino Acid Sequences Light and Heavy Chains of Bevacizumab.
         Protein Region                 Sequence                    Amino Acid Sequence
             (N- to C-                Identifier
             terminal)                                      123456789012345678901234567890
           Light    chain           SEQ ID NO:323           MGWSCIILFLVATATGVHSDIQMTQSPSSL
                                                            SASVGDRVTITCSASQDISNYLNWYQQKPG
                                                            KAPKVLIYFTSSLHSGVPSRFSGSGSGTDF
                                                            TLTISSLQPEDFATYYCQQYSTVPWTFGQG
                                                            TKVEIKRTVAAPSVFIFPPSDEQLKSGTAS
                                                            VVCLLNNFYPREAKVQWKVDNALQSGNSQE
                                                            SVTEQDSKDSTYSLSSTLTLSKADYEKHKV
                                                            YACEVTHQGLSSPVTKSFNRGEC
           Heavy    chain           SEQ ID NO:323           MGWSLIILFLVATATGVHSEVQLVESGGGL
                                                            VQPGGSLRLSCAASGYTFTNYGMNWVRQAP
                                                            GKGLEWVGWINTYTGEPTYAADFKRRFTFS
                                                            LDTSKSTAYLQMNSLRAEDTAVYYCAKYPH
                                                            YYGSSHWYFDVWGQGTLVTVSSASTKGPSV
                                                            FPLAPSSKSTSGGTAALGCLVKDYFPEPVT
                                                            VSWNSGALTSGVHTFPAVLQSSGLYSLSSV
                                                            VTVPSSSLGTQTYICNVNHKPSNTKVDKKV
                                                            EPKSCDKTHTCPPCPAPELLGGPSVFLFPP
                                                            KPKDTLMISRTPEVTCVVVDVSHEDPEVKF
                                                            NWYVDGVEVHNAKTKPREEQYNSTYRVVSV
                                                            LTVLHQDWLNGKEYKCKVSNKALPAPIEKT
                                                            ISKAKGQPREPQVYTLPPSRDELTKNQVSL
                                                            TCLVKGFYPSDIAVEWESNGQPENNYKTTP
                                                            PVLDSDGSFFLYSKLTVDKSRWQQGNVFSC
                                                            SVMHEALHNHYTQKSLSLSPGK
                                                      157

            The anti-VEGF antibody bevacizumab (target protein) was expressed in human cells in the
   presence and absence of the BSC1-Protein A fusion protein. A mock culture contained cells that
   expressed neither protein. Samples of the media from cell cultures were assayed for antibody by
   immunodot blot assay using an anti-human IgG antibody.
 5          Figure 26A shows a dot blot assay for expression of the bevacizumab (anti-VEGF antibody)
   secreted into the media of cultures of transfected cells expressing bevacizumab alone (middle row)
   and co-expressing bevacizumab and the BSC 1-Protein A fusion protein (bottom row). The top row of
   Figure 26A shows that no antibody was secreted into medium from a mock culture of control cells
   that lacked a structural gene for either protein. The results show that co-expression in transfected
10 cells of the bevacizumab target protein and the BSC1-Protein A fusion protein significantly enhanced
   the level of expression of bevacizumab secreted into the culture medium as compared to the level of
   the antibody secreted into medium of a culture of cells expressing bevacizumab alone.
            Figure 26B shows the results of a densitometry analysis of the chemiluminescent signals in
   each of the rows of the dot blot in Figure 26A using the NIH ImageJ image processing program. The
15 bar graphs of Figure 26B are numbered to correspond to the row numbers of Figure 26A. The results
   of this series of experiments clearly show that co-expression of the anti-VEGF antibody target protein
   with a BSC1-Protein A fusion protein significantly enhanced the level of expression of the anti-VEGF
   antibody secreted into the culture medium.
            Figure 26C shows the results of an ELISA to detect VEGF binding activity in culture media.
20 A 96-well plate was coated with recombinant purified human VEGF-A and incubated with the
   bevacizumab (anti-VEGF antibody target protein) secreted into the media of cultures of transfected
   cells that expressed the anti-VEGF antibody alone (bar graph 2) or of transfected cells that co
   expressed the anti-VEGF antibody and the BSC1-Protein A fusion protein (bar graph 3). Bar graph 1
   of Figure 26C shows that no significant VEGF binding activity was present in medium from a mock
25 culture of cells transfected with expression vector lacking a structural gene for expressing either
   protein. The results clearly show that the secreted anti-VEGF antibody that was expressed at
   enhanced levels when co-expressed with the BSC1-Protein A fusion protein retained its binding
   activity for human VEGF-A.
    Example 19. BSC1-Protein A Fusion Protein Enhances Expression of a Therapeutic Anti
30 TNFa Antibody (Adalimumab) Target Protein in an Unmodified Arrangement
            This experiment examined whether a BSC1-Protein A fusion protein as described above could
   be used in an unmodified arrangement to improve the level of expression of a therapeutic anti-TNFa
   antibody (adalimumab; Humira, AbbVie).
   Table 68. Amino Acid Sequences of Light and Heavy Chains of Adalimumab.
                                                       158

         Protein Region                 Sequence                     Amino Acid Sequence
             (N- to C-                 Identifier
             terminal)                                       123456789012345678901234567890
           Light     chain          SEQ ID NO:324            MGWSCIILFLVATATGVHSDIQMTQSPSSL
                                                             SASVGDRVTITCRSSQGIRNYLHWYQQKPG
                                                             KAPKLLIYAASTLQSGVPSRFSGSGSGTDF
                                                             TLTISSLQPEDVATYYCQRYNRAPYTFGQG
                                                             TKVEIKRTVAAPSVFIFPPSDEQLKSGTAS
                                                             VVCLLNNFYPREAKVQWKVDNALQSGNSQE
                                                             SVTEQDSKDSTYSLSSTLTLSKADYEKHKV
                                                             YACEVTHQGLSSPVTKSFNRGEC
           Heavy     chain          SEQ ID NO:324            MGWSLIILFLVATATGVHSEVQLVESGGGL
                                                             VQPGRSLRLSCAASGFTFDDYAMHWVRQAP
                                                             GKGLEWVSAITWNSGHIDYADSVEGRFTIS
                                                             RDNAKNSLYLQMNSLRAEDTAVYYCAKVSY
                                                             LSTASSLDVWGQGTLVTVSSASTKGPSVFP
                                                             LAPSSKSTSGGTAALGCLVKDYFPEPVTVS
                                                             WNSGALTSGVHTFPAVLQSSGLYSLSSVVT
                                                             VPSSSLGTQTYICNVNHKPSNTKVDKKVEP
                                                             KSCDKTHTCPPCPAPELLGGPSVFLFPPKP
                                                             KDTLMISRTPEVTCVVVDVSHEDPEVKFNW
                                                             YVDGVEVHNAKTKPREEQYNSTYRVVSVLT
                                                             VLHQDWLNGKEYKCKVSNKALPAPIEKTIS
                                                             KAKGQPREPQVYTLPPSRDELTKNQVSLTC
                                                             LVKGFYPSDIAVEWESNGQPENNYKTTPPV
                                                             LDSDGSFFLYSKLTVDKSRWQQGNVFSCSV
                                                             MHEALHNHYTQKSLSLSPGK
            Figure 27A shows a dot blot assay for expression of the anti-TNFa antibody (target protein)
   secreted into the media of cultures of transfected cells expressing the anti-TNFa antibody alone
   (middle row) and of transfected cells co-expressing the anti-TNFa antibody and the BSC1-Protein A
 5 fusion protein (bottom row of Figure 27A). No anti-TNFa antibody was detected in medium of mock
   cultures containing cells transfected with expression vector lacking a structural gene for expressing
   either protein (top row of Figure 27A). Expression of the anti-TNFa antibody in culture media was
   analyzed in the dot blot assay using an anti-human IgG antibody. It can be seen that co-expression in
   transfected cells of the anti-TNFa antibody and the BSC1-Protein A fusion protein (bottom row)
10 significantly enhanced the level of expression of anti-TNFa antibody secreted into the culture medium
   as compared to the level of the antibody expressed in transfected cells expressing the anti-TNFa
   antibody alone (middle row).
            Figure 27B shows the results of a densitometry analysis of the chemiluminescent signals in
   dot blots in each of the rows in Figure 27A using the NIH ImageJ image processing program. The bar
15 graphs of Figure 27B are numbered to correspond to the row numbers of Figure 27A. The results of
   this series of experiments clearly show that co-expression of the anti-TNFa antibody target protein
   with a fusion protein comprising a BSC1 polypeptide linked to a target binding domain (Protein A)
   significantly enhanced the level of expression of secreted anti-TNFa antibody.
                                                      159

            Figure 27C shows the results of an ELISA for TNFa binding activity by the expressed anti
   TNFa antibody. A 96-well plate was coated with recombinant purified human TNFa and incubated
   with the anti-TNFa antibody (target protein) secreted into the media of cultures of transfected cells
   expressing the anti-TNFa antibody alone (bar graph 2) or co-expressing anti-TNFa antibody and the
 5 BSC1-Protein A fusion protein (bar graph 3). No TNFa binding activity was detected in medium
   from mock cultures containing cells transfected with an expression vector lacking a structural gene for
   expressing either protein (bar graph 1). The results of this series of experiments clearly show that the
   secreted anti-TNFa antibody that was expressed at enhanced levels when co-expressed with the
   BSC1 -Protein A fusion protein retained its binding activity for human TNFa.
10 Example 20. BSC1-Protein A Fusion Protein Enhances Established Expression of an Anti-IL8
   Antibody in CHO-D12 Cell Line in an Unmodified Arran2ement
   Similar in design to Example 8, above, this experiment examined whether a BSC1-Protein A fusion
   protein could enhance the level of expression of an anti-IL8 antibody already being produced in an
   established commercially relevant production CHO-DP12 cell line (American Type Culture
15 Collection Accession No. CRL-124444, American Type Culture Collection, Manassas, Virginia).
            Figure 28A shows results of an immune dot blot assay for expression of the anti-IL8 antibody
   (target protein) secreted into the media of cultures of cells of a CHO-DP12 cell line expressing the
   anti-IL8 antibody alone (middle row 2) and of cells co-expressing the anti-IL8 antibody and the
   BSC1-Protein A fusion protein (bottom row 3). It can be seen that co-expression of the antibody with
20 the BSC1-Protein A fusion molecule significantly enhanced the level of expression of the antibody
   secreted into the culture medium (bottom row 3) as compared to the level of the antibody expressed in
   the absence of the BSC1-Protein A fusion molecule (row 2). No antibody was detected in medium
   alone (top row of Figure 28A).
            Figure 28B shows the results of a densitometry analysis of the chemiluminescent signals in
25 the dot blots in the rows of Figure 28A using the NIH ImageJ image processing program. The bar
   graphs in Figure 28B are numbered to correspond to the rows in Figure 28A. The results indicate that
   co-expression of the antibody with the BSC1-Protein A fusion molecule (bar graph 3) significantly
   enhanced expression of the secreted antibody, providing an approximately four to five-fold greater
   enhancement in the level of expression as compared to that obtained when the antibody was expressed
30 in the absence of the BSC1-Protein A fusion protein (bar graph 2).
            Figure 28C shows the results of an ELISA for IL8 binding. A 96-well plate was coated with
   recombinant purified human IL8 and incubated with the anti-IL8 antibody (target protein) secreted
   into the media of cultures stably expressing the anti-IL8 antibody alone (bar graph 2) or co-expressing
   the anti-IL8 antibody and the BSC1-Protein A fusion protein (bar graph 3). Cell culture medium was
35 used as a negative control (bar graph 1, no anti-IL8 antibody). The results of this series of
                                                       160

   experiments clearly show that the secreted anti-IL8 antibody that was expressed at enhanced levels
   when co-expressed with the BSC1-Protein A fusion protein retained its binding activity for IL8.
            The results indicate that a BSC1-Protein A fusion protein can be employed in an unmodified
   arrangement to significantly enhance the level of production of a target protein that is already stably
 5 expressed in an established production cell line.
   Example 21. Enhancement of Expression of Secreted Alpha-1 Antitrypsin Z Protein
            This experiment indicates that enhancement of protein expression according to the invention
   has the potential to treat a disease resulting from an improper conformation of a critical protein.
            Alphal antitrypsin (AAT) deficiency is an autosomal genetic disorder that affects both
10 genders. AAT is a 52-kDa serine protease inhibitor produced mainly in the liver. Over 90 genetic
   variants have been identified in the protease inhibitor 1 (PI) gene on chromosome 14 that are
   associated with AAT deficiency. The most common basis of AAT deficiency is the Z mutation, a
   single base pair substitution that changes a Glu to Lys at codon 342 (Glu342Lys). The mutant AAT
   protein with the Z mutation (AATZ protein) retains approximately 80% of the serine protease activity
15 of the wild type AAT protein. The AATZ protein also cannot fold to establish a normal conformation
   and consequently accumulates in aggregates within the endoplasmic reticulum (ER). Accumulation
   of aggregated AATZ in liver cells leads to liver toxicity and liver cirrhosis.
            For this experiment, the target proteins were an engineered AAT-Fc fusion protein and an
   engineered V5-tagged a1ATZ-Fc fusion protein. The amino acid sequence of the AAT-Fc fusion
20 protein is the same as described in Example 4.3 above. The amino acid sequence for the AATZ-Fc
   fusion protein is shown in the table below.
   Table 69. Amino Acid Sequence of a V5-Tagged a1AATZ-Fc Target Protein.
        Protein Region                    Sequence                   Amino Acid Sequence
             (N- to C-                  Identifier
            terminal)                                        123456789012345678901234567890
            V5-tagged                 SEQ ID NO:325          MPSSVSWGILLLAGLCCLVPVSLAEDPQGD
       alAATZ-Fc fusion                                      AAQKTDTSHHDQDHPTFNKITPNLAEFAFS
             molecule                                        LYRQLAHQSNSTNIFFSPVSIATAFAMLSL
                                                             GTKADTHDEILEGLNFNLTEIPEAQIHEGF
                                                             QELLRTLNQPDSQLQLTTGNGLFLSEGLKL
                                                             VDKFLEDVKKLYHSEAFTVNFGDTEEAKKQ
                                                             INDYVEKGTQGKIVDLVKELDRDTVFALVN
                                                             YIFFKGKWERPFEVKDTEEEDFHVDQVTTV
                                                             KVPMMKRLGMFNIQHCKKLSSWVLLMKYLG
                                                             NATAIFFLPDEGKLQHLENELTHDIITKFL
                                                             ENEDRRSASLHLPKLSITGTYDLKSVLGQL
                                                             GITKVFSNGADLSGVTEEAPLKLSKAVHKA
                                                             VLTIDKKGTEAAGAMFLEAIPMSIPPEVKF
                                                             NKPFVFLMIEQNTKSPLFMGKVVNPTQKGT
                                                             GSEFDIAAALEGKPIPNPLLGLDSTSRPKS
                                                             CDKTHTCPPCPAPELLGGPSVFLFPPKPKD
                                                             TLMISRTPEVTCVVVDVSHEDPEVKFNWYV
                                                             DGVEVHNAKTKPREEQYNSTYRVVSVLTVL
                                                       161

         Protein Region                  Sequence                  Amino Acid Sequence
             (N- to C-                  Identifier
             terminal)                                     123456789012345678901234567890
                                                           HQDWLNGKEYKCKVSNKALPAPIEKTISKA
                                                           KGQPREPQVYTLPPSRDELTKNQVSLTCLV
                                                           KGFYPSDIAVEWESNGQPENNYKTTPPVLD
                                                           SDGSFFLYSKLTVDKSRWQQGNVFSCSVMH
                                                           EALHNHYTQKSLSLSPGK
               alAATZ                residues 1-418        MPSSVSWGILLLAGLCCLVPVSLAEDPQGD
                                        of SEQ ID          AAQKTDTSHHDQDHPTFNKITPNLAEFAFS
                                          NO: 325          LYRQLAHQSNSTNIFFSPVSIATAFAMLSL
                                                           GTKADTHDEILEGLNFNLTEIPEAQIHEGF
                                                           QELLRTLNQPDSQLQLTTGNGLFLSEGLKL
                                                           VDKFLEDVKKLYHSEAFTVNFGDTEEAKKQ
                                                           INDYVEKGTQGKIVDLVKELDRDTVFALVN
                                                           YIFFKGKWERPFEVKDTEEEDFHVDQVTTV
                                                           KVPMMKRLGMFNIQHCKKLSSWVLLMKYLG
                                                           NATAIFFLPDEGKLQHLENELTHDIITKFL
                                                           ENEDRRSASLHLPKLSITGTYDLKSVLGQL
                                                           GITKVFSNGADLSGVTEEAPLKLSKAVHKA
                                                           VLTIDKKGTEAAGAMFLEAIPMSIPPEVKF
                                                           NKPFVFLMIEQNTKSPLFMGKVVNPTQK
              Linker 1                residues 419-        GTGSEFDIAAALE
                                      431 of SEQ ID
                                          NO:325
            V5 epitope                residues 432-        GKPIPNPLLGLDST
               domain                 445 of SEQ ID
                                          NO:325
              Linker 2                residues 446-        SR
                                      447 of SEQ ID
                                          NO:325
             Fc domain                residues 448-        PKSCDKTHTCPPCPAPELLGGPSVFLFPPK
                                      678 of SEQ ID        PKDTLMISRTPEVTCVVVDVSHEDPEVKFN
                                          NO: 325          WYVDGVEVHNAKTKPREEQYNSTYRVVSVL
                                                           TVLHQDWLNGKEYKCKVSNKALPAPIEKTI
                                                           SKAKGQPREPQVYTLPPSRDELTKNQVSLT
                                                           CLVKGFYPSD IAVEWESNGQPENNYKTTPP
                                                           VLDSDGSFFLYSKLTVDKSRWQQGNVFSCS
                                                           VMHEALHNHYTQKSLSLSPGK
            Figure 29A shows images of chemiluminescent signals of a Western blot assay using anti-V5
   antibody to detect expression of the V5-tagged AAT- and AATZ-Fc fusion proteins. Lane 1 in the
   top panel of Figure 29A shows non-expressing cell culture medium as a control. Lane 2 of the top
 5 panel shows culture medium of cells expressing AAT-Fc alone. As expected for the wild type AAT
   protein, the AAT-Fc fusion was secreted into the culture medium. Lane 3 of the top panel of Figure
   29A shows that little if any of AATZ-Fc protein was secreted into the medium of a culture of
   transfected cells expressing the AATZ-Fc fusion protein alone. As expected for the AATZ protein,
   which is known to be retained in the endoplasmic reticulum, AATZ-Fc fusion protein was detected in
10 cell lysates of the cells expressing AATZ-Fc protein alone. See, lane 3 of the middle panel (cell
                                                    162

   lysates). Surprisingly, as shown in lane 4 of the top panel of Figure 29A, co-expression of the AATZ
   Fc protein and the BSC1 -Protein A fusion protein resulted in a dramatic increase in the level of
   expression of AATZ-Fc protein secreted into the cultures medium. Moreover, little if any of AATZ
   Fc fusion protein was detected in cell lysate (lane 4, middle panel of Figure 29A). The same
 5 membrane was blotted with anti-tubulin antibody for a loading control.
            The results clearly show that co-expression of the BSC1-Protein A fusion protein significantly
   elevated the level of expression of the AATZ-Fc target protein secreted into the culture medium as
   compared to the level of expression of the target protein in the absence of the BSC1-Protein A fusion
   protein. Moreover, little if any of the AATZ-Fc proteins was detected in cell lysates, indicating that
10 the AATZ-Fc protein was not retained in the endoplasmic reticulum. Accordingly, these data suggest
   for the first time that a gene therapy that would provide a fusion protein comprising an AATZ-binding
   domain and a protein expression enhancing polypeptide of this invention would be effective in
   treating an individual for AAT deficiency due to the Z mutation by enhancing expression of secreted
   AATZ protein from cells of the individual, eliminating or reducing liver toxicity due to retention of
15 AATZ in the endoplasmic reticulum, and restoring required levels of extracellular AAT serine
   protease activity to individual.
            All patents, applications, and publications cited in the above text are incorporated herein by
   reference.
20
            Other variations and embodiments of the invention described herein will now be apparent to
   those of skill in the art without departing from the disclosure of the invention or the claims below.
                                                       163

What is claimed is:
1. An isolated protein expression enhancing polypeptide selected from the group consisting of:
                (a) an isolated J domain of a J protein;
                (b) an isolated protein expression enhancing polypeptide fragment of a J domain;
                (c) an isolated protein expression enhancing polypeptide analog of a J domain, said J
                domain analog polypeptide comprises the amino acid sequence of formula I:
                (I)      Xl-X2-X3-X4-X5-X6-X7-X8-X9 (SEQ ID NO:47), wherein:
                         X1 is isoleucine (I), leucine (L), valine (V), alanine (A), or methionine (M);
                         X2 and X3 are each independently any amino acid with the proviso that one
                         or both are K or R;
                         X4 is any amino acid or X4 may be absent when X1 through X3 are present
                         and X5 through X9 are present;
                         X5 is tyrosine (Y), tryptophan (W), or phenylalanine (F);
                         X6 and X7 are each independently any amino acid with the proviso that one
                         or both are lysine (K) or arginine (R); or either one of X6 and X7 may be
                         absent when the other is K or R and when X1 through X5 are present and X8
                         and X9 are present; and
                         X8 and X9 are any amino acid with the proviso that one or both are leucine
                         (L) or alanine (A); or one of X8 and X9 may be absent when the other is L or
                         A and when X1 through X7 are present; and
                (d) an isolated protein expression enhancing polypeptide selected from the group of
                decapeptides consisting of:
                         IKKAYKLALQ (SEQ ID NO:49),
                         IKKAYRLALQ (SEQ ID NO:50),
                         IKKAYRKALQ (SEQ ID NO:51), or
                         IKKAYRKLLQ (SEQ ID NO:52).
2.      The protein expression enhancing polypeptide according to Claim 1, wherein the protein
        expression enhancing polypeptide is an isolated J domain of a J protein.
3.      The protein expression enhancing polypeptide according to Claim 2, wherein the isolated J
        domain is an isolated J domain of an ERdj protein, a large T antigen of SV40, or a
        mammalian cysteine string protein alpha (CSP-a).
                                                    164

4. The protein expression enhancing polypeptide according to Claim 3, wherein the isolated J
   domain is an isolated J domain of an Erdj protein selected from Erdjl, Erdj2, Erdj3, Erdj4,
   Erdj5, Erdj6 and Erdj7.
5. The protein expression enhancing polypeptide according to Claim 4, wherein the isolated J
   domain is an isolated J domain of Erdj3.
6. The protein expression enhancing polypeptide according to Claim 1, wherein the protein
   expression enhancing polypeptide is an isolated polypeptide fragment of a J domain.
7. The protein expression enhancing polypeptide according to Claim 6, wherein the protein
   expression enhancing polypeptide is an isolated polypeptide fragment of a J domain selected
   from the group consisting of:
           I-K-K-A-Y-R-K-L-A (SEQ ID NO:48),
           I-R-K-A-Y-R-K-L-S-L-T-L (SEQ ID NO:83),
           I-K-K-Q-Y-R-L-L-S-L-K-Y (SEQ ID NO:84),
           I-K-K-A-F-H-K-L-A-M-K-Y (SEQ ID NO:85),
           I-R-Q-A-F-K-K-L-A-L-K-L (SEQ ID NO:86),
           J-J-K-A-Y-R-K-L-A-L-Q-W (SEQ ID NO:87),
           I-A-R-A-Y-R-Q-L-A-R-R-Y (SEQ ID NO:88),
           I-K-R-A-Y-R-R-Q-A-L-R-Y (SEQ ID NO:89),
           I-K-K-S-Y-R-K-L-A-L-K-Y (SEQ ID NO:90), and
           I-K-K-A-Y-K-R-L-A-M-K-Y (SEQ ID NO:91).
8. The protein expression enhancing polypeptide according to Claim 1, wherein the protein
   expression enhancing polypeptide is a J domain analog polypeptide, wherein said polypeptide
   analog comprises the amino acid sequence of formula I.
9. The protein expression enhancing polypeptide according to Claim 8, wherein:
           X1 is I, L, V, A, or M;
           the dipeptide X2-X3 is selected from the group consisting of: KR, KK, RK, RR, AK,
           AR, KA, IK, NK, KQ, RQ, and RD;
           X4 is A, S, T, R, S, Q, E, F, C, or I;
           X5 is Y or F;
           the dipeptide X6-X7 is selected from the group consisting of: KR, KK, RK, RR, RQ,
           FR, RL, KL, HK, LK, QK, and KV; and
                                              165

             the dipeptide X8-X9 is selected from the group consisting of: LA, LL, AL, AA, LC,
             LV, QA, KA, LS, LI, LY, and RA.
10. The protein expression enhancing polypeptide according to Claim 1, wherein said protein
    expression enhancing polypeptide comprises one of the following amino acid sequences:
       Sequence Identifier      Amino Acid Sequence
                                123456789012345
      SEQ ID NO:48              IKKAYRKLA
      SEQ   ID NO:49            IKKAYKLALQ
      SEQ   ID NO:50            IKKAYRLALQ
      SEQ   ID NO:51            IKKAYRKALQ
      SEQ   ID NO:52            IKKAYRKLLQ
      SEQ   ID NO:53            IKKYRKLA
      SEQ   ID NO:54            IKKAYKLA
      SEQ   ID NO:55            IKKAYRLA
      SEQ   ID NO:56            IKKAYRKA
      SEQ   ID  NO:57           LKKAYRKLA
      SEQ   ID  NO:58          VKKAYRKLA
      SEQ   ID  NO:59          MKKAYRKLA
      SEQ   ID  NO:60          AKKAYRKLA
      SEQ   ID  NO:61           IAKAYRKLA
      SEQ   ID  NO:62           IKAAYRKLA
      SEQ   ID  NO:63           IKKRYRKLA
      SEQ   ID  NO:64           IKKSYRKLA
      SEQ ID NO:65              IKKQYRKLA
      SEQ   ID  NO:66           IKKEYRKLA
      SEQ   ID  NO:67           IKKFYRKLA
      SEQ   ID  NO:68           IKKCYRKLA
      SEQ   ID  NO:69           IKKAFRKLA
      SEQ   ID  NO:70           IKKAWRKLA
      SEQ ID NO:71              IKKAYRKQA
      SEQ   ID  NO:72           IKKAYRKMA
      SEQ   ID  NO:73           IKKAYRKIA
      SEQ   ID  NO:74           IKKAYRKAA
      SEQ   ID  NO:75           IKKAYRKVA
      SEQ   ID  NO:76           IKKAYRKRA
      SEQ   ID  NO:77           IKKAYRKLM
      SEQ   ID  NO:78           IKKAYRKLI
      SEQ   ID  NO:79           IKKAYRKLV
      SEQ   ID  NO:80           IKKAYRKLC
      SEQ   ID  NO:81           IKKAYRKLS
      SEQ   ID  NO:82           IKKAYRKLY
      SEQ   ID  NO:83           IRKAYRKLSLTL
      SEQ   ID  NO:84           IKKQYRLLSLKY
      SEQ   ID  NO:85           IKKAFHKLAMKY
      SEQ   ID  NO:86           IRQAFKKLALKL
      SEQ   ID  NO:87           IIKAYRKLALQW
      SEQ   ID  NO:88           IARAYRQLARRY
      SEQ   ID  NO:89           IKRAYRRQALRY
                                               166

        Sequence Identifier        Amino Acid Sequence
                                   123456789012345
       SEQ ID NO:90                IKKSYRKLALKY
       SEQ ID NO:91                IKKAYKRLAMKY
11. An isolated nucleic acid molecule comprising a nucleic acid sequence encoding a protein
    expression enhancing polypeptide according to any one of Claims 1-10.
12. A nucleic acid vector molecule comprising the isolated nucleic acid molecule according to
    Claim 11.
13. A host cell comprising the nucleic acid vector molecule according to Claim 12.
14. A fusion protein comprising:
              an isolated protein expression enhancing polypeptide linked to a target protein of
    interest,
              wherein said isolated protein expression enhancing polypeptide is selected from the
    group consisting of:
              (a) an isolated J domain of a J protein;
              (b) an isolated protein expression enhancing polypeptide fragment of a J domain;
              (c) an isolated protein expression enhancing polypeptide analog of a J domain, said J
              domain analog polypeptide comprises the amino acid sequence of formula I:
              (I)      Xl-X2-X3-X4-X5-X6-X7-X8-X9 (SEQ ID NO:47), wherein:
                       X1 is isoleucine (I), leucine (L), valine (V), alanine (A), or methionine (M);
                       X2 and X3 are each independently any amino acid with the proviso that one
                       or both are K or R;
                       X4 is any amino acid or X4 may be absent when X1 through X3 are present
                       and X5 through X9 are present;
                       X5 is tyrosine (Y), tryptophan (W), or phenylalanine (F);
                       X6 and X7 are each independently any amino acid with the proviso that one
                       or both are lysine (K) or arginine (R); or either one of X6 and X7 may be
                       absent when the other is K or R and when X1 through X5 are present and X8
                       and X9 are present; and
                       X8 and X9 are any amino acid with the proviso that one or both are leucine
                       (L) or alanine (A); or one of X8 and X9 may be absent when the other is L or
                       A and when X1 through X7 are present; and
                                                  167

            (d) an isolated protein expression enhancing polypeptide selected from the group of
            decapeptides consisting of:
                     IKKAYKLALQ (SEQ ID NO:49),
                     IKKAYRLALQ (SEQ ID NO:50),
                     IKKAYRKALQ (SEQ ID NO:51), or
                     IKKAYRKLLQ (SEQ ID NO:52).
15. The fusion protein according to Claim 14, wherein the protein expression enhancing
    polypeptide is an isolated J domain.
16. The fusion protein according to Claim 15, wherein the isolated J domain is an isolated J
    domain of an ERdj protein, a large T antigen of SV40, or a mammalian cysteine string protein
    alpha (CSP-a).
17. The fusion protein according to Claim 16, wherein the isolated J domain is an isolated J
    domain of an Erdj protein selected from Erdjl, Erdj2, Erdj3, Erdj4, Erdj5, Erdj6 and Erdj7.
18. The fusion protein according to Claim 17, wherein the isolated J domain is an isolated J
    domain of Erdj3.
19. The fusion protein according to Claim 14, wherein the protein expression enhancing
    polypeptide is an isolated protein expression enhancing polypeptide fragment of a J domain.
20. The fusion protein according to Claim 19, wherein the protein expression enhancing
    polypeptide is an isolated protein expression enhancing polypeptide fragment of a J domain
    selected from the group consisting of:
            I-K-K-A-Y-R-K-L-A (SEQ ID NO:48),
            I-R-K-A-Y-R-K-L-S-L-T-L (SEQ ID NO:83),
            I-K-K-Q-Y-R-L-L-S-L-K-Y (SEQ ID NO:84),
            I-K-K-A-F-H-K-L-A-M-K-Y (SEQ ID NO:85),
            I-R-Q-A-F-K-K-L-A-L-K-L (SEQ ID NO:86),
            I-I-K-A-Y-R-K-L-A-L-Q-W (SEQ ID NO:87),
            I-A-R-A-Y-R-Q-L-A-R-R-Y (SEQ ID NO:88),
            I-K-R-A-Y-R-R-Q-A-L-R-Y (SEQ ID NO:89),
            I-K-K-S-Y-R-K-L-A-L-K-Y (SEQ ID NO:90), and
            I-K-K-A-Y-K-R-L-A-M-K-Y (SEQ ID NO:91).
                                               168

21. The fusion protein according to Claim 14, wherein the protein expression enhancing
    polypeptide is a J domain analogy polypeptide, wherein said polypeptide analog comprises
    the amino acid sequence of formula I.
22. The fusion protein according to Claim 21, wherein:
            X1 is I, L, V, A, or M;
            the dipeptide X2-X3 is selected from the group consisting of: KR, KK, RK, RR, AK,
            AR, KA, IK, NK, KQ, RQ, and RD;
            X4 is A, S, T, R, S, Q, E, F, C, or I;
            X5 is Y or F;
            the dipeptide X6-X7 is selected from the group consisting of: KR, KK, RK, RR, RQ,
            FR, RL, KL, HK, LK, QK, and KV; and
            the dipeptide X8-X9 is selected from the group consisting of: LA, LL, AL, AA, LC,
            LV, QA, KA, LS, LI, LY, and RA.
23. The fusion protein according to Claim 14, wherein said protein expression enhancing
    polypeptide comprises one of the following amino acid sequences:
        Sequence Identifier      Amino Acid Sequence
                                 123456789012345
       SEQ ID NO:48              IKKAYRKLA
       SEQ ID NO:49              IKKAYKLALQ
       SEQ ID NO:50              IKKAYRLALQ
       SEQ ID NO:51              IKKAYRKALQ
       SEQ ID NO:52              IKKAYRKLLQ
       SEQ ID NO:53              IKKYRKLA
       SEQ ID NO:54              IKKAYKLA
       SEQ ID NO:55              IKKAYRLA
       SEQ ID NO:56              IKKAYRKA
       SEQ ID  NO:57             LKKAYRKLA
       SEQ ID  NO:58             VKKAYRKLA
       SEQ ID  NO:59             MKKAYRKLA
       SEQ ID  NO:60             AKKAYRKLA
       SEQ ID  NO:61             IAKAYRKLA
       SEQ ID  NO:62             IKAAYRKLA
       SEQ ID  NO:63             IKKRYRKLA
       SEQ ID  NO:64             IKKSYRKLA
       SEQ ID NO:65              IKKQYRKLA
       SEQ ID  NO:66             IKKEYRKLA
       SEQ ID  NO:67             IKKFYRKLA
       SEQ ID  NO:68             IKKCYRKLA
       SEQ ID  NO:69             IKKAFRKLA
       SEQ ID  NO:70             IKKAWRKLA
                                               169

        Sequence Identifier      Amino Acid Sequence
                                 123456789012345
      SEQ ID NO:71               IKKAYRKQA
      SEQ    ID NO:72            IKKAYRKMA
      SEQ    ID NO:73            IKKAYRKIA
      SEQ    ID NO:74            IKKAYRKAA
      SEQ    ID NO:75            IKKAYRKVA
      SEQ    ID NO:76            IKKAYRKRA
      SEQ    ID NO:77            IKKAYRKLM
      SEQ    ID NO:78            IKKAYRKLI
      SEQ    ID NO:79            IKKAYRKLV
      SEQ    ID NO:80            IKKAYRKLC
      SEQ    ID NO:81            IKKAYRKLS
      SEQ    ID NO:82            IKKAYRKLY
      SEQ    ID NO:83            IRKAYRKLSLTL
      SEQ    ID NO:84            IKKQYRLLSLKY
      SEQ    ID NO:85            IKKAFHKLAMKY
      SEQ    ID NO:86            IRQAFKKLALKL
      SEQ    ID NO:87            IIKAYRKLALQW
      SEQ    ID NO:88            IARAYRQLARRY
      SEQ    ID NO:89            IKRAYRRQALRY
      SEQ    ID NO:90            IKKSYRKLALKY
      SEQ    ID NO:91            IKKAYKRLAMKY
24. An isolated nucleic acid molecule comprising a nucleic acid sequence encoding a fusion
    protein according to any one of Claims 14-23.
25. A nucleic acid vector molecule comprising the isolated nucleic acid molecule according to
    Claim 24.
26. A host cell comprising the nucleic acid vector molecule according to Claim 25.
27. A method of expressing a fusion protein comprising a protein expression enhancing
    polypeptide linked to a target protein of interest comprising culturing a host cell according to
    Claim 26 under conditions sufficient to produce the fusion protein.
28. A method of expressing a fusion protein comprising a protein expression enhancing
    polypeptide linked to a target protein of interest comprising transfecting a host cell with an
    expression vector comprising a structural gene encoding a fusion protein according to Claim
    14 and culturing said transfected host cell under conditions causing the expression said fusion
    protein.
                                               170

29. A method of expressing a fusion protein comprising a protein expression enhancing
    polypeptide linked to a target protein of interest comprising the steps of:
             1) constructing a recombinant gene sequence encoding a fusion protein according to
             Claim 14;
             2) inserting the recombinant gene sequence into an expression vector to form a
             recombinant expression vector wherein said recombinant gene sequence is operably
             linked to a transcriptional promoter sequence;
             3) transfecting said recombinant expression vector into host cells that are compatible
             with said promoter sequence; and
             4) culturing said transfected host cells under conditions that permit expression said
             fusion protein.
30. A method of restoring a protein function in cells of a mammalian subject that are deficient in
    the secretion of a native secreted protein that provides said protein function comprising
    inserting into cells of the subject an exogenous nucleic acid molecule encoding a fusion
    protein comprising a protein expression enhancing polypeptide according to Claim 1 linked to
    the secreted protein, wherein expression of the fusion protein provides the function of the
    native secreted protein whose secretion is deficient in cells of the subject in the absence of the
    exogenous nucleic acid.
31. The method according to Claim 30, wherein the subject has a disease associated with the
    deficient secretion of a native secreted protein in the subject.
32. The method according to Claim 31, wherein said disease is selected from the group consisting
    of a prion-associated disease, Alzheimer's disease, Parkinson's disease, Huntington's disease,
    cystic fibrosis (CF), and al-antitrypsin deficiency.
33. The method according to Claim 32, wherein the subject is a human subject deficient in the
    secretion of cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance regulator protein and the disease is
    cystic fibrosis.
34. A fusion protein comprising:
             an isolated protein expression enhancing polypeptide linked to a target protein
    binding domain,
             wherein said isolated protein expression enhancing polypeptide is selected from the
    group consisting of:
                                                171

            (a) an isolated J domain of a J protein;
            (b) an isolated protein expression enhancing polypeptide fragment of a J domain;
            (c) an isolated protein expression enhancing polypeptide analog of a J domain, said J
            domain analog polypeptide comprises the amino acid sequence of formula I:
            (I)      Xl-X2-X3-X4-X5-X6-X7-X8-X9 (SEQ ID NO:47), wherein:
                     X1 is isoleucine (I), leucine (L), valine (V), alanine (A), or methionine (M);
                     X2 and X3 are each independently any amino acid with the proviso that one
                     or both are K or R;
                     X4 is any amino acid or X4 may be absent when X1 through X3 are present
                     and X5 through X9 are present;
                     X5 is tyrosine (Y), tryptophan (W), or phenylalanine (F);
                     X6 and X7 are each independently any amino acid with the proviso that one
                     or both are lysine (K) or arginine (R); or either one of X6 and X7 may be
                     absent when the other is K or R and when X1 through X5 are present and X8
                     and X9 are present; and
                     X8 and X9 are any amino acid with the proviso that one or both are leucine
                     (L) or alanine (A); or one of X8 and X9 may be absent when the other is L or
                     A and when X1 through X7 are present; and
            (d) an isolated protein expression enhancing polypeptide selected from the group of
            decapeptides consisting of:
                     IKKAYKLALQ (SEQ ID NO:49),
                     IKKAYRLALQ (SEQ ID NO:50),
                     IKKAYRKALQ (SEQ ID NO:51), or
                     IKKAYRKLLQ (SEQ ID NO:52).
35. The fusion protein according to Claim 34, wherein the protein expression enhancing
    polypeptide is an isolated J protein.
36. The fusion protein according to Claim 35, wherein the isolated J domain is an isolated J
    domain of an ERdj protein, a large T antigen of SV40, or a mammalian cysteine string protein
    alpha (CSP-a).
37. The fusion protein according to Claim 35, wherein the isolated J domain is an isolated J
    domain of an Erdj protein selected from Erdjl, Erdj2, Erdj3, Erdj4, Erdj5, Erdj6 and Erdj7.
                                                172

38. The fusion protein according to Claim 37, wherein the isolated J domain is an isolated J
    domain of Erdj3.
39. The fusion protein according to Claim 34, wherein the protein expression enhancing
    polypeptide is an isolated protein expression enhancing polypeptide fragment of a J domain.
40. The fusion protein according to Claim 39, wherein the protein expression enhancing
    polypeptide is an isolated protein expression enhancing polypeptide fragment of a J domain
    selected from the group consisting of:
             I-K-K-A-Y-R-K-L-A (SEQ ID NO:48),
             I-R-K-A-Y-R-K-L-S-L-T-L (SEQ ID NO:83),
             I-K-K-Q-Y-R-L-L-S-L-K-Y (SEQ ID NO:84),
             I-K-K-A-F-H-K-L-A-M-K-Y (SEQ ID NO:85),
             I-R-Q-A-F-K-K-L-A-L-K-L (SEQ ID NO:86),
             I-I-K-A-Y-R-K-L-A-L-Q-W (SEQ ID NO:87),
             I-A-R-A-Y-R-Q-L-A-R-R-Y (SEQ ID NO:88),
             I-K-R-A-Y-R-R-Q-A-L-R-Y (SEQ ID NO:89),
             I-K-K-S-Y-R-K-L-A-L-K-Y (SEQ ID NO:90), and
             I-K-K-A-Y-K-R-L-A-M-K-Y (SEQ ID NO:91).
41. The fusion protein according to Claim 34, wherein the protein expression enhancing
    polypeptide is a J domain analog polypeptide, wherein said J domain analog polypeptide
    comprises the amino acid sequence of formula I.
42. The fusion protein according to Claim 41, wherein:
             X1 is I, L, V, A, or M;
             the dipeptide X2-X3 is selected from the group consisting of: KR, KK, RK, RR, AK,
             AR, KA, IK, NK, KQ, RQ, and RD;
             X4 is A, S, T, R, S, Q, E, F, C, or I;
             X5 is Y or F;
             the dipeptide X6-X7 is selected from the group consisting of: KR, KK, RK, RR, RQ,
             FR, RL, KL, HK, LK, QK, and KV; and
             the dipeptide X8-X9 is selected from the group consisting of: LA, LL, AL, AA, LC,
             LV, QA, KA, LS, LI, LY, and RA.
                                                173

43. The fusion protein according to Claim 34, wherein said protein expression enhancing
    polypeptide comprises one of the following amino acid sequences:
        Sequence Identifier     Amino Acid Sequence
                                123456789012345
      SEQ ID NO:48              IKKAYRKLA
      SEQ  ID NO:49             IKKAYKLALQ
      SEQ  ID NO:50             IKKAYRLALQ
      SEQ  ID NO:51             IKKAYRKALQ
      SEQ  ID NO:52             IKKAYRKLLQ
      SEQ  ID NO:53             IKKYRKLA
      SEQ  ID NO:54             IKKAYKLA
      SEQ  ID NO:55             IKKAYRLA
      SEQ  ID NO:56             IKKAYRKA
      SEQ  ID  NO:57            LKKAYRKLA
      SEQ  ID  NO:58           VKKAYRKLA
      SEQ  ID  NO:59           MKKAYRKLA
      SEQ  ID  NO:60           AKKAYRKLA
      SEQ  ID  NO:61            IAKAYRKLA
      SEQ  ID  NO:62            IKAAYRKLA
      SEQ  ID  NO:63            IKKRYRKLA
      SEQ  ID  NO:64            IKKSYRKLA
      SEQ ID NO:65              IKKQYRKLA
      SEQ  ID  NO:66            IKKEYRKLA
      SEQ  ID  NO:67            IKKFYRKLA
      SEQ  ID  NO:68            IKKCYRKLA
      SEQ  ID  NO:69            IKKAFRKLA
      SEQ  ID  NO:70            IKKAWRKLA
      SEQ ID NO:71              IKKAYRKQA
      SEQ  ID  NO:72            IKKAYRKMA
      SEQ  ID  NO:73            IKKAYRKIA
      SEQ  ID  NO:74            IKKAYRKAA
      SEQ  ID  NO:75            IKKAYRKVA
      SEQ  ID  NO:76            IKKAYRKRA
      SEQ  ID  NO:77            IKKAYRKLM
      SEQ  ID  NO:78            IKKAYRKLI
      SEQ  ID  NO:79            IKKAYRKLV
      SEQ  ID  NO:80            IKKAYRKLC
      SEQ  ID  NO:81            IKKAYRKLS
      SEQ  ID  NO:82            IKKAYRKLY
      SEQ  ID  NO:83            IRKAYRKLSLTL
      SEQ  ID  NO:84            IKKQYRLLSLKY
      SEQ  ID  NO:85            IKKAFHKLAMKY
      SEQ  ID  NO:86            IRQAFKKLALKL
      SEQ  ID  NO:87            IIKAYRKLALQW
      SEQ  ID  NO:88            IARAYRQLARRY
      SEQ  ID  NO:89            IKRAYRRQALRY
      SEQ  ID  NO:90            IKKSYRKLALKY
      SEQ  ID  NO:91            IKKAYKRLAMKY
                                             174

44. The fusion protein according to Claim 34, wherein the target protein binding domain is an
    antibody or an antigen-binding fragment thereof, an antibody binding protein, a ligand
    binding domain of a receptor protein, a protein ligand of a receptor protein, a protein antigen
    that is bound by an antibody or an antigen-binding fragment thereof, or a PDZ domain.
45. The fusion protein according to Claim 44, wherein the target protein binding domain is an
    antibody binding protein.
46. The fusion protein according to Claim 45, wherein the antibody binding protein is an Fc
    binding protein.
47. The fusion protein according to Claim 46, wherein the Fc binding protein is Protein A or
    Protein G.
48. The fusion protein according to Claim 45, wherein the antibody binding protein is Protein L.
49. The fusion protein according to Claim 43, wherein said target protein binding domain is a
    ligand binding domain of a receptor protein, wherein the receptor protein is a cytokine
    receptor.
50. The fusion protein according to Claim 44, wherein said target protein binding domain is a
    protein ligand to a receptor protein, wherein the protein ligand is a cytokine.
51. An isolated nucleic acid molecule comprising a nucleic acid sequence encoding a fusion
    protein according to any one of Claims 34-50.
52. A nucleic acid vector molecule comprising the isolated nucleic acid molecule according to
    Claim 51.
53. A host cell comprising the nucleic acid vector molecule according to Claim 52.
54. A method of expressing a fusion protein comprising culturing a host cell according to Claim
    53 under conditions sufficient to produce the fusion protein.
55. A method of enhancing the expression of a target protein of interest expressed by a host cell
    comprising transfecting the host cell with an expression vector comprising a structural gene
                                              175

    encoding a fusion protein comprising a protein expression enhancing polypeptide linked to
    the target protein binding domain according to Claim 34, and culturing said transfected host
    cell under conditions causing the co-expression of said fusion protein encoded by said
    structural gene and of said target protein of interest.
56. A method of enhancing the expression of a target protein of interest comprising the steps of:
             1) constructing a recombinant gene encoding a fusion protein comprising a protein
             expression enhancing polypeptide according to Claim 1 linked a target protein
             binding domain that binds said target protein of interest;
             2) inserting the recombinant gene into an expression vector to form a recombinant
             expression vector wherein said recombinant gene sequence is operably linked to a
             transcriptional promoter sequence;
             3) transfecting said recombinant expression vector into host cells that are compatible
             with said promoter sequence; and
             4) culturing said transfected host cells under conditions that permit co-expression of
             said fusion protein encoded by said recombinant gene and of said target protein of
             interest.
57. A method of restoring a secreted protein function in cells of a mammalian subject that are
    deficient in the secretion of a native secreted protein that provides said secreted protein
    function comprising inserting into cells of the subject an exogenous nucleic acid molecule
    encoding a fusion protein comprising a protein expression enhancing polypeptide according
    to Claim 1 linked to a target protein binding domain that binds the native secreted protein,
    wherein expression of the fusion protein and the native secreted protein in the cells enhances
    secretion of said native protein to provide said protein function to the cells of the subject.
58. The method according to Claim 57, wherein the subject has a disease associated with the
    deficient secretion of the native protein in the subject.
59. The method according to Claim 58, wherein said disease is selected from the group consisting
    of a prion-associated disease, Alzheimer's disease, Parkinson's disease, Huntington's disease,
    cystic fibrosis (CF), and al-antitrypsin (AAT) deficiency.
60. The method according to Claim 59, wherein the subject is a human subject deficient in the
    secretion of cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance regulator protein and the disease is
    cystic fibrosis.
                                                176

61.  The method according to Claim 59, wherein the subject is a human subject deficient in
     secretion of AAT and the disease is AAT deficiency.
                          SOLA Biosciences LLC
    Patent Attorneys for the Applicant/Nominated Person
                        SPRUSON & FERGUSON
                                            177

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
