ABSTRACT
The present invention relates to a lottery system for redirecting an online lottery client to
impede crashing owing to increased traffic during a lottery jackpot, the system including: node
servers, comprising one or more processors and memory, including a first node server and a
second node server, wherein the first node server is configured to receive a first request from
the online lottery client; and a broker server, comprising one or more processors and memory,
and configured to indicate to the first node server that the second node server is allocated to
the online lottery client, so that on receipt of a subsequent request from the online lottery client
at the first node server, the first node server redirects the online lottery client to the second
node server to complete the subsequent request, to distribute traffic among node servers and
impede crashing.

                                             1
   A LOTTERY SYSTEM
   TECHNICAL FIELD
 5 The present invention generally relates to lottery systems.
   BACKGROUND
   The reference to any prior art in this specification is not, and should not be
10 taken as an acknowledgement or any form of suggestion that the prior art
   forms part of the common general knowledge.
   Lottery is a form of gaming which involves the drawing of numbers for a prize
   pool.
15
   In recent times, lottery tickets can be purchased online and over the Internet
   by clients. A known lottery system for enabling the online purchase of lottery
   tickets is disclosed in AU 2007221934. The system includes a number of
   clients connected to an agent server via the Internet. The agent server, in
20 turn, can purchase lottery tickets for the clients from a state lottery
   administrator.
   In the event that a winner is not identified for successive lottery draws, the
   prize pool of the lottery jackpots. In turn, there is increased demand for buying
25 lottery tickets for larger jackpots. The increased online traffic when large
   numbers of clients attempt to concurrently purchase tickets through the agent
   server can cause the agent server to crash, thereby preventing the purchase
   of lottery tickets before the lottery draw. In particular, the traffic immediately
   before a lottery draw spikes significantly which slows traffic, and it is
30 imperative that ticket orders are placed before the draw to ensure the integrity
   of the online ordering process. Otherwise, in the event of failed ticket
   purchases, players will be dissuaded from purchasing tickets online in the
   future.

                                              2
   It is an object of the present invention to provide an online lottery system
   resistant to crashing owing to increased traffic during a lottery jackpot.
   SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
 5
   According to one aspect of the present invention, there is provided a lottery
   system for redirecting an online lottery client to impede crashing owing to
   increased traffic during a lottery jackpot, the system including:
            node servers, comprising one or more processors and memory,
10 including a first node server and a second node server, wherein the first node
   server is configured to receive a first request from the online lottery client; and
            a broker server, comprising one or more processors and memory, and
   configured to indicate to the first node server that the second node server is
   allocated to the online lottery client, so that on receipt of a subsequent request
15 from the online lottery client at the first node server, the first node server
   redirects the online lottery client to the second node server to complete the
   subsequent request, to distribute traffic among node servers and impede
   crashing.
20
   The lottery system may include an agent system for selling lottery tickets
   provided by a state lottery administrator over a virtual private network (VPN),
   the agent system including the node servers and broker server.
25 The agent system may further include an ordering server for placing lottery
   ticket orders with the state lottery administrator for the client.
   The broker server, node servers and ordering server may be privately
   interconnected (e.g. using a VPN) so that in the event of a node crash, only a
30 subset of the nodes are inoperable and some clients allocated to operating
   node servers are still able to order lottery tickets.
   The agent system may further include a client administration server to
   facilitate reporting and management of lottery ticket sales to the client. The

                                             3
   lottery system may further include an administration client privately connected
   to the client administration server to administer ticket sales.
   Within a predetermined period before a lottery draw, the broker server may
 5 indicate to the first node server that the second node server having the least
   amount of traffic of the node servers is allocated to the client.
   The second node server may be allocated to the client on the basis of the
   number of lottery tickets purchased over time using at least one of the node
   servers. The second node server may be allocated to the client on the basis of
10 the client's account type whereby the second node server provides enhanced
   lottery features available to only clients with a certain account type when
   compared with another node server that does not provide for such enhanced
   features.
15 The broker server may be configured to check an associated database for
   credentials relating to the client, before databases associated with the node
   servers are checked.
   According to another aspect of the present invention, there is provided a
20 lottery redirection method for redirecting an online lottery client, the method
   comprising:
           receiving, at a first node server, a first request from the online lottery
   client;
           indicating, by a broker server, comprising one or more processors and
25 memory, to a first node server that a second node server is allocated to the
   online lottery client so that the first node server can redirect the online lottery
   client to the second node server; and
           subsequently receiving, at the first node server, a second request from
   the online lottery client; and
30         in response to the second request, and the indication by the broker
   server, redirecting the online lottery client to the second node server.
   Preferably, the broker server functions as an intermediary between clients and
   the node servers to allocate the clients among the node servers so that the

                                             4
   possibility of node servers crashing owing to high traffic is reduced. In the
   event of a crash, only a subset of the nodes may be inoperable and therefore
   some clients allocated to operating node servers would still be able to
   purchase lottery tickets. Advantageously, additional nodes may be readily
 5 incorporated for improved scalability of the online lottery system.
   The method may further include the step of the first node server redirecting
   the client to the allocated second node server.
10 The second node server may allocated to the client on the basis of one or
   more of: random distribution pattern to ensure that all node servers are at
   some time utilized to some extent; geographic location of the client relative to
   at least one of the node servers; number of clients allocated to at least one of
   the node servers, historical or current processor load and memory usage of at
15 least one of the node servers; number of lottery tickets purchased over time
   using at least one of the node servers, the client's account type whereby one
   server may provide enhanced features when compared with another server.
   In a first embodiment, the method may be part of an online sign-up
20 (subscription) procedure for the client. The information may include an
   allocation request relating to allocating a node server to the lottery client.
   Between the steps of the broker server receiving and indicating, the method
   may further involve allocating, with the broker server, a second node server to
25 the lottery client in response to the allocation request.
   Prior to the step of the broker server receiving, the method may further involve
   the first node server receiving a sign-up request from the lottery client.
   Subsequent to the first node server redirecting, the method may further
30 include the step of the second node server handling the sign-up of the client.
   In a second embodiment, the method may be part of an online login
   procedure for a signed-up client already having associated stored login

                                             5
   credentials. The information may include an identification request relating to
   identifying the second node server already allocated to the lottery client.
   Prior to the step of the broker server receiving information, the method may
 5 further include the step of the first node server determining that received login
   credentials from the client are not stored in a first node database associated
   with the first node server.
   Subsequent to the first node redirecting, the method may further include the
10 step of the second node server handling login of the client.
   The step of the broker server indicating may be performed responsive to the
   broker server matching stored login credentials associated with the second
   node server with received login credentials from the client.
15
   Alternatively, between the steps of a broker server receiving and indicating,
   the method may involve the steps of:
         the broker server not locating the received login credentials in a broker
   database associated with the broker server;
20       the broker server sending the received credentials to the second node
   server;
         the second node server indicating to the broker server that it is allocated
   to the client whereby the received login credentials are stored in a second
   node database associated with the second node server.
25
   The method may further include the step of the broker storing the login
   credentials in the broker database.
   The method may further involve the steps of:
30       the broker server unsuccessfully attempting to locate login credentials in
   any node servers;
         the broker server notifying the first node server of an unsuccessful login;
   and
         the first node server notifying the client of the unsuccessful login.

                                           6
   BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
   Preferred features, embodiments and variations of the invention may be
 5 discerned from the following Detailed Description which provides sufficient
   information for those skilled in the art to perform the invention. The Detailed
   Description is not to be regarded as limiting the scope of the preceding
   Summary of the Invention in any way. The Detailed Description will make
   reference to a number of drawings as follows:
10
   Figure 1 is a schematic diagram of a lottery redirection system in accordance
   with an embodiment of the present invention;
   Figure 2 is a flowchart showing a redirection method performed using the
15 system of Figure 1 and during client sign-up in accordance with a first
   embodiment of the present invention; and
   Figure 3 is a flowchart showing a redirection method performed using the
   system of Figure 1 and during client login in accordance with a second
20 embodiment of the present invention.
   DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF PREFERRED EMBODIMENTS
   According to an embodiment of the present invention, there is provided a
25 redirection system 100 for redirecting an online lottery client 102a as shown in
   Figure 1. The system 100 is configured to initially receive information from a
   first node server 104a relating to the connected lottery client 102a.       The
   system 100 is configured to then indicate to the first node server 104a that a
   second node server 104b is allocated to the client 102a so that the first node
30 server 104a can redirect the client 102a to the second node server 104b.
   The redirection system 100 includes an agent system 106 for selling tickets
   provided by a state lottery administrator 108 over a virtual private network
   (VPN) 110. In turn, the agent system 106 includes a broker server 112 which

                                            7
   functions as an intermediary between clients 102 and the node servers 104 to
   allocate the clients 102 among the node servers 104 so that the possibility of
   node servers 104 crashing owing to high online traffic is reduced. In the event
   of a crash, only a subset of the nodes 104 would be inoperable and therefore
 5 some clients 102a allocated to operating node servers 104 are still able to
   purchase lottery tickets. Advantageously, additional node servers 104 can be
   readily incorporated into the system 100 for improved scalability.
   The clients 102 are each connected to one of the nodes 104 via the Internet
10 113. In contrast, the broker server 112 and node servers 104 of the agent
   system 106 are interconnected by a VPN, local area network (LAN), wide area
   network (WAN), or other like network. In practice, the node servers 104 can
   be located in different geographic locations with, for example, a first node
   server 104a being located in San Francisco and a second node server being
15 located in Los Angeles. Each node server 104 has an associated database
   114 for storing local client accounts relating to its allocated clients 102. Each
   client account includes login credentials (e.g. login, password, etc.) for an
   associated client 102. The broker server 112 has an associated internal
   database for global storing of all the local client accounts, with each client
20 account being associated with an allocated node server 104 for that client
   102.
   The agent system 106 also includes an ordering gateway server 116 for
   placing lottery ticket orders with the state lottery administrator 108 for the
25 clients 102. Furthermore, the system 100 includes a client administration node
   server 118 to facilitate reporting and management of lottery ticket sales to the
   clients 102. An administration client 120 (including agent staff) is connected to
   the client administration node server 118 via a VPN 122 and administers the
   ticket sales, reporting, etc.
30
   According to a first specific embodiment of the present invention, there is
   provided a redirection method 200 shown in Figure 2 for redirecting the online
   lottery client 102a as part of an online sign-up (subscription) procedure for the
   client 102a.

                                           8
   As step 202, the unsigned client 102a is initially connected to a first node
   server 104a. The first node server 104a receives a sign-up request from the
   lottery client 102a when the client submits a completed online sign-up form to
 5 the first node server 104a.
   At step 204, the broker server 112 receives an allocation request (i.e.
   information) from the first node server 104a relating to the lottery client 102a.
   In particular, the allocation request relates to allocating an appropriate node
10 server 104 to the lottery client 102a.
   At step 206, the broker server 112 allocates a second node server 104b to the
   lottery client 102a in response to the allocation request. The second node
   server 104b can be allocated to the client 102a on the basis of: sequential
15 round-robin allocation among the node servers 104; one or more of a random
   distribution pattern which ensures that all node servers 104 are at some time
   utilized to some extent; geographic location of the client 102a (e.g. Pasadena)
   relative to at least one of the node servers 104; number of clients 102a
   allocated to at least one of the node servers 104, historical or current
20 processor load and memory usage of at least one of the node servers 104;
   number of lottery tickets purchased over time using at least one of the node
   servers 104; and the client's account type whereby one node server 104a may
   provide enhanced lottery features (e.g. multi-draw tickets) available to only
   clients with a certain account type when compared with another node server
25 104b that does not provide for such enhanced features (rather only basic
   features such a single draw tickets).
   At step 208, the broker server 112 indicates to the first node server 104a that
   the second node server 104b is allocated to the client 102a so that the first
30 node server 104a can redirect the client 102a to the second node server
   104b.
   At step 210, the first node server 104a redirects the client 102a to the
   allocated second node server 104b.

                                              9
   At step 212, the allocated second node server 104b handles, to at least some
   extent, the sign-up of the client 102a.
 5 At step 214, the client 102b is signed up to the second node server 104b. The
   second node server 104b locally stores the client account in its database
   114b. The client account is also globally stored in the broker server's
   database where it is associated with the allocated node server 104b for that
   client 102a. Accordingly, allocated node server 104b will be used to handle
10 future lottery ticket purchases or enquiries for the client 102a.
   According to a second specific embodiment of the present invention, there is
   provided a redirection method 300 shown in Figure 3 for redirecting the
   signed-up lottery client 102a as part of a login procedure for the client 102a.
15 As previously discussed, the lottery client 102a already has an associated
   stored client account that includes the client's login credentials.
   At step 302, the client 102a is initially connected to the first node server 104a.
   The first node server 104a receives login credentials from the client 102a.
20
   At step 304, the first node server 104a determines whether or not the received
   login credentials are stored in a client account in the first node database 11 4a.
   If the received login credentials are stored in the first node database 114a,
   then the client is logged in at step 306. Alternatively, if the received login
25 credentials are not stored in the first node database 114a, then the method
   proceeds to step 308.
   At step 308, the first node server 104a sends an identification request (i.e.
   information), including the received credentials, to the broker server 112. The
30 identification request relates to identifying the second node server 104b (or
   other server 104c) which is already allocated to the lottery client 102a.
   At step 310, the broker server 112 receives the identification request from the
   first node server 104a relating to the lottery client 102a. The broker server 112

                                            10
   determines whether or not it has stored a client account with stored login
   credentials matching the received login credentials. If there is no match, the
   method 300 proceeds to step 312 to double check whether another node
   server 104 is in fact allocated to the client 102a in spite of the allocation not
 5 being globally stored. If there is a match and the globally stored account is
   associated with the second node server 104b indicating that the client 102a is
   allocated to that second node server 104b, then the method 300 proceeds to
   step 314.
10 At step 314, the broker server 112 indicates to the first node server 104a that
   the second node server 104b is allocated to the client 102a so that the first
   node server 104a can redirect the client 102a to the second node server
   104b.
15 At step 316, the first node server 104a redirects the client 102a to the
   allocated second node server 104b.
   At step 318, the second node server 104b handles, at least in part, login of the
   client 102a and the client 102a is then logged in at step 306 as previously
20 indicated.
   Returning to step 312 whereby the broker server 112 previously did not locate
   the received login credentials stored in the broker database, the broker server
   112 sends the received credentials to the second node server 104b and any
25 other node servers 104c.
   At step 320, the second node server 104b (and any other node servers 104c)
   determines whether or not there is stored in the database 114b (or database
   114c) a client account with stored login credentials matching the received
30 login credentials. If there is no match, the method 300 proceeds to step 322 to
   reject the login. If there is a match and the locally stored account is associated
   with the second node server 104b indicating that the client 102a is allocated to
   that second node server 104b, then the method 300 proceeds to step 324.

                                             11
   At step 324, the second node server 104b indicates to the broker server 112
   that it is allocated to the client 102a.
   At step 326, the broker server 112 globally stores the client account, including
 5 the login credentials, in the broker database prior to indicating to the first node
   server 104a that the second node server 104b is allocated to the client 102a
   at step 314 as previously discussed.
   Returning to step 322 whereby previously the received login credentials were
10 not stored in the second node server database 114b (or any other database
   114c), the broker server 112 has unsuccessfully attempted to locate the
   received login credentials in any node servers 104 as each node server 104
   responded confirming no login credential match.
15 At step 328, the broker server 114 notifies the first node server 104a of an
   unsuccessful login.
   At step 330, the first node server 104a notifies the connected client 102a of
   the unsuccessful login.
20
   At step 332, the login is rejected by the first node server 104a.
   In accordance with the foregoing, a client 102a is initially redirected to an
   appropriate second node server 104b upon sign-up and continues to be
25 redirected (if necessary) to that allocated second node server 104b when later
   logging in to place ticket orders. The system 100 has distinct advantages in
   terms of handling heavy online traffic and scalability when compared with a
   single server handling all of the traffic which is currently known.
30 A person skilled in the art will appreciate that many embodiments and
   variations can be made without departing from the ambit of the present
   invention.

                                           12
   In one embodiment, there is no lottery agent and the redirection method is
   handled by the lottery administrator directly.
   The    preferred   embodiments      were   described  in  relation  to  sign-up
 5 (subscription) and login procedures, although the present invention is also
   applicable to other online lottery procedures such as ordering lottery tickets
   and checking lottery tickets, for example.
   In one embodiment, within a predetermined period (e.g. 1 hour) before a
10 lottery draw, the broker server 112 may allocate clients 102 to the node server
   104 having the least amount of traffic. In this manner, the broker server 112
   may indicate to a first node server 104a that a second node server 104b is
   allocated to the client 102a because the second node server 104b has the
   least amount of traffic of the node servers 104.
15
   In compliance with the statute, the invention has been described in language
   more or less specific to structural or methodical features. It is to be
   understood that the invention is not limited to specific features shown or
   described since the means herein described comprises preferred forms of
20 putting the invention into effect.

                                           13
The claims defining the invention are as follows:
1.      A lottery system for redirecting an online lottery client to impede
crashing owing to increased traffic during a lottery jackpot, the system
including:
        node servers, comprising one or more processors and memory,
including a first node server and a second node server, wherein the first node
server is configured to receive a first request from the online lottery client; and
        a broker server, comprising one or more processors and memory, and
configured to indicate to the first node server that the second node server is
allocated to the online lottery client, so that on receipt of a subsequent request
from the online lottery client at the first node server, the first node server
redirects the online lottery client to the second node server to complete the
subsequent request, to distribute traffic among node servers and impede
crashing.
2.      The lottery system of Claim 1, including an agent system for selling
lottery tickets provided by a state lottery administrator, the agent system
including the node servers and broker server.
3.      The lottery system of Claim 2, wherein the agent system further
includes an ordering server for placing lottery ticket orders with the state
lottery administrator for the online lottery client.
4.      The lottery system of Claim 3, wherein the broker server, node servers
and ordering server are interconnected so that in the event of a node crash,
only a subset of the node servers are inoperable and a client allocated to a
node server that is operable is able to order lottery tickets.
5.      The lottery system of Claim 3, wherein the agent system further
includes a client administration server to facilitate reporting and management
of lottery ticket sales to the online lottery client.

                                          14
6.      The lottery system of Claim 5, further including an administration client
connected to the client administration server to administer ticket sales.
7.      The lottery system of Claim 1 wherein, within a predetermined period
before a lottery draw, the second node server is allocated to the online lottery
client because the second node server has the least amount of traffic of the
node servers.
8.      The lottery system of Claim 1, wherein the second node server is
allocated to the client according to a number of lottery tickets purchased by
the online lottery client.
9.      The lottery system of Claim 1, wherein the second node server is
allocated to the online lottery client on the basis of the online lottery client's
account type whereby the second node server provides enhanced lottery
features available to clients with a certain account type only.
10.     The lottery system of Claim 1, wherein the broker server is configured
to check an associated database for credentials relating to the online lottery
client, before databases associated with the node servers are checked.
11.     A lottery redirection method for redirecting an online lottery client, the
method comprising:
        receiving, at a first node server, a first request from the online lottery
client;
        indicating, by a broker server, comprising one or more processors and
memory, to a first node server that a second node server is allocated to the
online lottery client so that the first node server can redirect the online lottery
client to the second node server; and
        subsequently receiving, at the first node server, a second request from
the online lottery client; and
        in response to the second request, and the indication by the broker
server, redirecting the online lottery client to the second node server.

                                         15
12.     The method of Claim 11, further comprising: placing lottery ticket
orders for the online lottery client over a private connection with the state
lottery administrator.
13.     The method of Claim 12, wherein in the event of a node crash, only a
subset of the node servers are inoperable and a client allocated to a node
server that is operable is able to order lottery tickets.
14.     The method of Claim 11, further comprising: reporting and lottery ticket
sales to the online lottery client.
15.     The method of Claim 11 further comprising: within a predetermined
period before a lottery draw, allocating the second node server is to the online
lottery client because the second node server has the least amount of traffic of
the node servers.
16.     The method of Claim 11, further comprising: allocating the second
node server to the online lottery client according to a number of lottery tickets
purchased by the online lottery client.
17.     The method of Claim 11, further comprising: allocating the second
node server to the online lottery client on the basis of the online lottery client's
account type whereby the second node server provides enhanced lottery
features available to only clients with a certain account type when compared
with another node server that does not provide for such enhanced features.
18.     The method of Claim 11, further comprising: checking a broker server
database for credentials relating to the online lottery client, before checking
node servers databases.
19.     The method of Claim 11 wherein, prior to the broker server indicating,
the method further comprising: the broker server receiving an indication from
the first node server that the online lottery client is connected to the first node
server.

                                       16
20.     The method of Claim 19 wherein, between the broker server receiving
and indicating, the method comprising:
the broker server not locating received login credentials from the online lottery
client in a broker database associated with the broker server;
the broker server sending the received credentials to the second node server;
and
the second node server indicating to the broker server that it is allocated to
the online lottery client because the received login credentials are stored in a
second node database associated with the second node server.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
