ABSTRACT
An adjustable gudgeon pin assembly which when fitted to the lower member of a round
steel post hinge set allows a gate to be supported in multiple fixed positions and also in
non-fixed positions in a longitudinal direction away from the post

                                                                                          P/00/011
                                                                                     Regulation 3.2
                                       AUSTRALIA
                                       Patents Act 1990
                            COMPLETE SPECIFICATION
                                 INNOVATION PATENT
Application Date:          2 February 2018
Applicants:                 Ronald George Ovenden
                           87 Seaton St Armidale NSW 2350
Address for Service:                Ronald George Ovenden
                           87 Seaton St ARMIDALE NSW 2350
                           AUSTRALIA
Complete Specification for the invention entitled:
                       "MULTI POSITION GUDGEON ASSEMBLY"
The following statement is a full description of this invention, including the best method of
performing it known to me:

                                             Z
                           MULTI POSITION GUDGEON ASSEMBLY
FIELD OF THE INVENTION
The present invention relates to a Gudgeon Pin assembly that forms part of a gate hinge
set used widely in rural and commercial applications for the purpose of attaching steel pipe
gates to steel pipe gate posts. In particular, the present invention relates to a combination
of parts that make up the gudgeon pin assembly that provide possibilities of both fixed
positions and variable positioning of the pin and will be described hereinafter with
reference to these applications.
BACKGROUND
The present invention has been developed to provide heretofore unavailable options to the
users of bolt on hinges, described in more detail below. Bolt on hinges provide the user
with significant advantages over other options and to give context I will describe the
current known hinging systems used to attach rural style steel pipe gates to round steel
gate posts. Reference will not be made to hinging systems for timber posts as that
application is outside the scope of the present invention.
Method 1 is attachment by Welding. Benefits of this method include, superior strength, the
ability to utilize simple and economical hinges of lesser structural strength and complexity
and the ability to utilize general purpose hinges that can be welded to any number of
different combinations of shapes and sizes of post and gate material. There are some
significant disadvantages of this method, when compared to using bolt on hinges. These
include the need for expensive plant, lack of aesthetics in the finished products, reduced
lifespan due to corrosion and no adjustment.
Method 2 is attachment by means of bolts. These can be further defined by two main
types, bolt-on or bolt-thru hinges. These two bolting methods and their unique features
need to be described in order to give background to the benefit of the present invention.
The present invention relates to users of the bolt-on type hinge.
Bolt-on hinges rely on the clamping action achieved by bolting members of a bolt-on hinge
assembly together to encircle the post. Bolt-on hinges, (or any like hinge that encircles and
captures the post and gate by means of two opposed concave formed members clamped
together with bolts whether it be formed from two interlocking pieces or a single piece of
the same profile) will be hereafter referred to as a "bolt-on hinges" as described.

                                                    3
Benefits of bolt-on hinges include but are not limited to the following, ability to fix gates to
posts without compromising the surface finishes, ability to fix gates to posts without site
power, ability to fit gates without expensive equipment and specialized skills, ability to
remove and reuse hinges without damage to hinge, gate or post, and ability to fit gates
without producing heat, sparks or fumes.
Bolt-thru hinges are not commonly used on steel post but must be described in order to
provide background. They consist of an upper and lower circular threaded rod. The lower
rod is terminated at one end by a gudgeon pin that is fixed perpendicularly to the rod and
inserted vertically into the hollow outer frame of the gate, thus supporting it at the base.
The upper rod is terminated at the same end by a 1800 bend that allows the rod to
encircles the gate section and support and hold the upper section of the gate in place.
These rods are attached to the post by means of the penetrations on either side of the
post, allowing the threaded member to pass through and protrude from either opening.
These threaded protrusions allow the rod to be firmly secured by means of nuts on either
side of the post. Furthermore, by altering the position of the nuts along the threaded rod in
relation to the post it allows the horizontal angle of the gate to be altered to suit rising or
falling ground levels in the gateway. The gate can be both secure from sagging and
adjustable
While this feature is superior to current bolt on hinges, there are a number of inferior
outcomes when compared with bolt-on hinges.
These include the following. Firstly, in order to provide penetrations in the post to allow
fixing of the bolt thru hinge, the post must be drilled or holes created by flame cutting.
Drilling after installation is too difficult for most users, so flame cutting is the only option.
This defaces the posts, weakens them and encourages rust, is very laborious, time
consuming, and expensive. The risk of fire is even higher than welding. Another
inconvenience is the fact that once bolt-thru hinges are installed they can not moved up or
down the post, or hinged from the other side of the gate way, preventing the user from
making changes at a later date.
 It is evident from the comparison of the various methods that the advantages achieved by
use of the bolt-on method make their use essential in many situations. The only significant
disadvantage of bolt on hinges currently available when compared with bolt thru hinges is
in their inability to secure the gudgeon in such a manner that a long gate can be both

                                                4
secure from risk of sagging and yet, still allow the user the option of adjustment should he
so wish.
The object of the present invention is to overcome this limitation, offering features
heretofore unavailable to the user of bolt-on hinges, (or any like hinge that encircles and
captures the post and gate by means of two opposed concave formed members clamped
together with bolts whether it be formed from two interlocking pieces or a single piece of
the same profile). All previous and currently known available "bolt-on hinges for round
posts" or their equivalent as referred in the above text (hereafter referred to as "bolt-on
hinges") as described, have a distinct limitation in that the gudgeon pin must be either
fixed or adjustable, but not both.
The nature of the currently available gudgeon pin assemblies that support the lower
portion of the gate are such that the user must decide prior to installation whether to
purchase an adjustable or a fixed pin design. Both options offer the user different benefits.
A current limitation is the user is faced with a compromise, and must purchase one or the
other, rather than being able to choose the best option at the point of installation.
 In order to provide context, one needs to be cognoscente with the benefits offered by the
two options. When a gate is fitted to a post with a non-adjustable bolt-on hinge, (fixed
gudgeon position), the distance between the gate and the post is fixed and cannot be
altered. The ability to adjust the distance between the gate and the post allows the gate
angle to be adjusted to compensate for sloping sites and posts that are not vertical. Fitting
a gate with a fixed pin gudgeon in this situation can result in poor appearance, interference
with the ground or alternatively unacceptable clearances that compromise the stock
proofing properties of the gate.
While adjustable gudgeon pins substantially overcome the above limitations, there are
application where adjustable pins do not perform acceptably. Gates that are longer than
average, these being in excess of 4200cm, or heavier than average, e.g., 32nb or larger,
place significant additional force on the gudgeon pin assembly, causing the gudgeon to
move. Used in this application all currently available adjustable hinges work loose over
time, allowing the gate angle to change. As a result, fixed pins have been used in this
application, but when slopes and post inaccuracies are present a fixed pin leaves the gate
angle higher of lower than ideal. The three fixed pin positions that the present invention

                                                 5
offers, substantially remove the above limitation by allowing the user three gate angle
positions to compensate for slopes and post inaccuracies.
An object of the present invention is to allow the user of the bolt-on hinges to make a
decision regarding the choice between a fixed or adjustable gudgeon based on that best
suited to the application, by providing a hinge assembly that can be either fixed or
adjustable. Previous to this invention the user would need to assess each gate opening
and specifically purchase the hinge type best able to match to the application. Having a
solution for both options with the same hinge set reduces inventory on the part of the
supplier and saves the user significant cost and time.
A further object of the current invention is to utilize a novel and unique reversible locking
washer to achieve this dual-purpose gudgeon pin assembly. The said washer can be
installed to facilitate fixing the gudgeon pin in the locked position, or when reversed, allows
the gudgeon pin assembly to be fully adjustable.
A further object, by means of the unique reversible washer, is to allow the user to select
the locking or adjustable option without removing the gate from the gudgeon pin, meaning
that at any time, should the situation change, the user can fix the pin or render it fully
adjustable, while the gate remains in place.
A further object of the current invention is to provide the user with the option of three fixed
positions for the gate angle setting, low, horizontal and high. All previous bolt-on hinges
known to me have only offered the user one horizontal gate angle option.
A further object of the invention is to allow the manufacturer the benefit of offering one
product that satisfies the needs of the market, where previously two similar products were
required to meet customer requirement.
SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
The present invention provides an assembly that can support a gudgeon pin in three fixed
positions, and when the same parts are assembled in an alternative combination, they
allow the pin position to be adjustable. This assembly includes a "C" shaped clamping
member that is arranged to fit between the two interlocking members of the two-part bolt-

                                                b
on hinge. The member encloses the top and bottom horizontal faces of the semi-circular
section of the hinge that protrudes out from the post and captures the gate. It applies
clamping pressure to the same by means of a vertical cylindrical shaft passing through and
capturing the top face of the clamping member by means of a square shoulder in
conjunction with a square holed washer and continuing on through the bottom horizontal
section of the clamping member after which it is secured with a nut and a customized
washer by means of a threaded portion on the lower extremity of the shaft. Both horizontal
faces of the member are characterized by a central longitudinal slot allowing the pin to
pass vertically through the upper and lower faces of the member and move horizontally
along the slot. The bottom face is further characterized by two rectangular tabs bent
upwards at 900 to form vertical lugs, located on both outer longitudinal edges, midway
along member, pressed out of the existing horizontal face, also leaving a rectangular
cavity in the horizontal face where the material is pressed upward. Two further cavities are
created on both outer longitudinal edges further along the member by removing material
from either edge of the member. The resulting horizontal member thus has two matching
sets of rectangular holes, one set midway, and one set close to the end of the member.
The customized washer that rests against the lower horizontal member is also
characterized by two rectangular tabs bent upwards at 900 to form vertical lugs. These
lugs extend beyond the circular section of the washer, formed such that the two lugs on
the washer align and rest within the cavities forms in the horizontals face of the "C" shaped
member against which the washer rests. The affect of this alignment is such that when the
lugs on the washer are inserted into either set of cavities in the "C" shaped member the
washer is held in a fixed position. In this position the pin passing through the washer is
also fixed. When the washer is reversed, the vertical lugs no longer interfere with the
horizontal face of the "C" shaped member, and allow the gudgeon pin to move along the
slotted hole, thus allowing the pin to be adjusted to any position along the slot.
 BREIF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
Embodiment of the present invention will now be described, by way of an example only,
with reference to the accompanying drawings in which:
Figure 1 shows the 'C" shaped plate from a perspective view from the top according to an
embodiment of the present invention

                                              7
Figure 2 shows an elevation view from below of the 'C"shaped plate according to an
embodiment of the present invention.
Figure 3 shows a perspective view from above of the customized locking washer
according to an embodiment of the present invention.
Figure 4 shows a perspective view from below of the adjustable gudgeon pin assembly
with the locking washer located in the horizontal gate angle setting as shown in Figure 11
(131) according to an embodiment of the present invention.
Figure 5 shows a perspective view from above of the adjustable gudgeon pin assembly
with the locking washer located in the upward gate angle setting as shown in Figure 11
(132) according to an embodiment of the present invention.
Figure 6 shows a perspective view from above of the adjustable gudgeon pin assembly
with the locking washer assembled in the reverse position according to an embodiment of
the present invention.
Figure 7 shows a front elevation view of the adjustable gudgeon pin assembly with the
locking washer assembled in the adjustable position according to an embodiment of the
present invention.
Figure 8 shows a front elevation view of the adjustable gudgeon pin assembly with the
locking washer assembled in the locking position according to an embodiment of the
present invention.
Figure 9 shows an exploded view of the adjustable gudgeon pin assembly with the locking
washer assembled in the locking position according to an embodiment of the present
invention.
Figure 10 shows a perspective view from above of the adjustable gudgeon pin assembly
as shown in Figures 3 to 7, being used in conjunction with a two-part hinge according to an
embodiment of the present invention.
Figure 11 shows a perspective view of a bolt-on style gate kit being used to attach a steel
pipe gate to steel pipe gate posts.

                                               8
Figure 12 shows three side elevation views of a steel pipe gates attached to steel pipe
gate posts, with the three views showing how the three fixed pin positions affect the
horizontal gate angle.
DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION
Figure 1 shows the "C" shaped clamping member (102) which in conjunction with the
custom washer embodied in Figure 3a(103), and the gudgeon pin in Figure 4-(100), form
the critical components of present invention. The custom washer (103) as embodied in
Figure 3, by means of its two rectangular tabs bent upwards at 900 to form vertical lugs
shown in Figure 3-(11OA &1 OB), align with the cavities as embodied in Figure 2- (107 and
108) in the lower section of member (102). This alignment secures the washer by means
of the interference of the lugs with the edges of the cavities, thus locking it in place. With
the washer thus locked in position it provides a means by which the gudgeon pin that
passes through it can be retained. The gudgeon pin passes through the upper and lower
vertical slotted holes of member (102) as embodied in Figure 4-(105 and 106) then
extends through the locking washer (103) as embodied in Figure 4. The shaft of the pin is
retained by the washer that is clamped in place by means of the threaded nut (104). By
this means the gudgeon pin (100), is prevented from moving horizontally along the slotted
holes (105 and 106) in member (102).
Figures 10-12 show the present invention being used in its intended application, that being
to be used in conjunction with two-part hinges for the purpose of attaching a steel pipe
gate to a steel pipe gate posts. Figure 12 shows the three horizontal gate angle variations
that are achieved by means of the different locking positions of the custom washer (103),
these being Elevated, Figure 12-(130), Horizontal (131), and Lowered (132). These locking
positions are achieved by the current invention in the following manner.
Figure 4 shows the locking washer (103) engaged in the cavity (107) as embodied in
Figure 1 and 2, that being the required locking position to facilitate a horizontal gate angle
position as embodied in Figure 12-(131).

                                                 9
Figure 5 shows the locking washer (103) engaged in the cavity (109) as embodied in
 Figure 1 and 2, that being the required locking position to facilitate an elevated gate angle
position as embodied in Figure 12-(130).
 Figure 6 shows the locking washer (103) in the reverse position as embodied in figure 7
and it also shows the gudgeon pin at the rearmost extremity of its adjustment, that being
the position whereby the pin is nearest to the gate post, thus providing the user with the
third fixed pin position. The pin location at the extreme inside edge of the slotted holes as
embodied in Figure 6- (105&106) prevents movement, that being the required locking
position to facilitate a lowered gate angle position as embodied in Figure 12-(132).
Figure 7 and 8 show the locking washer in the adjustable and locked positions
respectively. The present invention provides a very economically manufactured and
simplistic manual method of transforming a fixed pin gudgeon into an adjustable gudgeon.
When the washer is positioned so the lugs embodied in Figure 3-(11 0A & 11 OB) are facing
up, the washer will lock in the horizontal and upper angle positions. When the washer is
positioned so the lugs are facing down the pin becomes fully adjustable and can be
positioned at any point along the slotted hole as embodied in Figure 1-(105 &106).
The present invention differs from all previous attempts in that it allows the user to choose
between three fixed gate angle positions as well as an adjustable option. A further unique
feature of the present invention is that due to the custom washer 103, and the lugs on the
"C" shaped member being on the bottom face rather than the top face as embodied in
Figure 1, adjustment of the fixed positions and reversing of the custom washer can take
place while the gate remains in situ.

                                                  10
CLAIMS
 1.    An assembly that supports and attaches a longitudinally adjustable gudgeon pin to a
bolt-on hinge for round steel uprights that is such, that by adjusting the position of the
components of the assembly, the gudgeon pin may be may be fixed in multiple positions
2.     An adjustable gudgeon pin assembly according to claim 1, further characterized in
that by adjustment of the components the gudgeon pin may be either fixed in position, or
offer non-fixed variable positioning of the pin.
3.     An adjustable gudgeon pin assembly according to claim 1, further characterized in
that the components that are adjusted to facilitate the transformation of the gudgeon pin
from fixed position to adjustable positioning are able to be take place without removing the
gate from either the hinge or the gate post.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
