Abstract
There is provided a stump height adjustment mechanism which may be used for subfloor supportive
stump stumping or restumping to account for I'd variations which may be caused by soil movement,
house renovations and the like without requiring hitherto conventionally utilised packing. The
mechanism may comprise a rectangular member; opposing side plates extending down from the
rectangular member such that the rectangular member defines a lower face for resting on a top
surface of a stump and the side plates define opposing inner faces for fastening against respective
side surfaces of the stump adjacent the top surface. A height adjustable vertical threaded rod may
extend upright through the rectangular member to support a bearer pressure plate at an upper end
thereof.
                                                  10

      1/2
                    2
              3
6          12 4
                  7
               11
  Figure 1

                         A stump height adjustment mechanism
Field of the Invention
[1]      The present invention relates to stump subfloor systems and in particular, but not necessarily
entirely, to a stump height adjustment mechanism.
Background of the Invention
[2]      Houses having stump subfloors utilise supportive stumps upon which horizontal bearers rest.
[3]      Problems arise however when stumps become too short or too long to adequately support
the bearers, which may be on account of soil movement, house renovations and the like. Packing is
sometimes utilised to address this issue.
[4]      However, certain building codes such as, for example, those of the Victorian building authority
state that if more than 20 mm of packing is required, then the subfloor system needs to be re
stumped.
[5]      However, restumping is an expensive process typically costing approximately $35,000 at
today's rates.
[6]      As such, a need therefore exists for a system that can account for greater than, for example,
20 mm of variance without requiring expensive restumping and which also meets the requisite
building code regulations.
[7]      The present invention seeks to provide a stump height adjustment mechanism, which will
overcome or substantially ameliorate at least some of the deficiencies of the prior art, or to at least
provide an alternative.
[8]      It is to be understood that, if any prior art information is referred to herein, such reference
does not constitute an admission that the information forms part of the common general knowledge
in the art, in Australia or any other country.
Summary of the Disclosure
[9]      According to one aspect, there is provided a stump height adjustment mechanism comprising:
a rectangular member; opposing side plates extending down from the rectangular member such that
the rectangular member defines a lower face for resting on a top surface of a stump and the side
plates define opposing inner faces for fastening against respective side surfaces of the stump adjacent
the top surface; a height adjustable vertical threaded rod extending upright through the rectangular
member to support a bearer pressure plate at an upper end thereof.
[10]     The side plates may extend down from the top of the rectangular member.
[11]     The side plates may be fillet welded to the rectangular member.
[12]     The side plates may be fillet welded to the rectangular member with 5mm fillet welds.
                                                     1

[13]     The side plates have a thickness of approximately 5 mm.
[14]     The side plates comprise fastener apertures.
[15]     The stump height adjustment mechanism may further comprise a top plate atop the right
angled member.
[16]     The top plate may comprise a thickness of approximately 5 mm.
[17]     The stump height adjustment mechanism may further comprise an ant cap.
[18]     The stump height adjustment mechanism may further comprise a nut engaging the threaded
rod, the nut bearing down on the rectangular member and wherein rotation of the nut adjusts the
offset of the threaded rod with respect to the rectangular member.
[19]     The mechanism may have an uplift capacity of 6 kN of net uplift.
[20]     The bearer pressure plate may comprise a thickness of approximately 5 mm.
[21]     The bearer pressure plate may comprise fastener apertures.
[22]     The rectangular member may comprise a cross-section of approximately 100 x 100 mm.
[23]     The pressure plate may be able to extend up to 100 mm from the rectangular member.
[24]     The threaded rod may have a load bearing capacity of up to 35 kN.
[25]     The threaded rod may comprise a diameter of approximately 25 mm.
[26]     Other aspects of the invention are also disclosed.
Brief Description of the Drawings
[27]     Notwithstanding any other forms which may fall within the scope of the present invention,
preferred embodiments of the disclosure will now be described, by way of example only, with
reference to the accompanying drawings in which:
[28]     Figure 1 shows a front elevation view of stump height adjustment mechanism in accordance
with an embodiment of the disclosure; and
[29]     Figure 2 shows a side elevation view of the mechanism.
Description of Embodiments
[30]     For the purposes of promoting an understanding of the principles in accordance with the
disclosure, reference will now be made to the embodiments illustrated in the drawings and specific
language will be used to describe the same. It will nevertheless be understood that no limitation of
the scope of the disclosure is thereby intended. Any alterations and further modifications of the
inventive features illustrated herein, and any additional applications of the principles of the disclosure
as illustrated herein, which would normally occur to one skilled in the relevant art and having
possession of this disclosure, are to be considered within the scope of the disclosure.
                                                    2

[31]      Before the structures, systems and associated methods relating to the stump height
adjustment mechanism are disclosed and described, it is to be understood that this disclosure is not
limited to the particular configurations, process steps, and materials disclosed herein as such may vary
somewhat. It is also to be understood that the terminology employed herein is used for the purpose
of describing particular embodiments only and is not intended to be limiting since the scope of the
disclosure will be limited only by the claims and equivalents thereof.
[32]      In describing and claiming the subject matter of the disclosure, the following terminology will
be used in accordance with the definitions set out below.
[33]      It must be noted that, as used in this specification and the appended claims, the singular forms
''a," "an," and "the" include plural referents unless the context clearly dictates otherwise.
[34]      As used herein, the terms "comprising," "including," "containing," "characterised by," and
grammatical equivalents thereof are inclusive or open-ended terms that do not exclude additional,
unrecited elements or method steps.
[35]      It should be noted in the following description that like or the same reference numerals in
different embodiments denote the same or similar features.
[36]      Turning now to figure 1, there is shown a front elevation view of a stump height adjustment
mechanism 1.
[37]      As can be seen, the stump height adjustment mechanism 1 interfaces and existing stump 10
and a timber bearer 2. As will become apparent from the ensuing description, the stump height
adjustment mechanism 1 allows for the adjusting of the height of the timber bearer 2 with respect to
the stump 10.
[38]      The stump height adjustment mechanism 1 may comprise a rectangular member 11 and,
furthermore, opposing lateral side plates 9 extending downwardly therefrom. Such a configuration
defines an open channel thereunder for engaging the top of the stump 10. Specifically, as can be seen,
the undersurface of the rectangular member 10 rests on the top surface of the stump 10 and wherein
the side plates 9 further define inner faces for fastening against opposite sides of the bearer 10
adjacent the top surface.
[39]      In this way, the height adjustment mechanism 1 may be retrofitted to existing stumps or
installed during initial stumping. Either way, the stump 10 may be prepared, such as by levelling the
top surface thereof whereafter the height adjustment mechanism 1 is placed over the top of the
stump 10 such that the stump 10 is engaged beneath the rectangular member 10 and between the
side plates 9 is a substantially shown in figure 1.
                                                       3

[40]     For timber stump application, number 14 type 17 screws 3 may be utilised for fastening the
side plates 9 to the stump 10 which extend through apertures and the side plates 9 as is best shown
in figure 2.
[41]     In embodiments, the stump 10 may comprise a cross-section of approximately 100 x 100 mm.
As such, for this stump size, the rectangular member 11 may similarly comprise a cross-section of
approximately 100 x 100 mm and a thickness of approximately 5 mm.
[42]     For the particular configuration shown in figure 1, the side plates 9 may be fastened to the
sides of the rectangular member 11 utilising 5 mm fillet welds. As can be seen, the side plates 9 may
extend substantially to the top of the rectangular member 11. In the embodiment shown, the side
plates may comprise a thickness of approximately 5 mm.
[43]     In embodiments, a top plate 12 may be provided also.
[44]     Yet further, an ant cap 17 may be placed above the rectangular member 11.
[45]     Furthermore, the height adjustment mechanism 1 may comprise a threaded rod 5 extending
vertically through the top portion of the rectangular member 11. In a preferred embodiment, the
threaded rod 5 comprises a diameter of approximately 25 mm such that the bearing capacity of the
threaded rod 5 is up to a 35 kN safe load.
[46]     A pressure plate 4 may be fastened to the top end of the threaded rod 5 for supporting the
bearer 2. Similarly, the pressure plate 4 may comprise apertures through which fastness screws 3 may
be inserted for securement to the bearer 2.
[47]     Now, the threaded rod 5 is height adjustable with respect to the rectangular member 11 so
as to be able to adjust the height of the bearer 2 as required. In embodiments, for this purpose, the
height adjustment mechanism 1 may utilise a threaded nut 6 which may be rotated so as to adjust the
offset of the threaded rod 5 with respect to the rectangular member 7. As can be seen, the lower end
of the threaded rod 5 is accommodated within the interior of the rectangular member 11 whist being
vertically adjusted. Ideally, the threaded nut 6 is a 25 mm nut suited for the 25 mm threaded rod 5.
[48]     In the embodiment wherein the rectangle a member 11 comprises a cross-section of
approximately 100 x 100 millimetres the pressure plate 4 may be adjusted up to 100 mm away from
the top surface of the rectangular member 11. However, for such as sizing, it is recommended that
the pressure plate 4 be adjusted to no more than 70 mm from the rectangular member 11.
[49]     As can be appreciated, the height adjustment mechanism 1 is suited for existing subfloor
systems (but not necessarily limited to this application in that the height adjustment mechanism 1
may additionally be utilised for new subfloors) requiring remediation wherein the installation process
comprises the preparation of the existing stump, such as the removal of debris, levelling of the top
surface or the like.
                                                     4

[50]      Thereafter, the height adjustment mechanism 1 with the threaded rod 5 fully retracted may
be fastened to the top of the existing stump wherein, on account of the height adjustment mechanism
1 being in a fully retracted configuration, the pressure plate 4 is able to fit beneath the existing bearer
2. Thereafter, the side plates 9 may be fastened to the sides of the existing stump 10 such as by utilising
the screws 3 penetrating therethrough.
[51]      Thereafter, the threaded nut 6 may be rotated so as to raise the pressure plate 4 until such
time that the pressure plate will for suitably contacts the undersurface of the bearer 2 whereafter
fixation screws 3 may be inserted there through.
[52]      Structural design checks for the particular embodiment provided in the accompanying
illustrations have confirmed that the height adjustment mechanism complies with the following
provisions of the Regulations;
              a. Section 2 part 2.1 of Volume 2 of the BCA and relevant Australian Standards.
              b. AS1170 - SAA Loading Code Part I- Dead and Live Loads
              c.  AS1170 - SAA Loading Code Part II - Wind Forces
              d. AS1170.4 1993 - Earthquake Loads
              e.  AS4100 SAA Steel Structures Code
              f.  AS1720 SAA Timber Structures Code
              g. AS2870-2011 Residential Slab and Footings
                                                     5

Interpretation
Embodiments:
[53]     Reference throughout this specification to "one embodiment" or "an embodiment" means
that a particular feature, structure or characteristic described in connection with the embodiment is
included in at least one embodiment of the present invention. Thus, appearances of the phrases "in
one embodiment" or "in an embodiment" in various places throughout this specification are not
necessarily all referring to the same embodiment, but may. Furthermore, the particular features,
structures or characteristics may be combined in any suitable manner, as would be apparent to one
of ordinary skill in the art from this disclosure, in one or more embodiments.
[54]     Similarly it should be appreciated that in the above description of example embodiments of
the invention, various features of the invention are sometimes grouped together in a single
embodiment, figure, or description thereof for the purpose of streamlining the disclosure and aiding
in the understanding of one or more of the various inventive aspects. This method of disclosure,
however, is not to be interpreted as reflecting an intention that the claimed invention requires more
features than are expressly recited in each claim. Rather, as the following claims reflect, inventive
aspects lie in less than all features of a single foregoing disclosed embodiment. Thus, the claims
following the Detailed Description of Specific Embodiments are hereby expressly incorporated into
this Detailed Description of Specific Embodiments, with each claim standing on its own as a separate
embodiment of this invention.
[55]     Furthermore, while some embodiments described herein include some but not other features
included in other embodiments, combinations of features of different embodiments are meant to be
within the scope of the invention, and form different embodiments, as would be understood by those
in the art. For example, in the following claims, any of the claimed embodiments can be used in any
combination.
Different Instances of Objects
[56]     As used herein, unless otherwise specified the use of the ordinal adjectives "first", "second",
"third", etc., to describe a common object, merely indicate that different instances of like objects are
being referred to, and are not intended to imply that the objects so described must be in a given
sequence, either temporally, spatially, in ranking, or in any other manner.
Specific Details
[57]     In the description provided herein, numerous specific details are set forth. However, it is
understood that embodiments of the invention may be practiced without these specific details. In
other instances, well-known methods, structures and techniques have not been shown in detail in
order not to obscure an understanding of this description.
                                                       6

Terminology
[58]     In describing the preferred embodiment of the invention illustrated in the drawings, specific
terminology will be resorted to for the sake of clarity. However, the invention is not intended to be
limited to the specific terms so selected, and it isto be understood that each specific term includes all
technical equivalents which operate in a similar manner to accomplish a similar technical purpose.
Terms such as "forward", "rearward", "radially", "peripherally", "upwardly", "downwardly", and the
like are used as words of convenience to provide reference points and are not to be construed as
limiting terms.
Comprising and Including
[59]     In the claims which follow and in the preceding description of the invention, except where the
context requires otherwise due to express language or necessary implication, the word "comprise" or
variations such as "comprises" or "comprising" are used in an inclusive sense, i.e. to specify the
presence of the stated features but not to preclude the presence or addition of further features in
various embodiments of the invention.
[60]     Any one of the terms: including or which includes or that includes as used herein is also an
open term that also means including at least the elements/features that follow the term, but not
excluding others. Thus, including is synonymous with and means comprising.
Scope of Invention
[61]     Thus, while there has been described what are believed to be the preferred embodiments of
the invention, those skilled in the art will recognize that other and further modifications may be made
thereto without departing from the spirit of the invention, and it is intended to claim all such changes
and modifications as fall within the scope of the invention. For example, any formulas given above
are merely representative of procedures that may be used. Functionality may be added or deleted
from the block diagrams and operations may be interchanged among functional blocks. Steps may be
added or deleted to methods described within the scope of the present invention.
[62]     Although the invention has been described with reference to specific examples, it will be
appreciated by those skilled in the art that the invention may be embodied in many other forms.
Industrial Applicability
[63]     It is apparent from the above, that the arrangements described are applicable to the stumped
subfloor industries.
                                                      7

Claims
1.       A stump height adjustment mechanism comprising:
         a rectangular member;
         opposing side plates extending down from the rectangular member such that the
rectangular member defines a lower face for resting on a top surface of a stump and the side plates
define opposing inner faces for fastening against respective side surfaces of the stump adjacent the
top surface; and
         a height adjustable vertical threaded rod extending upright through the rectangular member
to support a bearer pressure plate at an upper end thereof.
2.       A stump height adjustment mechanism as claimed in claim 1, wherein the side plates extend
down from the top of the rectangular member.
3.       A stump height adjustment mechanism as claimed in claim 2, wherein the side plates are
fillet welded to the rectangular member.
4.       A stump height adjustment mechanism as claimed in claim 3, wherein the side plates are
fillet welded to the rectangular member with 5mm fillet welds.
5.       A stump height adjustment mechanism as claimed in claim 2, wherein the side plates have a
thickness of approximately 5 mm.
6.       A stump height adjustment mechanism as claimed in claim 1, wherein the side plates
comprise fastener apertures.
7.       A stump height adjustment mechanism as claimed in claim 1, further comprising a top plate
atop the right-angled member.
8.       A stump height adjustment mechanism as claimed in claim 7, wherein the top plate
comprises a thickness of approximately 5 mm.
9.       A stump height adjustment mechanism as claimed in claim 1, further comprising an ant cap
10.      A stump height adjustment mechanism as claimed in claim 1, further comprising a nut
engaging the threaded rod, the nut bearing down on the rectangular member and wherein rotation
of the nut adjusts the offset of the threaded rod with respect to the rectangular member.
11.      A stump height adjustment mechanism as claimed in claim 10, wherein the mechanism has
an uplift capacity of 6 kN of net uplift.
12.      A stump height adjustment mechanism as claimed in claim 1, wherein the bearer pressure
plate comprises a thickness of approximately 5 mm.
13.      A stump height adjustment mechanism as claimed in claim 12, wherein the bearer pressure
plate comprises fastener apertures.
                                                   8

14.     A stump height adjustment mechanism as claimed in claim 1, wherein the rectangular
member comprises a cross-section of approximately 100 x 100 mm.
15.     A stump height adjustment mechanism as claimed in claim 14, wherein the pressure plate is
able to extend up to 100 mm from the rectangular member.
16.     A stump height adjustment mechanism as claimed in claim 1, wherein the threaded rod has
a load bearing capacity of up to 35 kN.
17.     A stump height adjustment mechanism as claimed in claim 16, wherein the threaded rod
comprises a diameter of approximately 25 mm.
                                                9

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           1/2

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           2/2

