                                   ABSTRACT
               AN IMPROVED LOAD-INDICATING DEVICE
 5 The present invention provides improved load-indicating devices for use
   with structural assemblies that require accurate tensioning of fastening
   components such as nuts and bolts. In one embodiment, the load-indicating
   device comprises a body portion defining a bore extending therethrough, a
   movable member disposed in at least part of the body portion             and
10 configured to move in a direction substantially orthogonal to the axis of the
   bore, and an adjustment means coupled to the movable member and
   operable to displace the movable member when the body portion is
   compressed.

      1/10
       2
                       50
    -ig48e41
                 46_
         10
                    34  '52
            184
32A           40
             36A
      Figre

                                          1
                AN IMPROVED LOAD-INDICATING DEVICE
   FIELD OF THE INVENTION
 5 The present invention relates to improved load-indicating devices and
   particularly to improved load-indicating nuts and washers for providing an
   indication of a predetermined tension between fastening components.
   BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
10
   It should be noted that reference to the prior art herein is not to be taken as
   an acknowledgement      that such prior art constitutes      common general
   knowledge in the art.
15 It is commonly known that if fastening components, such as nuts and bolts
   etc. are not correctly    tensioned or secured together with the correct
   compressive force or load, then those components are likely to eventually
   fail or come apart or otherwise experience some form of mechanical
   fatigue. Accordingly, there are therefore numerous mechanical problems
20 that may potentially    result if a structural assembly      comprising such
   fastening components is either under-loaded or over-loaded (i.e. under
   tensioned or over tensioned respectively).
   Typically, an under-loaded condition will usually result in fatigue and
25 failure of the structural components as external oscillating forces will
   generally be present. For example, if the oscillating forces act through a nut
   and bolt, with the tensioning of the nut and bolt being insufficient, the bolt
   will generally fail by either fracturing (due to fatigue) or otherwise will
   eventually become loose due to the oscillating forces.
30
   In an over-loaded condition, the nut and bolt usually experience stresses
   that again may lead to failure of the fastening components. Therefore, if the

                                          2
   tightening tension is too high, the bolt and/or nut, or their threads, will
   typically exceed their design load usually resulting in fracture or breakage
   of the components.
 5 Accordingly it is very important to impart the correct tension, load or
   tightening force to fastening components to ensure the structural integrity
   of a mechanical assembly, which thereby increases longevity and/or safety
   of machines and assemblies.
10 A common technique for tensioning fastening components, of the likes of
   nuts and bolts, is to use a device such as a torque wrench to apply a
   tightening load. However, such devices usually have the inherent drawback
   of using up to approximately 90% of the effort (depending on lubrication)
   to overcome frictional resistance in the different fastening components.
15 Therefore, it may prove to be very difficult to overcome the unpredictable
   frictional resistances with only approximately 10% of the remaining effort
   being available to thereby to ensure the correct tensioning load is applied to
   the fastening components. Consequently, this technique of tightening can
   be inaccurate for some tightening applications, leading to possible under
20 loading or over-loading of fastening components, without the operator
   being aware of such a condition being present.
   Load-indicating devices which address many of the problems encountered
   in the prior art, are described in the co-pending published PCT application
25 WO 2013/030567,        the contents of which are incorporated       herein by
   reference.
   SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
30 The    present    invention   provides   improvements,    modifications    and
   enhancements to load-indicating devices, as well as describing further

                                          3
   advantageous solutions to allow reliable and consistent tensioning of
   fastening components.
   According to a first aspect of the present invention there is provided a load
 5 indicating device, comprising:
           a body portion defining a bore extending therethrough;
           a movable member disposed in at least part of the body portion and
   configured to move in a direction substantially orthogonal to the axis of the
   bore; and
10         an adjustment means coupled to the movable member and operable
   to displace the movable member when the body portion is compressed.
   The provision of a load-indicating device comprising at least a movable
   member which is configured to move in a direction substantially orthogonal
15 to the body portion of the device under the action of an adjustment means
   coupled to the movable member as the body is compressed, is found to be
   particularly advantageous as the device is able to provide a reliable and
   accurate   indication  of the   tension   or  load  between    two  fastening
   components disposed either side of the body portion of the device.
20
   In particular, due to the inherently adjustable nature of the adjustment
   means, the device may consequently be 'fine-tuned' so that the degree of
   displacement of the movable member can be accurately controlled by
   setting the adjustment means to suit the particular tension or loading
25 requirement. Therefore, as the body portion is compressed the adjustment
   means acts on the movable member to bring about a pre-determinable
   displacement of the member which can then be detected as described in the
   following embodiments.
30 In exemplary embodiments the body portion of the device may be in the
   form of a nut or a washer. The nut may be of any size and may be scaled to
   suit the particular application, with the bore of the body portion being

                                          4
   threaded. For embodiments in which the body portion takes the form of a
   washer, a nut or other conventional securing component will typically be
   used to secure the joint or mechanical assemblies, with the washer being
   'sandwiched' between the nut and the joint etc.
 5
   Therefore, the device of the present invention may be deployed in any
   arrangement in which two or more mechanical             assemblies are to be
   connected together. In this way, the present device makes it possible to
   tighten fastening components to a desired or predetermined tension without
10 the need for a torque wrench or other mechanical (tension) measuring
   means. Hence, an operator, such as an engineer or mechanic, can be assured
   that in using the device of the present invention the required tension can be
   achieved without concern that the fastening components have been under
   or over-loaded.
15
   In preferred embodiments, the adjustment means may be coupled to the
   movable member via a resilient means. Most preferably, the resilient means
   may take the form of a spring clip that pushes against the movable member
   and which is acted upon by the adjustment means when the body portion is
20 compressed (e.g. when the nut or washer are under tension).
   The adjustment means preferably comprises an adjustment screw, which in
   exemplary embodiments is disposed so as to be substantially parallel to the
   axis of the bore of the body portion. In this way, as the body portion is
25 compressed (along the direction of the bore axis) the adjustment screw
   moves along the bore axis and pushes downwardly on the spring clip,
   which in turn brings about a measurable displacement of the movable
   member.
30 In preferred embodiments, the adjustment screw is disposed in the body of
   the body portion itself, which is achieved by drilling into the body of the
   nut or washer substantially parallel to the axis of the bore.

                                          5
   The movable member most preferably takes the form of a gauge pin, which
   in exemplary embodiments is located within a gauge pin housing preferably
   disposed within at least part of the body portion. Typically, a hole in the
   side wall of the nut or washer may be drilled out to accommodate the gauge
 5 pin housing, which is intended to sit securely within the hole. To prevent
   fluid (e.g. oil or water etc.) ingress between the housing and the hole, a
   seal, such as an 'O'-ring seal, may be disposed around the outer edge of the
   housing.
10 The gauge pin is located within the housing             and is able to move
   substantially orthogonally to the axis of the bore, such that the gauge pin
   moves in an essentially radial direction to the body of the nut or washer.
   A biasing means is preferably attached to the gauge pin. The function of the
15 biasing means is to restore the pin to its original position when the tension
   or compression is removed from the body portion (i.e. when the nut is
   released). The biasing means may preferably comprise a helical spring.
   However, any suitable resilient means may alternatively or additionally be
   used to restore the gauge pin to its original position.
20
   The inner end of the gauge pin (i.e. the end closest to the bore) is
   preferably attached to the spring clip, which pushes against the gauge pin
   (and spring) by action of the adjustment screw, when the nut or washer is
   compressed. In this way, vertical motion of the adjustment screw may then
25 be converted into a measurable radial (i.e. horizontal) displacement of the
   gauge pin, which in turn may be used to determine the degree of
   compressive loading of the nut or washer.
   The other end of the gauge pin preferably terminates in an end cap, which
30 serves as a displaceable contact surface that moves when the pin is
   displaced horizontally. In exemplary embodiments, the present device
   further comprises a load detecting means that is operable to detect the

                                          6
   displacement of the gauge pin relative to the body of the nut or washer. The
   load detecting means may preferably take the form of an attachable probe
   that can be attached to the gauge pin housing via magnetic means or any
   other suitable attachment mechanism (e.g. a bayonet fitting or locking clip
 5 etc.).
   In a preferred embodiment, the probe comprises a linear transducer that is
   operable to convert any detected displacement of the gauge pin into a
   corresponding voltage level. Preferably, the end cap of the gauge pin
10 engages with a contact surface of the linear transducer, which then brings
   about a linear displacement of the transducer within the attached probe as
   the pin moves. The resulting voltage level may be converted into an
   equivalent load by virtue of a pre-calibrated device and/or theoretical or
   empirical model, which in turn enables an operator to determine the degree
15 of loading of the nut or washer.
   In preferred embodiments, the probe is in communication with a handheld
   monitoring device comprising a display, such as an LCD or TFT screen etc.
   and/or an indicator, such as an LED or bulb etc. In this way, the loading of
20 the nut or washer can be conveyed to the operator either as a numerical
   value (e.g. the exact load in newtons or a % load etc.) or via some form of
   illuminated display, e.g. a coloured sequence of lights etc. or both. Indeed,
   any suitable form of data presentation may be used to indicate the loading
   of the device.
25
   The probe may be physically connected to the handheld monitoring device
   via a cable or wire, or alternatively via a wireless connection, such as WiFi
   or a cellular telecommunications network. Moreover, the probe may also be
   configured to provide a text based message, such as a SMS type message,
30 to a handheld monitoring device or smart phone etc., with the message
   providing the current degree of loading of the device.

                                           7
   Indeed, as will be appreciated the present device may therefore not only be
   configured to provide information regarding the loading of the device
   during initial tightening of the joint or mechanical assemblies, by may also
   serve as a long-term monitoring system by being able to provide periodic
 5 updates or warnings to a central server, handheld device or smart phone etc.
   to thereby notify an operator that attention is required for a particular nut
   or group of nuts that may require re-tightening.
   Although the above embodiment was described in relation to a linear
10 transducer, it is be understood that any other suitable form of sensor or
   detector may alternatively (or additionally) be used with the present device.
   In particular, in other embodiments the capacitance of an air gap between
   the end cap of the gauge pin and the probe may be measured to derive a
   corresponding voltage. As the end cap moves (due to compression of the
15 nut or washer) the capacitance of the air gap will change, which in turn can
   be used to determine the loading on the device via a pre-calibrated device
   or model data.
   In much the same way, an embodiment based on measuring eddy currents
20 may also be used to determine the loading on the device, as again changes
   in the air gap between the end cap of the gauge pin and the probe will alter
   the measured eddy currents, which can be used to derive a corresponding
   voltage.
25 Other embodiments may be based on ultrasound or direct imaging of the
   displacement using      a borescope    etc. In the  ultrasound   embodiment,
   ultrasonic pulses may be emitted by the probe and the 'bounce-back' time
   from the end cap may be measured. Changes in the end cap position will
   produce variations in the bounce-back timings so that the displacement of
30 the gauge pin can be accurately determined. As a result, the loading on the
   device may be calculated via a pre-calibrated device or model data. In a
   similar way, laser pulses could alternatively be used to determine the

                                           8
   displacement of the pin by measuring the light travel time of the reflected
   pulse of light.
   According to a second aspect of the present invention there is provided a
 5 load indicating device, comprising:
           a body portion defining a bore extending therethrough;
           an aperture extending at least partly through the body portion in a
   direction substantially orthogonal to the axis of the bore; and
           imaging means disposed proximate to the aperture and operable to
10 detect a change in a visual characteristic of the aperture when the body
   portion is acted upon by a compressive force.
   In embodiments of this aspect of the present invention the device need not
   comprise a movable member. But instead the device comprises at least one
15 aperture which is monitored by any suitable form of imaging means, so as
   to be able to detect a change in a visual characteristic of the aperture when
   the body portion of the device is acted upon by a compressive load. Notable
   advantages     of this  particular   aspect  include:   a reduced   number of
   components      in the  device,    simpler  fabrication   of the  device (less
20 machining), very low maintenance and longevity of use and re-use (due to
   the reduced number of mechanical parts).
   In exemplary embodiments the body portion may take the form of a nut or a
   washer, as described in the above embodiments. The nut or washer are
25 inherently scalable and may be used with any mechanical joint or assembly
   requiring the fixing or connection of two or more mechanical components
   at a required tension or compression (i.e. pre-load).
   By 'visual characteristic'    we mean at least one of the shape, size and
30 reflectance of the aperture. The reflectance being determined by the amount
   of incident light on the aperture (and its associated/surrounding surfaces)
   that is reflected back from the aperture as described below.

                                            9
   The aperture may be of any shape, and is most preferably circular. The
   aperture may extend all the way through the body of the nut or washer from
   its outer surface (i.e. outer side) to the bore. Alternatively, the aperture may
   extend only partly through the body portion and as such will be closed at
 5 one end (i.e. nearest to the bore).
   The imaging means most preferably comprises a borescope having an
   internal light source for illuminating the aperture. Preferably, a direct
   imaging camera, such as a video camera, is coupled to the borescope in
10 order to directly view the aperture, either in situ or remotely via a video
   feed, which may be transmitted through a cable or wire, or wirelessly via
   WiFi and/or across the Internet.
   As the device is compressed (i.e. placed under tension) the body portion
15 deforms, thereby altering the shape and size of the aperture. The imaging
   means may be configured to detect changes in the shape or size of the
   aperture and to thereby notify an operator of the level of loading of the
   device (as compared to a pre-calibrated device and/or model data). In
   addition, or alternatively, as a result of the change in the shape and size of
20 the aperture the amount of light reflected from the aperture will change,
   which again can be detected           via the borescope/video      camera feed.
   Therefore, as the reflected light changes, the amount of loading on the
   device can be determined via reference to a pre-calibrated device and/or
   model data.
25
   To increase the reflectivity from the aperture, the interior surfaces and/or
   surrounding surfaces of the aperture may be 'silvered' or aluminised to
   ensure sufficient light is reflected fro imaging purposes. Therefore, changes
   in the shape and size of the aperture will cause variations in the amount of
30 reflected light, which provided appropriate calibrated data is available, can
   be directly converted into a corresponding device load.

                                          10
   As will be appreciated, any suitable imaging means may be used with the
   present device, without sacrificing any of the benefits of this aspect of the
   present invention.
 5 Of course, it is be understood that the nut or washer may be fabricated to
   include any number of apertures to provide an accurate indication of the
   symmetrical loading of the device and           of the associated mechanical
   components. Therefore, multiple imaging means may be deployed around
   the circumference of the body portion,          coincident with a respective
10 deformable aperture, so as to monitor changes in the visual characteristics
   of the apertures when the device is under compression.
   According to a third aspect of the present invention there is provided a load
   indicating device, comprising:
15       a body portion defining a bore extending therethrough; and
         a first electrode and a second electrode;
         wherein the first electrode is disposed in at least part of the body
   portion and the second electrode is operable to move between a first
   position, in which the second electrode is spaced from the first electrode,
20 and a second position, in which the second electrode is in electrical contact
   with the first electrode, in response to a predetermined compressive load
   being applied to the body portion.
   The basic principle of the embodiments according to this aspect of the
25 present invention, relate to the completion of an electrical circuit when the
   body portion of the device reaches a predetermined compressive load.
   Therefore, the second electrode is arranged to be movable between first and
   second positions corresponding to a state in which there is no electrical
   connection between the first and second electrodes (i.e. when the nut or
30 washer are under-tensioned relative to the predetermined compressive load)
   and a state in which the first and second electrodes are in electrical contact,

                                          II
   enabling the passage of a current therebetween (i.e. when the nut or washer
   has been tensioned to the predetermined compressive load), respectively.
   In exemplary embodiments, the second electrode is therefore spaced from
 5 the first electrode preferably by an air gap. Preferably, the spacing or size
   of the air gap is adjustable and can therefore be 'fined-tuned' to match the
   compressive loads and predetermined tension required in the nut or washer.
   Preferably in some embodiments, the second electrode is in the form of an
10 (electrically conductive) adjustment screw that is preferably disposed in the
   body of the nut or washer. The screw may preferably be substantially
   parallel to the axis of the bore. In such embodiments, the first electrode
   preferably takes the form of a electrically conductive pin, which may be
   aligned substantially orthogonally to the axis of the bore (i.e. radial to the
15 bore).
   The first and second electrodes are thus initially separated by the air gap,
   whereupon with successive loading of the nut or washer they are gradually
   brought into electrical contact as the air gap closes. To prevent a short
20 circuit, at least the first electrode may be electrically insulated from the
   body portion, such that the only exposed part of the first electrode is that
   which is brought into contact with the movable second electrode.
   In an alternative    embodiment, the second electrode may comprise           a
25 resilient member, such as an electrically conductive spring clip, coupled to
   an adjustment screw. The resilient member is preferably arranged to be
   compressed by the screw when the body portion is under tension, which
   causes the resilient member to deform such that it flexes towards the first
   electrode. With successive compression the resilient member thereby makes
30 direct electrical contact with the first electrode forming a current path
   between the first and second electrodes.

                                          12
   The device further comprises a detachable probe for electrical coupling to
   the first and second electrodes. The probe preferably comprises third and
   fourth electrodes for respective coupling to the first and second electrodes
   to thereby form a complete electrical circuit when the nut or washer is
 5 compressed to the predetermined compressive load.
   The probe may preferably be attached to the nut or washer via magnetic
   means or any other suitable attachment mechanism (e.g. a bayonet fitting or
   locking clip etc.), thereby enabling the first and second electrodes to
10 directly connect to the third and fourth electrodes, respectively.
   In preferred embodiments, the probe is connected to a handheld monitoring
   device either via a cable or wire, or alternatively via a wireless connection,
   e.g. WiFi etc.
15
   A display means is preferably integrated into the handheld monitoring
   device or alternatively is attached to the probe or device. In preferred
   embodiments, the display means comprise a pair of LEDs, preferably of
   different colour, for example red and green. When the electrical circuit is
20 'open', namely when the first and second electrodes are spaced apart (i.e.
   when the nut or washer is under-tensioned) the red LED is illuminated;
   whereas when the device is tensioned to the predetermined compressive
   load, the red LED extinguishes in preference to an illuminated green LED,
   namely when the first and second electrodes come into electrical contact.
25 Hence, an operator can easily and quickly determine when the desired load
   on the device has been achieved.
   Of course, any suitable combination and/or sequence of illuminated light
   sources may be used to notify an operator of the loading condition, as well
30 as the use of numerical data displayed via a LCD or TFT screen etc.
   Therefore, the handheld monitoring device may take any appropriate form

                                           13
   and/or use any type of visual indicator depending on the particular
   implementation.
   According to a fourth aspect of the present invention there is a provided a
 5 load indicating device, comprising:
           a body portion defining a bore extending therethrough;
           a light source;
           a light detector for receiving light from the source; and
           a first opaque member operable to attenuate the passage of light
10 between the source and the detector;
           wherein the opaque member is arranged to move in response to
   compression of the body portion to thereby cause a change in the state of
   the light communicated between the source and the detector when a
   predetermined preload is applied to the body portion.
15
   The body portion of the device may be in the form of a nut or a washer.
   In an exemplary embodiment, the light source may be a photodiode and the
   light detector may be a phototransistor. The first opaque member may be an
20 adjustable screw, preferably disposed in the body portion, such that the
   screw is preferably substantially parallel to the bore. In much the same
   manner as some of the preceding embodiments, the adjustment screw is
   intended to move with compression of the body portion. Therefore, as the
   nut or washer is tensioned, the screw displaces substantially along the
25 direction of the bore axis.
   The adjustment screw is preferably opaque to visible or infra-red (IR) light
   and therefore is able to attenuate any light transmitted between the
   photodiode and the phototransistor.
30
   In this embodiment, the present device further comprises a second opaque
   member preferably in the form of an abutment member that is disposed

                                          14
   within the body portion and preferably aligned with the adjustment screw
   substantially along the direction of the bore axis. Preferably, the adjustment
   screw and the abutment member are separated by an adjustable air gap
   when the body portion is uncompressed below a predetermined preload. As
 5 the nut or washer is subsequently tensioned, the adjustment screw is
   therefore forced towards the abutment member so that the air gap gradually
   begins to close.
   In this embodiment, the photodiode and the phototransistor are preferably
10 disposed on opposite sides of the air gap, such that light communication is
   possible   along  a  light path defined      therethrough.  However,    as the
   compression of the nut or washer increases, the adjustment screw begins to
   abut against the abutment member, until such time the predetermined
   preload is achieved, whereupon the air gap closes completely and the screw
15 and abutment member come into direct contact. As a result, the light
   communicated between the photodiode and phototransistor is thereby
   interrupted (namely fully attenuated), causing a change in the state of the
   communicated light.
20 This change of state may consequently be used to notify an operator that
   the desired preload on the nut or washer has been achieved.
   Preferably, a controller in the form of an attachable device may be
   configured to identify when the change of state occurs (i.e. when the
25 phototransistor no longer registers any incident light) and may therefore
   provide a visual indication or other form of alert or message etc. to the
   operator that the nut or washer is at the required tension.
   In alternative embodiment, a reverse situation may be used to notify the
30 operator that the required preload on the nut or washer has been achieved.
   In this embodiment, the first opaque member may be arranged to inhibit
   and attenuate the transmission of light between the light source and the

                                           15
   light detector, such that only when the opaque member is displaced (due to
   tensioning of the device) is light able to pass between source and detector.
   In such an embodiment, the source and the detector are linkable via a pair
 5 of opposing fibre optics, which define a light path therebetween. The first
   opaque member preferably comprises a pivotable light shield which is
   disposed between      the opposing    fibre optics,  such that it is    aligned
   substantially transversely to the light path.
10 An adjustment screw is preferably disposed within the body portion and is
   operable to displace the light shield upon compression of the nut or washer.
   The adjustment screw is preferably aligned substantially parallel to the axis
   of the bore and consequently moves along this direction as the nut or
   washer is compressed. The adjustment screw is preferably arranged to abut
15 against the pivotable light shield, such that as the tension on the nut or
   washer is increased the screw pushes downwardly on the light shield
   causing it to pivot away from the blocked light path of the opposing fibre
   optics.
20 As a result, the action of the pivoting light shield is able to cause a change
   in the state of the light communicated between the source and the detector,
   with the light being able to pass uninhibited between the opposing fibre
   optics with zero attenuation.
25 A controller in the form of an attachable device may be configured to
   identify when the change of state occurs (i.e. when the detector receives
   light from the fibre optic) and may therefore provide a visual indication or
   other form of alert or message etc. to the operator that the nut or washer is
   at the required tension.
30
   The light shield is preferably biased to return to its original (attenuating)
   position by a biasing means, such as a spring etc. The spring thereby

                                          16
   restores   the  light  shield  to  a  position   which  interrupts   the  light
   communication between the opposing fibre optics, when the tension is
   removed from the nut or washer.
 5 Of course, any suitable light source and light detector may be used in
   conjunction with this aspect of the present invention without sacrificing
   any of the benefits or advantages of these embodiments.
   In some embodiments        of the above aspects,    the nut or washer may
10 advantageously be reused for other applications by reaming out the one or
   more bores in the body portion of the nut or washer to the required size.
   Therefore, the load-indicating device can be recycled and/or retro-fit to any
   mechanical assembly.
15 The nut or washer is preferably heat treated during fabrication to improve
   the performance of the device. Moreover, the nut or washer may also be
   covered with a plastic or plastics material coating, such as nylon, to prevent
   or inhibit corrosion over time. Of course, any suitable coating or material
   may be used in conjunction with the device of the present invention
20 depending on the particular application.
   It is to be appreciated in the present invention that the dimensions of the
   nut or washer can be fabricated according to any desired shape or size, and
   that by carefully selecting the type of material and resilience of the
25 material the nut or washer can be optimised to deform by any amount
   according to any required compression. Therefore,         the load-indicating
   device of the present invention can be used in numerous mechanical
   applications and can be scaled to whatever size the particular application
   requires.
30
   It is to be appreciated that none of the aspects or embodiments described in
   relation to the present invention are mutually exclusive, and therefore the

                                         17
   features and functionality of one aspect and/or embodiment may be used
   interchangeably or additionally with the features and functionality of any
   other aspect and/or embodiment without limitation.
 5 BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
   Embodiments of the present invention will now be described in detail by
   way of example and with reference to the accompanying drawings in
   which:
10        Figure 1 - shows a side cross-sectional view of a load-indicating
          device according to a preferred embodiment;
          Figure 2 - shows a side cross-sectional view of the device of Figure
          1 with an example probe attached to the device;
15
          Figure 3 -- shows a side cross-sectional view of a load-indicating
          device according to an alternative embodiment;
          Figure 4 - shows a side cross-sectional view of a load-indicating
20        device according to a different embodiment of the present invention;
          Figure 5A - shows a side cross-sectional view of a load-indicating
          device and example probe according to another embodiment of the
          present invention;
25
          Figure 5B - shows a side cross-sectional view of the device of
          Figure 5A with the example probe attached to the device;
          Figure 5C - shows a side cross-sectional view of a load-indicating
30        device and example probe according to another embodiment of the
          present invention;

                                           18
          Figure 6 -      shows another preferred embodiment        of the load
          indicating device and example probe of the present invention;
          Figure 7 - shows a close-up view of the device and probe of Figure
 5        6;
          Figure 8 - shows a side cross-sectional view of another embodiment
          of the load-indicating device and of an example probe according to
          the present invention;
10        Figure 9A -      shows a side cross-sectional view of a different
          embodiment of the load-indicating          device and of an    attached
          example probe according to the present invention;
          Figure 9B - shows a top plan view of the example probe of Figure
15        9A;
          Figure 10A - shows a side cross-sectional view of an alternative
          embodiment of the load-indicating device according to the present
          invention; and
20
          Figure 10B - shows a top plan view of the device of Figure 10A.
   DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION
25 Referring to Figure 1, there is a shown a particularly preferred embodiment
   of a load-indicating device 10 according to the present invention. The
   device 10 is shown in use in a typical situation, namely securing two
   mechanical    components     or assemblies     32A   & 32B   together  (e.g. a
   mechanical support or joint etc.) via a conventional bolt 30. It is to be
30 understood that the device as shown in Figure 1 is not drawn to scale and
   therefore the figure is intended for illustrative purposes only.

                                         19
   The device 10 comprises a body portion 12 defining a bore 14 extending
   therethrough. The body portion 12 is in the form of a nut having an
   hexagonal perimeter, with the bore 14 being threaded for attachment to the
   bolt 30. A movable member 16 is disposed in a part of the body portion 12
 5 and is configured to move in a direction substantially orthogonal to the axis
   of the bore 14, namely in a radial direction relative to the bore.
   An adjustment means, in the form of an adjustment screw 18, is disposed in
   the body portion 12 and is aligned substantially parallel to the axis of the
10 bore 14. The function of the adjustment screw 18 is to act on the movable
   member 16 via a resilient means, typically a spring clip 20, such that
   compression of the body portion 12 urges the adjustment screw 18 to move
   downwardly (in the sense of Figure 1), which thereby deflects the spring
   clip 20 producing a detectable and measurable displacement of the movable
15 member 16.
   In the embodiment of Figure 1, the moveable member 16 is in the form of a
   gauge pin comprising an end cap 22. The gauge pin 16 is located within a
   gauge pin housing 24, which is securely disposed within a drilled out recess
20 or hole within the body of the body portion 12. To prevent fluid (e.g. oil or
   water etc.) ingress between the housing 24 and the hole, a seal, such as an
   'O'-ring seal 26, is disposed around the outer edge of the housing 24, as
   shown in Figure 1.
25 A biasing means, in the form of a helical spring 28, is attached to the gauge
   pin 16. The function of the spring 28 is to restore the pin 16 to its original
   position when the tension or compression is removed from the body portion
   12 (i.e. when the nut is released). Therefore, the spring 28 acts against the
   'pushing force' provided by the spring clip 20, which in turn is acted upon
30 by the adjustment screw 18 when the nut is compressed.

                                         20
   The end cap 22 of the gauge pin 16 serves as a displaceable contact surface
   that moves when the pin 16 is displaced horizontally.
   As shown in Figures 1 & 2, the present device further comprises a load
 5 detecting means that is operable to detect the displacement of the gauge pin
   16 relative to the body of the nut. In this embodiment, the load detecting
   means takes the form of an attachable probe 34 that can be attached to the
   gauge pin housing 24 via magnets 40 (cf. Figure 2).
10 The probe 34 comprises a two-part housing, having a front portion 36A and
   a rear portion 36B, with the front portion 36A being able to slide over the
   rear portion 36B in a telescoping action.
   A linear transducer 38 in the probe 34 is operable to convert any detected
15 displacement of the gauge pin 16 into a corresponding voltage level. The
   end cap 22 of the gauge pin 16 engages with a contact surface of the linear
   transducer 38, which brings about a linear displacement of the transducer
   38 within the attached probe 34 as the pin 16 moves (facilitated by the
   telescoping action of the probe housing). The resulting voltage level may
20 be converted into an equivalent load by virtue of a pre-calibrated device
   and/or theoretical or empirical model, which in turn enables an operator to
   determine the degree of loading (or tensioning) on the device 10.
   Typical displacements of the gauge pin are in the range of about 10 microns
25 to about 500 microns. Although it will be appreciated that the displacement
   will depend on the particular implementation and required loading of the
   device.
   In the embodiment of Figure 1, the probe 34 is in communication with a
30 handheld monitoring device 46 comprising a display 48, such as an LCD. In
   this way, the loading of the device 10 can be conveyed to the operator as a
   numerical value (e.g. the exact load in newtons or a % load etc.). A push

                                         21
   button   52 is provided to     activate/refresh the  display 48,  such that
   depressing the button 52 leads to a new reading being obtained from the
   probe 34. On 'On/Off' switch 50 is also provided to control the operating
   state of the handheld monitoring device 46, so that it may be turned off
 5 when the device is not in use etc.
   Referring to Figure 3, there is shown an alternative embodiment of the
   loading-indicating device 10 according to the present invention. In this
   embodiment, the device functions in exactly the same way as in the
10 embodiment of Figures 1 and 2, but instead the body portion of the device
   is in the form of a washer, which is 'sandwiched' between the mechanical
   assembly 32A and an overlying conventional nut 31. In this embodiment,
   the device undergoes tensioning by tightening the nut 31, as opposed to the
   previous embodiment, in which the device itself is tightened on the bolt 30.
15
   As shown in Figure 3, a hardened washer 33 may be inserted between the
   washer and the mechanical       assembly 32A to prevent damage to the
   respective surfaces.
20 A different embodiment of the present invention is illustrated in Figure 4.
   In this embodiment, the device 60 need not comprise a gauge pin nor any
   moving components. Instead the device 60 comprises at least one aperture
   64 which is monitored by an imaging means (not shown), so as to be able to
   detect a change in a visual characteristic of the aperture 64 when the body
25 portion 62 of the device 60 is acted upon by a compressive load.
   In the embodiment of Figure 4, the body portion 62 takes the form of a
   washer, with a separate conventional nut 31 being used to tighten the
   mechanical assemblies 32A & 32B together with conventional bolt 30.
30
   By 'visual characteristic'  we mean at least one of the shape, size and
   reflectance of the aperture 64. The reflectance being determined by the

                                          22
   amount of incident light on the aperture 64 (and its associated/surrounding
   surfaces) that is reflected back from the aperture.
   The imaging means may typically comprise a borescope having an internal
 5 light source for illuminating the aperture 64. A direct imaging camera, such
   as a video camera, is coupled to the borescope in order to directly view the
   aperture 64, either in situ or remotely via a video feed, which may be
   transmitted through a cable or wire, or wirelessly via WiFi and/or across
   the Internet.
10
   As the device 60 is compressed (i.e. placed under tension by the nut 31) the
   body portion 62 deforms, thereby altering the shape and size of the aperture
   64. The imaging means is configured to detect changes in the shape or size
   of the aperture 64 and to thereby notify an operator of the level of loading
15 of the device (as compared to a pre-calibrated device and/or model data). In
   addition, or alternatively, as a result of the change in the shape and size of
   the aperture 64, the amount of light reflected from the aperture will change,
   which again can be detected via a borescope/video camera feed. Therefore,
   as the reflected light changes, the amount of loading on the device can be
20 determined via reference to a pre-calibrated device and/or model data.
   To increase the reflectivity from the aperture 64, the interior surfaces
   and/or   surrounding     surfaces  of the   aperture  may    be  'silvered' or
   aluminised, and/or otherwise polished to ensure sufficient light is reflected
25 for imaging purposes. Therefore, changes in the shape and size of the
   aperture 64 will cause variations in the amount of reflected light, which
   provided appropriate calibrated data is available, can be directly converted
   into a corresponding device load.
30 Referring now to Figures 5A & 5B, there is shown another embodiment of
   a load-indicating device 70 according to the present invention. The basic
   principle of this embodiment relates to the completion of an electrical

                                          23
   circuit when the body portion 72 of the device 70 reaches a predetermined
   compressive load.
   The device 70 comprises a first electrode 74 in the form of an electrically
 5 conductive pin, which is aligned substantially orthogonally to the axis of a
   bore (not shown) defined through the body of the body portion 72 (as in the
   preceding embodiments).
   A second electrode 76 is arranged to be movable between first and second
10 positions corresponding to a state in which there is no electrical connection
   between the first and second electrodes (i.e. when the body portion 72 is
   under-tensioned relative to the predetermined compressive load) and a state
   in which the first and second electrodes are in electrical contact, enabling
   the passage of a current therebetween (i.e. when the body portion has been
15 tensioned to the predetermined compressive load), respectively.
   In the embodiment of Figure 5A, the second electrode 76 is in the form of
   an electrically conductive adjustment screw that is disposed in the body of
   the body portion 72. The second electrode 76 is aligned substantially along
20 the direction of the bore axis and is initially spaced from the first electrode
   74 by an air gap 78. The spacing or size of the air gap 78 is adjustable (by
   virtue of the adjustment screw) and can therefore be 'fined-tuned' to match
   the compressive loads and predetermined tension required in the device.
25 Successive compression of the body portion 72 gradually brings the first
   and second electrodes 74 & 76 into electrical contact as the air gap 78
   closes (due to the downward motion of the second electrode 76 - in the
   sense of Figure 5A). To prevent a short circuit, the first electrode 74 is
   electrically insulated from the body portion 72 by insulating layer 80, such
30 that the only exposed part of the first electrode 74 is that which is brought
   into contact with the movable second electrode 76.

                                         24
   As shown in Figures 5A & 5B, the load-indicating device 70 further
   comprises a detachable probe 82 for electrical coupling to the first and
   second electrodes 74 & 76. The probe 82 comprises third and fourth
   electrodes   84 & 86 for respective      coupling to the first and second
 5 electrodes 74 & 76 to thereby form a complete electrical circuit when the
   body portion 72 is compressed to the predetermined compressive load.
   The probe 82 is attached to the body portion 72 via magnets 88, enabling
   the first and second electrodes 74 & 76 to directly connect to the third and
10 fourth electrodes 84 & 86, respectively, as shown in Figure 5B. (It is noted
   for clarity that electrode 86 passes behind magnet 88 in Figures 5A & 5B,
   and therefore is not electrically coupled to electrode 76 via the magnet as it
   may appear from the figures).
15 Referring now to Figure 5C, in an alternative embodiment the second
   electrode may comprise a resilient member 77b,           in the form of an
   electrically conductive spring clip, coupled to an adjustment screw 77a.
   The spring clip 77b is arranged to be compressed by the screw 77a when
   the body portion 72 is under tension, which causes the spring clip 77b to
20 deform such that it flexes towards the first electrode 74. With successive
   compression the spring clip 77b thereby makes direct electrical contact
   with the first electrode 74 forming a current path between the first and
   second electrodes, as in the manner of the embodiment of Figures 5A & 5B.
25 The probe 82 is connected to a handheld monitoring device either via a
   cable or wire 96, or alternatively via a wireless connection, e.g. WiFi etc.
   As shown in Figures 6 & 7, the handheld monitoring device 90 comprises a
   display means in the form of a pair of LEDs 92 & 94 of different colour,
   for example red and green. When the electrical circuit is 'open', namely
30 when the first and second electrodes 74 & 76 are spaced apart (i.e. when
   the body portion 72 is under-tensioned) the red LED 92 is illuminated;
   whereas when the body portion 72 is tensioned to the predetermined

                                          25
   compressive load, the red      LED 92 extinguishes in preference         to an
   illuminated green LED 94, namely when the first and second electrodes 74
   & 76 come into electrical contact. Hence, an operator can easily and
   quickly determine when the desired load on the device 70 has been
 5 achieved.
   An alternative embodiment is shown in Figure 8, in which the first and
   second electrodes    are aligned substantially parallel and are (initially)
   separated by an adjustable air gap 78 (this is in contrast to the mutually
10 orthogonal   arrangement    of the    first  and   second   electrodes  in  the
   embodiments of Figures 5A to 5C). As the body portion 72 is compressed,
   the second electrode 76 moves downwardly (in the sense of Figure 8) to
   thereby come into direct electrical contact with the first electrode 74 as the
   air gap 78 closes. In this way an electrical circuit can be completed with the
15 attached probe 82, thereby notifying an operator of the loading condition
   on the device 70 via a handheld monitoring device 90, of a type as shown
   in Figure 6.
   Referring to Figures 9A & 9B, there is shown a further embodiment of a
20 load indicating device 100 according to the present invention. The device
   100 comprises a body portion 102, a light source 104 and a light detector
   106 for receiving light from the source 104. The body portion 102 may be
   in the form of a nut or washer, as described in preceding embodiments.
25 The device 100 further comprises a first opaque member that is operable to
   attenuate the passage of light between the source 104 and the detector 106.
   The opaque member is arranged to move in response to compression of the
   body portion 102 to thereby cause a change in the state of the light
   communicated between the source 104 and the detector               106 when a
30 predetermined preload (or tension) is applied to the body portion 102.

                                         26
   In the embodiment of Figures 9A & 9B, the light source              104 is a
   photodiode and the light detector 106 is a phototransistor. The first opaque
   member takes the form of an adjustable screw 108 disposed in the body of
   the body portion 102, such that the screw 108 is substantially parallel to the
 5 bore of the body portion.
   The adjustment screw 108 is opaque to at least visible and/or infra-red (IR)
   light and therefore is able to attenuate light transmitted between the
   photodiode 104 and the phototransistor 106.
10
   In much the same manner as some of the preceding embodiments, the
   adjustment screw 108 is arranged to move with compression of the body
   portion 102. Therefore, as the body portion 102 is tensioned, the screw 108
   displaces substantially along the direction of the bore axis.
15
   As shown in Figure 9A, the device 100 further comprises a second opaque
   member in the form of an abutment member 110 that is disposed within the
   body    portion   102  and  is  aligned   with   the  adjustment  screw    108
   substantially along the direction of the bore axis. The adjustment screw 108
20 and the abutment member 110 are separated by an adjustable air gap 112
   when the body portion 102 is uncompressed below the predetermined
   preload. However, as the body portion 102 is subsequently tensioned, the
   adjustment screw 108 is therefore forced towards the abutment member 110
   so that the air gap 112 gradually begins to close.
25
   The photodiode 104 and the phototransistor 106 are disposed on opposite
   sides of the air gap 112, such that light communication is possible along a
   light path defined therethrough. But, as the compression of the body
   portion 102 increases, the adjustment screw 108 begins to abut against the
30 abutment member       110, until such time the predetermined preload is
   achieved, whereupon the air gap 112 closes completely and the screw 108
   and abutment member 110 come into direct contact. As a result, the light

                                           27
   communicated between the photodiode 104 and phototransistor 106 is
   thereby interrupted (namely fully attenuated), causing a change in the state
   of the communicated light.
 5 This change of state may consequently be used to notify an operator that
   the desired preload on the device has been achieved.
   A controller 120 is configured to identify when this change of state occurs
   (i.e. when the phototransistor 106 no longer registers any incident light)
10 and therefore provides a visual indication or other form of alert or message
   etc. to the operator that the device 100 is at the required tension.
   In alternative embodiment, as shown in Figures 10A & 1OB, a reverse
   situation may be used to notify the operator that the required preload on the
15 device 200 has been achieved. In this embodiment, the first opaque member
   is arranged to inhibit and attenuate the transmission of light between the
   light source and the light detector, such that only when the opaque member
   is displaced (due to tensioning of the device) is light able to pass between
   the source and detector.
20
   In such an embodiment, the source and the detector are linkable via a pair
   of opposing      fibre optics  208a    & 208b,    which define     a light path
   therebetween. The first opaque member comprises a pivotable light shield
   206, which is disposed between the opposing fibre optics 208a & 208b,
25 such that it is aligned substantially transversely to the light path.
   An adjustment screw 204 is disposed within the body portion 202 and is
   operable to displace the light shield 206 upon compression of the body
   portion. The adjustment screw 204 is aligned substantially parallel to the
30 axis of the bore and consequently moves along this direction as the body
   portion 202 is compressed. The adjustment screw 204 is arranged to abut
   against the pivotable light shield 206, such that as the tension on the body

                                          28
   portion 202 is increased the screw 204 pushes downwardly on the light
   shield (in the sense of Figure 1OA) causing it to pivot away from the
   blocked light path of the opposing fibre optics 208a & 208b.
 5 As a result, the action of the pivoting light shield 206 is able to cause a
   change in the state of the light communicated between the source and the
   detector, with the light being able to pass uninhibited between the opposing
   fibre optics 208a & 208b with zero attenuation.
10 A controller in the form of an attachable device (not shown) can be
   configured to identify when the change of state occurs (i.e. when the
   detector receives light from the fibre optic) and may therefore provide a
   visual indication or other form of alert or message etc. to the operator that
   the device is at the required tension.
15
   As shown in Figure 10A, the light shield 206 is biased to return to its
   original (attenuating) position by a biasing means, such as a helical spring
   210. The spring 210 thereby restores the light shield 206 to a position
   which interrupts the light communication between the opposing fibre optics
20 208a & 208b, when the tension is removed from the device 200.
   As will be appreciated from the foregoing         embodiments,    the present
   invention is able to provide an improved, easy to fit, and cost-effective
   means of indicating accurate loading of a mechanical assembly. Therefore,
25 although the load-indicating devices are ideally suited for ensuring a
   reliable and consistent tensioning of fastening components, it will be
   recognised that one or more of the principles of the invention may extend
   to other fastening or securing applications, whereby it is required to tension
   or load a mechanical connection to an accurate predetermined value or
30 tolerance.

                                         29
   The above embodiments are described by way of example only. Many
   variations are possible without departing from the invention.
   In the specification the term "comprising" shall be understood to have a
 5 broad meaning similar to the term "including" and will be understood to
   imply the inclusion of a stated integer or step or group of integers or steps
   but not the exclusion of any other integer or step or group of integers or
   steps.  This definition also applies to variations on the term "comprising"
   such as "comprise" and "comprises".
10

                                           30
                                       CLAIMS
   1.      A load indicating device, comprising:
           a body portion defining a bore extending therethrough;
 5         a movable member disposed in at least part of the body portion and
   configured to move in a direction substantially orthogonal to the axis of the
   bore; and
           an adjustment means coupled to the movable member and operable
   to displace the movable member when the body portion is compressed.
10
   2.      The load indicating device of Claim 1, wherein the adjustment
   means is coupled to the movable member via a resilient means.
   3.      The load indicating device of Claim 2, wherein the resilient means is
15 a spring clip.
   4.      The load indicating device of any preceding claim, wherein the
   movable member is configured to move in a substantially radial direction
   relative to the axis of the bore.
20
   5.      The   load   indicating   device   of any preceding   claim,  further
   comprising a biasing means operable to restore the movable member to its
   original position when the body portion is uncompressed.
25 6.      The load indicating device of any preceding claim, wherein the
   movable member is in the form of a gauge pin.
   7.      The load indicating device of Claim 6, wherein the gauge pin
   comprises an end cap.
30

                                          31
   8.      The load indicating device of Claim 6 or Claim 7, wherein the gauge
   pin is located within a gauge pin housing at least partly disposed within the
   body portion.
 5 9.      The load indicating device of Claim 8, wherein the gauge pin
   housing comprises a seal.
   10.     The load indicating device of any preceding claim, wherein the
   adjustment means comprises an adjustment screw.
10
   11.     The load indicating device of Claim 10, wherein the adjustment
   screw is substantially parallel to the bore.
   12.     The load indicating device of Claim 10 or Claim 11, wherein the
15 adjustment screw is disposed in the body portion.
   13.     The   load   indicating  device   of any  preceding   claim,  further
   comprising a load detecting means operable to detect displacement of the
   movable member relative to the body portion.
20
   14.     The load indicating device of Claim 13, wherein the load detecting
   means comprises an attachable probe including a linear transducer.
   15.     The load indicating device of Claim 14, wherein the load detecting
25 means further comprises a display means for indicating the compressive
   load on the body portion.
   16.     The load indicating device of any preceding claim, wherein the bore
   is threaded.
30
   17.     The load indicating device of any preceding claim, wherein the body
   portion is in the form of a nut or a washer.

                                         32
   18.     A load indicating device, comprising:
           a body portion defining a bore extending therethrough;
           an aperture extending at least partly through the body portion in a
 5 direction substantially orthogonal to the axis of the bore; and
           imaging means disposed proximate to the aperture and operable to
   detect a change in a visual characteristic of the aperture when the body
   portion is acted upon by a compressive force.
10 19.     The   load  indicating  device of Claim      18, wherein the  visual
   characteristic comprises at least one of the shape, size and reflectance of
   the aperture.
   20.     The load indicating device of Claim 18 or Claim 19, wherein the
15 imaging means comprise a borescope having an internal light source.
   21.     The load indicating device of Claim 20, wherein the imaging means
   further comprise a video camera coupled to the borescope.
20 22.     The load indicating device of Claim 20 or Claim 21, wherein the
   borescope is oppositely disposed to the aperture.
   23.     The load indicating device of any of Claims 18 to 22, wherein the
   bore is threaded.
25
   24.     The load indicating device of any of Claims 18 to 23, wherein the
   body portion is in the form of a nut or a washer.
   25.     The load indicating device of any of Claims 18 to 24, wherein the
30 aperture is substantially circular.
   26.     A load indicating device, comprising:

                                            33
            a body portion defining a bore extending therethrough; and
          a first electrode and a second electrode;
          wherein the first electrode is disposed in at least part of the body
   portion and the second electrode is operable to move between a first
 5 position, in which the second electrode is spaced from the first electrode,
   and a second position, in which the second electrode is in electrical contact
   with the first electrode, in response to a predetermined compressive load
   being applied to the body portion.
10 27.      The load indicating      device of Claim    26, wherein    the second
   electrode is spaced from the first electrode by an air gap.
   28.      The load indicating device of Claim 27, wherein the spacing of the
   air gap is adjustable.
15
   29.      The load indicating device of any of Claims 26 to 28, wherein the
   second electrode is in the form of an adjustment screw.
   30.      The load indicating      device of Claim    26, wherein the second
20 electrode comprises a resilient member coupled to an adjustment screw.
   31.      The load indicating device of any of Claims 26 to 30, wherein the
   adjustment screw is substantially parallel to the bore.
25 32.      The load indicating device of any of Claims 26 to 31, wherein the
   first electrode is electrically insulated from the body portion.
   33.      The load indicating device of any of Claims 26 to 32, wherein the
   first electrode is aligned substantially orthogonal to the axis of the bore.
30

                                          34
   34.    The load indicating device of any of Claims 26 to 33, further
   comprising a detachable probe for electrical coupling to the first and
   second electrodes.
 5 35.    The load indicating device of Claim 34, wherein the probe comprises
   third and fourth electrodes for respective coupling to the first and second
   electrodes.
   36.    The load indicating device of Claim 35, wherein the third and fourth
10 electrodes are arranged to complete an electrical circuit with the first and
   second    electrodes   when    the  body    portion  is  compressed  to  the
   predetermined compressive load.
   37.    The load indicating device of any of Claims 34 to 36, further
15 comprising a display means coupled to the probe for indicating the
   compressive load on the body portion.
   38.    The load indicating device of any of Claims 26 to 37, wherein the
   bore is threaded.
20
   39.    The load indicating device of any of Claims 26 to 38, wherein the
   body portion is in the form of a nut or a washer.
   40.    A load indicating device, comprising:
25        a body portion defining a bore extending therethrough;
          a light source;
          a light detector for receiving light from the source; and
          a first opaque member operable to attenuate the passage of light
   between the source and the detector;
30        wherein the opaque member is arranged to move in response to
   compression of the body portion to thereby cause a change in the state of

                                         35
   the light communicated      between the source and the detector when a
   predetermined preload is applied to the body portion.
   41.     The load indicating device of Claim 40, wherein the light source is a
 5 photodiode and the light detector is a phototransistor.
   42.     The load indicating device of Claim 40 or Claim 41, wherein the
   first opaque member is an adjustment screw.
10 43.     The load indicating device of any of Claims 40 to 42, wherein the
   adjustment screw is substantially parallel to the bore.
   44.     The load   indicating  device   of Claim 42     or 43,  wherein   the
   adjustment screw is disposed in the body portion.
15
   45.     The load indicating device of any of Claims 42 to 44, further
   comprising a second opaque member in the form of an abutment member.
   46.     The load indicating device of Claim 45, wherein the adjustment
20 screw and the abutment member are separated by an adjustable air gap.
   47.     The load indicating device of any of Claims 40 to 46, wherein the
   source and the detector are disposed on opposite sides of the air gap.
25 48.     The load indicating device of Claim 46 or Claim 47, wherein the
   adjustment screw is arranged to abut against the abutment member when
   the predetermined preload is applied to the body portion to thereby close
   the air gap.
30 49.     The load indicating device of any of Claims 40 to 48, further
   comprising a controller operable to indicate that the predetermined preload

                                          36
   has been applied to the body portion in response to a change in state of the
   light communicated between the source and the detector.
   50.     The load indicating device of Claim 49, wherein the change in state
 5 of the light corresponds to full attenuation.
   51.     The load indicating device of Claim 40, further comprising an
   adjustment screw disposed within the body portion and operable to displace
   the opaque member upon compression of the body portion.
10
   52.     The load indicating device of Claim 40 or 51, wherein the source
   and the detector are linkable via a pair of opposing fibre optics defining a
   light path therebetween.
15 53.     The load indicating device of Claim 52, wherein the first opaque
   member comprises a pivotable light shield disposed between the fibre
   optics and substantially transverse to the light path.
   54.     The load indicating device of Claim 53, wherein the adjustment
20 screw is configured to displace the light shield from the light path to
   thereby cause a change in the state of the light communicated between the
   source and the detector.
   55.     The load indicating device of Claim 54, wherein the change in state
25 of the light corresponds to zero attenuation.
   56.     The load indicating device of Claim 40 or of any of Claims 51 to 55,
   wherein the first opaque member further comprises a biasing means to
   restore the pivotable light shield to its original attenuating position when
30 the body portion is uncompressed.

                                      37
  57.   The load indicating device of Claim 40 or of any of Claims 51 to 56,
  wherein the bore is threaded.
  58.   The load indicating device of Claim 40 or of any of Claims 51 to 57,
5 wherein   the body portion    is in  the form   of a   nut or a   washer.

           <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
Figure 1                         1 / 10

           <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
Figure 2                         2 / 10

           <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
Figure 3                         3 / 10

           <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
Figure 4                         4 / 10

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                      5 / 10

           <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                                 6 / 10
Figure 6

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                      7 / 10

           <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
Figure 8                         8 / 10

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                      9 / 10

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                      10 / 10

