                                  1
 5                             ABSTRACT
   The self-coupling hinge comprises of a cylinder (6) with flanges (1)
   and top and bottom plates (3) which is mounted to the
   doorframe. The flanges (1) and top and bottom plates (3) keep
 o the U-shaped receptacle (2) from dislodging and falling to the
   ground.
   The second part is a U-shaped receptacle (2) that is mounted to
   the door by the mounting bracket (5) to allow a door on a
   container to either swing (see picture 5 and 6) or tip open (see
.5 picture 7).

                                   3
s Picture 3 from top deconstructed

                                        1
 5                                 Australia
                             Patents Act 1990
                        COMPLETE SPECIFICATION
                          INNOVATION PATENT
.0
                       SELF-COUPLING HINGE
   The following statement is a full description of this innovation including
   the best method of performing it known to me:
.5

                                                      2
 5                              SELF-COUPLING HINGE
                                          Field of the innovation
   The self-coupling hinge will henceforth be referred to as "innovation". This innovation relates to
 0 the method of allowing the rear tailgate of an earthmoving bin to both tip off material and to
   swing open.
                                  Background of the innovation
   Trucks in earthmoving do various tasks, the two principle concerns are tipping material
.5 (horizontal swing) and loading objects into the bin (vertical swing). Currently the way of getting
   the tailgate of the bin to both work as a horizontal and vertical swinging gate has been through
   a twostep process. This has been done by either having a pin in (for vertical swing) or out (for
   horizontal swing).
   This innovation is designed to remove the risk of forgetting to either remove or add the pin,
 0 which in vertical swinging can cause damage to the gate by bending and in in horizontal
   swinging risks the gate falling into the ground, potentially injuring an operator and or cause
   damage to property, whilst retaining full functionality.

                                                    3
 5                                    Summary of the innovation
   The innovation provides a method of allowing the rear tailgate of an earthmoving (or other
   container with a need to both be able to tip and swing open) bin to swing and tip by:
      1. Allowing hinge to decouple when tipping off material (see picture 7)
.0    2. Allow hinge to stay together when swinging tailgate into open position (see pictures 5
          and 6)
      3. Removing the need of adding or removing a pin to allow door to swing open
      4. Retain full functionality of existing door
      5.  Allow the innovation to be retrofitted to any earthmoving bin (or other container with a
.5        need to both be able to tip and swing open)

                                     1
 5            Claims defining the innovation are as follows:
   1. A cylinder (6) with a top and bottom plate (3) and with flanges (1)
      to guide receptacle (2) when tailgate is to swing open
   2. U shaped receptacle (2) piece to allow gate to tip open but also be
.0    guided when tailgate is to be swung open

                                                       1
<removed-date>
              5   Picture 1 from front deconstructed
<removed-apn>
                       1.   Flanges
                       2.   U-shaped Receptacle
                       3.   Top and bottom plate
          10           4.   Mounting brackets to door frame
                       5.   Mounting bracket for door
                       6.   Cylinder for U-Shaped receptacle (2) to rotate on

                                                      2
<removed-date>
              5   Picture 2 from back deconstructed
<removed-apn>

                                                     3
<removed-date>
              5   Picture 3 from top deconstructed
<removed-apn>

                                         4
<removed-date>
              5   Picture 4 from front
<removed-apn>

                                                   5
<removed-date>
              5   Picture 5 door swung open half way
<removed-apn>

                                                   6
<removed-date>
              5   Picture 6 door swung open completly
<removed-apn>

                                              7
<removed-date>
              5   Picture 7 door tipping up
<removed-apn>

