                                           ABSTRACT
        A method and device utilizing infrared energy for heating objects, while providing
energy control and enabling a decrease radiative heat flux (or intensity) of the infrared energy.
An infrared emission device providing reduction of radiative heat flux or intensity from a
primary emitter according to the invention may comprise a heat source, a primary emitter that
emits infrared radiation of a first wavelength, and a secondary emitter that is spaced apart from
the primary emitter. The secondary emitter receives infrared radiation emitted from the primary
emitter and emits infrared radiation. The secondary emitter is constructed and arranged to emit
infrared radiation having a wavelength that is longer than the infrared radiation of the first
wavelength.

       DEVICE AND METHOD FOR DECREASING RADIATIVE HEAT FLUX OF
                                      INFRARED ENERGY
        Applicant claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application Serial No. 62/423,520 filed
November 17, 2016.
                                         BACKGROUND
        [001]   It is widely accepted that infrared energy is superior to other forms of heat energy
for certain industrial curing and drying processes. In the past 10-15 years, infrared energy
generated from fuels such as butane, propane and natural gas has also become popular for use in
outdoor grills and for indoor grills used in restaurants. All of these gas fired grills depend upon
the combustion of a gaseous fuel for the generations of infrared energy.         It is quite simple to
achieve radiative heat flux levels high enough to sear meat and to cook it quickly. Such meats
include steaks, chops, hamburgers, ribs and small roasts. A hamburger with a diameter of about
5 inches (12.7 cm) and % inch (1.3 cm) thickness weighing about .40 pounds (0.18 kg) can be
broiled to an internal temperature of 1600 F (710 C) in less than 10 minutes.
        [002]   All gas burners that depend on a venturi or an air injector tube to introduce
primary air for combustion have a minimum fuel input for low fire. This restriction limits most
infrared energy types of grills for use in slow cooking over an extended period of time because
the limitation of the turn down ratio does not allow the infrared energy to be reduced to a level
required - less than a total emissive power of about 1000 BTU/HRFT 2 ---for traditional slow
cooking, barbecuing, and smoking that can take up to 12-14 hours or more.
        [003]   A growing interest in slow cooking and smoking in recent years has spawned a
rapidly growing sector of the outdoor cooking equipment industry, a sector which includes
                                                   1

traditional smokers as well as kamado-style ceramic cookers and pellet grills. However, these
types of cookers are not capable of reaching the high searing temperatures of infrared grills. An
apparatus that can reduce the total emissive power of infrared grills and can be installed on and
removed from a grill easily would make infrared grills far more versatile by enabling consumers
to slow cook and smoke as well as sear on the same piece of cooking equipment.
                              SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
         [004]  The present invention is a method and device utilizing infrared energy for heating
objects, while providing energy control and enabling a decrease radiative heat flux (or intensity)
of the infrared energy. An infrared emission device providing reduction of radiative heat flux or
intensity from a primary emitter according to the invention may comprise a heat source, a
primary emitter that emits infrared radiation of a first wavelength, and a secondary emitter that is
spaced apart from the primary emitter. The secondary emitter receives infrared radiation emitted
from the primary emitter and emits infrared radiation. The secondary emitter is constructed and
arranged to emit infrared radiation having a wavelength that is longer than the infrared radiation
of the first wavelength.
                            DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
         [005]  Figure 1 is a sectioned side elevation of a device according to an embodiment of
the invention.
         [006]  Figure 2 is an exploded view showing elements of a device according to an
embodiment of the invention.
         [007]  Figure 3A is a perspective, but exploded, view showing elements of a device
according to an embodiment of the invention.
                                                 2

         [008]  Figure 3B is a perspective view showing the elements of a device according to
the embodiment of the invention of Figure 3A in relationship for use.
                 DESCRIPTION OF EMBODIMENTS OF THE INVENTION
         [009]  This invention includes a method and device for diminishing radiative heat flux
(or intensity) of infrared energy.    Devices for accomplishing the diminished radiative heat flux
(or intensity) of infrared energy according to the invention preferably reduce the infrared energy
emitted from a first or primary emitter 2 to below a total emissive power of 936 BTU/HR FT 2 for
all wavelengths, wherein more than 50% of the wavelengths are in excess of 8 microns. The
infrared radiative heat flux limiter is referred to herein as a secondary emitter 4.
         [010]  A preferred embodiment of the invention comprises a plate (secondary emitter 4)
that is interposed between a primary emitter 2 of infrared energy and the energy absorbing
object(s) 10.   Fig. 1. By way of example, the energy absorbing objects may be food that is
supported on a support member 12. The invention decreases the radiative heat flux (or intensity)
from the primary emitting source by absorbing infrared energy emitted by the primary emitter
and reradiating the infrared energy at longer wavelengths, based on the secondary emitter's
radiant properties, thereby decreasing the temperature and/or decreasing emissivity of the
secondary emitter from that of the primary emitter. The intensity of the energy transmitted to the
object, such as food, is decreased.         In some applications, both temperature decrease and
decreased emissivity are employed.
         [011]  The materials from which the primary emitter 2 and the secondary emitter 4 may
be constructed included metal, glass, ceramic glass, ceramic and other material that has the
ability to operate at temperatures up to approximately 5000 F (260' C). The form of the plate
may be flat or have a small curvature. The plate may be fabricated with side walls in a pan-like
                                                    3

structure to add rigidity. Support ridges may be pressed or otherwise formed in the plate to
increase rigidity and diminish warping resulting from expansion during heating. The plate may
have a plurality of apertures formed in a surface of the plate that allow passage of some infrared
radiation from the primary emitter(s) but block other infrared radiation.
        [012]   This invention is believed to be of particular benefit when the fuel provided for
combustion and heat generation is a combustible gas, such as propane, butane or natural gas.
Gas burners inherently have a limit with regard to reducing heat output. That is, such burners
have a turn down limitation that is associated with combustibility of the gas-air mixture. When
this limitation is exceeded, the burner's flame is extinguished, and combustion and energy
generation is terminated.     The invention diminishes the intensity, or radiative heat flux, of
infrared energy when low levels of such energy are desirable in an application but cannot be
attained by adjustment of the fuel input to the burner.
        [013]   As shown in the embodiment of Fig. 1 and Fig. 2, a housing 14 has a burner 16
and a combustion plenum 18. A gas inlet 20 and regulator 22 are provided. Combustible gas is
mixed with air and ignited at sufficient temperature. Air may be provided through orifice 24.
The burner emits flame and products of combustion into the combustion plenum. An exhaust
port 26 may be provided. Also emitted is infrared energy. The primary emitter 2 receives the
infrared energy at a first, or lower, surface 8 of the primary emitter. The primary emitter emits
infrared energy of a first wavelength 30 from a top, or upper, surface 6 of the primary emitter.
The secondary emitter 4 receives the infrared energy from the primary emitter on a lower surface
of the secondary emitter 33. The secondary emitter is constructed and arranged to emit at least
50% of its infrared energy from the top surface 28 at a wavelength 32 that is longer than the first
wavelength emitted by the primary emitter.
                                                  4

        [014]   In a preferred embodiment, the device according to the invention is a grill. A grill
may be built generally in accordance with the grill shown in Best, U.S. Patent No. 6,114,666,
and modified with a secondary emitter according to the present invention. An example of the
effect of the invention on a grill so constructed is as follows:        A test indicates that the
temperature of the primary emitter on low fire setting was 540'F (271 C), while the temperature
of the secondary emitter was 320'F (160'C). Output radiation flux density based on the Stefan
Boltzman equation is stated as follows for this application.
                                Q = .173 x 10-8 x e x A (Ti 4  - T2 4 )
                                             Q = BTU\HR
                              .173 x 10-8= Stefan-Boltzman Constant
                                              e=emissivity
                                             A= Area\FT 2
                                       4
                           T1     =
                                  -R     (emitting surface temperature)
                          T2    -   "R4 (absorbingsurface temperature)
                     Note: When computing radiative heat flux use only T14 .
        [015]   Solving the above equation for the primary emitter with a temperature of 520' F
(271 C) and an emissivity of .92 indicates that the total emissive power of the primary emitter is
1575 BTU/HR FT2 and for the secondary emitter with a temperature of 320'F (160'C) and
emissivity of .92 indicates the total emissive power of the secondary emitter is 582 BTU/HRFT 2
        [016]   The present invention according to a preferred embodiment comprises a
secondary emitter 4. The secondary emitter may be a metal plate in one embodiment. The metal
plate may have side walls (pan-like) for support, with walls about the entire perimeter of the
secondary emitter. A first side (lower surface) of the secondary emitter 33 that faces the primary
                                                   5

emitter is an absorbing side that absorbs infrared energy from a primary emitter. The obverse
side 28 of the secondary emitter, which may be a metal plate, emits infrared energy 32 absorbed
by the first side of the metal plate 33. Fig. 2. Heat tolerant or heat resistant coatings of different
types may be applied on one or both sides to vary the emissivity to achieve the desired result of
reducing the emissive power of the primary emitter. For example, the coatings may be ceramic,
porcelain or high temperature paint that will withstand the operating temperatures.
        [017]    The secondary emitter 4 is preferred to be spaced apart from the primary emitter
2. For example, the secondary emitter may be spaced         12 inch (1.3 cm) to 5 inches (12.7 cm)
from the primary emitter. In one embodiment, the secondary emitter is supported by legs 34
having a selected length that maintain the spaced apart relationship between the primary and
secondary emitter. Fig. 3. In another embodiment, the secondary emitter is placed directly on a
cooking grate of a grill. In that construct, the grates maintain a spaced apart relationship between
the primary emitter and the secondary emitter. Other types of mechanical frames of various
construct may be used. The secondary emitter may have perforations or other apertures formed
therein through which a portion of the infrared energy emitted from the primary emitter passes
directly to the absorbing object(s). The apertures may be constructed to be closed or partially
closed.    In one embodiment, the secondary emitter is formed with two plates, each having
apertures.   The apertures may be aligned to show that the apertures are open, permitting the
passage of energy through them. One plate may be moved relative to the second plate to close,
or partially close the apertures.
        [018]    A material used for most of the experimental secondary emitter plates is metal,
which may be stainless steel. In other related experiments, various coatings have been applied to
metal other than stainless steel. Other substrates, both coated and uncoated, that exhibit the
                                                   6

required emissivity properties have been employed with equal success at required operating
temperatures.
         [019] When the invention is used as preferred to lower radiative heat flux from the
primary emitter 2 in a cooking or broiling application, means is provided to support the food 10
above the secondary emitter 4. Fig. 1; Fig. 2. The support member 12 is positioned above and is
spaced apart from the secondary emitter.     The construct of the support member (i.e. rack or
grate) may vary according to the application, such as a particular grill construct. Fig. 3.  The
support member is characterized by the grate having openings that allow infrared energy to pass
through the openings. More than 30% of the surface area of the support member is open, and
more preferably, at least 50% of the surface area of the support member is open.          This is
contrasted with the secondary emitter, wherein the infrared energy is emitted from the plane of
the secondary emitter and openings allow infrared energy from the primary emitter to pass
through. Therefore, openings in the secondary emitter are less than 30% of the surface area in
most applications, and the secondary emitter may not have any openings in the surface.
         [020] In some applications, the support member for food may be attached to the grill
body, or the food support may be attached to the frame of the secondary emitter, with the plane
of the support member generally parallel to the plane of the primary emitter and the secondary
emitter.
                                                7

What is claimed:
         1.     An infrared emission device providing reduction of radiative heat flux or intensity
from a primary emitter, comprising:
        a heat source;
        a primary emitter that emits infrared radiation of a first wavelength;
        a secondary emitter that is positioned above and spaced apart from the primary emitter,
wherein the secondary emitter receives infrared radiation emitted from the primary emitter and
emits infrared radiation, wherein the secondary emitter is constructed and arranged to emit
infrared radiation having a wavelength that is longer than the infrared radiation of the first
wavelength.
        2.      An infrared emission device providing reduction of radiative heat flux or intensity
from a primary emitter as described in Claim 1, wherein not less than 50% of the infrared
radiation emitted by the secondary emitter is of a wavelength that is longer than the first
wavelength.
        3.      An infrared emission device providing reduction of radiative heat flux or intensity
from a primary emitter as described in Claim 1, wherein the secondary emitter comprises a
plurality of apertures formed in a surface of the secondary emitter that allow passage of infrared
radiation emitted by the primary emitter.
                                                  8

         4.    An infrared emission device providing reduction of radiative heat flux or intensity
from a primary emitter as described in Claim 1, wherein the secondary emitter reduces the
infrared energy emitted from the primary emitter to below a total emissive power of 936
BTU/HR FT 2 for all wavelengths.
         5.    An infrared emission device providing reduction of radiative heat flux or intensity
from a primary emitter as described in Claim 1, wherein more than 50% of the wavelengths
emitted by the secondary emitter are in excess of 8 microns.
         6.    An infrared emission device providing reduction of radiative heat flux or intensity
from a primary emitter as described in Claim 1, wherein the secondary emitter is coated with a
heat tolerant coating that absorbs infrared energy and will withstand temperatures in excess of
271 0 C.
         7.    An infrared emission device providing reduction of radiative heat flux or intensity
from a primary emitter as described in Claim 1, wherein the a lower side of the secondary emitter
absorbs infrared energy.
         8.    An infrared emission device providing reduction of radiative heat flux or intensity
from a primary emitter as described in Claim 1, wherein the a lower side of the secondary emitter
comprises legs that extend from the lower side of the secondary emitter.
         9.    An infrared emission device providing reduction of radiative heat flux or intensity
from a primary emitter as described in Claim 1, wherein the heat source is fueled by combustible
gas.
                                                9

        10.     An infrared emission device providing reduction of radiative heat flux or
intensity from a primary emitter as described in Claim 1, wherein a support member is positioned
above and is spaced apart from the secondary emitter.
        11.    An infrared emission device providing reduction of radiative heat flux or intensity
from a primary emitter as described in Claim 1, wherein a support member is positioned above
and is spaced apart from the secondary emitter, and wherein the support member is a grate
having openings formed therein.
                                                10

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
