                                            ABSTRACT
         The present invention relates to a novel regulatory T cell protein. The protein, designated
PD-L3 or VISTA resembles members of the PD-Li family, identified a novel and structurally
distinct, Ig-superfamily inhibitory ligand, whose extracellular domain bears homology to the B7
family ligand PD-Li.      This molecule is designated as PD-L3 or VISTA               or V-domain
Immunoglobulin Suppressor of T cell Activation (VISTA). Expression of VISTA is primarily
within the hematopoietic compartment and is highly regulated on myeloid APCs and T cells.
Therapeutic intervention of the VISTA inhibitory pathway represents a novel approach to a
modulate T cell-mediated immunity for the treatment of a wide variety of cancers, e.g., ovarian,
bladder cancer and melanomas. Also, VISTA proteins, especially multimeric VISTA proteins and
antibodies may be used to suppress T cell immunity in autoimmune disease, allergy, infection and
inflammatory conditions, e.g. multiple sclerosis and arthritic conditions such as RA.

                                              -1
               VISTA REGULATORY T CELL MEDIATOR PROTEIN,
                    VISTA BINDING AGENTS AND USE THEREOF
Introduction
 [00 01]     This application claims priority to US Serial No. 12/732,371 filed March 26,
2010, US Provisional No. 61/390,434 filed on October 6, 2010; US Provisional No.
61/436,379 filed on January 26, 2011 and US Provisional No. 61/449,882 filed on March
7, 2011. All of these applications are incorpoated by reference in their entireties.
 [0002]      This application relates to We have discovered, characterized and functionally
defined a novel, hematopoietically-restricted, structurally-distinct, Ig-superfamily
inhibitory ligand designated as y-region Immunoglobulin-containing Suppressor of T
cell Activation (VISTA) or PD-L3. The extracellular domain bears homology to the B7
family ligand PD-Li, and like PD-L1, VISTA has a profound impact on immunity.
However, unlike PD-Ll, expression of VISTA is exclusively within the hematopoietic
compartment. Expression is most prominent on myeloid antigen-presenting cells (APCs),
although expression on CD4+ T cells and on a subset of Foxp3+ regulatory T cells (Treg)
is also of significant interest. A soluble VISTA-Ig fusion protein, or VISTA expression
on APCs, potently inhibits in vitro T cell proliferation, cytokine production and induces
Foxp3 expression in T cells. Conversely, a newly developed anti-VISTA monoclonal
antibody interfered with VISTA-induced -immune suppression of T cell responses by
VISTA+ APCs in vitro. Furthermore, in vivo anti-VISTA intensified the development of
the T cell mediated autoimmune disease experimental allergic encephalomyelitis (EAE),
and facilitated the development of a protective, tumor-specific immune response with
subsequent tumor remission. Initial studies of VISTA-/- mice are revealing early
indications of spontaneous inflammatory disease, and their ultimate pathologic fate will
be determined. Unlike all other PD-Ligand-related molecules (e.g., B7-H3, H4, H6), the
hematopoietic restriction of VISTA together with its profound suppressive activities and
unique structural features, illustrates that VISTA is a novel, functionally non-redundant,
central negative regulator of immunity, whose expression is primarily myeloid-restricted.

                                              -2
Background of the Invention
 [0003]      Induction of an immune response requires T cell expansion, differentiation,
contraction and establishment of T cell memory. T cells must encounter antigen
presenting cells (APCs) and communicate via T cell receptor (TCR)/major
histocompatibility complex (MHC) interactions on APCs. Once the TCR/MHC
interaction is established, other sets of receptor-ligand contacts between the T cell and the
APC are required, i.e. co-stimulation via CD154/CD40 and CD28/B7.1-B7.2. The
synergy between these contacts is suggested to result, in vivo, in a productive immune
response capable of clearing pathogens and tumors, and in some cases capable of
inducing autoimmunity.
 [00041      Another level of control has been identified, namely regulatory T cells (Treg).
This specific subset of T cells is generated in the thymus, delivered into the periphery,
and is capable of constant and inducible control of T cells responses in vitro and in vivo
(Sakaguchi (2000) Cell 101(5):455-8; Shevach (2000) Annu. Rev. Immunol. 18:423-49;
Bluestone and Abbas (2003) Nat. Rev. Immunol. 3(3):253-7). Treg are represented by a
CD4+CD25+ phenotype and also express high levels of cytotoxic T lymphocyte
associated antigen-4 (CTLA-4), OX-40, 4-IBB and the glucocorticoid inducible TNF
receptor-associated protein (GITR)(McHugh, et al. (2002) Immunity 16(2):311-23;
Shimizu, et al. (2002) Nat. Immun. 3(2):135-42). Elimination of Treg cells by 5 day
neonatal thymectomy or antibody depletion using anti-CD25, results in the induction of
autoimmune pathology and exacerbation of T cells responses to foreign and self-antigens,
including heightened anti-tumor responses (Sakaguchi, et al. (1985) J. Exp. Med.
161(1):72-87; Sakaguchi, et al. (1995) J. Immunol. 155(3):1151-64; Jones, et al. (2002)
Cancer Immun. 2:1). In addition, Treg have also been involved in the induction and
maintenance of transplantation tolerance (Hara, et al. (2001) J. Immunol. 166(6):3789
3796; Wood and Sakaguchi (2003) Nat. Rev. Immunol. 3:199-210), since depletion of
Treg with anti-CD25 monoclonal antibodies results in ablation of transplantation
tolerance and rapid graft rejection (Jarvinen, et al. (2003) Transplantation 76:1375-9).
Among the receptors expressed by Treg, GITR seems to be an important component
since in vitro or in vivo ligation of GITR on the surface of Treg with an agonistic

                                              -3
 monoclonal antibody results in rapid termination of Treg activity (McHugh, et al. (2002)
supra; Shimizu, et al. (2002) supra), also resulting in autoimmune pathology (Shimizu, et
al. (2002) supra) and ablation of transplantation tolerance.
 [0005]     Costimulatory and co-inhibitory ligands and receptors not only provide a "2nd
signal" for T cell activation, but also a balanced network of positive and negative signal
to maximize immune responses against infection while limiting immunity to self. The
best characterized costimulatory ligands are B7.1 and B7.2, which are expressed by
professional APCs, and whose receptors are CD28 and CTLA-4 (Greenwald, R. J.,
Freeman, G. J., and Sharpe, A. H. (2005). Annu Rev Immunol 23, 515-548; Sharpe, A.
H., and Freeman, G. J. (2002) Nat Rev Immunol 2, 116-126). CD28 is expressed by
naive and activated T cells and is critical for optimal T cell activation. In contrast,
CTLA-4 is induced upon T cell activation and inhibits T cell activation by binding to
B7.1/B7.2, thus impairing CD28-mediated costimulation. CTLA-4 also transduces
negative signaling through its cytoplasmic IM       motif (Teft, W. A., Kirchhof, M. G., and
Madrenas, J. (2006). Annu Rev Immunol 24, 65-97; Teft, W. A., Kirchhof, M. G., and
Madrenas, J. (2006). Annu Rev Immunol 24, 65-97. B7.1/B7.2 KO mice are impaired in
adaptive immune response Borriello, F., Sethna, M. P., Boyd, S. D., Schweitzer, A. N.,
Tivol, E. A., Jacoby, D., Strom, T. B., Simpson, E. M., Freeman, G. J., and Sharpe, A. H.
(1997)) Immunity 6, 303-313; Freeman, G. J., Borriello, F., Hodes, R. J., Reiser, H.,
Hathcock, K. S., Laszlo, G., McKnight, A. J., Kim, J., Du, L., Lombard, D. B., and et al.
(1993). Science 262, 907-909), whereas CTLA-4 KO mice mice can not adequately
control inflammation and develop systemic autoimmune diseases (Chambers, C. A.,
Sullivan, T. J., and Allison, J. P. (1997) Immunity 7, 885-895; Tivol, E. A., Borriello, F.,
Schweitzer, A. N., Lynch, W. P., Bluestone, J. A., and Sharpe, A. H. (1995) Immunity 3,
541-547; Waterhouse, P., Penninger, J. M., Timms, E., Wakeham, A., Shahinian, A.,
Lee, K. P., Thompson, C B., Griesser, H., and Mak, T. W. (1995). Science 270, 985-988.
 [0006]     The B7 family ligands have expanded to include costimulatory B7-H2 (ICOS
Ligand) and B7-H3, as well as co-inhibitory B7-HI (PD-Li), B7-DC (PD-L2), B7-H4
(B7S I or B7x), and B7-H6 Brandt, C. S., Baratin, M., Yi, E. C., Kennedy, J., Gao, Z.,
Fox, B., Haldeman, B., Ostrander, C. D., Kaifu, T., Chabannon, C., et al. (2009) J Exp

                                             -4
Med 206, 1495-1503; Greenwald, R. J., Freeman, G. J., and Sharpe, A. H. (2005) Annu
Rev Immunol 23, 515-548.
 [0007]      Inducible costimulatory (ICOS) molecule is expressed on activated T cells
and binds to B7-H2 Yoshinaga, S. K., Whoriskey, J. S., Khare, S. D., Sarmiento, U.,
Guo, J., Horan, T., Shih, G., Zhang, M., Coccia, M. A., Kohno, T., et al. (1999). Nature
402, 827-832.. ICOS is important for T cell activation, differentiation and function, as
well as essential for T-helper-cel-induced B cell activation, Ig class switching, and
germinal center (GC) formation Dong, C., Juedes, A. E., Temann, U. A., Shresta, S.,
Allison, J. P., Ruddle, N. H., and Flavell, R. A. (2001) Nature 409, 97-101; Tafuri, A.,
Shahinian, A., Bladt, F., Yoshinaga, S. K., Jordana, M., Wakeham, A., Boucher, L. M.,
Bouchard, D., Chan, V. S., Duncan, G., et al. (2001) Nature 409, 105-109; Yoshinaga, S.
K., Whoriskey, J. S., Khare, S. D., Sarmiento, U., Guo, J., Horan, T., Shih, G., Zhang,
M., Coccia, M. A., Kohno, T., et al. (1999) Nature 402, 827-832.. Programmed Death 1
(PD-1) on the other hand, negatively regulates T cell responses. PD-I KO mice develop
lupus-like autoimmune disease, or autoimmune dilated cardiomyopathy depending upon
the genetic background Nishimura, H., Nose, M., Hiai, H., Minato, N., and Honjo, T.
(1999) Immunity 11, 141-15 1. Nishimura, H., Okazaki, T., Tanaka, Y., Nakatani, K.,
Hara, M., Matsumori, A., Sasayama, S., Mizoguchi, A., Hiai, H., Minato, N., and Honjo,
T. (2001) Science 291, 319-322. The autoimmunity most likely results from the loss of
signaling by both ligands PD-L1 and PD-L2. Recently, CD80 was identified as a second
receptor for PD-LI that transduces inhibitory signals into T cells Butte, M. J., Keir, M.
E., Phamduy, T. B., Sharpe, A. H., and Freeman, G. J. (2007) Immunity 27, 111-122. The
receptor for B7-H3 and B7-H4 still remain unknown.
 [00081     The best characterized costimulatory ligands are B7.1 and B7.2 and they
belong to the Ig superfamily which consists of many critical immune regulators, such as
the B7family ligands and receptors. Ig superfamily members are expressed on
professional antigen-presenting cells (APCs), and their receptors are CD28 and CTLA-4.
CD28 is expressed by naive and activated T cells and is critical for optimal T-cell
activation. In contrast, CTLA-4 is induced following T-cell activation and inhibits T-cell
activation by binding to B7. 1/B7.2, impairing CD28-mediated costimulation. B7.1 and

                                             -5
B7.2 knockout (KO) mice are impaired in adaptive immune response, whereas CTLA-4
KO mice cannot adequately control inflammation and develop systemic autoimmune
diseases. Over time the B7 family ligands have expanded to include costimulatory
ligands such as B7-H2 (ICOS Ligand) and B7-H3, and coinhibitory ligands such as B7
H I (PD-LI), B7-DC (PD-L2), B7-H4 (B7SI or B7x), and B7-H6. Accordingly,
additional CD28 family receptors have been identified. ICOS is expressed on activated T
cells and binds to B7-H2. ICOS is a positive co-regulator, important for T-cell activation,
differentiation and function. On the other hand, programmed death I (PD-1) negatively
regulates T cell responses. PD-I KO mice developed lupus-like autoimmune disease, or t
dilated cardiomyopathy. In contrast to VISTA (the immunosupressive molecule which is
the focus of present invention), the two inhibitory B7 family ligands, PD-LI and PD-L2,
have distinct expression patterns. PD-L2 is inducibly expressed on DCs and
macrophages, whereas PD-LI is broadly expressed on both hematopoietic cells and
nonhematopoietic cell types. Consistent with the immune-suppressive role of PD- I
receptor, studies using PD-LI -/- and PD-L2 -/- mice have shown that both ligands have
overlapping roles in inhibiting T-cell proliferation and cytokine production. PD-LI
deficiency enhances disease progression in both the non-obese diabetic (NOD) model of
autoimmune diabetes and the murine model of multiple sclerosis (experimental
autoimmune encephalomyelitis ;EAE). PD-Li-I- T cells produce elevated levels of the
proinflammatory cytokines in both disease models. In addition, studies in NOD mice
have demonstrated that the tissue expression of PD-LI (i.e. within pancreas) uniquely
contributes to its capacity of regionally controlling inflammation. PD-Li is also highly
expressed on placental syncytiotrophoblasts, which critically control the maternal
immune responses to allogeneic fetus.
 [0009]      Given the powerful impact of this family of molecules on regulating
immunity, substantial efforts in murine models of cancer have shown that protective anti
umor immunity can be induced by targeting this family of molecules. Studies involving
anti-CTLA-4 have documented enhanced therapeutic benefit in murine models and
clinical trials of melanoma. Mice vaccinated with B 16-GM-CSF (Gvax) promote the
rejection of B 16 melanomas when combined with antibody blockade of CTLA-4.

                                             -6
Antibodies to PD-I as well as PD-LI also document enhanced anti-tumor immunity and
host survival in a wide range of murine tumor models. Finally, although CTLA-4 and
PD-I belong to the same family of co-inhibitory molecules, evidence suggests they use
distinct nonredundant mechanisms to inhibit T-cell activation, and there is synergy in the
ability of anti-CTLA-4 and anti-PD-1/LI to enhance host survival in murine melanoma
when used in combination.
 [0010]     Based on the foregoing, the elucidation of another novel B7 type family
member and ligands and modulators thereof would be useful given the important role of
these family members in regulating immunity, especially T cell immunity.
Summary of the Invention
 [0011]     The present invention relates to therapeutic methods that modulate the activity
and/or which specifically bind or block the binding of a specific regulatory T cell protein
to its counterreceptor. This protein, designated PD-L3 OR VISTA, is a novel and
structurally-distinct, Ig-superfamily inhibitory ligand, whose extracellular domain bears
homology to the B7 family ligand PD-Li. This molecule is referred to interchangeably
herein as PD-L3 or VISTA or as V-domain Immunoglobulin Suppressor of T cell
Activation (VISTA). VISTA is expressed primarily within the hematopoietic
compartment and is highly regulated on myeloid APCs and T cells. Therapeutic
intervention of the VISTA inhibitory pathway represents a novel approach to modulate T
cell-mediated immunity for the treatment of a wide variety of cancers.
 [00121     The present invention in particular relates to the use of antibodies specific to
VISTA or PD-L3 to treat specific cancers including bladder cancer, ovarian cancer, and
melanoma.
 [0013]     In addition, the present invention in particular relates to the use pf PD-L3 or
VISTA proteins, especially multimeric VISTA proteins and viral vectors (e.g.,
adenoviral) that express same to treat conditions wherein immunosupression is
therapeutically desired such as allergy, autoimmunity and inflammatory conditions.

                                             -7
 10014]     As disclosed infra, the expression of VISTA appears to be exclusive to the
hematopoietic compartment and this protein is highly expressed on mature myeloid cells
(CDl I bnri1), with lower levels of expression on CD4* T cells, T eg and CD8* T cells.
Soluble VISTA proteins, e.g., soluble VISTA-Ig fusion protein, or VISTA expression on
APCs, suppresses in vitro CD4* and CD8* T cell proliferation and cytokine production. It
is also observed that anti-VISTA antibodies, e.g., an anti-VISTA mab (13F3) blocked
VISTA-induced suppression of T cell responses by VISTA+ APCs in vitro. Also, it fias
been discovered that an anti-VISTA mab exacerbated EAE and increased the frequency
of encephalitogenic Th17s in vivo. Still further, as disclosed in detail infra, it has been
found that an anti -VISTA mab induces tumor remission in multiple (4) murine tumor
models. VISTA expression on myeloid derived suppressor cells (MDSC) in these
models is extremely high, suggesting that VISTA' MDSC suppress tumor specific
immunity. As shown herein, VISTA exerts immunosuppressive activities on T cells both
in vitro and in vivo, in mouse and in human (in vitro only) and is an important mediator
in controlling the development of autoimmunity and the immune responses to cancer.
Specifically, the data show that:
 [0015]     (1) VISTA is a new member of the Ig superfamily and contains an Ig-V
domain with distant sequence similarity to PD-LI. We disclose herein that when
produced as an Ig fusion protein or when overexpressed on artificial APCs VISTA
inhibits both mouse and human CD4+ and CD8+ T cell proliferation and cytokine
production.
 [0016]     (2) VISTA expression on myeloid APCs is inhibitory for T cell responses in
vitro.
 [0017]     VISTA expression on MDSC in the tumor microenvironment is extremely
high. Phenotypic and functional analysis of many cell surface molecules previously
suggested to be involved in MDSC-mediated suppression of T cells: CD 115, CD124,
CD80, PD-LI, and PD-L2 were expressed by MDSC but with no differences in the levels
of their expression or proportion of positive cells were found between MDSC and cells

                                                -8
 from tumor-free mice that lack immune suppressive activity. Therefore, we predict that
 VISTA will be the primary B7 negative regulator on MDSCs.
  [00181      (4) Antibody-mediated VISTA blockade induces protective immunity to an
 autologous tumor.
  [00191      Based thereon, VISTA appears to be a dominant, negative immune regulatory
 molecule on MDSCs that interferes with the development of protective anti-tumor
 immunity. Therefore, blocking the activity of this molecule with anti-VISTA antibodies
 will permit the development of protective anti-tumor immunity in humans and other
 mammals.
  [0020]      Therefore, the invention relates to methods of using soluble VISTA proteins,
 e.g., fusion proteins and multimeric VISTA proteins comprising multiple copies of the
 VISTA extravcelular domain or a fragment thereof, andVISTA binding agents, e.g.,
 small molecules and antibodies or fragments theeof, which bind or modulate (agonize or
 antagonize) the activity of VISTA as immune modulators and for the treatment of
 different cancers, e.g., bladder, ovarian and lymphoma, autoimmune disease, allergy,
 infection and inflammatory conditions, e.g. multiple sclerosis and arthritis.
  (0021]      As described in detail infra, this protein is a novel inhibitory ligand, which
 extracellular Ig-V domain bears homology to the two known B7 family ligands
 Programmed Death Ligand I and 2 (PD-LI and PD-L2) and exhibits unique sequence
 features and distinctive expression patterns in vitro and in vivo on subsets of APCs and T
 cells,(which distinguishes PD-L3 or VISTA from other B7 family ligands). This protein
:has been shown to have a functional impact on CD4* and CD8* T cell proliferation and
 differentiation (suppresses CD4* and CD8* T cell proliferation, as well as cytokine
 production). Based on its expression pattern and inhibitory impact on T cells, PD-L3 OR
 VISTA apparently functions as a regulatory ligand that negatively regulates T cell
 responses during cognate interactions between T cells and myeloid derived APCs.
  [0022]     While PD-L3 OR VISTA appears to be a member of the B7 family of ligands,
 unlike other B7 family ligands, this molecule contains only an Ig-V domain without an

                                             -9
Ig-C domain, and is phylogenically closer to the B7 family receptor Programmed Death
] (PD-l). Based thereon, PD-L3 OR VISTA, and agonists or antagonists'specific thereto
can be used to regulate T cell activation and differentiation, and more broadly to
modulate the regulatory network that controls immune responses. In particular PD-L3
OR VISTA proteins and PD-L3 OR VISTA agonists or antagonists, preferably antibodies
specific to PD-L3 OR VISTA are useful in modulating immune responses in
autoimmunity, inflammatory responses and diseases, allergy, cancer, infectious disease
and transplantation.
 [0023]      Therefore, the present invention in part relates to compositions e.g., for
therapeutic, diagnostic or immune modulatory usage containing an isolated soluble PD
L3 OR VISTA protein or fusion protein, e.g., a soluble VISTA-Ig fusion protein or a
multimeric VISTA protein, comprising an amino acid sequence that preferably is at least
70-90% identical to the human or murine PD-L3 OR VISTA polypeptide set forth in
SEQ ID NO:2, 4 or 5 or an ortholog, or fragment thereof encoded by a gene that
specifically hybridizes to SEQ ID NO:I or 3 that modulates VISTA in vivo and a
pharmaceutically acceptable carrier. In some embodiments, the soluble or multimeric
VISTA protein may be directly or indirectly linked to a heterologous (non-VISTA)
protein or may be expressed by a viral vector or a cell containing, e.g., a transfected
 immune cell such as a T cell.
 [0024]      The present invention also provides expression vectors comprising an isolated
nucleic acid encoding a VISTA protein that is at least 70-90% identical to the human or
 murine VISTA amino acid sequence set forth in SEQ ID NO:2, 4 or 5 or a fragment or
 ortholog thereof, which optionally is fused to a sequence encoding another protein such
 as an Ig polypeptide, e.g., an Fc region or a reporter molecule; and host cells containing
 said vectors.
  [0025]     The present invention also specifically relates to an isolated binding agent,
 preferably an antibody or antibody fragment which specifically binds to a PD-L3 OR
 VISTA protein comprising the amino acid sequence set forth in SEQ ID NO:2, 4 or 5 or a
 variant, fragment or ortholog thereof. In a preferred embodiment, the binding agent

                                            -10
modulates (agonizes or antagonizes) VISTA activity in vitro or in vivo. In most preferred
embodiments, the binding agent is an agonistic or antagonistic antibody.
 [0026]     The present invention further provides methods for modulating an immune
cell response by contacting an immune cell in vitro or in vivo with a VISTA protein, or
binding agent specific thereto, in the presence of a primary signal so that a response of
the immune cell is modulated. (Interaction of r VISTA or a modulator thereof transmits
a signal to immune cells, regulating immune responses. PD-L3 OR VISTA protein is
expressed at high levels on myeloid antigen presenting cells, including myeloid dendritic
cells (DCs) and macrophages, and at lower densities on CD4+ and CD8+ T cells. Upon
immune activation, PD-L3 or VISTA expression is upregulated on myeloid APCs, but
downregulated on CD4+ T cells). Therefore, the PD-L3 or VISTA nucleic acids and
polypeptides of the present invention, and agonists or antagonists thereof are useful, e.g.,
in modulating the immune response.
 [0027]     In another aspect this invention provides isolated nucleic acid molecules
encoding VISTA polypeptides, preferably encoding soluble fusion proteins and
multimeric VISTA proteins as well as nucleic acid fragments suitable as primers or
hybridization probes for the detection of PD-L3 or VISTA-encoding nucleic acids. In
one embodiment, a PD-L3 or VISTA nucleic acid molecule of the invention is at least
about 70%, 75%, 80%, 85%, 90%, 91%, 92%, 93%, 94%, 95%, 96%, 97%, 98%, 99% or
more identical to the nucleotide sequence (e.g., to the entire length of the nucleotide
sequence) encoding PD-L3 or VISTA in SEQ ID NO: I or 3 shown herein or a
complement thereof.
 [00281      In another embodiment, a PD-L3 or VISTA nucleic acid molecule includes a
nucleotide sequence encoding a polypeptide having an amino acid sequence having a
 specific percent identity to the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO: 2, 4 or 5. In a
preferred embodiment, a PD-L3 or VISTA nucleic acid molecule includes a nucleotide
 sequence encoding a polypeptide having an amino acid sequence at least about 71%,
 75%, 80%, 85%, 90%, 95%, 96%, 97%, 98%, 99% or more identical to the entire length

                                           -11
of the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO: 2, 4 or 5 or to the extracellular domain
thereof.
 [00291     In another preferred embodiment, an isolated nucleic acid molecule encodes
the amino acid sequence of human or murine or VISTA or a conserved region or
functional domain therein. In yet another preferred embodiment, the nucleic acid
molecule includes a nucleotide sequence encoding a polypeptide having the amino acid
sequence of SEQ ID NO: 2, 4 or 5. In yet another preferred embodiment, the nucleic acid
molecule is at least about 50, 100, 150, 200, 250, 300, 350, 400, 450, 500, 550, 600, 650,
700, 750, 800, 850, 900, 950, 1000, 1050, 1100, 1150 or more nucleotides in length. In a
further preferred embodiment, the nucleic acid molecule is at least about 50, 100, 150,
200, 250, 300, 350, 400, 450, 500, 550, 600, 650, 700, 750, 800, 850, 900, 950, 1000,
 1050, 1100, 1150 or more nucleotides in length and encodes a polypeptide having a PD
L3 or VISTA activity or modulating PD-L3 or VISTA function (as described herein).
 [0030]     Another embodiment of the invention features nucleic acid molecules,
preferably PD-L3 or VISTA nucleic acid molecules, which specifically detect PD-L3 or
VISTA nucleic acid molecules relative to nucleic acid molecules encoding non-PD-L3 or
VISTA polypeptides. For example, in one embodiment, such a nucleic acid molecule is at
least about 880, 900, 950, 1000, 1050, 1100, 1150 or more nucleotides in length and
hybridizes under stringent conditions to a nucleic acid molecule encoding the
polypeptide shown in SEQ ID NO: 2, 4 or 5, or a complement thereof. In another
embodiment, such a nucleic acid molecule is at least 20, 30, 40, 50, 100, 150, 200, 250,
300 or more nucleotides in length and hybridizes under stringent conditions to a nucleic
acid molecule encoding a fragment of PD-L3 or VISTA, e.g., comprising n at least 20,
30, 40, 50, 100, 150, 200, 250, 300, 350, 400, 450, 500, 550, 600, 650, 700, 750, 800,
850, 900, 950 or more nucleotides in length, includes at least 15 (i.e., 15 contiguous)
nucleotides of the disclosed nucleic acid sequence in SEQ ID NO: I and 3 encoding the
PD-L3 or VISTA polypeptides in SEQ ID NO: 2, 4 or 5, or a complement thereof, and
hybridizes under stringent conditions to a nucleic acid molecule comprising the
nucleotide sequence shown in SEQ ID NO: 1, or 3 or a complement thereof.

                                            -12
 [0031]       In still other preferred embodiments, the nucleic acid molecule encodes a
naturally occurring allelic variant of a polypeptide comprising the amino acid sequence
of SEQ ID NO: 2 or 4 or 5, wherein the nucleic acid molecule hybridizes to a
complement of a nucleic acid molecule comprising SEQ ID NO: I or 3, or a complement
thereof, under stringent conditions.
 [0032]     Another embodiment of the invention provides an isolated nucleic acid
molecule which is antisense to a PD-L3 or VISTA nucleic acid molecule, e.g., is
antisense to the coding strand of a PD-L3 or VISTA nucleic acid molecule as shown in
SEQ ID NO: I or 3.
 [0033]     Another aspect of the invention provides a vector comprising a PD-L3 or
VISTA nucleic acid molecule. In certain embodiments, the vector is a recombinant
expression vector.
 [0034]     In another embodiment, the invention provides a host cell containing a vector
of the invention. In yet another embodiment, the invention provides a host cell containing
a nucleic acid molecule of the invention. The invention also provides a method for
producing a polypeptide, preferably a PD-L3 or VISTA polypeptide, by culturing in a
suitable medium, a host cell, e.g., a mammalian host cell such as a non-human
mammalian cell, of the invention containing a recombinant expression vector, such that
the polypeptide is produced.
 [0035]     Another aspect of this invention features isolated or recombinant PD-L3 or
VISTA polypeptides (e.g., proteins, polypeptides, peptides, or fragments or portions
thereof). In one embodiment, an isolated PD-L3 or VISTA polypeptide or PD-L3 or
VISTA fusion protein includes at least one or more of the following domains: a signal
peptide domain, an IgV domain, an extracellular domain, a transmembrane domain, and a
cytoplasmic domain.
 [0036]     In a preferred embodiment, a PD-L3 or VISTA polypeptide includes at least
one or more of the following domains: a signal peptide domain, an IgV domain, an
extracellular domain, a transmembrane domain, and a cytoplasmic domain, and has an

                                            -13
amino acid sequence at least about 71%, 75%, 80%, 85%, 90%, 91%, 92%, 93%, 94%,
95%, 96%, 97%, 98%, 99% or more identical to the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO:
2 or 4 or 5. In another preferred embodiment, a PD-L3 or VISTA polypeptide includes at
least one or more of the following domains: a signal peptide domain, an IgV domain, an
extracellular domain, a transmembrane domain, and a cytoplasmic domain, and has a
VISTA or PD-L3 activity (as described herein).
 [0037]      In yet another preferred embodiment, a PD-L3 polypeptide includes at least
one or more of the following domains: a signal peptide domain, an IgV domain, an
extracellular domain, a transmembrane domain, and a cytoplasmic domain, and is
encoded by a nucleic acid molecule having a nucleotide sequence which hybridizes under
stringent hybridization conditions to a complement of a nucleic acid molecule comprising
the nucleotide sequence of SEQ ID NO: 1 or 3.
 [0038]      In another embodiment, the invention features fragments or portions of the
polypeptide having the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO: 2 or 4 or 5, wherein the
fragment comprises at least 15 amino acids (i.e., contiguous amino acids) of the amino
acid sequence of SEQ ID NO: 2 or 4. In another embodiment, a PD-L3 or VISTA
polypeptide comprises or consists of the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO: 2, 4 or 5.
In another embodiment, the invention features a PD-L3 or VISTA polypeptide which is
encoded by a nucleic acid molecule consisting of a nucleotide sequence at least about
70%, 75%, 80%, 85%, 90%, 91%, 92%, 93%, 94%, 95%, 96%, 97%, 98%, 99% or more
identical to a nucleotide sequence of SEQ ID NO: I or 3, or a complement thereof. This
invention further features a PD-L3 or VISTA polypeptide which is encoded by a nucleic
acid molecule consisting of a nucleotide sequence which hybridizes under stringent
hybridization conditions to a complement of a nucleic acid molecule comprising the
nucleotide sequence of SEQ ID NO: I or 3.
 [0039]      The polypeptides of the present invention or portions thereof, e.g.,
biologically active portions thereof, can be operatively linked to a non-PD-L3 or VISTA
polypeptide (e.g., heterologous amino acid sequences) to form fusion polypeptides. The
invention further features antibodies, such as monoclonal or polyclonal antibodies, that

                                             -14
specifically bind polypeptides of the invention, preferably human PD-L3 or VISTA
polypeptides.
 [0040]     The invention also relates to methods of selecting anti-PD-L3 or VISTA
antibodies having desired functional properties from panels of monoclonal antibodies
produced against this protein or a PD-L3 or VISTA-Ig fusion protein based on desired
functional properties, e.g., modulating specific effects of PD-L3 or VISTA on immunity
such as the suppressive effect of the protein on TCR activation, the suppressive effect of
the protein on CD4 T cell proliferative responses to anti-CD3, suppression of antigen
specific proliferative responses of cognate CD4 T cells, the suppressive effects of PD-L3
or VISTA on the expression of specific cytokines such as IL-2 and gamma interferon, et
al. In a particularly preferred embodiment anti-PD-L3 or VISTA antibodies for use as
therapeutics will be selected that in vitro, in the presence of soluble PD-L3 or VISTA
proteins, e.g., PD-3 or VISTA-Ig fusion protein enhance the suppressive effects of PD
L3 or VISTA-Ig on PD-L3 or VISTA related immune functions. This is preferred as
quite unexpectedly (shown infra) these antibodies in vivo behave opposite to what would
be expected from their in vitro effect on immunity, i.e., these anti- or VISTA monoclonal
antibodies are immunosuppressive.
 10041]     In addition, the PD-L3 or VISTA polypeptides (or biologically active portions
thereof) or modulators of the PD-L3 or VISTA molecules, i.e., antibodies such as
selected using the foregoing methods can be incorporated into pharmaceutical
compositions, which optionally include pharmaceutically acceptable carriers.
 [0042]     In another embodiment, a PD-L3 or VISTA protein is used as an inhibitory
signal for inhibiting or decreasing immune cell activation. In this embodiment, the
inhibitory signal binds to an inhibitory receptor (e.g., CTLA-4 or PD-I) on an immune
cell thereby antagonizing the primary signal which binds to an activating receptor (e.g.,
via a TCR, CD3, BCR, or Fc polypeptide). Inhibition includes, e.g., inhibition of second
messenger generation; an inhibition of proliferation; an inhibition of effector function in
the immune cell, e.g., reduced phagocytosis, reduced antibody production, reduced
cellular cytotoxicity, the failure of the immune cell to produce mediators, (such as

                                            -15
cytokines (e.g., IL-2) and/or mediators of allergic responses); or the development of
anergy.
 (0043]     In particular embodiments, the primary signal is a ligand (e.g., CD3 or anti
CD3) that binds TCR and initiates a primary stimulation signal. Such TCR ligands are
readily available from commercial sources and specific examples include anti-CD3
antibody OKT3, prepared from hybridoma cells obtained from the American Type
Culture Collection, and anti-CD3 monoclonal antibody G19-4. In an alternative
embodiment, a primary signal is delivered to a T cell through other mechanisms
including a protein kinase C activator, such as a phorbol ester (e.g., phorbol myristate
acetate), and a calcium ionophore (e.g., ionomycin, which raises cytoplasmic calcium
concentrations), or the like. The use of such agents bypasses the TCR/CD3 complex but
delivers a stimulatory signal to T cells. Other agents acting as primary signals can include
natural and synthetic ligands. A natural ligand can include MHC with or without a
peptide presented. Other ligands can include, but are not limited to, a peptide,
polypeptide, growth factor, cytokine, chemokine, glycopeptide, soluble receptor, steroid,
hormone, mitogen, such as PHA, or other superantigens, peptide-MIHC tetramers
(Altman, et a]. (1996) Science 274(5284):94-6) and soluble MHC dimers (Dal Porto, et al
(1993) Proc Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 90: 6671-5).
 10044]     Immune cells activated in accordance with the method of the instant invention
can subsequently be expanded ex vivo and used in the treatment and prevention of a
variety of diseases; e.g., human T cells which have been cloned and expanded in vitro
maintain their regulatory activity (Groux, et al. (1997) Nature 389(6652):737-42). Prior
to expansion, a source of T cells is obtained from a subject (e.g., a mammals such as a
human, dog, cat, mouse, rat, or transgenic species thereof). T cells can be obtained from a
number of sources, including peripheral blood mononuclear cells, bone marrow, lymph
node tissue, cord blood, thymus tissue, tissue from a site of infection, spleen tissue,
tumors or T cell lines. T cells can be obtained from a unit of blood collected from a
subject using any number of techniques known to the skilled artisan, such as ficollTM
separation.

                                            -16
 [0045]     In another aspect, the present invention provides a method for detecting the
presence of a PD-L3or VISTA nucleic acid molecule, protein, or polypeptide in a
biological sample by contacting the biological sample with an agent capable of detecting
a PD-L3 OR VISTA nucleic acid molecule, protein, or polypeptide, such that the
presence of a PD-L3 OR VISTA nucleic acid molecule, protein or polypeptide is detected
in the biological sample. This PD-L3 OR VISTA expression can be used to detect
certain disease sites such as inflammatory sites.
 [0046]     In another aspect, the present invention provides a method for detecting the
presence of PD-L3 OR VISTA activity in a biological sample by contacting the
biological sample with an agent capable of detecting an indicator of PD-L3 OR VISTA
activity, such that the presence of PD-L3 OR VISTA activity is detected in the biological
sample.
 [0047]      In another aspect, the invention provides a method for modulating PD-L3 OR
VISTA activity, comprising contacting a cell capable of expressing PD-L3 OR VISTA
with an agent that modulates PD-L3 OR VISTA activity, preferably an anti-PD-L3 OR
VISTA antibody such that PD-L3 OR VISTA activity in the cell is modulated. In one
embodiment, the agent inhibits PD-L3 OR VISTA activity. In another embodiment, the
agent stimulates PD-L3 OR VISTA activity. In a further embodiment, the agent interferes
with or enhances the interaction between a PD-L3 OR VISTA polypeptide and its natural
binding partner(s). In one embodiment, the agent is an antibody that specifically binds to
a PD-L3 OR VISTA polypeptide. In another embodiment, the agent is a peptide,
peptidomimetic, or other small molecule that binds to a PD-L3 OR VISTA polypeptide.
 [0048]     n still another embodiment, the agent modulates expression of PD-L3 OR
VISTA by modulating transcription of a PD-L3 OR VISTA gene, translation of a PD-L3
OR VISTA mRNA, or post-translational modification of a PD-L3 OR VISTA
polypeptide. In another embodiment, the agent is a nucleic acid molecule having a
nucleotide sequence that is antisense to the coding strand of a PD-L3 OR VISTA mRNA
or a PD-L3 OR VISTA gene.

                                            -17
 [0049]     In one embodiment, the methods of the present invention are used to treat a
subject having a disorder or condition characterized by aberrant, insufficient, or
unwanted PD-L3 OR VISTA polypeptide or nucleic acid expression or activity by
administering an agent which is a PD-L3 OR VISTA modulator to the subject. In one
preferred embodiment, the PD-L3 OR VISTA modulator is a PD-L3 OR VISTA
polypeptide, preferably a soluble fusion protein or multimeric VISTA protein or anti
VISTA antibody as described infra. In another embodiment the PD-L3 OR VISTA
modulator is a PD-L3 OR VISTA nucleic acid molecule, e,g in an adenoviral vector. In
another embodiment, the invention further provides treating the subject with an
additional agent that modulates an immune response.
 [00501     In still another embodiment, the invention provides a vaccine comprising an
antigen and an agent that modulates (enhances or inhibits) PD-L3 OR VISTA activity. In
a preferred embodiment, the vaccine inhibits the interaction between PD-L3 OR VISTA
and its natural binding partner(s).
 [0051]     The present invention also provides diagnostic assays for identifying the
presence or absence of a genetic alteration characterized by at least one of (i) aberrant
modification or mutation of a gene encoding a PD-L3 OR VISTA polypeptide; (ii)
misregulation of the gene; and (iii) aberrant post-translational modification of a PD-L3
OR VISTA polypeptide, wherein a wild-type form of the gene encodes a polypeptide
with a PD-L3 OR VISTA activity.
 [0052]      In another aspect the invention provides methods for identifying a compound
that binds to or modulates the activity of a PD-L3 OR VISTA polypeptide, by providing
an indicator composition comprising a PD-L3 OR VISTA polypeptide having PD-L3 OR
VISTA activity, contacting the indicator composition with a test compound, and
determining the effect of the test compound on PD-L3 OR VISTA activity in the
indicator composition to identify a compound that modulates the activity of a PD-L3 OR
VISTA polypeptide.
 [0053]     In one aspect, the invention features a method for modulating the interaction
of PD-L3 OR VISTA with its natural binding partner(s) on an immune cell comprising

                                              -18
contacting an antigen presenting cell which expresses PD-L3 OR VISTA with an agent
selected from the group consisting of: a form of PD-L3 OR VISTA, or an agent that
modulates the interaction of PD-L3 OR VISTA and its natural binding partner(s) such
that the interaction of PD-L3 OR VISTA with it natural binding partner(s) on an immune
cell is modulated. In a preferred embodiment, an agent that modulates the interaction of
PD-L3 OR VISTA and its natural binding partner(s) is an antibody that specifically binds
to PD-L3 OR VISTA. In one embodiment, the interaction of PD-L3 OR VISTA with its
natural binding partner(s) is upregulated. In another embodiment, the interaction of PD
L3 OR VISTA with its natural binding partner(s) is downregulated. In one embodiment,
the method further comprises contacting the immune cell or the antigen presenting cell
with an additional agent that modulates an immune response.
 [0054]     In one embodiment, the step of contacting is performed in vitro. In another
embodiment, the step of contacting is performed in vivo. In one embodiment, the
immune cell is selected from the group consisting of: a T cell, a monocyte, a
macrophage, a dendritic cell,.a B cell, and a myeloid cell.
 [0055]     In another aspect, the invention pertains to a method for inhibiting or
increasing activation in an immune cell comprising increasing or inhibiting the activity or
expression of PD-L3 OR VISTA in a cell such that immune cell activation is inhibited or
increased.
 [0056]       In yet another aspect, the invention pertains to a vaccine comprising an
antigen and an agent that inhibits the interaction between PD-L3 OR VISTA and its
natural binding partner(s).
 [0057]      In still another aspect, the invention pertains to a vaccine comprising an
antigen and an agent that promotes the interaction between PD-L3 OR VISTA and its
natural binding partner(s).
 [0058]     In another aspect, the invention pertains to a method for treating a subject
having a condition that would benefit from upregulation of an immune response
comprising administering an agent that inhibits the interaction between PD-3 OR

                                            -19
VISTA and its natural binding partner(s) on immune cells of the subject such that a
condition that would benefit from upregulation of an immune response is treated. In one
preferred embodiment, the agent comprises a blocking antibody or a small molecule that
binds to PD-L3 OR VISTA and inhibits the interaction between PD-L3 OR VISTA and
its natural binding partner(s). In another embodiment, the method further comprises
administering a second agent that upregulates an immune response to the subject. In
another aspect, the invention pertains to a method for treating a subject having a
condition that would benefit from downregulation of an immune response comprising
administering an agent that stimulates the interaction between PD-L3 OR VISTA and its
natural binding partner(s) on cells of the subject such that a condition that would benefit
from downregulation of an immune response is treated.
 [0059]      For example the condition treated with the PD-L3 OR VISTA protein or
binding agents is selected from the group consisting of: a tumor, a pathogenic infection,
an inflammatory immune response or condition, preferably less pronounced
inflammatory conditions, or an immunosuppressive disease. Specific examples include
multiple sclerosis, thyroiditis, rheumatoid arthritis, diabetes type II and type I and
cancers, both advanced and early forms, including metastatic cancers such as bladder
cancer, ovarian cancer, melanoma, lung cancer, and other cancers wherein VISTA
suppresses an effective anti-tumor response. In some case the individual may be
administered cells or a viral vector that express a nucleic acid that encodes an anti
VISTA antibody or VISTA fusion protein.
 [0060]      In one embodiment agent comprises an antibody or a small molecule that
stimulates the interaction between PD-L3 OR VISTA and its natural binding partner(s).
In another embodiment, the method further comprises administering a second agent that
downregulates an immune response to the subject such as a PD-L!, PD-L2 or CTLA-4
fusion protein or antibody specific thereto.
 [0061]      Exemplary conditions treatable using PD-L3 OR VISTA proteins, binding
agents or PD-L3 OR VISTA antagonists or agonists according to the invention include
by way of example transplant, an allergy, infectious disease, cancer, and inflammatory or

                                              -20
autoimmune disorders, e.g., an inflammatory immune disorder. Specific examples of the
foregoing include type 1 diabetes, multiple sclerosis, rheumatoid arthritis, psoriatic
arthritis, systemic lupus erythematosis, rheumatic diseases, allergic disorders, asthma,
allergic rhinitis, skin disorders, gastrointestinal disorders such as Crohn's disease and
ulcerative colitis, transplant rejection, poststreptococcal and autoimmune renal failure,
septic shock, systemic inflammatory response syndrome (SIRS), adult respiratory distress
syndrome (ARDS) and envenomation; autoinflammatory diseases as well as degenerative
bone and joint diseases including osteoarthritis, crystal arthritis and capsulitis and other
arthropathies. Further, the methods and compositions can be used for treating tendonitis,
ligamentitis and traumatic joint injury.
 [00621      In another aspect, the invention pertains to a cell-based assay for screening for
compounds which modulate the activity of PD-L3 OR VISTA comprising contacting a
cell expressing a PD-L3 OR VISTA target molecule with a test compound and
determining the ability of the test compound to modulate the activity of the PD-L3 OR
VISTA target molecule
 [0063]      In still another aspect, the invention pertains to a cell-free assay for screening
for compounds which modulate the binding of PD-L3 OR VISTA to a target molecule
comprising contacting a PD-L3 OR VISTA polypeptide or biologically active portion
thereof with a test compound and determining the ability of the test compound to bind to
the PD-L3 OR VISTA polypeptide or biologically active portion thereof.
 [0064]      In another embodiment, the invention pertains to a method of identifying a
compound, e.g. an anti-PD-L3 OR VISTA antibody which modulates the effect of PD-L3
OR VISTA on T cell activation or cytokine production at a first and second antigen
concentration comprising contacting a T cell expressing a PD-L3 OR VISTA target
molecule with a test compound at a first antigen concentration, determining the ability of
the test compound to modulate T cell proliferation or cytokine production at the first
antigen concentration, contacting a T cell expressing a PD-L3 OR VISTA target
molecule with the test compound at a second antigen concentration, and determining the
ability of the test compound to modulate T cell proliferation or cytokine production at the

                                            -21
second antigen concentration, thereby identifying a compound which modulates T cell
activation or cytokine production at a first and second antigen concentration.
 [0065]      In other specific embodiments panels of anti-PD-L3 OR VISTA antibodies
and PD-L3 OR VISTA proteins are screened to select those of which inhibit or promote
the effects of PD-L3 OR VISTA on CD4+ and CD8+ T cell differentiation, proliferation
and/or cytokine production in vitro or in vivo.
 [0066]      In preferred embodiments the subject PD-L3 OR VISTA proteins, nuclei
acids, and ligands specific to PD-L3 OR VISTA, preferably antibodies having desired
effects on PD-L3 OR VISTA functions are used to treat conditions such a cancer,
autoimmune diseases, allergy, inflammatory disorders or infection and more specifically
immune system disorders such as severe combined immunodeficiency, multiple sclerosis,
systemic lupus erythematosus, type I diabetes mellitus, lymphoproliferative syndrome,
inflammatory bowel disease, allergies, asthma, graft-versus-host disease, and transplant
rejection; immune responses to infectious pathogens such as bacteria and viruses; and
immune system cancers such as lymphomas and leukemias)
Detailed Description of the Drawings
 [0067]      Figure 1. Sequence analysis. A. Full length amino acid sequence of marine
PD-L3 OR VISTA. B. Amino acid sequence alignment of extracellular Ig domains
between marine PD-L3 OR VISTA and selected B7 family ligands, including B7-H I
(PD-Li), B7-DC (PD-L2), B7-H3, and B7-H4. C Alignment of PD-L3 OR VISTA Ig
domain with B7 family receptors, including PD-1, CTLA-4, CD28, BTLA, and ICOS. Ig
v domain,   "...." ; Ig-c domain, "__". Alignment was performed using the MUSCLE
algorithm (MUltiple Sequence Comparison by Log-Expectation). D. Sequence identity
(%) of the Ig-V domains between PD-L3 OR VISTA and other B7 family ligands and
receptors is calculated using ClustalW2 program. E. Sequence homology between human
and marine PD-L3 OR VISTA. Identical residues are shaded in black. Highly conserved
and semi-conserved residues are shaded in dark and light shade of gray respectively.

                                            -22
 [0068]      Figure 2. Phylogenic analysis of mouse PD-L3 OR VISTA with other
Immunoglobulin (Ig) superfamily members. Full-length sequence of mouse PD-L3 OR
VISTA and other Ig superfamily members, including CD28, CTLA-4, ICOS, BTLA, PD
1, B7-H I (PD-LI), B7-DC (PD-L2), B7-H2, B7-H3, B7-H4, B7-1, B7-2, BTNL2,
BTN3A3, BTN2A2, and BTN1Al, were analyzed using PhyML algorithm (Phylogenetic
Maximum Likelihood). Branch distances were shown at tree branch joints.
 [0069]      Figure 3. Tissue expression and hematopoietic cell expression patterns of PD
L3 OR VISTA A. RT-PCR of full length PD-L3 OR VISTA from mouse tissues. Lanes:
(I)muscle (2)heart (3)eye (4) thymus (5)spleen (6)small intestine (7)kidney (8)liver
(9)brain (1 O)mammary gland (11 )lung (1 2)ovary (1 3)bone marrow. B. RT-PCR of full
length PD-L3 OR VISTA from purified hematopoietic cell types. Lanes (1) peritoneal
macrophages (2) splenic CDI lb+ monocytes (3) splenic CDl lc+ DCs (4) splenic CD4+
T cells (5) splenic CD8+ T cells (6) splenic B cells. C-E. Flow cytometry analysis of PD
L3 OR VISTA expression on splenic CD4+ and CD8+ T cells from thymus and spleen
(C), on CDI lb+ monocytes (D), and on CDI lc+ DC subsets from spleen and peritoneal
cavity (E). F. Splenic B cells, NK cells and granulocytes are also analyzed. G. The
differential expression of PD-L3 OR VISTA on hematopoietic cells from different tissue
sites, including mesenteric LN, peripheral LN, spleen, blood and peritoneal cavity.
Representative data from at least 3 independent experiments are shown.
 [00701      Figure 4. Gene array data of PD-L3 OR VISTA from the GNF (Genomics
Institute of Novartis Research Foundation) gene array database, as well as the NCBI
GEO (gene expression omnibus) database.
 [0071]      Figure 5. Specificity of PD-L3 OR VISTA hamster monoclonal antibodies.
Mouse EL4 cell lines over-expressing either PD-LI or PD-L3 OR VISTA fused to RFP
were stained using the supernatants from hybridoma cultures and analyzed by flow
cytometry. Two representative positive clones are shown.
 [00721      Figure 6. Comparison of PD-L3 OR VISTA expression with other B7 family
ligands on in vitro cultured spleen cells. Expression of PD-L3 OR VISTA and other B7
family ligands (i.e. PD-Li, PD-L2, B7-H3, and B7-H4) on hematopoietic cell types,

                                             -23
including CD4+ T cells, CDI lbhi monocytes, and CDl Ic+ DCs were compared. Cells
were either freshly isolated, or in vitro cultured for 24hrs, with and without activation.
CD4+ T cells were activated with plate-bound C]CD3 (5ug/ml), CDl lbhi monocytes and
CDI lc+ DCs were activated with IFNalpha (20 ng/ml) and LPS (200 ng/ml).
Representative results from three independent experiments are shown.
 [0073]    Figure 7. Comparison of in vivo expression patterns of PD-L3 OR VISTA and
other B7 family ligands during immunization. DOI 1.10 TCR transgenic mice were
immunized with chicken ovalbumin (OVA) emulsified in complete Freund's adjuvant
(CFA) on the flank. Draining and non-draining lymph node cells were collected 24hr post
immunization, and analyzed by flow cytometry for the expression of PD-L3 OR VISTA,
PD-LI and PD-L2. Shown are representative results from at least four independent
experiments. A. A population of CDI Ib+ cells expressing a high level of PD-L3 OR
VISTA was induced at 24hr post immunization with CFA/OVA, but not with CFA alone
within the draining lymph node. These cells are of mixed phenotype of F4/80+
macrophages and CDI IC+ dendritic cells. B. Expression of PD-L3 OR VISTA, PD-L1
and PD-L2 on CDl lbhi monocytes, CDI lc+ DCs and CD4+ T cells were analyzed at
24hr post immunization.
 [0074]    Figure 8 Loss of PD-L3 OR VISTA expression on activated CD4+ T cells in
response to immunization. DOI 1.10 mice were immunized with chicken ovalbumin
(OVA) emulsified in complete Freund's adjuvant (CFA) on the flank. Draining and non
draining lymph node cells were collected 48hr post immunization, and analyzed for PD
L3 OR VISTA expression by flow cytometry. Shown are representative results from 2
independent experiments.
 [0075]    Figure 9. Immobilized PD-L3 OR VISTA-Ig fusion protein inhibited CD4+
and CD8+ T cell proliferation. A. CFSE labeled CD4+ and CD8+ T cells were stimulated
by plate-bound 13CD3 with or without co-absorbed PD-L3 OR VISTA-Ig. The
percentage of CFSE-low cells was quantified and shown in B. C CD4+ T cells from PD
 1 ko mice were also suppressed by PD-L3 OR VISTA-Ig. D. PD-L3 OR VISTA-Ig
mediated suppression is persistent and can act late. CD4+ T cells were activated in the

                                             -24
presence of PD-L3 OR VISTA-Ig or control-Ig for either 72hrs (i), or for 24hrs (ii, iii and
iv). 24hr-preactivated cells were harvested and re-stimulated under specified conditions
for another 48hrs. Cell-proliferation was analyzed at the end of the 72hr culture. (ii) Pre
activation with PD-L3 OR VISTA-Ig and re-stimulation with antiCD3; (iii) Pre
activation with antiCD3 and re-stimulation with PD-L3 OR VISTA-Ig. (iv) Pre
activation with PD-L3 OR VISTA-Ig and re-stimulation with PD-L3 OR VISTA-Ig.
Duplicated wells were analyzed for all conditions. Shown are representative results from
at least four experiments.
 [0076]     Figure 10. Similar inhibitory effect of PD-L1-Ig and PD-L3 OR VISTA-Ig
fusion proteins on CD4+ T cell proliferation. Bulk purified CD4+ T cells were CFSE
labeled and stimulated with plate-bound E CD3 together with titrated amount of PD-Ll
Ig or PD-L3 OR VISTA-Ig fusion proteins. CFSE dilution was analyzed at 72hrs and the
percentage of CFSElow cells was quantified. Duplicated wells were analyzed for all
conditions. Shown are representative results from 2 independent experiments.
[0077]       Figure 11. Suppressive impact of PD-L3 OR VISTA-Ig on the proliferation
of naive and memory CD4+ T cells. A. Naive (CD25-CD44lowCD62Lhi) and memory
(CD25-CD44hiCD62LIow) CD4+ T cell subsets were sorted, CFSE labeled, and
stimulated with plate-bound anti-CD3 (2.5 pg/ml) together with PD-L3 OR VISTA-Ig or
control-Ig at indicated ratios. Cell proliferation was analyzed at 72hrs by examining the
CFSE division profile. The percentage of proliferated cells, as determined by percentage
of CFSElow cells, is calculated and shown in B. Duplicated wells were analyzed for all
conditions. Shown are representative results from two independent experiments.
[0078]       Figure 12. PD-L3 OR VISTA-Ig fusion protein suppressed early TCR
activation and cell proliferation, but did not directly induce apoptosis. Bulk purified
CD4+ T cells were stimulated with plate-bound anti-CD3 together with PD-L3 OR
VISTA-Ig or control-Ig at 1-2 ratio (2.5 pig/ml and 5 pg/ml respectively). Cells were
analyzed at 24hr and 48hrs for the expression of CD69, CD62L, and CD44 by flow
cytometry. Cells were also stained for early apoptosis marker annexin-V, and cell death

                                             -25
marker 7-Aminoactinomycin D (7-AAD). Shown are representative results from two
independent experiments.
 [00791     Figure 13. PD-L3 OR VISTA-Ig inhibited cytokine production by CD4+ and
CD8+ T cells. A-B. Bulk purified CD4+ T cells were stimulated with plate-bound anti
CD3, and PD-L3 OR VISTA-Ig or control-Ig at stated ratios. Culture supernatants were
collected after 24hrs and 48hrs. Levels of IL-2 and IFND were analyzed by ELISA. C-D.
CD4+ T cells were sorted into naive (CD25-CD44lowCD62Lhi) and memory (CD25
CD44hiCD62Llow) cell populations. Cells were stimulated with plate-bound LCD3 and
PD-L3 OR VISTA-Ig or control-Ig at a ratio of 1:2. Culture supernatants were collected
at 48hrs and analyzed for the level of IL-2 and IFNE, by ELISA. E. Bulk purified CD8+
T cells were stimulated with plate-bound 0CD3, and PD-L3 OR VISTA-Ig or control-Ig
at indicated ratios. IFNZIin the culture supernatant was analyzed by ELISA. For all
conditions, supernatant for six duplicated wells were pooled for ELISA analysis. Shown
are representative results from at least three experiments.
 [00801     Figure 14. PD-L3 OR VISTA-Ig-mediated suppression could overcome a
moderate level of costimulation provided by CD28, but was completely reversed by a
high level of costimulation, as well as partially rescued by exogenous IL-2. A-B. CD4+ T
cells were activated by plate-bound UCD3 together with either PD-L3 OR VISTA-Ig or
control-Ig at 1-1 ratio and 1-2 ratios. For cytokine rescue, soluble mIL-2, mIL7, mILl5
and mIL-23 (all at 40ng/ml) were added to the cell culture (A). To examine the effects of
costimulation, ZiCD28 (lpg/ml) was immobilized together with GCD3 and Ig proteins at
indicated ratios (B). Cell proliferation was analyzed at 72hr by examining CFSE division
profiles. C-D. To examine the suppressive activity of PD-L3 OR VISTA in the presence
of lower levels of costimulation, titrated amounts of DCD28 were coated together with
anti-CD3 (2.5 g/ml) and PD-L3 OR VISTA-Ig fusion proteins or control-Ig fusion
protein (10 pg/ml) to stimulate CD4+ T cell proliferation. Cell proliferation was analyzed
at 72hr. Percentages of proliferated CFSElow cells were quantified and shown in D.
Duplicated wells were analyzed for all conditions. Representative CFSE profiles from
three independent experiments are shown.

                                              -26
[0081]       Figure 15. PD-L3 OR VISTA expressed on antigen presenting cells
suppressed CD4 T cell proliferation. A-C The CHO cell line that stably expresses MHCII
molecule I-Ad and costimulation molecule B7-2 was used as the parent cell line. Cells
were transduced with retrovirus expressing either PD-L3 OR VISTA-RFP or RFP control
molecules. Transduced cells were sorted to achieve homogenous level of expression. To
test their ability as antigen presenting cells, CHO-PD-L3 OR VISTA or CHO-RFP cells
were mitomycin C treated and mixed with OVA-specific transgenic CD4+ T cells
DO11.10, in the presence of titrated amount of OVA peptide. Proliferation of DOI 1 cells
was analyzed at 72hrs, either by CFSE division profiles (A-B), or by tritium
incorporation (C). D. bone marrow derived dendritic cells were transduced with RFP or
B7B-H5-RFP retrovirus during 10-day culture period. Transduced CDl 1c+ RFP+ DCs
and non-transduced CDI lc+ RFP- DCs were sorted and used to stimulate OVA-specific
transgenic CD4+ T cells OTII in the presence of titrated amount of OVA peptide. Cell
proliferation was analyzed on day3 by examining CFSE division. For all experiments,
duplicated wells were analyzed for all conditions, and representative results from three
independent experiments are shown.
 C0082]       Figure 16. Surface expression level of PD-L3 OR VISTA in retrovirally
transduced bone marrow derived DCs. Bone marrow derived DCs (BMDC) were
cultured in the presence of GM-CSF (20ng/mml) and transduced with either RFP or PD
L3 OR VISTA-RFP retrovirus as described in Methods. On day 10, surface expression
level of PD-L3 OR VISTA were analyzed on cultured BMDCs, and compared to freshly
isolated peritoneal macrophages.
 [0083]      Figure 17 shows that anti-PDL3 mAb exhibits efficacy in a passive transfer
EAE model. In this adoptive transfer EAE model, donor SJL mice were immunized with
CFA and PLP peptide. On day 10, total lymphocytes from draining LN were isolated, and
cultured in vitro with PLP peptide, IL-23 (20 ng/ml) and anti-IFNg (10 jig/mI) for 4 days.
Expanded CD4 T cells were then purified and adoptively transferred into naive recipient
mice. Disease progression was monitored and scored with: 0, no disease; 0.5 loss of tail
tone; 1: limp tail; 2: limp tail + hind limb paresis; 2.5: 1 hind limb paralysis; 3: both hind

                                            -27
limb paralysis; 3.5: forelimb weakness; 4: hind limb paralysis+ unilateral forelimb
paralysis. Mice were sacrificed when disease score reached 4. *, mice were sacrificed.
 [0084]     Figure 18 shows than anti-PD-L3 OR VISTA antibodies exhibit efficacy
(reduce symptoms of arthritis) in a collagen-induced arthritis animal model.
 [0085]     Figure 19 shows that VISTA expresed on antigen-presenting cells suppressed
CD4+ T cell proliferation.
 [0086]     Figure 20 shows that an anti-VISTA antibody inhibited tumor growth in mice
transplanted with MB49 tumor cells.
 [0087]     Figure 21 shows the antitumor effect of VISTA mabs in four different mouse
anti-tumor models.
 [0088]     Figure 22 shows the potentiating effect of VISTA mabs on the efficacy of a
CD4OI1R agonist vacine.
 [0089]     Figure 23 shows VISTA expression on CNS cells.
 [0090]     Figure 24 shows the impact of VISTA on the fate and function of T cells in an
EAE model.
 Detailed Description of the Invention
 *Definitions
  [0091]    Prior to describing the invention in more detail the following definitions are
 provided.
  [0092]    As used herein, the term "immune cell" includes cells that are of
 hematopoietic origin and that play a role in the immune response. Immune cells include
 lymphocytes, such as B cells and T cells; natural killer cells; and myeloid cells, such as
 monocytes, macrophages, eosinophils, mast cells, basophils, and granulocytes.

                                               -28
  [0093]       As used herein, the term "T cell" includes CD4+ T cells and CD8+ T cells.
 The term T cell also includes both T helper 1 type T cells and T helper 2 type T cells.
  [0094]      The term "antigen presenting cell" includes professional antigen presenting
 cells (e.g., B lymphocytes, monocytes, dendritic cells, and Langerhans cells) as well as
 other antigen presenting cells (e.g., keratinocytes, endothelial cells, astrocytes,
 fibroblasts, and oligodendrocytes).
  [0095]       The term 'antigen" herein refers to antigen wherein the modulation of the
 immune response thereto may be therapeutically desired. In the case of a desired
enhanced immune response to particular antigens of interest, such antigens include, but
 are not limited to, infectious disease antigens for which a protective immune response
 may be elicited are exemplary. For example, the antigens from HIV under consideration
 are the proteins gag, env, pol, tat, rev, nef, reverse transcriptase, and other HIV
components. The E6 and E7 proteins from human papilloma virus are also under
consideration. Furthermore, the EBNAI antigen from herpes simplex virus is also under
consideration. Other viral antigens for consideration are hepatitis viral antigens such as
the S, M, and L proteins of hepatitis B virus, the pre-S antigen of hepatitis B virus, and
other hepatitis, e.g., hepatitis A, B, and C, viral components such as hepatitis C viral
RNA; influenza viral antigens such as hemagglutinin, neuraminidase, nucleoprotein, M2,
and other influenza viral components; measles viral antigens such as the measles virus
 fusion protein and other measles virus components; rubella viral antigens such as proteins
E I and E2 and other rubella virus components; rotaviral antigens such as VP7sc and
other rotaviral components; cytomegaloviral antigens such as envelope glycoprotein B
and other cytomegaloviral antigen components; respiratory syncytial viral antigens such
as the RSV fusion protein, the M2 protein and other respiratory syncytial viral antigen
components; herpes simplex viral antigens such as immediate early proteins,
glycoprotein D, and other herpes simplex viral antigen components; varicella zoster viral
antigens such as gpl, gpII, and other varicella zoster viral antigen components; Japanese
encephalitis viral antigens such as proteins E, M-E, M-E-NSl, NS 1, NS 1-NS2A, 80%
E, and other Japanese encephalitis viral antigen components; rabies viral antigens such as
rabies glycoprotein, rabies nucleoprotein and other rabies viral antigen components; West

                                             -29
Nile virus prM and E proteins; and Ebola envelope protein. See Fundamental Virology,
Second Edition, eds. Knipe, D. M. and, Howley P. M. (Lippincott Williams & Wilkins,
New York, 2001) for additional examples of viral antigens. In addition, bacterial antigens
are also disclosed. Bacterial antigens which can be used in the compositions and methods
of the invention include, but are not limited to, pertussis bacterial antigens such as
pertussis toxin, filamentous hemagglutinin, pertactin, FIM2, FIM3, adenylate cyclase and
other pertussis bacterial antigen components; diptheria bacterial antigens such as
diptheria toxin or toxoid and other diptheria bacterial antigen components; tetanus
bacterial antigens such as tetanus toxin or toxoid and other tetanus bacterial antigen
components; streptococcal bacterial antigens such as M proteins and other streptococcal
bacterial antigen components; Staphylococcal bacterial antigens such as IsdA, IsdB,
SdrD, and SdrE; gram-negative bacilli bacterial antigens such as lipopolysaccharides,
flagellin, and other gram-negative bacterial antigen components; Mycobacterium
tuberculosis bacterial antigens such as mycolic acid, heat shock protein 65 (HSP65), the
30 kDa major secreted protein, antigen 85A, ESAT-6, and other mycobacterial antigen
components; Helicobacter pylori bacterial antigen components; pneumococcal bacterial
antigens such as pneumolysin, pneumococcal capsular polysaccharides and other
pneumococcal bacterial antigen components; haemophilus influenza bacterial antigens
such as capsular polysaccharides and other haemophilus influenza bacterial antigen
components; anthrax bacterial antigens such as anthrax protective antigen, anthrax lethal
factor, and other anthrax bacterial antigen components; the F1 and V proteins from
Yersinia pestis; rickettsiae bacterial antigens such as romps and other rickettsiae bacterial
antigen components. Also included with the bacterial antigens described herein are any
other bacterial, mycobacterial, mycoplasmal, rickettsial, or chlamydial antigens.
Examples of protozoa and other parasitic antigens include, but are not limited to,
plasmodium falciparum antigens such as merozoite surface antigens, sporozoite surface
antigens, circumsporozoite antigens, gametocyte/gamete surface antigens, blood-stage
antigen pf I 55/RESA and other plasmodial antigen components; toxoplasma antigens
such as SAG-1, p30 and other toxoplasma antigen components; schistosomae antigens
such as glutathione-S-transferase, paramyosin, and other schistosomal antigen
components; leishmania major and other leishmaniae antigens such as gp63,

                                           -30
lipophosphoglycan and its associated protein and other leishmanial antigen components;
and trypanosoma cruzi antigens such as the 75-77 kDa antigen, the 56 kDa antigen and
other trypanosomal antigen components. Examples of fungal antigens include, but are not
limited to, antigens from Candida species, Aspergillus species, Blastomyces species,
Histoplasma species, Coccidiodomycosis species, Malassezia furfur and other species,
Exophiala werneckii and other species, Piedraia hortai and other species, Trichosporum
beigelii and other species, Microsporum species, Trichophyton species, Epidermophyton
species, Sporothrix schenckii and other species, Fonsecaea pedrosoi and other species,
Wangiella dermatitidis and other species, Pseudallescheria boydii and other species,
Madurella grisea and other species, Rhizopus species, Absidia species, and Mucor
species. Examples of prion disease antigens include PrP, beta-amyloid, and other prion
associated proteins.
[0123]ln addition to the infectious and parasitic agents mentioned above, another area for
desirable enhanced immunogenicity to a non-infectious agent is in the area of
dysproliferative diseases, including but not limited to cancer, in which cells expressing
cancer antigens are desirably eliminated from the body. Tumor antigens which can be
used in the compositions and methods of the invention include, but are not limited to,
prostate specific antigen (PSA), breast, bladder, ovarian, testicular, melanoma,
telomerase; multidrug resistance proteins such as P-glycoprotein; MAGE-1, alpha
fetoprotein, carcinoembryonic antigen, mutant p53, papillomavirus antigens, gangliosides
or other carbohydrate-containing components of melanoma or other tumor cells. It is
contemplated by the invention that antigens from any type of tumor cell can be used in
the compositions and methods described herein. The antigen may be a cancer cell, or
immunogenic materials isolated from a cancer cell, such as membrane proteins. Included
are survivin and telomerase universal antigens and the MAGE family of cancer testis
antigens. Antigens which have been shown to be involved in autoimmunity and could be
used in the methods of the present invention to induce tolerance include, but are not
limited to, myelin basic protein, myelin oligodendrocyte glycoprotein and proteolipid
protein of multiple sclerosis and CII collagen protein of rheumatoid arthritis.

                                             -31
[0124]The antigen may be a portion of an infectious agent such as HZV-1, EBV, HBV,
influenza virus, SARS virus, poxviruses, malaria, or HSV, by way of non-limiting
examples, for which vaccines that mobilize strong T-cell mediated immunity (via
dendritic cells) are needed.
[0125]The term "tumor" denotes at least one cell or cell mass in the form of a tissue
neoformation, in particular in the form of a spontaneous, autonomous and irreversible
excess growth, which is more or less disinhibited, of endogenous tissue, which growth is
as a rule associated with the more or less pronounced loss of specific cell and tissue
functions. This cell or cell mass is not effectively inhibited, in regard to its growth, by
itself or by the regulatory mechanisms of the host organism, e.g. melanoma or carcinoma.
Tumor antigens not only include antigens present in or on the malignant cells themselves,
but also include antigens present on the stromal supporting tissue of tumors including
endothelial cells and other blood vessel components.
 [0096]      As used herein, the term "immune response" includes T cell-mediated and/or
B cell-mediated immune responses that are influenced by modulation of T cell
costimulation. Exemplary immune responses include B cell responses (e.g., antibody
production) T cell responses (e.g., cytokine production, and cellular cytotoxicity) and
activation of cytokine responsive cells, e.g., macrophages. As used herein, the term
"downmodulation" with reference to the immune response includes a diminution in any
one or more immune responses, while the term "upmodulation" with reference to the
immune response includes an increase in any one or more immune responses. It will be
understood that upmodulation of one type of immune response may lead to a
corresponding downmodulation in another type of immune response. For example,
upmodulation of the production of certain cytokines (e.g., IL- 10) can lead to
downmodulation of cellular immune responses.
 [00973      As used herein, the term "costimulatory receptor" includes receptors which
transmit a costimulatory signal to an immune cell, e.g., CD28 or ICOS. As used herein,
the term "inhibitory receptors" includes receptors which transmit a negative signal to an
immune cell

                                              -32
 [0098]       As used herein, the term "costimulate", with reference to activated immune
cells, includes the ability of a costimulatory molecule to provide a second, non
activating, receptor-mediated signal (a "costimulatory signal") that induces proliferation
or effector function. For example, a costimulatory signal can result in cytokine secretion,
e.g., in a T cell that has received a T cell-receptor-mediated signal. Immune cells that
have received a cell receptor-mediated signal, e.g., via an activating receptor, are referred
to herein as "activated immune cells."
 [00991       An inhibitory signal as transduced by an inhibitory receptor can occur even if
a costimulatory receptor (such as CD28 or ICOS) in not present on the immune cell and,
thus, is not simply a function of competition between inhibitory receptors and
costimulatory receptors for binding of costimulatory molecules (Fallarino et al. (1998) J.
Exp. Med. 188:205). Transmission of an inhibitory signal to an immune cell can result in
unresponsiveness, anergy or programmed cell death in the immune cell. Preferably,
transmission of an inhibitory signal operates through a mechanism that does not involve
apoptosis.
 [00100] As used herein the term "apoptosis" includes programmed cell death which
can be characterized using techniques which are known in the art. Apoptotic cell death
can be characterized, e.g., by cell shrinkage, membrane blebbing, and chromatin
condensation culminating in cell fragmentation. Cells undergoing apoptosis also display
a characteristic pattern of internucleosomal DNA cleavage.
 [00101] The term "autoimmunity" or "autoimune disease or condition" herein An
 'autoimmune disease" herein is a disease or disorder arising from and directed against an
individual's own tissues or a co-segregate or manifestation tdiereof or resulting condition
therefrom. Examples of autoimmune diseases or disorders include, but are not limited to
arthritis (rheumatoid arthritis such as acute arthritis, chronic rheumatoid arthritis, gouty
arthritis, acute gouty arthritis, chronic inflammatory arthritis, degenerative arthritis,
infectious arthritis, Lyme arthritis, proliferative arthritis, psoriatic arthritis, vertebral
arthritis, and juvenile-onset rheumatoid arthritis, osteoarthritis, arthritis chronica
progrediente, arthritis deformans, polyarthritis chronica primaria, reactive arthritis, and

                                             -33
ankylosing spondylitis), inflammatory hyperproliferative skin diseases, psoriasis such as
plaque psoriasis, gutatte psoriasis, pustular psoriasis, and psoriasis of the nails, dermatitis
including contact dermatitis, chronic contact dermatitis, allergic dermatitis, allergic
contact dermatitis, dermatitis herpetiformis, and atopic dermatitis, x-linked hyper IgM
syndrome, urticaria such as chronic allergic urticaria and chronic idiopathic urticaria,
including chronic autoimmune urticaria, polymyositis/dermatomyositis, juvenile
dermatomyositis, toxic epidermal necrolysis, scleroderma (including systemic
scleroderma), sclerosis such as systemic sclerosis, multiple sclerosis (MS) such as spino
optical MS, primary progressive MS (PPMS), and relapsing remitting MS (RRMS),
progressive systemic sclerosis, atherosclerosis, arteriosclerosis, sclerosis disseminata, and
ataxic sclerosis, inflammatory bowel disease (LBD) (for example, Crohn's disease,
autoimmune-mediated gastrointestinal diseases, colitis such as ulcerative colitis, colitis
ulcerosa, microscopic colitis, collagenous colitis, colitis polyposa, necrotizing
enterocolitis, and transmural colitis, and autoimmune inflammatory bowel disease),
pyoderma gangrenosum, erythema nodosum, primary sclerosing cholangitis, episcleritis),
respiratory distress syndrome, including adult or acute respiratory distress syndrome
(ARDS), meningitis, inflammation of all or part of the uvea, iritis, choroiditis, an
autoimmune hematological disorder, rheumatoid spondylitis, sudden hearing loss, IgE
mediated diseases such as anaphylaxis and allergic and atopic rhinitis, encephalitis such
as Rasmussen's encephalitis and limbic and/or brainstem encephalitis, uveitis, such as
anterior uveitis, acute anterior uveitis, granulomatous uveitis, nongranulomatous uveitis,
phacoantigenic uveitis, posterior uveitis, or autoimmune uveitis, glomerulonephritis (GN)
with and without nephrotic syndrome such as chronic or acute glomerulonephritis such as
primary GN, immune-mediated GN, membranous GN (membranous nephropathy),
idiopathic membranous GN or idiopathic membranous nephropathy, membrano- or
membranous proliferative GN (MPGN), including Type I and Type II, and rapidly
progressive GN, allergic conditions, allergic reaction, eczema including allergic or atopic
eczema, asthma such as asthma bronchiale, bronchial asthma, and auto-immune asthma,
conditions involving infiltration of T cells and chronic inflammatory responses, chronic
pulmonary inflammatory disease, autoimmune myocarditis, leukocyte adhesion
deficiency, systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) or systemic lupus erythematodes such as

                                             -34
cutaneous SLE, subacute cutaneous lupus erythematosus, neonatal lupus syndrome
(NLE), lupus erythematosus disseminates, lupus (including nephritis, cerebritis,
pediatric, non-renal, extra-renal, discoid, alopecia), juvenile onset (Type I) diabetes
mellitus, including pediatric insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus (IDDM), adult onset
diabetes mellitus (Type II diabetes), autoimmune diabetes, idiopathic diabetes insipidus,
immune responses associated with acute and delayed hypersensitivity mediated by
cytokines and T-lymphocytes, tuberculosis, sarcoidosis, granulomatosis including
lymphomatoid granulomatosis, Wegener's granulomatosis, agranulocytosis, vasculitides,
including vasculitis (including large vessel vasculitis (including polymyalgia rheumatica
and giant cell (Takayasu's) arteritis), medium vessel vasculitis (including Kawasaki's
disease and polyarteritis nodosa), microscopic polyarteritis, CNS vasculitis, necrotizing,
cutaneous, or hypersensitivity vasculitis, systemic necrotizing vasculitis, and ANCA
associated vasculitis, such as Churg-Strauss vasculitis or syndrome (CSS)), temporal
arteritis, aplastic anemia, autoimmune aplastic anemia, Coombs positive anemia,
Diamond Blackfan anemia, hemolytic anemia or immune hemolytic anemia including
autoimmune hemolytic anemia (AIHA), pernicious anemia (anemia perniciosa),
Addison's disease, pure red cell anemia or aplasia (PRCA), Factor VIII deficiency,
hemophilia A, autoimmune neutropenia, pancytopenia, leukopenia, diseases involving
leukocyte diapedesis, CNS inflammatory disorders, multiple organ injury syndrome such
as those secondary to septicemia, trauma or hemorrhage, antigen-antibody complex
mediated diseases, anti-glomerular basement membrane disease, anti-phospholipid
antibody syndrome, allergic neuritis, Bechet's or Behcet's disease, Castleman's syndrome,
Goodpasture's syndrome, Reynaud's syndrome, Sjogren's syndrome, Stevens-Johnson
syndrome, pemphigoid such as pemphigoid bullous and skin pemphigoid, pemphigus
(including pemphigus vulgaris, pemphigus foliaceus, pemphigus mucus-membrane
pemphigoid, and pemphigus erythematosus), autoimmune polyendocrinopathies, Reiter's
disease or syndrome, immune complex nephritis, antibody-mediated nephritis,
neuromyelitis optica, polyneuropathies, chronic neuropathy such as IgM
polyneuropathies or IgM-mediated neuropathy, thrombocytopenia (as developed by
myocardial infarction patients, for example), including thrombotic thrombocytopenic
purpura (TTP) and autoimmune or immune-mediated thrombocytopenia such as

                                              -35
idiopathic thrombocytopenic purpura (ITP) including chronic or acute ITP, autoimmune
disease of the testis and ovary including autoimune orchitis and oophoritis, primary
hypothyroidism, hypoparathyroidism, autoimmune endocrine diseases including
thyroiditis such as autoimmune thyroiditis, Hashimoto's disease, chronic thyroiditis
(Hashimoto's thyroiditis); or subacute thyroiditis, autoimmune thyroid disease, idiopathic
hypothyroidism, Grave's disease, polyglandular syndromes such as autoimmune
polyglandular syndromes (or polyglandular endocrinopathy syndromes), paraneoplastic
syndromes, including neurologic paraneoplastic syndromes such as Lambert-Eaton
myasthenic syndrome or Eaton-Lambert syndrome, stiff-man or stiff-person syndrome,
encephalomyelitis such as allergic encephalomyelitis or encephalomyelitis allergica and
experimental allergic encephalomyelitis (EAE), myasthenia gravis such as thymoma
associated myasthenia gravis, cerebellar degeneration, neuromyotonia, opsoclonus or
opsoclonus myoclonus syndrome (OMS), and sensory neuropathy, multifocal motor
neuropathy, Sheehan's syndrome, autoimmune hepatitis, chronic hepatitis, lupoid
hepatitis, giant cell hepatitis, chronic active hepatitis or autoimmune chronic active
hepatitis, lymphoid interstitial pneumonitis, bronchiolitis obliterans (non-transplant) vs
NSIP, Guillain-Barre syndrome, Berger's disease (IgA nephropathy), idiopathic IgA
nephropathy, linear IgA dermatosis, primary biliary cirrhosis, pneumonocirrhosis,
autoimmune enteropathy syndrome, Celiac disease, Coeliac disease, celiac sprue (gluten
enteropathy), refractory sprue, idiopathic sprue, cryoglobulinemia, amylotrophic lateral
sclerosis (ALS; Lou Gehrig's disease), coronary artery disease, autoimmune ear disease
such as autoimmune inner ear disease (AGED), autoimmune hearing loss, opsoclonus
myoclonus syndrome (OMS), polychondritis such as refractory or relapsed
polychondritis, pulmonary alveolar proteinosis, amyloidosis, scleritis, a non-cancerous
lymphocytosis, a primary lymphocytosis, which includes monoclonal B cell
lymphocytosis (e.g., benign monoclonal gammopathy and monoclonal garnmopathy of
undetermined significance, MGUS), peripheral neuropathy, paraneoplastic syndrome,
channelopathies such as epilepsy, migraine, arrhythmia, muscular disorders, deafness,
blindness, periodic paralysis, and channelopathies of the CNS, autism, inflammatory
myopathy, focal segmental glomerulosclerosis (FSGS), endocrine opthalmopathy,
uveoretinitis, chorioretinitis, autoimmune hepatological disorder, fibromyalgia, multiple

                                               -36
endocrine failure, Schmidt's syndrome, adrenalitis, gastric atrophy, presenile dementia,
demyelinating diseases such as autoimmune demyelinating diseases, diabetic
nephropathy, Dressler's syndrome, alopecia greata, CREST syndrome (calcinosis,
Raynaud's phenomenon, esophageal dysmotility, sclerodactyl), and telangiectasia), male
and female autoimmune infertility, mixed connective tissue disease, Chagas' disease,
rheumatic fever, recurrent abortion, farmer's lung, erythema multiforme, post-cardiotomy
syndrome, Cushing's syndrome, bird-fancier's lung, allergic granulomatous angiitis,
benign lymphocytic angiitis, Alport's syndrome, alveolitis such as allergic alveolitis and
fibrosing alveolitis, interstitial lung disease, transfusion reaction, leprosy, malaria,
leishmaniasis, kypanosomiasis, schistosomiasis, ascariasis, aspergillosis, Sampter's
syndrome, Caplan's syndrome, dengue, endocarditis, endomyocardial fibrosis, diffuse
interstitial pulmonary fibrosis, interstitial lung fibrosis, idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis,
cystic fibrosis, endophthalmitis, erythema elevatum et diutinum, erythroblastosis fetalis,
eosinophilic faciitis, Shulman's syndrome, Felty's syndrome, flariasis, cyclitis such as
chronic cyclitis, heterochronic cyclitis, iridocyclitis, or Fuch's cyclitis, Henoch-Schonlein
purpura, human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infection, echovirus infection,
cardiomyopathy, Alzheimer's disease, parvovirus infection, rubella virus infection, post
vaccination syndromes, congenital rubella infection, Epstein-Barr virus infection,
mumps, Evan's syndrome, autoimmune gonadal failure, Sydenham's chorea, post
streptococcal nephritis, thromboangitis ubiterans, thyrotoxicosis, tabes dorsalis,
chorioiditis, giant cell polymyalgia, endocrine ophthamopathy, chronic hypersensitivity
pneumonitis, keratoconjunctivitis sicca, epidemic keratoconjunctivitis, idiopathic
nephritic syndrome, minimal change nephropathy, benign familial and ischemia
reperfusion injury, retinal autoimmunity, joint inflammation, bronchitis, chronic
obstructive airway disease, silicosis, aphthae, aphthous stomatitis, arteriosclerotic
disorders, aspermiogenese, autoimmune hemolysis, Boeck's disease, cryoglobulinemia,
Dupuytren's contracture, endophthalmia phacoanaphylactica, enteritis allergica, erythema
nodosum leprosum, idiopathic facial paralysis, chronic fatigue syndrome, febris
rheumatica, Hamman-Rich's disease, sensoneural hearing loss, haemoglobinuria
paroxysmatica, hypogonadism, ileitis regionalis, leucopenia, mononucleosis infectiosa,
traverse myelitis, primary idiopathic myxedema, nephrosis, ophthalmia symphatica,

                                            -37
orchitis granulomatosa, pancreatitis, polyradiculitis acuta, pyoderma gangrenosum,
Quervain's thyreoiditis, acquired spenic atrophy, infertility due to antispermatozoan
antobodies, non-malignant thymoma, vitiligo, SCID and Epstein-Barr virus-associated
diseases, acquired immune deficiency syndrome (AIDS), parasitic diseases such as
Lesihmania, toxic-shock syndrome, food poisoning, conditions involving infiltration of T
cells, leukocyte-adhesion deficiency, immune responses associated with acute and
delayed hypersensitivity mediated by cytokines and T-lymphocytes, diseases involving
leukocyte diapedesis, multiple organ injury syndrome, antigen-antibody complex
mediated diseases, antiglomerular basement membrane disease, allergic neuritis,
autoimmune polyendocrinopathies, oophoritis, primary myxedema, autoimmune atrophic
gastritis, sympathetic ophthalmia, rheumatic diseases, mixed connective tissue disease,
nephrotic syndrome, insulitis, polyendocrine failure, peripheral neuropathy, autoimmune
polyglandular syndrome type I, adult-onset idiopathic hypoparathyroidism (AOIH),
alopecia totalis, dilated cardiomyopathy, epidermolisis bullosa acquisita (EBA),
hemochromatosis, myocarditis, nephrotic syndrome, primary sclerosing cholangitis,
purulent or nonpurulent sinusitis, acute or chronic sinusitis, ethmoid, frontal, maxillary,
or sphenoid sinusitis, an eosinophil-related disorder such as eosinophilia, pulmonary
infiltration eosinophilia, eosinophilia-myalgia syndrome, Loffler's syndrome, chronic
eosinophilic pneumonia, tropical pulmonary eosinophilia, bronchopneumonic
aspergillosis, aspergilloma, or granulomas containing eosinophils, anaphylaxis,
seronegative spondyloarthritides, polyendocrine autoimmune disease, sclerosing
cholangitis, sclera, episclera, chronic mucocutaneous candidiasis, Bruton's syndrome,
transient hypogammaglobulinemia of infancy, Wiskott-Aldrich syndrome, ataxia
telangiectasia, autoimmune disorders associated with collagen disease, rheumatism,
neurological disease, ischemic re-perfusion disorder, reduction in blood pressure
response, vascular dysfunction, antgiectasis, tissue injury, cardiovascular ischemia,
hyperalgesia, cerebral ischemia, and disease accompanying vascularization, allergic
hypersensitivity disorders, glomerulonephritides, reperfusion injury, reperfusion injury of
myocardial or other tissues, dermatoses with acute inflammatory components, acute
purulent meningitis or other central nervous system inflammatory disorders, ocular and
orbital inflammatory disorders, granulocyte transfusion-associated syndromes, cytokine-

                                             -38
induced toxicity, acute serious inflammation, chronic intractable inflammation, pyelitis,
pneumonocirrhosis, diabetic retinopathy, diabetic large-artery disorder, endarterial
hyperplasia, peptic ulcer, valvulitis, and endometriosis
 [00102] The terms "cancer" and "cancerous" refer to or describe the physiological
condition in mammals that is typically characterized by unregulated cell growth.
Examples of cancer include but are not limited to, carcinoma, lymphoma, blastoma,
sarcoma, and leukemia. More particular examples of such cancers include squamous cell
cancer, lung cancer (including small-cell lung cancer, non-small cell lung cancer,
adenocarcinoma of the lung, and squamous carcinoma of the lung), cancer of the
peritoneum, hepatocellular cancer, gastric or stomach cancer (including gastrointestinal
cancer), pancreatic cancer, glioblastoma, cervical cancer, ovarian cancer, liver cancer,
bladder cancer, hepatoma, breast cancer, colon cancer, colorectal cancer, endometrial or
uterine carcinoma, salivary gland carcinoma, kidney or renal cancer, liver cancer,
prostate cancer, vulval cancer, thyroid cancer, hepatic carcinoma and various types of
head and neck cancer, as well as B-cell lymphoma (including low grade/follicular non
Hodgkin's lymphoma (NHL); small lymphocytic (SL) NHL; intermediate grade/follicular
NHL; intermediate grade diffuse NHL; high grade immunoblastic NHL; high grade
lymphoblastic NHL; high grade small non-cleaved cell NHL; bulky disease NHL; mantle
cell lymphoma; AIDS-related lymphoma; and Waldenstrom's Macroglobulinemia);
chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL); acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL); Hairy cell
leukemia; chronic myeloblastic leukemia; multiple myeloma and post-transplant
lymphoproliferative disorder (PTLD).
 [00103] The phrase "allergic disease" refers to a disease involving allergic reactions.
More specifically, an "allergic disease" is defined as a disease for which an allergen is
identified, where there is a strong correlation between exposure to that allergen and the
onset of pathological change, and where that pathological change has been proven to
have an immunological mechanism. Herein, an immunological mechanism means that
leukocytes show an immune response to allergen stimulation. Examples of allergens
include mite antigens and pollen antigens. Representative allergic diseases include
bronchial asthma, allergic rhinitis, atopic dermatitis, and pollen and insect allergies.

                                                -39
Allergic diathesis is a genetic factor that can be inherited by the children of allergic
parents. Familial allergic diseases are also called atopic diseases, and the causative,
genetically transmitted factor is atopic diathesis. "Atopic dermatitis" is a general term for
an atopic disease, especially diseases accompanied by dermatitis symptoms. Preferred
examples include allergic condition is selected from the group consisting of eczema,
allergic rhinitis, hay fever, urticaria, and food allergies. Allergic conditions include
eczema, allergic rhinitis or coryza, hay fever, bronchial asthma, urticaria (hives) and food
allergies, and other atopic conditions.
"Asthma"--refers to a disorder of the respiratory system characterized by inflammation,
narrowing of the airways and increased reactivity of the airways to inhaled agents.
Asthma is frequently, although not exclusively associated with atopic or allergic
symptoms.
 [00104] The phrase "inflammatory conditions or inflammatory disease" herein
includes chronic or acute inflammatory diseases, including a disease or condition selected
from the group comprising: rheumatic diseases (including but not limited to rheumatoid
arthritis, osteoarthritis, psoriatic arthritis) spondyloarthropathies (including but not
limited to ankylosing spondylitis, reactive arthritis, Reiter's syndrome), crystal
arthropathies (including but not limited to gout, pseudogout, calcium pyrophosphate
deposition disease), Lyme disease, polymyalgia rheumatica; connective tissue diseases
(including but not limited to systemic lupus erythematosus, systemic sclerosis,
polymyositis, dermatomyositis, Sjogren's syndrome); vasculitides (including but not
limited to polyarteritis nodosa, Wegener's granulomatosis, Churg-Strauss syndrome);
inflammatory conditions including consequences of trauma or ischaemia, sarcoidosis;
vascular diseases including atherosclerotic vascular disease, atherosclerosis, and vascular
occlusive disease (including but not limited to atherosclerosis, ischaemic heart disease,
myocardial infarction, stroke, peripheral vascular disease), and vascular stent restenosis;
ocular diseases including uveitis, corneal disease, iritis, iridocyclitis,and cataracts;
 [00105] The term cancer amenable for treatment by the present invention include, but
not limited to, carcinoma, lymphoma, blastoma, sarcoma, and leukemia or lymphoid

                                            -40
malignancies. More particular examples of such cancers include bladder, ovarian,
melanoma, squamous cell cancer, lung cancer (including small-cell lung cancer, non
small cell lung cancer, adenocarcinoma of the lung, and squamous carcinoma of the
lung), cancer of the peritoneum, hepatocellular cancer, gastric or stomach cancer
(including gastrointestinal cancer), pancreatic cancer, glioblastoma, cervical cancer,
ovarian cancer, liver cancer, bladder cancer, hepatoma, breast cancer, colon cancer,
colorectal cancer, endometrial or uterine carcinoma, salivary gland carcinoma, kidney or
renal cancer, liver cancer, prostate cancer, vulval cancer, thyroid cancer, hepatic
carcinoma and various types of head and neck cancer, as well as B-cell lymphoma
(including low grade/follicular non-Hodgkin's lymphoma (NHL); small lymphocytic
(SL) NHL; intermediate grade/follicular NHL; intermediate grade diffuse NHL; high
grade immunoblastic NHL; high grade lymphoblastic NHL; high grade small non
cleaved cell NHL; bulky disease NHL; mantle cell lymphoma; AIDS-related lymphoma;
and Waldenstrom's Macroglobulinemia); chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL); acute
lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL); Hairy cell leukemia; chronic myeloblastic leukemia; and
post-transplant lymphoproliferative disorder (PTLD), as well as abnormal vascular
proliferation associated with phakomatoses, edema (such as that associated with brain
tumors), and Meigs' syndrome. Preferably, the cancer is selected from the group
consisting of breast cancer, colorectal cancer, rectal cancer, non-small cell lung cancer,
non-Hodgkins lymphoma (NHL), renal cell cancer, prostate cancer, liver cancer,
pancreatic cancer, soft-tissue sarcoma, kaposi's sarcoma, carcinoid carcinoma, head and
neck cancer, melanoma, ovarian cancer, mesothelioma, and multiple myeloma. In an
exemplary embodimenn (see working examples) the cancer is an early advanced
(including metastatic) bladder, ovarian or melanoma. In another embodiment the cancer
is colorectal cancer. The cancerous conditions amenable for treatment of the invention
include metastatic cancers wherein VISTA expression by myeloid derived suppressor
cells suppress antitumor responses and anti-invasive immune responses. The method of
the present invention is particularly suitable for the treatment of vascularized tumors.
[0018] The invention is also suitable for treating cancers in combination with
chemotherapy or radiotherapy or other biologics and for enhancing the activity thereof,

                                            -41
i.e., in individuals wherein VISTA expression by myeloid derived suppressor cells
suppress antitumor responses and the efficacy of chemotherapy or radiotherapy or
biologic efficacy. Any chemotherapeutic agent exhibiting anticancer activity can be used
according to the present invention. Preferably, the chemotherapeutic agent is selected
from the group consisting of alkylating agents, antimetabolites, folic acid analogs,
pyrimidine analogs, purine analogs and related inhibitors, vinca alkaloids,
epipodopyyllotoxins, antibiotics, L-Asparaginase, topoisomerase inhibitor, interferons,
platinum coordination complexes, anthracenedione substituted urea, methyl hydrazine
derivatives, adrenocortical suppressant, adrenocorticosteroides, progestins, estrogens,
antiestrogen, androgens, antiandrogen, and gonadotropin-releasing hormone analog.
More preferably, the chemotherapeutic agent is selected from the group consisting of 5
fluorouracil (5-FU), leucovorin (LV), irenotecan, oxaliplatin, capecitabine, paclitaxel and
doxetaxel. Two or more chemotherapeutic agents can be used in a cocktail to be
administered in combination with administration of the anti-VEGF antibody. One
preferred combination chemotherapy is fluorouracil-based, comprising 5-FU and one or
more other chemotherapeutic agent(s). Suitable dosing regimens of combination
chemotherapies are known in the art and described in, for example, Saltz et al. (1999)
Proc ASCO 18:233a and Douillard et al. (2000) Lancet 355:1041-7. The bilogic may be
another immune potentiators such as antibodies to PD-LI, PD-L2, CTLA-4 and PD-L1,
PD-L2, CTLA-4 fusion proteins as well as cytokines, growth factor antagonists and
agonists, hormones and anti-cytokine antibodies.
 [001061 Depending upon the form of the PD-L3 OR VISTA molecule that binds to a
receptor, a signal can be either transmitted (e.g., by a multivalent form of a PD-L3 OR
VISTA molecule that results in crosslinking of the receptor or by a soluble form of PD
L3 OR VISTA that binds to Fc receptors on antigen presenting cells) or inhibited (e.g.,
by a soluble, monovalent form of a PD-L3 OR VISTA molecule or a soluble form of PD
L3 OR VISTA that is altered using methods known in the art such that it does not bind to
Fc receptors on antigen presenting cells), e.g., by competing with activating forms of PD
L3 OR VISTA molecules for binding to the receptor. However, there are instances in

                                             -42
which a soluble molecule can be stimulatory. The effects of the various modulatory
agents can be easily demonstrated using routine screening assays as described herein.
 [00107] As used herein, the term "activating receptor" includes immune cell receptors
that bind antigen, complexed antigen (e.g., in the context of MHC molecules), or
antibodies. Such activating receptors include T cell receptors (TCRs), B cell receptors
(BCRs), cytosine receptors, LPS receptors, complement receptors, and Fc receptors.
 [00108] For example, T cell receptors are present on T cells and are associated with
CD3 molecules. T cell receptors are stimulated by antigen in the context of MHC
molecules (as well as by polyclonal T cell activating reagents). T cell activation via the
TCR results in numerous changes, e.g, protein phosphorylation, membrane lipid changes,
ion fluxes, cyclic nucleotide alterations, RNA transcription changes, protein synthesis
changes, and cell volume changes.
 [00109] The term "B cell receptor" (BCR) as used herein includes the complex
between membrane Ig (mlg) and other transmembrane polypeptides (e.g., Ig alpha and Ig
beta ) found on B cells. The signal transduction function of mlg is triggered by
crosslinking of receptor molecules by oligomeric or multimeric antigens. B cells can also
be activated by anti-immunoglobulin antibodies. Upon BCR activation, numerous
changes occur in B cells, including tyrosine phosphorylation.
 [00110] The term "Fc receptor" (FcRs) include cell surface receptors for the Fc
portion of immunoglobulin molecules (Igs). Fc receptors are found on many cells which
participate in immune responses. Among the human FcRs that have been identified so far
are those which recognize IgG (designated Fc gamma. R), IgE (Fc epsilon RI), IgA (Fc
alpha R), and polymerized IgM/A (Fc.mu. .alpha. R). FcRs are found in the following
cell types: Fc epsilon R I (mast cells), Fc epsilon. RII (many leukocytes), Fc alpha. R
(neutrophils), and Fc mu alpha. R (glandular epithelium, hepatocytes) (Hogg, N. (1988)
Immunol. Today 9:185-86). The widely studied Fc gamma Rs are central in cellular
immune defenses, and are responsible for stimulating the release of mediators of
inflammation and hydrolytic enzymes involved in the pathogenesis of autoimmune
disease (Unkeless, J. C (1988) Annu. Rev. Immunol. 6:251-87). The Fc gammaRs

                                              -43
provide a crucial link between effector cells and the lymphocytes that secrete Ig, since
the macrophage/monocyte, polymorphonuclear leukocyte, and natural killer (NK) cell Fc
gamma Rs confer an element of specific recognition mediated by IgG. Human leukocytes
have at least three different receptors for IgG: h Fc gamma. RI (found on
monocytes/macrophages), hFc gamma RII (on monocytes, neutrophils, eosinophils,
platelets, possibly B cells, and the K562 cell line), and Fc.gamma. III (on NK cells,
neutrophils, eosinophils, and macrophages).
 [00111] With respect to T cells, transmission of a costimulatory signal to a T cell
involves a signaling pathway that is not inhibited by cyclosporin A. In addition, a
costimulatory signal can induce cytokine secretion (e.g., IL-2 and/or IL-10) in a T cell
and/or can prevent the induction of unresponsiveness to antigen, the induction of anergy,
or the induction of cell death in the T cell.
 [00112] As used herein, the term "inhibitory signal" refers to a signal transmitted via
an inhibitory receptor molecule on an immune cell. Such a signal antagonizes a signal via
an activating receptor (e.g., via a TCR, CD3, BCR, or Fc molecule) and can result, e.g.,
in inhibition of: second messenger generation; proliferation; or effector function in the
immune cell, e.g., reduced phagocytosis, antibody production, or cellular cytotoxicity, or
the failure of the immune cell to produce mediators (such as cytokines (e.g., IL-2) and/or
mediators of allergic responses); or the development of anergy.
 [00113] As used herein, the term "unresponsiveness" includes refractivity of immune
cells to stimulation, e.g., stimulation via an activating receptor or a cytokine.
Unresponsiveness can occur, e.g., because of exposure to immunosuppressants or high
doses of antigen.
 [00114] As used herein, the term "anergy" or "tolerance" includes refractivity to
activating receptor-mediated stimulation. Such refractivity is generally antigen-specific
and persists after exposure to the tolerizing antigen has ceased. For example, anergy in T
cells (as opposed to unresponsiveness) is characterized by lack of cytokine production,
e.g., IL-2. T cell anergy occurs when T cells are exposed to antigen and receive a first
signal (a T cell receptor or CD-3 mediated signal) in the absence of a second signal (a

                                              -44
costimulatory signal). Under these conditions, reexposure of the cells to the same antigen
(even if reexposure occurs in the presence of a costimulatory molecule) results in failure
to produce cytokines and, thus, failure to proliferate. Anergic T cells can, however,
mount responses to unrelated antigens and can proliferate if cultured with cytokines (e.g.,
IL-2). For example, T cell anergy can also be observed by the lack of IL-2 production by
T lymphocytes as measured by ELISA or by a proliferation assay using an indicator cell
line. Alternatively, a reporter gene construct can be used. For example, anergic T cells
fail to initiate IL-2 gene transcription induced by a heterologous promoter under the
control of the 5' IL-2 gene enhancer or by a multimer of the APl sequence that can be
found within the enhancer (Kang et al. (1992) Science 257:1134).
 (00115]       Modulation of a costimulatory signal results in modulation of effector
function of an immune cell. Thus, the term "PD-L3 OR VISTA activity" includes the
ability of a PD-L3 OR VISTA polypeptide to bind its natural binding partner(s), the
ability to modulate immune cell costimulatory or inhibitory signals, and the ability to
modulate the immune response.
 [00116] Modulation of an inhibitory signal in an immune cell results in modulation of
proliferation of and/or cytokine secretion by an immune cell.
 [00117]       As used herein, a "naturally-occurring" nucleic acid molecule refers to an
RNA or DNA molecule having a nucleotide sequence that occurs in nature (e.g., encodes
a natural protein).
 [00118] As used herein, an "antisense" nucleic acid molecule comprises a nucleotide
sequence which is complementary to a "sense" nucleic acid encoding a protein, e.g.,
complementary to the coding strand of a double-stranded cDNA molecule,
complementary to an mRNA sequence or complementary to the coding strand of a gene.
Accordingly, an antisense nucleic acid molecule can hydrogen bond to a sense nucleic
acid molecule.
 [00119]      As used herein, the term "coding region" refers to regions of a nucleotide
sequence comprising codons which are translated into amino acid residues, whereas the

                                             -45
term "noncoding region" refers to regions of a nucleotide sequence that are not translated
into amino acids (e.g., 5' and 3' untranslated regions).
 [00120] As used herein, the term "vector" refers to a nucleic acid molecule capable of
transporting another nucleic acid molecule to which it has been linked. One type of
vector is a "plasmid", which refers to a circular double stranded DNA loop into which
additional DNA segments may be ligated. Another type of vector is a viral vector,
wherein additional DNA segments may be ligated into the viral genome. Certain vectors
are capable of autonomous replication in a host cell into which they are introduced (e.g.,
bacterial vectors having a bacterial origin of replication and episomal mammalian
vectors). Other vectors (e.g., non-episomal mammalian vectors) are integrated into the
genome of a host cell upon introduction into the host cell, and thereby are replicated
along with the host genome. Moreover, certain vectors are capable of directing the
expression of genes to which they are operatively linked. Such vectors are referred to
herein as "recombinant expression vectors" or simply "expression vectors". In general,
expression vectors of utility in recombinant DNA techniques are often in the form of
plasmids. In the present specification, "plasmid" and "vector" may be used
interchangeably as the plasmid is the most commonly used form of vector. However, the
invention is intended to include such other forms of expression vectors, such as viral
vectors (e.g., replication defective retroviruses, adenoviruses and adeno-associated
viruses), which serve equivalent functions.
 [00121] As used herein, the term "host cell" is intended to refer to a cell into which a
nucleic acid molecule of the invention, such as a recombinant expression vector of the
 invention, has been introduced. The terms "host cell" and "recombinant host cell" are
used interchangeably herein. It should be understood that such terms refer not only to the
particular subject cell but to the progeny or potential progeny of such a cell. Because
certain modifications may occur in succeeding generations due to either mutation or
environmental influences, such progeny may not, in fact, be identical to the parent cell,
but are still included within the scope of the term as used herein.

                                             -46
 [00122] As used herein, a "transgenic animal" refers to a non-human animal,
preferably a mammal, more preferably a mouse, in which one or more of the cells of the
animal includes a "transgene". The term "transgene" refers to exogenous DNA which is
integrated into the genome of a cell from which a- transgenic animal develops and which
remains in the genome of the mature animal, for example directing the expression of an
encoded gene product in one or more cell types or tissues of the transgenic animal.
 [00123] As used herein, a "homologous recombinant animal" refers to a type of
transgenic non-human animal, preferably a mammal, more preferably a mouse, in which
an endogenous gene has been altered by homologous recombination between the
endogenous gene and an exogenous DNA molecule introduced into a cell of the animal,
e.g., an embryonic cell of the animal, prior to development of the animal.
 (00124]     As used herein, an "isolated protein" refers to a protein that is substantially
free of other proteins, cellular material and culture medium when isolated from cells or
produced by recombinant DNA techniques, or chemical precursors or other chemicals
when chemically synthesized.
 [00125] An "isolated" or "purified" protein or biologically active portion thereof is
substantially free of cellular material or other contaminating proteins from the cell or
tissue source from which the PD-L3 OR VISTA protein is derived, or substantially free
from chemical precursors or other chemicals when chemically synthesized. The language
"substantially free of cellular material" includes preparations of PD-L3 OR VISTA
protein in which the protein is separated from cellular components of the cells from
which it is isolated or recombinantly produced. In one embodiment, the language
"substantially free of cellular material" includes preparations of PD-L3 OR VISTA
protein having less than about 30% (by dry weight) of non-PD-L3 OR VISTA protein
(also referred to herein as a "contaminating protein"), more preferably less than about
20% of non-PD-L3 OR VISTA protein, still more preferably less than about 10% of non
PD-L3 OR VISTA protein, and most preferably less than about 5% non-PD-L3 OR
VISTA protein. When the PD-L3 OR VISTA protein or biologically active portion
thereof is recombinantly produced, it is also preferably substantially free of culture

                                             -47
medium, i.e., culture medium represents less than about 20%, more preferably less than
about 10%, and most preferably less than about 5% of the volume of the protein
preparation.
 [00126] The language "substantially free of chemical precursors or other chemicals"
includes preparations of PD-L3 OR VISTA protein in which the protein is separated from
chemical precursors or other chemicals which are involved in the synthesis of the protein.
In one embodiment, the language "substantially free of chemical precursors or other
chemicals" includes preparations of PD-L3 OR VISTA protein having less than about
30% (by dry weight) of chemical precursors or non-PD-L3 OR VISTA chemicals, more
preferably less than about 20% chemical precursors or non-PD-L3 OR VISTA chemicals,
still more preferably less than about 10% chemical precursors or non-PD-L3 OR VISTA
chemicals, and most preferably less than about 5% chemical precursors or non-PD-L3
OR VISTA chemicals.
 [00127] The term "antibody", as used herein, includes an "antigen-binding portion" of
an antibody (or simply "antibody portion"), as well as whole antibody molecules. The
term "antigen-binding portion", as used herein, refers to one or more fragments of an
antibody thatsretain the ability to specifically bind to an antigen (e.g, PD-L3 OR VISTA).
It has been shown that the antigen-binding function of an antibody can be performed by
fragments of a full-length antibody. Examples of binding fragments encompassed within
the term "antigen-binding portion" of an antibody include (i) a Fab fragment, a
monovalent fragment consisting of the VL, VH, CL and CHI domains; (ii) a F(ab')2
fragment, a bivalent fragment comprising two Fab fragments linked by a disulfide bridge
at the hinge region; (iii) a Fd fragment consisting of the VH and CHI domains; (iv) a Fv
fragment consisting of the VL and VH domains of a single arm of an antibody; (v) a dAb
fragment (Ward et al. (1989) Nature 341:544-546), which consists of a VH domain; and
(vi) an isolated complementarity determining region (CDR). Furthermore, although the
two domains of the Fv fragment, VL and VH, are coded for by separate genes, they can
be joined, using recombinant methods, by a synthetic linker that enables them to be made
as a single protein chain in which the VL and VH regions pair to form monovalent
molecules (known as single chain Fv (scFv); see e.g., Bird et al. (1988) Science 242:423-

                                             -48
426; and Huston et al. (1988) Proc Nati. Acad. Sci. USA 85:5879-5883; and Osbourn et
al. 1998 Nat. Biotechnol. 16:778). Such single chain antibodies are also intended to be
encompassed within the term "antigen-binding portion" of an antibody. Any VH and VL
sequences of specific scFv can be linked to human immunoglobulin constant region
cDNA or genomic sequences, in order to generate expression vectors encoding complete
IgG molecules or other isotypes. VH and VI can also be used in the generation of Fab,
Fv, or other fragments of immunoglobulins using either protein chemistry or recombinant
DNA technology. Other forms of single chain antibodies, such as diabodies are also
encompassed. Diabodies are bivalent, bispecific antibodies in which VH and VL domains
are expressed on a single polypeptide chain, but using a linker that is too short to allow
for pairing between the two domains on the same chain, thereby forcing the domains to
pair with complementary domains of another chain and creating two antigen binding sites
(see e.g., Holliger, P. et al. (1993) Proc NatJ. Acad. Sci. USA 90:6444-6448; Poljak, R. J.
et al. (1994) Structure 2:1121-1123).
 [00128] Still further, an antibody or antigen-binding portion thereof may be part of a
larger immunoadhesion molecules, formed by covalent or noncovalent association of the
antibody or antibody portion with one or more other proteins or peptides. Examples of
such immunoadhesion molecules include use of the streptavidin core region to make a
tetrameric scFv molecule (Kipriyanov, S. M. et al. (1995) Hum. Antibodies Hybridomas
6:93-101) and use of a cysteine residue, a marker peptide and a C-terminal polyhistidine
tag to make bivalent and biotinylated scFv molecules (Kipriyanov, S. M. et al. (1994)
Mol Immunol. 31:1047-1058). Antibody portions, such as Fab and F(ab')2 fragments, can
be prepared from whole antibodies using conventional techniques, such as papain or
pepsin digestion, respectively, of whole antibodies. Moreover, antibodies, antibody
portions and immunoadhesion molecules can be obtained using standard recombinant
DNA techniques, as described herein.
 [00129]     Antibodies may be polyclonal or monoclonal; xenogeneic, allogeneic, or
syngeneic; or modified forms thereof, e.g., humanized, chimeric, etc Preferably,
antibodies of the invention bind specifically or substantially specifically to PD-L3 OR
VISTA molecules. The terms "monoclonal antibodies" and "monoclonal antibody

                                            -49
composition", as used herein, refer to a population of antibody molecules that contain
only one species of an antigen binding site capable of immunoreacting with a particular
epitope of an antigen, whereas the term "polyclonal antibodies" and "polyclonal antibody
composition" refer to a population of antibody molecules that contain multiple species of
antigen binding sites capable of interacting with a particular antigen. A monoclonal
antibody composition, typically displays a single binding affinity for a particular antigen
with which it immunoreacts.
(00130]      The term "humanized antibody", as used herein, is intended to include
antibodies made by a non-human cell having variable and constant regions which have
been altered to more closely resemble antibodies that would be made by a human cell.
Forexample, by altering the non-human antibody amino acid sequence to incorporate
amino acids found in human germline immunoglobulin sequences. The humanized
antibodies of the invention may include amino acid residues not encoded by human
germline immunoglobulin sequences (e.g., mutations introduced by random or site
specific mutagenesis in vitro or by somatic mutation in vivo), for example in the CDRs.
The term "humanized antibody", as used herein, also includes antibodies in which CDR
sequences derived from the germline of another mammalian species, such as a mouse,
have been grafted onto human framework sequences.
 (00131]     An "isolated antibody", as used herein, is intended to refer to an antibody that
is substantially free of other antibodies having different antigenic specificities (e.g., an
isolated antibody that specifically binds PD-L3 OR VISTA is substantially free of
antibodies that specifically bind antigens other than PD-L3 OR VISTA). Moreover, an
isolated antibody may be substantially free of other cellular material and/or chemicals.
 (00132] An "oligomerization domain" herein refers to a domain that when attached to
a VISTA extracellular domain or fragment thereof, facilitates oligomerization. Said
oligomerization domains comprise self-associating .alpha.-helices, for example, leucine
zippers, that can be further stabilized by additional disulfide bonds. The domains are
designed to be compatible with vectorial folding across a membrane, a process thought to

                                             -50
facilitate in vivo folding of the polypeptide into a functional binding protein. Examples
thereof are known in the art and include by way of example coiled GCN4,and COMIP.
 [001331 The .alpha.-helical coiled coil is probably the most widespread subunit
oligomerization motif found in proteins. Accordingly, coiled coils fulfill a variety of
different functions. In several families of transcriptional activators, for example, short
leucine zippers play an important role in positioning the DNA-binding regions on the
DNA (Ellenberger et al., 1992, Cell 71:1223-1237). Coiled coils are also used to form
oligomers of intermediate filament proteins. Coiled-coil proteins furthermore appear to
play an important role in both vesicle and viral membrane fusion (Skehel and Wiley,
1998, Cell 95:871-874). In both cases hydrophobic sequences, embedded in the
membranes to be fused, are located at the same end of the rod-shaped complex composed
of a bundle of long .alpha.-helices. This molecular arrangement is believed to cause close
membrane apposition as the complexes are assembled for membrane fusion. The coiled
coil is often used to control oligomerization. It is found in many types of proteins,
including transcription factors such as, but not limited to GCN4, viral fusion peptides,
SNARE complexes and certain tRNA synthetases, among others. Very long coiled coils
are found in proteins such as tropomyosin, intermediate filaments and spindle-pole-body
components. Coiled coils involve a number of .alpha.-helices that are supercoiled around
each other in a highly organized manner that associate in a parallel or an antiparallel
orientation. Although dimers and trimers are the most common. The helices may be from
the same or from different proteins. The coiled-coil is formed by component helices
coming together to bury their hydrophobic seams. As the hydrophobic seams twist
around each helix, so the helices also twist to coil around each other, burying the
hydrophobic seams and forming a supercoil. It is the characteristic interdigitation of side
chains between neighbouring helices, known as knobs-into-holes packing, that defines
the structure as a coiled coil. The helices do not have to run in the same direction for this
type of interaction to occur, although parallel conformation is more common.
Antiparallel conformation is very rare in trimers and unknown in pentamers, but more
common in intramolecular dimers, where the two helices are often connected by a short
loop. In the extracellular space, the heterotrimeric coiled-coil protein laminin plays an

                                            -51
important role in the formation of basement membranes. Other examples are the
thrombospondins and cartilage oligomeric matrix protein (COMP) in which three
(thrombospondins I and 2) or five (thrombospondins 3, 4 and COMP) chains are
connected. The molecules have a flower bouquet-like appearance, and the reason for their
oligomeric structure is probably the multivalent interaction of the C-terminal domains
with cellular receptors. The yeast transcriptional activator GCN4 is I of over 30
identified eukaryotic proteins containing the basic region leucine zipper (bZIP) DNA
binding motif (Ellenberger et al., 1992, Cell 71:1223-1237). The bZIP dimer is a pair of
continuous alpha helices that form a parallel coiled-coil over their carboxy-terminal 34
residues and gradually diverge toward their amino termini to pass through the major
groove of the DNA binding site. The coiled-coil dimerization interface is oriented almost
perpendicular to the DNA axis, giving the complex the appearance of the letter T. bZIP
contains a 4-3 heptad repeat of hydrophobic and nonpolar residues that pack together in a
parallel alpha-helical coiled-coil (Ellenberger et al., 1992, Cell 71:1223-1237). The
stability of the dimer results from the side-by-side packing of leucines and nonpolar
residues in positions a and d of the heptad repeat, as well as a limited number of intra
and interhelical salt bridges, shown in a crystal structure of the GCN4 leucine zipper
peptide (Ellenberger et al., 1992, Cell 71:1223-1237). Another example is CMP
(matrilin- I) isolated from bovine tracheal cartilage as a homotrimer of subunits of Mr
52,000 (Paulsson and Heinegard, 1981, Biochem J. 197:367-375), where each subunit
consists of a vWFAI module, a single EGF domain, a vWFA2 module and a coiled coil
domain spanning five heptads (Kiss et al., 1989, J. Biol. Chem. 264:8126-8134; Hauser
and Paulsson, 1994, J. Biol. Chem. 269:25747-25753). Electron microscopy of purified
CMP showed a bouquet-like trimer structure in which each subunit forms an ellipsoid
emerging from a common point corresponding to the coiled coil (Hauser and Paulsson,
1994, J. Biol. Chem. 269:25747-25753). The coiled coil domain in matrilin-1 has been
extensively studied. The trimeric structure is retained after complete reduction of
interchain disulfide bonds under non-denaturing conditions (Hauser and Paulsson, 1994,
J. Biol. Chem. 269:25747-25753). Yet another example is Cartilage Oligomeric Matrix
Protein (COMP). A non-collagenous glycoprotein, COMP, was first identified in
cartilage (Hedbom et al., 1992, J. Biol. Chem. 267:6132-6136). The protein is a 524 kDa

                                              -52
homopentamer of five subunits which consists of an N-terminal heptad repeat region (cc)
followed by four epidermal growth factor (EGF)-like domains (EF), seven calcium
binding domains (T3) and a C-terminal globular domain (TC). According to this domain
organization, COMP belongs to the family of thrombospondins. Heptad repeats
(abcdefg).sub.n with preferentially hydrophobic residues at positions a and d form-helical
coiled-coil domains (Cohen and Parry, 1994, Science 263:488-489). Recently, the
recombinant five-stranded coiled-coil domain of COMP (COMPcc) was crystallized and
its structure was solved at 0.2 nn resolution (Malashkevich et al., 1996, Science
274:761-765).
 [00134] The term "family" when referring to the polypeptide and nucleic acid
molecules of the invention is intended to mean two or more polypeptide or nucleic acid
molecules having a common structural domain or motif and having sufficient amino acid
or nucleotide sequence homology as defined herein. Such family members can be
naturally or non-naturally occurring and can be from either the same or different species.
For example, a family can contain a first polypeptide of human origin, as well as other,
distinct polypeptides of human origin or alternatively, can contain homologues of non
human origin,- e.g., monkey polypeptides. Members of a family may also have common
functional characteristics.
 [00135] For example, the family of PD-L3 OR VISTA polypeptides of the present
invention preferably comprises least one "signal peptide domain". As used herein, a
"signal sequence" or "signal peptide" includes a peptide containing about 15 or more
amino acids which occurs at the N-terminus of secretory and membrane bound
polypeptides and which contains a large number of hydrophobic amino acid residues. For
example, a signal sequence contains at least about 10-30 amino acid residues, preferably
about 15-25 amino acid residues, more preferably about 18-20 amino acid residues, and
even more preferably about 19 amino acid residues, and has at least about 35-65%,
preferably about 38-50%, and more preferably about 40-45% hydrophobic amino acid
residues (e.g., Valine, Leucine, Isoleucine or Phenylalanine). Such a "signal sequence",
also referred to in the art as a "signal peptide", serves to direct a polypeptide containing
such a sequence to a lipid bilayer, and is cleaved in-secreted and membrane bound

                                            -53.
polypeptides. As described infra a signal sequence was identified in the amino acid
sequence of native human PD-L3 OR VISTA and was also identified in the amino acid
sequence of native mouse PD-L3 OR VISTA
 [00136] In another embodiment of the invention, a PD-L3 OR VISTA polypeptide of
the present invention is identified based on the presence of a "transmembrane domain".
As used herein, the term "transmembrane domain" includes an amino acid sequence of
about 15 amino acid residues in length which spans the plasma membrane. More
preferably, a transmembrane domain includes about at least 20, 25, 30, 35, 40, or 45
amino acid residues and spans the plasma membrane. Transmembrane domains are rich
in hydrophobic residues, and typically have an alpha-helical structure. In a preferred
embodiment, at least 50%, 60%, 70%, 80%, 90%, 95% or more of the amino acids of a
transmembrane domain are hydrophobic, e.g., leucines, isoleucines, tyrosines, or
tryptophans. Transmembrane domains are described in, for example, Zagotta, W. N. et al.
(1996) Annu. Rev. Neurosci. 19:235-263, the contents of which are incorporated herein
by reference. The transmembrane domain region of PDL3 are identified herein (see e.g.,
Figure 1).
 [00137] In another embodiment, a PD-L3 OR VISTA molecule of the present
invention is identified based on the absence of an "IgC domain" and the presence of an
"IgV domain" in the polypeptide or corresponding nucleic acid molecule. As used herein,
IgV and IgC domains are recognized in the art as Ig superfamily member domains. These
domains correspond to structural units that have distinct folding patterns called Ig folds.
Ig folds are comprised of a sandwich of two beta sheets, each consisting of antiparallel
beta strands of 5-10 amino acids with a conserved disulfide bond between the two sheets
in most, but not all, domains. IgC domains of Ig, TCR, and MIC molecules share the
same types of sequence patterns and are called the C l set within the Ig superfamily.
Other IgC domains fall within other sets. IgV domains also share sequence patterns and
are called V set domains. IgV domains are longer than C-domains and form an additional
pair of beta strands. The amino acid residues of the native human and murine PD-L3 OR
VISTA polypeptide, constituting the IgV domsin can be seen in Figure 1. The presence

                                             -54
of an IgV domain is likely required for binding of PD-L3 OR VISTA to its natural
binding partner(s)
 [00138]     In another embodiment, a PD-L3 OR VISTA molecule of the present
invention is identified based on the presence of a "extracellular domain" in the
polypeptide or corresponding nucleic acid molecule. As used herein, the term
"extracellular domain" represents the N-terminal amino acids which extend as a tail from
the surface of a cell. An extracellular domain of the present invention includes an IgV
domain and may include a signal peptide domain. (See Figure 1).
 [00139]     In still another embodiment, a PD-L3 OR VISTA molecule of the present
invention is identified based on the presence of a "cytoplasmic domain" in the
polypeptide or corresponding nucleic acid molecule. As used herein, the term
"cytoplasmic domain" represents the C-terminal amino acids which extend as a tail into
the cytoplasm of a cell. predicted to comprise cytoplasmic domains.
 [00140] In a preferred embodiment, the PD-L3 OR VISTA molecules of the invention
include at least one or more of the following domains: a signal peptide domain, an IgV
domain, an extracellular domain, a transmembrane domain, and a cytoplasmic domain.
 [00141]     Isolated polypeptides of the present invention, preferably PD-L3 OR VISTA
polypeptides, have an amino acid sequence sufficiently identical to the amino acid
sequence of SEQ ID NO: 2 or 4, or 5 or are encoded by a nucleotide sequence
sufficiently identical to SEQ ID NO: I or 3 or fragment or complement thereof. As used
herein, the term "sufficiently identical" refers to a first amino acid or nucleotide sequence
which contains a sufficient or minimum number of identical or equivalent (e.g., an amino
acid residue which has a similar side chain) amino acid residues or nucleotides to a
second amino acid or nucleotide sequence such that the first and second amino acid or
nucleotide sequences share common structural domains or motifs and/or a common
functional activity. For example, amino acid or nucleotide sequences which share
common structural domains have at least 30%, 40%, or 50% homology, preferably 60%
homology, more preferably 70%-80%, and even more preferably 90-95% homology
across the amino acid sequences of the domains and contain at least one and preferably

                                              -55
two structural domains or motifs, are defined herein as sufficiently identical.
Furthermore, amino acid or nucleotide sequences which share at least 30%, 40%, or 50%,
preferably 60%, more preferably 70-80%, or 90-95% homology and share a common
functional activity are defined herein as sufficiently identical.
 [00142]     As used interchangeably herein, "PD-L3 OR VISTA activity", "biological
activity of PD-L3 OR VISTA" or "functional activity of PD-L3 OR VISTA", refers to an
activity exerted by a PD-L3 OR VISTA protein, polypeptide or nucleic acid molecule on
a PD-L3 OR VISTA-responsive cell or tissue, or on a PD-L3 OR VISTA polypeptide
binding partner, as determined in vivo, or in vitro, according to standard techniques.
These activities include modulating CD4+ and CD8+ T cell proliferation and cytokine
production. In another embodiment, a PD-L3 OR VISTA activity is a direct activity, such
as an association with a PD-L3 OR VISTA binding partner. As used herein, a "target
molecule" or "binding partner" is a molecule with which a PD-L3 OR VISTA
polypeptide binds or interacts in nature, i.e., expressed on a T cell, such that PD-L3 OR
VISTA-mediated function is achieved. Alternatively, a PD-L3 OR VISTA activity is an
indirect activity, such as a cellular signaling activity mediated by the PD-L3 OR VISTA
polypeptide. The biological activities of PD-L3 OR VISTA are described herein. For
example, the PD-L3 OR VISTA polypeptides and PD-L3 OR VISTA agonists or
antagonists of the present invention can have one or more of the following activities:
(I)suppresses or promotes CD4+ and CD8+ T cell proliferation, (2) suppresses or
promotes cytokine production (3) functions as a regulatory ligand that negatively
regulates T cell responses during cognate interactions between T cells and myeloid
derived APCs (4) negatively regulates CD4+ T cell responses by suppressing early TCR
activation and arresting cell division, but with minimum direct impact on apoptosis, (5)
suppresses or promotes antigen-specific T cell activation during cognate interactions
between APCs and T cells and/or (6) suppresses or promotes T cell-mediated immune
responses; (7) modulate activation of immune cells, e.g., T lymphocytes, and (8)
modulate the immune response, e.g., inflammatory immune response of an organism,
e.g., a mouse or human organism.

                                             -56
 [00143] Accordingly, another embodiment of the invention features isolated PD-L3
OR VISTA proteins and polypeptides that modulate one or more PD-L3 OR VISTA
activities. These polypeptides will include PD-L3 OR VISTA polypeptides having one
or more of the following domains: a signal peptide domain, an IgV domain, an
extracellular domain, a transmembrane domain, and a cytoplasmic domain, and,
preferably, a PD-L3 OR VISTA activity.
 [00144] Additional preferred PD-L3 OR VISTA polypeptides may have at least one
extracellular domain, and one or more of a signal peptide domain, an IgV domain, an
transmembrane domain, and a cytoplasmic domain, and are, preferably, encoded by a
nucleic acid molecule having a nucleotide sequence which hybridizes under stringent
hybridization conditions to a nucleic acid molecule comprising a complement of the
nucleotide sequence of SEQ ID NO: I or 3 herein. The nucleotide and amino acid
sequences sequence of the exemplified isolated human and murine PD-L3 OR VISTA
cDNA and the predicted amino acid sequence of the human PD-L3 OR VISTA
polypeptide are contained in the sequence listing herein.
 [00145] Human VISTA or PD-L3 OR VISTA was identified as an upregulated
molecule in a T cell transcriptional profiling screen. Our characterization of an identical
930 bp gene product recovered from a murine CD4* T-cell cDNA library confirmed the
size and sequence. Silico-sequence and structural analysis predicts a type I
transmembrane protein of 309 amino acids upon maturation. Its extracellular domain
contains a single extracellular Ig-V domain of 136 amino acids, which is linked to a 23
amino acid stalk region, a 21-residue transmembrane segment, and a 97-amino acid
cytoplasmic domain. The cytoplasmic tail of VISTA does not contain any signaling
domains. A BLAST sequence search with the VISTA Ig-V domain identified PD-LI of
the B7 family as the closest evolutionarily related protein with a borderline significant e
value score. A structure based sequence alignment of VISTA with the B7 family
members PD-LI, PD-L2, B7-H3, and B7-H4 highlights several amino acids that are
systematically conserved in all Ig-V domain proteins.

                                             -57
  [00146]    Various aspects of the invention are described in further detail in the
 following subsections:
 [01271 I. PD-L3 OR VISTA Isolated Nucleic Acid Molecules
  [00147] One aspect of the invention pertains to isolated nucleic acid molecules that
encode PD-L3 OR VISTA polypeptides or biologically active portions thereof, as well as
nucleic acid fragments sufficient for use as hybridization probes to identify PD-L3 OR
VISTA-encoding nucleic acid molecules (e.g., PD-L3 OR VISTA mRNA) and fragments
for use as PCR primers for the amplification or mutation of PD-L3 OR VISTA nucleic
acid molecules. As used herein, the term "nucleic acid molecule" is intended to include
DNA molecules (e.g. cDNA or genomic DNA) and RNA molecules (e.g., mRNA) and
analogs of the DNA or RNA generated using nucleotide analogs. The nucleic acid
molecule can be single-stranded or double-stranded, but preferably is double-stranded
DNA.
 [00148] The term "isolated nucleic acid molecule" includes nucleic acid molecules
which are separated from other nucleic acid molecules which are present in the natural
source of the nucleic acid. For example, with regards to genomic DNA, the term
"isolated" includes nucleic acid molecules which are separated from the chromosome
with which the genomic DNA is naturally associated. Preferably, an "isolated" nucleic
acid molecule is free of sequences which naturally flank the nucleic acid (i.e., sequences
located at the 5' and 3' ends of the nucleic acid molecule) in the genomic DNA of the
organism from which the nucleic acid is derived. For example, in various embodiments,
the isolated PD-L3 OR VISTA nucleic acid molecule can contain less than about 5 kb, 4
kb, 3 kb, 2 kb, I kb, 0.5 kb or 0.1 kb of nucleotide sequences which naturally flank the
nucleic acid molecule in genomic DNA of the cell from which the nucleic acid molecule
is derived. Moreover, an "isolated" nucleic acid molecule, such as a cDNA molecule, can
be substantially free of other cellular material, or culture medium, when produced by
recombinant techniques, or substantially free of chemical precursors or other chemicals
when chemically synthesized.

                                             -58
 [00149]       A nucleic acid molecule of the present invention, e.g., a nucleic acid
molecule having the nucleotide sequence of SEQ ID NO: 1,3, or a portion thereof, can be
isolated using standard molecular biology techniques and the sequence information
provided herein. Using all or portion of the nucleic acid sequence of SEQ ID NO: 1, or 3
as a hybridization probe, PD-L3 OR VISTA nucleic acid molecules can be isolated using
standard hybridization and cloning techniques (e.g., as described in Sambrook, J. et al.
Molecular Cloning: A Laboratory Manual. 2nd, ed., Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory,
Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory Press, Cold Spring Harbor, N.Y., 1989).
 [0 01501 Moreover, a nucleic acid molecule encompassing all or a portion of SEQ ID
NO: 1, 3, or an ortholog or variant can be isolated by the polymerase chain reaction
(PCR) using synthetic oligonucleotide primers designed based upon the sequence of SEQ
ID NO: 1,2, 3, 4 or 5.
 [00151] A nucleic acid molecule of the invention can be amplified using cDNA,
mRNA or, alternatively, genomic DNA as a template and appropriate oligonucleotide
primers according to standard PCR amplification techniques. The nucleic acid molecule
so amplified can be cloned into an appropriate vector and characterized by DNA
sequence analysis. Furthermore, oligonucleotides corresponding to PD-L3 nucleotide
sequences can be prepared by standard synthetic techniques, e.g., using an automated
DNA synthesizer.
 [00152] In a preferred embodiment, an isolated PD-L3 OR VISTA encoding nucleic
acid molecule of the invention comprises the nucleotide sequence shown in SEQ ID NO:
 1, or 3, or a fragment thereof In another embodiment the nucleic acid molecule of the
invention comprises a nucleic acid molecule which is a complement of the nucleotide
sequence shown in SEQ ID NO: 1, or 3, or a portion of any of these nucleotide
sequences. A nucleic acid molecule which is complementary to the nucleotide sequence
shown in SEQ ID NO: 1, or 3, is one which is sufficiently complementary to the
nucleotide sequence shown in SEQ ID NO: 1, or 3 such that it can hybridize to the
nucleotide sequence shown in SEQ ID NO: 1, or 3 respectively, thereby forming a stable
duplex.

                                             -59
 [00153] Instill another preferred embodiment, an isolated nucleic acid molecule of the
present invention comprises a nucleotide sequence which is at least about 70%, 75%,
80%, 85%, 90%, .91%, 92%, 93%, 94%, 95%, 96%, 97%, 98%, 99% or more identical to
the entire length of the nucleotide sequence shown in SEQ ID NO: 1 or 3, or a portion of
any of these nucleotide sequences.
 [ 00154] ] Moreover, the nucleic acid molecule of the invention can comprise only a
portion of the nucleic acid sequence of SEQ ID NO: 1, or 3, for example, a fragment
which can be used as a probe or primer or a fragment which encodes a portion of a PD
L3 OR VISTA polypeptide, e.g., a biologically active portion of a PD-L3 OR VISTA
polypeptide. The nucleotide sequences determined from the cloning of the human PD-L2
gene allow for the generation of probes and primers designed for use in identifying
and/or cloning other PD-L2 family members, as well as PD-L3 OR VISTA homologues
from other species. The probe/primer typically comprises substantially purified
oligonucleotide. The oligonucleotide typically comprises a region of nucleotide sequence
that hybridizes under stringent conditions to at least about 12 or 15, preferably about 20
or 25, more preferably about 30, 35, 40, 45, 50, 55, 60, 65, or 75 consecutive nucleotides
of a sense sequence of SEQ ID NO: 1, or 3; of an anti-sense sequence of SEQ ID NO: 1,
3, or a naturally occurring allelic variant or mutant of SEQ ID NO: 1, or 3.
 [00155]     In one embodiment, a nucleic acid molecule of the present invention
comprises a nucleotide sequence which is greater than about 50-100, 100-150, 150-200,
200-250, 250-300, 300-350, 350-400, 400-450, 450-500, 500-550, 550-600, 600-650,
650-700, 700-750, 750-800, 800-850, 850-900, 900-950 or more nucleotides in length
and hybridizes under stringent hybridization conditions to a nucleic acid molecule of
SEQ ID NO: 1, or 3, or the complement thereof. In a further embodiment, a nucleic acid
molecule of the present invention comprises a nucleotide sequence which is greater than
about 880-900, 900-950, 950-1000, 1000-1050, 1050-1100, 1100-1150 or more
nucleotides in length and hybridizes under stringent hybridization conditions to a nucleic
acid molecule of SEQ ID NO: I or 3, or the complement thereof. In yet another
embodiment, a nucleic acid molecule of the present invention comprises a nucleotide
sequence which is greater than 50-100, 100-150, 150-200, 200-250, 250-300 or more

                                            -60
nucleotides in length and hybridizes under stringent hybridization conditions to a nucleic
acid molecule comprising the coding region in SEQ ID NO: 1 or 3, or a complement
thereof. In yet a further embodiment, a nucleic acid molecule of the present invention
comprises a nucleotide sequence which is greater than about 50-100, 100-150, 150-200,
200-250, 250-300, 300-350, 350-400, 400-450, 450-500, 500-550, 550-600, 600-650,
650-700, 700-750, 750-800, 850-900, 900-950, or more nucleotides in length, includes at
least about 15 (i.e., 15 contiguous) nucleotides of the sequence comprising the coding
region of SEQ ID NO: 1 or 3, or a complement thereof, and hybridizes under stringent
conditions to a nucleic acid molecule comprising the nucleotide sequence shown in SEQ
ID NO: 1, or 3 a complement thereof.
 [00156] Probes based on the PD-L3 OR VISTA nucleotide sequences can be used to
detect transcripts or genomic sequences encoding the same or homologous polypeptides.
In preferred embodiments, the probe further comprises a label group attached thereto,
e.g., the label group can be a radioisotope, a fluorescent compound, an enzyme, or an
enzyme co-factor. Such probes can be used as a part of a diagnostic test kit for
identifying cells or tissue which misexpress a PD-3 OR VISTA polypeptide, such as by
measuring a level of a PD-L3 OR VISTA-encoding nucleic acid in a sample of cells from
a subject e.g., detecting PD-L3 OR VISTA mRNA levels or determining whether a
genomic PD-L3 OR VISTA gene has been mutated or deleted.
 [00157]     A nucleic acid fragment encoding a "biologically active portion of a PD-L3
OR VISTA polypeptide" can be prepared by isolating a portion of the nucleotide
sequence of SEQ ID NO: 1, or 3 which encodes a polypeptide having a PD-L3 OR
VISTA biological activity (e.g., the ability to bind to its natural binding partner(s) and/or
modulate immune cell activity), expressing the encoded portion of the PD-L3 OR VISTA
polypeptide (e.g., by recombinant expression in vitro) and assessing the activity of the
encoded portion of the PD-L3 OR VISTA polypeptide.
 [00158] The invention further encompasses nucleic acid molecules that differ from the
nucleotide sequence shown in SEQ ID NO: 1, or 3 due to degeneracy of the genetic code
and thus encode the same PD-L3 OR VISTA polypeptides as those encoded by the

                                             -61
nucleotide sequence shown in SEQ ID NO: 1, or 3. In another embodiment, an isolated
nucleic acid molecule of the invention has a nucleotide sequence encoding a polypeptide
having an amino acid sequence shown in SEQ ID NO: 2, 4 or 5.
 [00159] In addition to the PD-L3 OR VISTA nucleotide sequences shown in SEQ ID
NO: 1, and 3, it will be appreciated by those skilled in the art that DNA sequence
polymorphisms that lead to changes in the amino acid sequences of the PD-L3 OR
VISTA polypeptides may exist within a population (e.g., the human population). Such
genetic polymorphism in the PD-L3 OR VISTA genes may exist among individuals
within a population due to natural allelic variation. As used herein, the terms "gene" and
"recombinant gene" refer to nucleic acid molecules which include an open reading frame
encoding a PD-L3 OR VISTA polypeptide, preferably a mammalian PD-L3 OR VISTA
polypeptide, and can further include non-coding regulatory sequences, and introns.
 [00160] Allelic variants of human or mouse PD-L3 OR VISTA include both
functional and non-functional PD-L3 OR VISTA polypeptides. Functional allelic variants
are naturally occurring amino acid sequence variants of the human or mouse PD-L3 OR
VISTA polypeptide that maintain the ability to bind natural PD-L3 OR VISTA binding
partner(s)and/or modulate CD4+ and CD8+ T cell proliferation and cytokine production
and lymphocyte activation. Functional allelic variants will typically contain only
conservative substitution of one or more amino acids of SEQ ID NO: 2, 4 or 5, or
substitution, deletion or insertion of non-critical residues in non-critical regions of the
polypeptide.
 [00161] Non-functional allelic variants are naturally occurring amino acid sequence
variants of the human or mouse PD-L3 OR VISTA polypeptide that do not have the
ability to either bind natural PD-L3 OR VISTA binding partners, and/or modulate any of
the PD-L3 OR VISTA activities described herein. Non-functional allelic variants will
typically contain a non-conservative substitution, deletion, or insertion or premature
truncation of the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO: 2, 4 or 5, or a substitution,
insertion or deletion in critical residues or critical regions of the polypeptide, e.g., in an
IgV domain.

                                             -62
 [00162] The present invention further provides non-human, non-mouse orthologs of
the human or mouse PD-L3 OR VISTA polypeptide. Orthologs of the human or mouse
PD-L3 OR VISTA polypeptide are polypeptides that are isolated from non-human, non
mouse organisms and possess the same binding activity and/or lymphocyte activation
modulating activity, and ability to modulate CD4+ and CD8+ T cell proliferation and
cytokine production as the human and murine PD-L3 OR VISTA polypeptides disclosed
herein. Orthologs of the human or mouse PD-L3 polypeptide can readily be identified as
comprising an amino acid sequence that is substantially identical to SEQ ID NO: 2, 4 or
5.
 [00163] Moreover, nucleic acid molecules encoding other PD-L3 OR VISTA family
members and, thus, which have a nucleotide sequence which differs from the PD-L3 OR
VISTA sequences of SEQ ID NO: 1, or 3 are intended to be within the scope of the
invention. For example, another PD-L3 OR VISTA cDNA can be identified based on the
nucleotide sequence of mouse or human PD-L3 OR VISTA. Moreover, nucleic acid
molecules encoding PD-L3 OR VISTA polypeptides from different species, and which,
thus, have a nucleotide sequence which differs from the PD-L3 OR VISTA sequences of
SEQ ID NO: 1, or 3 are intended to be within the scope of the invention. For example, a
monkey PD-L3 OR VISTA cDNA can be identified based on the nucleotide sequence of
the mouse or human PD-L3 OR VISTA.
 [00164] Nucleic acid molecules corresponding to natural allelic variants and
homologues of the PD-L3 OR VISTA cDNAs of the invention can be isolated based on
their homology to the PD-L2 nucleic acids disclosed herein using the cDNAs disclosed
herein, or a portion thereof, as a hybridization probe according to standard hybridization
techniques under stringent hybridization conditions. Nucleic acid molecules
corresponding to natural allelic variants and homologues of the PD-L3 OR VISTA
cDNAs of the invention can further be isolated by mapping to the same chromosome or
locus as the PD-L3 OR VISTA gene.
 [00165] Accordingly, in another embodiment, an isolated nucleic acid molecule of the
invention is at least 15, 20, 25, 30 or more nucleotides in length and hybridizes under

                                            -63
 stringent conditions to the nucleic acid molecule comprising the coding region of the
nucleotide sequence of SEQ ID NO: I or 3. In other embodiment, the nucleic acid is at
 least 700. 750, 800, 850, 880-900, 900-950, 950-1000, 1000-1050, 1050-1100, 1100
 1150 or more nucleotides in length.
 (001661     As used herein, the term "hybridizes under stringent conditions" is intended
to describe conditions for hybridization and washing under which nucleotide sequences
that are significantly identical or homologous to each other remain hybridized to each
other. Preferably, the conditions are such that sequences at least about 70%, more
preferably at least about 80%, even more preferably at least about 85% or 90% identical
to each other remain hybridized to each other. Such stringent conditions are known to
those skilled in the art and can be found in Current Protocols in Molecular Biology,
Ausubel et al., eds., John Wiley & Sons, Inc (1995), sections 2, 4 and 6. Additional
stringent conditions can be found in Molecular Cloning: A Laboratory Manual,
Sambrook et al., Cold Spring Harbor Press, Cold Spring Harbor, N.Y. (1989), chapters 7,
9 and 11. A preferred, non-limiting example of stringent hybridization conditions
includes hybridization in 4 times or 6 times sodium chloride/sodium citrate (SSC), at
about 65-70 degrees C (or hybridization in 4 times SSC plus 50% formamide at about 42
50 degrees C.) followed by one or more washes in 1 X SSC, at about 65-70 degrees C
A further preferred, non-limiting example of stringent hybridization conditions includes
hybridization at 6 times SSC at 45 degrees C., followed by one or more washes in 0.2
times SSC, 0.1% SDS at 65 degrees C A preferred, non-limiting example of highly
stringent hybridization conditions includes hybridization in 1 times SSC, at about 65-70
degrees C (or hybridization in 1 times SSC plus 50% formamide at about 42-50 degrees
C.) followed by one or more washes in 0.3 times SSC, at about 65-70 degrees C. A
preferred, non-limiting example of reduced stringency hybridization conditions includes
hybridization in 4 times or 6 times SSC, at about 50-60 degrees C (or alternatively
hybridization in 6 times SSC plus 50% formamide at about 40-45 degrees C.) followed
by one or more washes in 2 times SSC, at about 50-60 degrees C Ranges intermediate to
the above-recited values, e.g., at 65-70 degrees C or at 42-50 degrees C are also
intended to be encompassed by the present invention. SSPE (1 times SSPE is 0.15M

                                             -64
NaCl, 10 mM NaH2PO4, and 1.25 mM EDTA, pH 7.4) can be substituted for SSC (1
times SSC is 0.15M NaCl and 15 mM sodium citrate) in the hybridization and wash
buffers; washes are performed for 15 minutes each after hybridization is complete. The
hybridization temperature for hybrids anticipated to be less than 50 base pairs in length
should be 5-10 degrees C less than the melting temperature (Tm) of the hybrid, where
Tm is determined according to the following equations. For hybrids less than 18 base
pairs in length, Tm( degrees C.)-2(# of A+T bases)+4(# of G+C bases). For hybrids
between 18 and 49 base pairs in length, Tm( degrees
C.)=81.5+16.6(logO[Na+])+0.41(%G+C)-(600/N), where N is the number of bases in
the hybrid, and [Na+l] is the concentration of sodium ions in the hybridization buffer
([Na.+] for I times SSC=O.165 M). It will also be recognized by the skilled practitioner
that additional reagents may be added to hybridization and/or wash buffers to decrease
non-specific hybridization of nucleic acid molecules to membranes, for example,
nitrocellulose or nylon membranes, including but not limited to blocking agents (e.g.,
BSA or salmon or herring sperm carrier DNA), detergents (e.g., SDS), chelating agents
(e.g., EDTA), Ficoll, PVP and the like. When using nylon membranes, in particular, an
additional preferred, non-limiting example of stringent hybridization conditions is
hybridization in 0.25-0.5M NaH2PO4, 7% SDS at about 65 degrees C., followed by one
or more washes at 0.02M NaH2PO4, 1% SDS at 65 degrees C., see e.g., Church and
Gilbert (1984) Proc. Nati. Acad. Sci. USA 81:1991-1995 (or alternatively 0.2 times SSC,
 1% SDS).
 [00167] Preferably, an isolated nucleic acid molecule of the invention that hybridizes
under stringent conditions to the sequence of SEQ ID NO: 1, or 3 or corresponds to a
naturally-occurring nucleic acid molecule. As used herein, a "naturally-occurring"
nucleic acid molecule refers to an RNA or DNA molecule having a nucleotide sequence
that occurs in nature (i.e., encodes a natural polypeptide).
 [00168] In addition to naturally-occurring allelic variants of the PD-L3 OR VISTA
sequences that may exist in the population, the skilled artisan will further appreciate that
changes can be introduced by mutation into the nucleotide sequences of SEQ ID NO: I
or 3, thereby leading to changes in the amino acid sequence of the encoded PD-L3 OR

                                              -65
VISTA polypeptides, without altering the functional ability of the PD-L3 OR VISTA
polypeptides. For example, nucleotide substitutions leading to amino acid substitutions at
"non-essential" amino acid residues can be made in the sequence of SEQ ID NO: 1, or 3.
A "non-essential" amino acid residue is a residue that can be altered from the wild-type
sequence of PD-L3 OR VISTA (e.g., the sequence of SEQ ID NO: 2, 4 or 5) without
altering the biological activity, whereas an "essential" amino acid residue is required for
biological activity. For example, amino acid residues that are conserved among the PD
L3 OR VISTA polypeptides of the present invention, e.g., those present in an
extracellular domain, are predicted to be particularly unamenable to alteration.
Furthermore, additional amino acid residues that are conserved between the PD-L3 OR
VISTA polypeptides of the present invention and other members of the PD-L3 OR
VISTA family are not likely to be amenable to alteration.
 [00169]      Accordingly, another aspect of the invention pertains to nucleic acid
molecules encoding PD-L3 OR VISTA polypeptides that contain changes in amino acid
residues that are not essential for activity. Such PD-L3 OR VISTA polypeptides differ in
amino acid sequence from SEQ ID NO: 2, 4 or 5, yet retain biological activity. In one
embodiment, the isolated nucleic acid molecule comprises a nucleotide sequence
encoding a polypeptide, wherein the polypeptide comprises an amino acid sequence at
least about 71%, 75%, 80%, 85%, 90%, 91%, 92%, 93%, 94%, 95%, 96%, 97%, 98%,
99% or more identical to SEQ ID NO: 2, 4 or 5.
 [00170]      An isolated nucleic acid molecule encoding a PD-L3 or VISTA polypeptide
identical to the polypeptide of SEQ ID NO: 2, 4 or 5 can be created by introducing one or
more nucleotide substitutions, additions or deletions into the nucleotide sequence of SEQ
ID NO: 1 or 3 such that one or more amino acid substitutions, additions or deletions are
introduced into the encoded polypeptide. Mutations can be introduced into SEQ ID NO:
 I or 3 by standard techniques, such as site-directed mutagenesis and PCR-mediated
mutagenesis. Preferably, conservative amino acid substitutions are made at one or more
predicted non-essential amino acid residues. A "conservative amino acid substitution" is
one in which the amino acid residue is replaced with an amino acid residue having a
similar side chain. Families of amino acid residues having similar side chains have been

                                             -66
defined in the art. These families include amino acids with basic side chains (e.g. lysine,
arginine, histidine), acidic side chains (e.g., aspartic acid, glutamic acid), uncharged polar
side chains (e.g., asparagine, glutamine, serine, threonine, tyrosine, cysteine), nonpolar
side chains (e.g., glycine, alanine, valine, leucine, isoleucine, proline, phenylalanine,
methionine, tryptophan), beta-branched side chains (e.g., threonine, valine, isoleucine)
and aromatic side chains (e.g., tyrosine, phenylalanine, tryptophan, histidine). Thus, a
predicted nonessential amino acid residue in a PD-L3 OR VISTA polypeptide is
preferably replaced with another amino acid residue from the same side chain family.
Alternatively, in another embodiment, mutations can be introduced randomly along all or
part of a PD-L3 OR VISTA coding sequence, such as by saturation mutagenesis, and the
resultant mutants can be screened for PD-L3 OR VISTA biological activity to identify
mutants that retain activity. Following mutagenesis of SEQ ID NO: 1, or 3, the encoded
polypeptide can be expressed recombinantly and the activity of the polypeptide can be
determined.
 [0 01711 In a preferred embodiment, a mutant PD-L3 OR VISTA polypeptide can be
assayed for the ability to bind to and/or modulate the activity of a natural PD-L3 OR
VISTA binding partner, to modulate intra- or intercellular signaling, modulate activation
of T lymphocytes, and/or modulate the immune response of an organism.
 [001721     Yet another aspect of the invention pertains to isolated nucleic acid molecules
encoding a PD-L3 OR VISTAPD-L3 OR VISTA OR VISTA fusion proteins. Such
nucleic acid molecules, comprising at least a first nucleotide sequence encoding a PD-L3
OR VISTAPD-L3 OR VISTA OR VISTA protein, polypeptide or peptide operatively
linked to a second nucleotide sequence encoding a non-PD-L3 OR VISTA protein,
polypeptide or peptide, can be prepared by standard recombinant DNA techniques.
 [00173]     In addition to the nucleic acid molecules encoding PD-L3 OR VISTA
polypeptides described above, another aspect of the invention pertains to isolated nucleic
acid molecules which are antisense thereto. An "antisense" nucleic acid comprises a
nucleotide sequence which is complementary to a "sense" nucleic acid encoding a
polypeptide, e.g., complementary to the coding strand of a double-stranded cDNA

                                            -67
molecule or complementary to an mRNA sequence. Accordingly, an antisense nucleic
acid can hydrogen bond to a sense nucleic acid. The antisense nucleic acid can be
complementary to an entire PD-L3 OR VISTA coding strand, or to only a portion
thereof. In one embodiment, an antisense nucleic acid molecule is antisense to a "coding
region" of the coding strand of a nucleotide sequence encoding a PD-L3 OR VISTA. The
term "coding region" refers to the region of the nucleotide sequence comprising codons
which are translated into amino acid residues. In another embodiment, the antisense
nucleic acid molecule is antisense to a "noncoding region" of the coding strand of a
nucleotide sequence encoding PD-L. The term "noncoding region" refers to 5' and 3'
sequences which flank the coding region that are not translated into amino acids (also
referred to as 5' and 3' untranslated regions). Given the coding strand sequences
encoding human or mouse PD-L3 OR VISTAPD-L3 OR VISTA OR VISTA disclosed
herein, antisense nucleic acids of the invention can be designed according to the rules of
Watson and Crick base pairing. The antisense nucleic acid molecule can be
complementary to the entire coding region of PD-L3 OR VISTA mRNA, but more
preferably is an oligonucleotide which is antisense to only a portion of the coding or
noncoding region of PD-L3 OR VISTA mRNA. For example, the antisense
oligonucleotide can be complementary to the region surrounding the translation start site
of PD-L3 OR VISTA OR VISTA mRNA. An antisense oligonucleotide can be, for
example, about 5, 10, 15, 20, 25, 30, 35, 40, 45 or 50 nucleotides in length. An antisense
nucleic acid molecule of the invention can be constructed using chemical synthesis and
enzymatic ligation reactions using procedures known in the art. For example, an
antisense nucleic acid molecule (e.g., an antisense oligonucleotide) can be chemically
synthesized using naturally occurring nucleotides or variously modified nucleotides
designed to increase the biological stability of the molecules or to increase the physical
stability of the duplex formed between the antisense and sense nucleic acids, e.g.,
phosphorothioate derivatives and acridine substituted nucleotides can be used. Examples
of modified nucleotides which can be used to generate the antisense nucleic acid include
5-fluorouracil, 5-bromouracil, 5-chlorouracil, 5-iodouracil, hypoxanthine, xantine, 4
acetylcytosine, 5-(carboxyhydroxylmethyl) uracil, 5-carboxymethylaminomethyl-2
thiouridin- e, 5-carboxyinethylaminomethyluracil, dihydrouracil, beta-D-

                                              -68-
galactosylqueosine, inosine, N6-isopentenyladenine, 1-methylguanine, 1-methylinosine,
2,2-dimethylguanine, 2-methyladenine, 2-methylguanine, 3-methylcytosine, 5
methylcytosine, N6-adenine, 7-methylguanine, 5-methylaminomethyluracil, 5
methoxyaminomethyl-2-thiour- acil, beta-D-mannosylqueosine, 5'
methoxycarboxymethyluracil, 5-methoxyuracil, 2-methylthio-N6-isopentenyladenine,
uracil-5-oxyacetic acid (v), wybutoxosine, pseudouracil, queosine, 2-thiocytosine, 5
methyl-2-thiouracil, 2-thiouracil, 4-thiouracil, 5-methyluracil, uracil-5-oxyacetic acid
methylester, uracil-5-oxyacetic acid (v), 5-methyl-2-thiouracil, 3-(3-amino-3-N-2
carboxypropyl) uracil, (acp3)w, and 2,6-diaminopurine. Alternatively, the antisense
nucleic acid can be produced biologically using an expression vector into which a nucleic
acid has been subeloned in an antisense orientation (i.e., RNA transcribed from the
inserted nucleic acid will be of an antisense orientation to a target nucleic acid of interest,
described further in the following subsection).
 [0 01741 The antisense nucleic acid molecules of the invention are typically
administered to a subject or generated in situ such that they hybridize with or bind to
cellular mRNA and/or genomic DNA encoding a PD-L3 OR VISTAPD-L3 OR VISTA
OR VISTA polypeptide to thereby inhibit expression of the polypeptide, e.g., by
inhibiting transcription and/or translation. The hybridization can be by conventional
nucleotide complementarity to form a stable duplex, or, for example, in the case of an
antisense nucleic acid molecule which binds to DNA duplexes, through specific
interactions in the major groove of the double helix. An example of a route of
administration of antisense nucleic acid molecules of the invention include direct
injection at a tissue site. Alternatively, antisense nucleic acid molecules can be modified
to target selected cells and then administered systemically. For example, for systemic
administration, antisense molecules can be modified such that they specifically bind to
receptors or antigens expressed on a selected cell surface, e.g., by linking the antisense
nucleic acid molecules to peptides or antibodies which bind to cell surface receptors or
antigens. The antisense nucleic acid molecules can also be delivered to cells using the
vectors described herein. To achieve sufficient intracellular concentrations of the

                                            -69
antisense molecules, vector constructs in which the antisense nucleic acid molecule is
placed under the control of a strong pol II or pol III promoter are preferred.
 [00175]      In yet another embodiment, the antisense nucleic acid molecule of the
invention is an .alpha. -anomeric nucleic acid molecule. An .alpha. -anomeric nucleic
acid molecule forms specific double-stranded hybrids with complementary RNA in
which, contrary to the usual .beta. -units, the strands run parallel to each other (Gaultier
et al. (1987) Nucleic Acids Res. 15:6625-6641). The antisense nucleic acid molecule can
also comprise a 2'-o-methylribonucleotide (Inoue et al. (1987) Nucleic Acids Res.
 15:6131-6148) or a chimeric RNA-DNA analogue (Inoue et al. (1987) FEBS Lett.
215:327-330).
 [00176]      In still another embodiment, an antisense nucleic acid of the invention is a
ribozyme. Ribozymes are catalytic RNA molecules with ribonuclease activity which are
capable of cleaving a single-stranded nucleic acid, such as an mRNA, to which they have
a complementary region. Thus, ribozymes (e.g., hammerhead ribozymes (described in
Haseloff and Gerlach (1988) Nature 334:585-591)) can be used to catalytically cleave
PD-L3 OR VISTA mRNA transcripts to thereby inhibit translation of PD-L3 OR VISTA
OR VISTA mRNA. A ribozyme having specificity for a PD-L3 OR VISTA-encoding
nucleic acid can be designed based upon the nucleotide sequence of a PD-L3 OR VISTA
cDNA disclosed herein (i. e., SEQ ID NO: I or 3). For example, a derivative of a
Tetrahymena L- 19 IVS RNA can be constructed in which the nucleotide sequence of the
active site is complementary to the nucleotide sequence to be cleaved in a PD-L3 OR
VISTAPD-L3 OR VISTA OR VISTA-encoding mRNA. See, e.g., Cech et al., U.S. Pat.
No. 4,987,071 and Cech et al., U.S. Pat. No. 5,116,742. Alternatively, PD-L3 OR VISTA
mRNA can be used to select a catalytic RNA having a specific ribonuclease activity from
a pool of RNA molecules. See, e.g., Bartel, D. and Szostak, J. W. (1993) Science
261:1411-1418.
 (00177]     Alternatively, PD-L3 or VISTA gene expression can be inhibited by targeting
nucleotide sequences complementary to the regulatory region of the PD-L3 or
VISTA(e.g., the PD-L3 or VISTA promoter and/or enhancers; to form triple helical

                                             -70
structures that prevent transcription of the PD-L3 gene in target cells. See generally,
Helene, C (1991) Anticancer Drug Des. 6(6):569-84; Helene, C et al. (1992) Ann. N.Y.
Acad. Sci. 660:27-36; and Maher, L. J. (1992) Bioessays 14(12):807-15.
 [00178] In yet another embodiment, the PD-L3 or VISTA nucleic acid molecules of
the present invention can be modified at the base moiety, sugar moiety or phosphate
backbone to improve, e.g., the stability, hybridization, or solubility of the molecule. For
example, the deoxyribose phosphate backbone of the nucleic acid molecules can be
modified to generate peptide nucleic acids (see Hyrup, B. and Nielsen, P. E. (1996)
Bioorg. Med. Chem. 4(1):5-23). As used herein, the terms "peptide nucleic acids" or
"PNAs" refer to nucleic acid mimics, e.g, DNA mimics, in which the deoxyribose
phosphate backbone is replaced by a pseudopeptide backbone and only the four natural
nucleobases are retained. The neutral backbone of PNAs has been shown to allow for
specific hybridization to DNA and RNA under conditions of low ionic strength. The
synthesis of PNA oligomers can be performed using standard solid phase peptide
synthesis protocols as described in Hyrup and Nielsen (1996) supra and Perry-O'Keefe et
al. (1996) Proc Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 93:14670-675.
 [00179] PNAs of PD-L3 OR VISTA nucleic acid molecules can be used in
therapeutic and diagnostic applications. For example, PNASscan be used as antisense or
antigene agents for sequence-specific modulation of gene expression by, for example,
inducing transcription or translation arrest or inhibiting replication. PNAs of PD-L3 OR
VISTA nucleic acid molecules can also be used in the analysis of single base pair
mutations in a gene (e.g., by PNA-directed PCR clamping); as 'artificial restriction
enzymes' when used in combination with other enzymes (e.g., Sl nucleases (Hyrup and
Nielsen (1996) supra)); or as probes or primers for DNA sequencing or hybridization
(Hyrup and Nielsen (1996) supra; Perry-O'Keefe et al. (1996) supra).
 (00180]     In another embodiment, PNAs of PD-L3 OR VISTA can be modified (e.g., to
enhance their stability or cellular uptake), by attaching lipophilic or other helper groups
to PNA, by the formation of PNA-DNA chimeras, or by the use of liposomes or other
techniques of drug delivery known in the art. For example, PNA-DNA chimeras of PD-

                                            -71
L3 OR VISTA nucleic acid molecules can be generated which may combine the
advantageous properties of PNA and DNA. Such chimeras allow DNA recognition
enzymes (e.g., RNAse H and DNA polymerases), to interact with the DNA portion while
the PNA portion would provide high binding affinity and specificity. PNA-DNA
chimeras can be linked using linkers of appropriate lengths selected in terms of base
stacking, number of bonds between the nucleobases, and orientation (Hyrup and Nielsen
(1996) supra). The synthesis of PNA-DNA chimeras can be performed as described in
Hyrup and Nielsen (1996) supra and Finn P. J. et al. (1996) Nucleic Acids Res. 24
(17):3357-63. For example, a DNA chain can be synthesized on a solid support using
standard phosphoramidite coupling chemistry and modified nucleoside analogs, e.g., 5'
(4-methoxytrityl)amino-5'-deoxy-thymidine phosphoramidite, can be used as a bridge
between the PNA and the 5' end of DNA (Mag, M. et al. (1989) Nucleic Acids Res.
17:5973-88). PNA monomers are then coupled in a stepwise manner to produce a
chimeric molecule with a 5' PNA segment and a 3' DNA segment (Finn P. J. et al. (1996)
supra). Alternatively, chimeric molecules can be synthesized with a 5' DNA segment and
a 3' PNA segment (Peterser, K. H. et al. (1975) Bioorganic Med. Chem. Lett. 5:1119
11124).
 [001811 In other embodiments, the oligonucleotide may include other appended
groups such as peptides (e.g., for targeting host cell receptors in vivo), or agents
facilitating transport across the cell membrane (see, e.g., Letsinger et al. (1989) Proc
Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 86:6553-6556; Lemaitre et al. (1987) Proc Natl. Acad. Sci. USA
84:648-652; PCT Publication No. WO 88/098 10) or the blood-brain barrier (see, e.g.,
PCT Publication No. WO 89/10134). In addition, oligonucleotides can be modified with
hybridization-triggered cleavage agents (See, e.g., Krol et al. (1988) Biotechniques
6:958-976) or intercalating agents (See, e.g., Zon (1988) Pharm. Res. 5:539-549). To this
end, the oligonucleotide may be conjugated to another molecule (e.g., a peptide,
hybridization triggered cross-linking agent, transport agent, or hybridization-triggered
cleavage agent).
[00182]      Alternatively, the expression characteristics of an endogenous PD-L3 OR
VISTA gene within a cell line or microorganism may be modified by inserting a

                                              -72
heterologous DNA regulatory element into the genome of a stable cell line or cloned
microorganism such that the inserted regulatory element is operatively linked with the
endogenous PD-L3 OR VISTA gene. For example, an endogenous PD-L3 OR VISTA
gene which is normally "transcriptionally silent", i.e., a PD-L3 OR VISTA gene which is
normally not expressed, or is expressed only at very low levels in a cell line or
microorganism, may be activated by inserting a regulatory element which is capable of
promoting the expression of a normally expressed gene product in that cell line or
microorganism. Alternatively, a transcriptionally silent, endogenous PD-L3 OR VISTA
gene may be activated by insertion of a promiscuous regulatory element that works
across cell types.
 [00183] A heterologous regulatory element may be inserted into a stable cell line or
cloned microorganism, such that it is operatively linked with an endogenous PD-L3 OR
VISTA gene, using techniques, such as targeted homologous recombination, which are
well known to those of skill in the art, and described, e.g., in Chappel, U.S. Pat. No.
5,272,071; PCT publication No. WO 91/06667, published May 16, 1991.
1I. Isolated PD-L3 OR VISTA Polypeptides and Anti-PD-L3 OR VISTA Antibodies
 [00184]      One aspect of the invention pertains to isolated PD-L3 OR VISTA
polypeptides, and biologically active portions thereof, as well as polypeptide fragments
suitable for use as immunogens to raise anti-PD-L3 OR VISTA antibodies. In one
embodiment, native PD-L3 OR VISTA polypeptides can be isolated from cells or tissue
sources by an appropriate purification scheme using standard protein purification
techniques. In another embodiment, PD-L3 OR VISTA polypeptides are produced by
recombinant DNA techniques. Alternative to recombinant expression, a PD-L3 OR
VISTA protein or polypeptide can be synthesized chemically using standard peptide
synthesis techniques.
 (00185]     An "isolated" or "purified" polypeptide or biologically active portion thereof
is substantially free of cellular material or other contaminating proteins from the cell or
tissue source from which the PD-L3 OR VISTA polypeptide is derived, or substantially
free from chemical precursors or other chemicals when chemically synthesized. The

                                            -73
language "substantially free of cellular material" includes preparations of PD-L3 OR
VISTA polypeptide in which the polypeptide is separated from cellular components of
the cells from which it is isolated or recombinantly produced. In one embodiment, the
language "substantially free of cellular material" includes preparations of PD-L3 OR
VISTA polypeptide having less than about 30% (by dry weight) of non-PD-L3 OR
VISTA protein (also referred to herein as a "contaminating protein"), more preferably
less than about 20% of non-PD-L3 OR VISTA protein, still more preferably less than
about 10% of non-PD-L3 OR VISTA protein, and most preferably less than about 5%
non-PD-L3 OR VISTA protein. When the PD-L3 OR VISTA polypeptide or biologically
active portion thereof is recombinantly produced, it is also preferably substantially free of
culture medium, i.e., culture medium represents less than about 20%, more preferably
less than about 10%, and most preferably less than about 5% of the volume of the protein
preparation.
 [00186] The language "substantially free of chemical precursors or other chemicals"
includes preparations of PD-L3 OR VISTA polypeptide in which the polypeptide is
separated from chemical precursors or other chemicals which are involved in the
synthesis of the polypeptide. In one embodiment, the language "substantially free of
chemical precursors or other chemicals" includes preparations of PD-3 OR VISTA
polypeptide having less than about 30% (by dry weight) of chemical precursors or non
PD-L3 OR VISTA chemicals, more preferably less than about 20% chemical precursors
or non-PD-L3 OR VISTA chemicals, still more preferably less than about 10% chemical
precursors or non-PD-L3 OR VISTA chemicals, and most preferably less than about 5%
chemical precursors or non-PD-L3 OR VISTA chemicals.
 [00187] As used herein, a "biologically active portion" of a PD-L3 OR VISTA
polypeptile includes a fragment of a PD-L3 OR VISTA polypeptide which participates
in an interaction between a PD-L3 OR VISTA molecule and a non-PD-L3 OR VISTA
molecule, e.g., a natural ligand of PD-L3 OR VISTA. Biologically active portions of a
PD-L3 OR VISTA polypeptide include peptides comprising amino acid sequences
sufficiently identical to or derived from the amino acid sequence of the PD-3 OR
VISTA polypeptide, e.g., the amino acid sequence shown in SEQ ID NO: 2, 4 or 5,

                                            -74
which include fewer amino acids than the full length PD-L3 OR VISTA polypeptides,
and exhibit at least one activity of a PD-L3 OR VISTA polypeptide. Typically,
biologically active portions comprise a domain or motif with at least one activity of the
PD-L3 OR VISTA polypeptide, e.g., modulating (suppressing)CD4 T cell proliferative
responses to anti-CD3, suppression of the proliferative response of cognate CD4 T cells
in an antigen specific manner, effects on the expression of specific cytokines, et al. A
biologically active portion of a PD-L3 OR VISTA polypeptide can be a polypeptide
which is, for example, 25, 50, 75, 100, 125, 150, 175, 200, 225 or more amino acids in
length. Biologically active portions of a PD-L3 OR VISTA polypeptide can be used as
targets for developing agents which modulate a PD-L3 OR VISTA-mediated activity,
e.g., immune cell activation.
 [00188] In one embodiment, a biologically active portion of a PD-L3 OR VISTA
polypeptide comprises at least a portion of an extracellular domain. It is to be understood
that a preferred biologically active portion of a PD-L3 OR VISTA polypeptide of the
present invention may contain at least a portion of an extracellular domain (e.g.,
comprising an IgV), and one or more of the following domains: a signal peptide domain,
a transmembrane domain, and a cytoplasmic domain. Moreover, other biologically active
portions, in which other regions of the polypeptide are deleted, can be prepared by
recombinant techniques and evaluated for one or more of the functional activities of a
native PD-L3 OR VISTA polypeptide.
 [00189] In a preferred embodiment, the PD-L3 OR VISTA polypeptide has an amino
acid sequence shown in SEQ ID NO: 2, 4 or 5. In other embodiments, the PD-L3 OR
VISTA polypeptide is substantially identical to SEQ ID NO: 2, 4 or 5, and retains the
functional activity of the polypeptide of SEQ ID NO: 2, 4 or 5, yet differs in amino acid
sequence due to natural allelic variation or mutagenesis, as described above.
 [00190] The nucleic acid and polypeptide sequences of the present invention can
further be used as a "query sequence" to perform a search against public databases to, for
example, identify other family members or related sequences. Such searches can be
performed using the NBLAST and XBLAST programs (version 2.0) of Altschul et al.

                                              -75-
(1990) J. Mol. Biol. 215:403-10. BLAST nucleotide searches can be performed with the
NBLAST program, score= 100, wordlength=12 to obtain nucleotide sequences
homologous to PD-L3 OR VISTA nucleic acid molecules of the invention. BLAST
protein searches can be performed with the XBLAST program, score=100, wordlength=3
to obtain amino acid sequences homologous to PD-L3 OR VISTA polypeptide molecules
of the invention. To obtain gapped alignments for comparison purposes, Gapped BLAST
can be utilized as described in Altschul et al. (1997) Nucleic Acids Res. 25(17):3389
3402. When utilizing BLAST and Gapped BLAST programs, the default parameters of
the respective programs (e.g., XBLAST and NBLAST) can be used. See the internet
website for the National Center for Biotechnology Information.
 [00191] The invention also provides PD-L3 OR VISTA chimeric or fusion proteins.
As used herein, a PD-L3 OR VISTA "chimeric protein" or "fusion protein" comprises a
PD-L3 OR VISTA polypeptide operatively linked to a non-PD-L3 OR VISTA
polypeptide. A "PD-L3 OR VISTA polypeptide" refers to a polypeptide having an amino
acid sequence corresponding to a PD-L3 OR VISTA molecule, whereas a "non-PD-L3
OR VISTA polypeptide" refers to a polypeptide having an amino acid sequence
corresponding to a polypeptide which is not substantially homologous to the PD-L3 OR
VISTA polypeptide, e.g., a polypeptide which is different from the PD-L3 OR VISTA
polypeptide and which is derived from the same or a different organism. Within a PD-L3
OR VISTA fusion protein, the PD-L3 OR VISTA polypeptide can correspond to all or a
portion of a PD-L3 OR VISTA polypeptide. In a preferred embodiment, a PD-L3 OR
VISTA fusion protein comprises at least one biologically active portion of a PD-L3 OR
VISTA polypeptide. In another preferred embodiment, a PD-L3 OR VISTA fusion
protein comprises at least two domains of a PD-L3 OR VISTA polypeptide. Within the
fusion protein, the term "operatively linked" is intended to indicate that the PD-L3 OR
VISTA polypeptide and the non-PD-L3 OR VISTA polypeptide are fused in-frame to
each other. The non-PD-L3 OR VISTA polypeptide can be fused to the N-terminus or C
terminus of the PD-L3 OR VISTA polypeptide and corresponds to a moiety that alters
the solubility, binding affinity, stability, or valency of the PD-L3 OR VISTA
polypeptide.

                                            -76
 [00192]     For example, in one embodiment, the fusion protein is a GST-PD-L3 OR
VISTA fusion protein in which the PD-L3 OR VISTA sequences are fused to the C
terminus of the GST sequences. Such fusion proteins can facilitate the purification of
recombinant PD-L3 OR VISTA. In another embodiment, the fusion protein is a PD-L3
OR VISTA polypeptide containing a heterologous signal sequence at its N-terminus. In
certain host cells (e.g., mammalian host cells), expression and/or secretion of PD-L3 OR
VISTA can be increased through use of a heterologous signal sequence. In a preferred
embodiment, the fusion protein is an Ig-PD-L3 OR VISTA fusion protein in which the
PD-L3 OR VISTA sequences are fused to a portion of an Ig molecule. The Ig portion of
the fusion protein can include and immunoglobulin constant region, e.g., a human
Cgammal domain or a C gamma4 domain (e.g., the hinge, CH2, and CH3 regions of
human IgC gamma 1 or human IgC gamma4 (see, e.g., Capon et al., U.S. Pat. Nos.
5,1 16,964; 5,580,756; 5,844,095, and the like, incorporated herein by reference). A
resulting fusion protein may have altered PD-L3 OR VISTA solubility, binding affinity,
stability and/or valency (i.e., the number of binding sites per molecule) and may increase
the efficiency of protein purification.
 [00193]     Particularly preferred PD-L3 OR VISTA Ig fusion proteins include an
extracellular domain portion of PD-L3 OR VISTA coupled to an immunoglobulin
constant region (e.g, the Fc region). The immunoglobulin constant region may contain
genetic modifications which reduce or eliminate effector activity inherent in the
immunoglobulin structure. For example, DNA encoding an extracellular portion of a PD
L3 OR VISTA polypeptide can be joined to DNA encoding the hinge, CH2, and CH3
regions of human IgG gamma] and/or IgG gamma4 modified by site-directed
mutagenesis, e.g., as taught in WO 97/28267. The PD-L3 OR VISTA fusion proteins of
the invention can be incorporated into pharmaceutical compositions and administered to
a subject in vivo. The PD-L3 OR VISTA fusion proteins can be used to affect the
bioavailability of a PD-L3 OR VISTA binding partner. Use of PD-L3 OR VISTA fusion
proteins may be useful therapeutically for the treatment of conditions or disorders that
would benefit from modulation of the immune response. Moreover, the PD-L3 OR
VISTA-fusion proteins of the invention can be used as immunogens to produce anti-PD-

                                            -77
L3 OR VISTA antibodies in a subject, to purify PD-L3 OR VISTA-binding proteins, and
in screening assays to identify molecules which inhibit the interaction of PD-L3 OR
VISTA with its natural binding partner,
 (001941     Preferably, a PD-L3 OR VISTA chimeric or fusion protein of the invention is
produced by standard recombinant DNA techniques.
 [00195] The present invention also pertains to variants of the PD-L3 OR VISTA
polypeptides which function as either PD-L3 OR VISTA agonists (mimetics) or as PD
L3 OR VISTA antagonists. Variants of the PD-L3 OR VISTA polypeptides can be
generated by mutagenesis, e.g., discrete point mutation or truncation of a PD-L3 OR
VISTA polypeptide. An agonist of the PD-L3 OR VISTA polypeptides can retain
substantially the same, or a subset, of the biological activities of the naturally occurring
form of a PD-L3 OR VISTA polypeptide. An antagonist of a PD-L3 OR VISTA
polypeptide can inhibit one or more of the activities of the naturally occurring form of the
PD-L3 OR VISTA polypeptide by, for example, competitively modulating a PD-L3 OR
VISTA-mediated activity of a PD-L3 OR VISTA polypeptide. Thus, specific biological
effects can be elicited by treatment with a variant of limited function. In one
embodiment,. treatment of a subject with a variant having a subset of the biological
activities of the naturally occurring form of the polypeptide has fewer side effects in a
subject relative to treatment with the naturally occurring form of the PD-L3 OR VISTA
polypeptide.
 [00196]     In one embodiment, variants of a PD-L3 OR VISTA polypeptide which
function as either PD-L3 OR VISTA agonists (mimetics) or as PD-L3 OR VISTA
antagonists can be identified by screening combinatorial libraries of mutants, e.g.,
truncation mutants, of a PD-L3 OR VISTA polypeptide for PD-L3 OR VISTA
polypeptide agonist or antagonist activity. In one embodiment, a variegated library of
PD-L3 OR VISTA variants is generated by combinatorial mutagenesis at the nucleic acid
level and is encoded by a variegated gene library. A variegated library of PD-L3 OR
VISTA variants can be produced by, for example, enzymatically ligating a mixture of
synthetic oligonucleotides into gene sequences such that a degenerate set of potential PD-

                                             -78
L3 OR VISTA sequences is expressible as individual polypeptides, or alternatively, as a
set of larger fusion proteins (e.g., for phage display) containing the set of PD-L3 OR
VISTA sequences therein. There are a variety of methods which can be used to produce
libraries of potential PD-L3 OR VISTA variants from a degenerate oligonucleotide
sequence. Chemical synthesis of a degenerate gene sequence can be performed in an
automatic DNA synthesizer, and the synthetic gene then ligated into an appropriate
expression vector. Use of a degenerate set of genes allows for the provision, in one
mixture, of all of the sequences encoding the desired set of potential PD-L3 OR VISTA
sequences. Methods for synthesizing degenerate oligonucleotides are known in the art
(see, e.g., Narang, S. A. (1983) Tetrahedron 39:3; Itakura et al. (1984) Annu. Rev.
Biochem. 53:323; Itakura et al. (1984) Science 198:1056; Ike et al. (1983) Nucleic Acids
Res. 11:477).
 [00197] In addition, libraries of fragments of a PD-L3 OR VISTA polypeptide coding
sequence can be used to generate a variegated population of PD-L3 OR VISTA
fragments for screening and subsequent selection of variants of a PD-L3 OR VISTA
polypeptide. In one embodiment, a library of coding sequence fragments can be
generated by treating a double stranded PCR fragment of a PD-L3 OR VISTA coding
sequence with a nuclease under conditions wherein nicking occurs only about once per
molecule, denaturing the double stranded DNA, renaturing the DNA to form double
stranded DNA which can include sense/antisense pairs from different nicked products,
removing single stranded portions from reformed duplexes by treatment with SI
nuclease, and ligating the resulting fragment library into an expression vector. By this
method, an expression library can be derived which encodes N-terminal, C-terminal and
internal fragments of various sizes of the PD-L3 OR VISTA polypeptide.
 (00198]     Several techniques are known in the art for screening gene products of
combinatorial libraries made by point mutations or truncation, and for screening cDNA
libraries for gene products having a selected property. Such techniques are adaptable for
rapid screening of the gene libraries generated by the combinatorial mutagenesis of PD
L3 OR VISTA polypeptides. The most widely used techniques, which are amenable to
high through-put analysis, for screening large gene libraries typically include cloning the

                                            -79
gene library into replicable expression vectors, transforming appropriate cells with the
resulting library of vectors, and expressing the combinatorial genes under conditions in
which detection of a desired activity facilitates isolation of the vector encoding the gene
whose product was detected. Recursive ensemble mutagenesis (REM), a new technique
which enhances the frequency of functional mutants in the libraries, can be used in
combination with the screening assays to identify PD-L3 OR VISTA variants (Arkin and
Youvan (1992) Proc Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 89:7811-7815; Delagrave et al. (1993) Protein
Eng. 6(3):327-33 1).
 [00199]      In addition to PD-L3 OR VISTA polypeptides consisting only of naturally
occurring amino acids, PD-L3 OR VISTA peptidomimetics are also provided. Peptide
analogs are commonly used in the pharmaceutical industry as non-peptide drugs with
properties analogous to those of the template peptide. These types of non-peptide
compounds are termed "peptide mimetics" or "peptidomimetics" (Fauchere, J. (1986)
Adv. Drug Res. 15:29; Veber and Freidinger (1985) TINS p.392; and Evans et al. (1987)
J. Med. Chem 30:1229, which are incorporated herein by reference) and are usually
developed with the aid of computerized molecular modeling. Peptide mimetics that are
structurally similar to therapeutically useful peptides can be used to produce an
equivalent therapeutic or prophylactic effect. Generally, peptidomimetics are structurally
similar to a paradigm polypeptide (i e., a polypeptide that has a biological or
pharmacological activity), such as human or mouse PD-L3 OR VISTA, but have one or
more peptide linkages optionally replaced by a linkage selected from the group consisting
of: --CH2NH--, --CH2S--, --CH2--CH2--, --CH.dbd.CH-- (cis and trans), --COCH2--, -
CH(OH)CH2--, and --CH2SO--, by methods known in the art and further described in the
following references: Spatola, A. F. in Chemistry and Biochemistry of Amino Acids,
Peptides, and Proteins Weinstein, B., ed., Marcel Dekker, New York, p. 267 (1983);
Spatola, A. F., Vega Data (March 1983), Vol. 1, Issue 3, "Peptide Backbone
                                                                     4 68
Modifications"; Morley, J. S. (1980) Trends. Pharm. Sci. pp.4 6 3-        ; Hudson, D. et al.
(1979) 1nt. J. Pept. Prot. Res. 14:177-185 (--CH2NH--, CH2CH2--); Spatola, A. F. et al.
(1986) Life. Sci. 38:1243-1249 (--CH2--S); Hann, M. M. (1982) J. Chem. SoC Perkin.
Trans. I 307-314 (--CH--CH--, cis and trans); Almquist, R. G. et al. (1980) J. Med.

                                              -80
 Chem. 23:1392-1398 (--COCH2--); Jennings-White, C et al. (1982) Tetrahedron Lett.
 23:2533 (--COCH2--); Szelke, M. et al., European Patent Application No. EP 45665
 (1982) CA: 97:39405 (--CH(OH)CH2--); Holladay, M. W. et al. (1983) Tetrahedron.
 Lett. 24:4401-4404 (--C(OH)CH2--); and Hruby, V. J. (1982) Life Sci. 31:189-199 (-
 CH2-S--); each of which is incorporated herein by reference. A particularly preferred
 non-peptide linkage is --CH2NH--. Such peptide mimetics may have significant
 advantages over polypeptide embodiments, including, for example: more economical
 production, greater chemical stability, enhanced pharmacological properties (half-life,
 absorption, potency, efficacy, etc.), altered specificity (e.g., a broad-spectrum of
 biological activities), reduced antigenicity, and others. Labeling of peptidomimetics
 usually involves covalent attachment of one or more labels, directly or through a spacer
(e.g., an aide group), to non-interfering position(s) on the peptidomimetic that are
predicted by quantitative structure-activity data and/or molecular modeling. Such non
interfering positions generally are positions that do not form direct contacts with the
 macromolecules(s) to which the peptidomimetic binds to produce the therapeutic effect.
Derivitization (e.g., labeling) of peptidomimetics should not substantially interfere with
the desired biological or pharmacological activity of the peptidomimetiC
 [00200] Systematic substitution of one or more amino acids of a PD-L3 OR VISTA
amino acid sequence with a D-amino acid of the same type (e.g., D-lysine in place of L
lysine) can be used to generate more stable peptides. In addition, constrained peptides
comprising a PD-L3 OR VISTA amino acid sequence or a substantially identical
sequence variation can be generated by methods known in the art (Rizo and Gierasch
(1992) Annu. Rev. Biochem. 61:387, incorporated herein by reference); for example, by
adding internal cysteine residues capable of forming intramolecular disulfide bridges
which cyclize the peptide. The amino acid sequences of the PD-L3 OR VISTA
polypeptides identified herein will enable those of skill in the art to produce polypeptides
corresponding to PD-L3 OR VISTA peptide sequences and sequence variants thereof.
Such polypeptides can be produced in prokaryotic or eukaryotic host cells by expression
of polynucleotides encoding a PD-L3 OR VISTA peptide sequence, frequently as part of
a larger polypeptide. Alternatively, such peptides can be synthesized by chemical

                                           -81
methods. Methods for expression of heterologous polypeptides in recombinant hosts,
chemical synthesis of polypeptides, and in vitro translation are well known in the art.
Certain amino-terminal and/or carboxy-terminal modifications and/or peptide extensions
to the core sequence can provide advantageous physical, chemical, biochemical, and
pharmacological properties, such as: enhanced stability, increased potency and/or
efficacy, resistance to serum proteases, desirable pharmacokinetic properties, and others.
Peptides can be used therapeutically to treat disease, e.g., by altering costimulation in a
patient.
 [00201]     An isolated PD-L3 OR VISTA polypeptide, or a portion or fragment thereof,
can be used as an immunogen to generate antibodies that bind PD-L3 OR VISTA using
standard techniques for polyclonal and monoclonal antibody preparation. A full-length
PD-L3 OR VISTA polypeptide can be used or, alternatively, the invention provides
antigenic peptide fragments of PD-L3 OR VISTA for use as immunogens. In one
embodiment, an antigenic peptide of PD-L3 OR VISTA comprises at least 8 amino acid
residues of the amino acid sequence shown in SEQ ID NO: 2, 4 or 5 and encompasses an
epitope of PD-U OR VISTA such that an antibody raised against the peptide forms a
specific immune complex with the PD-L3 OR VISTA polypeptide. Preferably, the
antigenic peptide comprises at least 10 amino acid residues, more preferably at least 15
amino acid residues, even more preferably at least 20 amino acid residues, and most
preferably at least 30 amino acid residues. Preferred epitopes encompassed by the
antigenic peptide are regions of PD-L OR VISTA that are located in the extracellular
domain of the polypeptide, e.g., hydrophilic regions, as well as regions with high
antigenicity.
 (00202] A PD-L3 OR VISTA immunogen typically is used to prepare antibodies by
immunizing a suitable subject (e.g., rabbit, goat, mouse, or other mammal) with the
immunogen. An appropriate mmunogenic preparation can contain, for example,
recombinantly expressed PD-L3 OR VISTA polypeptide or a chemically synthesized PD
L3 OR VISTA polypeptide. The preparation can further include an adjuvant, such as
Freund's complete or incomplete adjuvant, or similar immunostimulatory agent.

                                          -82
Immunization of a suitable subject with an immunogenic PD-L3 OR VISTA preparation
induces a polyclonal anti-PD-L3 OR VISTA antibody response.
 [002031 Accordingly, another aspect of the invention pertains to anti-PD-L3 OR
VISTA antibodies. The term "antibody" as used herein refers to immunoglobulin
molecules and immunologically active portions of immunoglobulin molecules, i.e.,
molecules that contain an antigen binding site which specifically binds (immunoreacts
with) an antigen, such as a PD-L3 OR VISTA. Examples of immunologically active
portions of immunoglobulin molecules include F(ab) and F(ab')2 fragments which can be
generated by treating the antibody with an enzyme such as pepsin. The invention
provides polyclonal and monoclonal antibodies that bind PD-L3 OR VISTA molecules.
The term "monoclonal antibody" or "monoclonal antibody composition", as used herein,
refers to a population of antibody molecules that contain only one species of an antigen
binding site capable of immunoreacting with a particular epitope of PD-L3 OR VISTA.
A monoclonal antibody composition thus typically displays a single binding affinity for a
particular PD-L3 OR VISTA polypeptide with which it immunoreacts.
 (00204] Polyclonal anti-PD-L3 OR VISTA antibodies can be prepared as described
above by immunizing a suitable subject with a PD-L3 OR VISTA immunogen, e.g., a
PD-L3 OR VISTA-Ig fusion protein. The anti-PD-L3 OR VISTA antibody titer in the
immunized subject can be monitored over time by standard techniques, such as with an
enzyme linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) using immobilized PD-L3 OR VISTA. If
desired, the antibody molecules directed against PD-L3 OR VISTA can be isolated from
the mammal (e.g., from the blood) and further purified by well known techniques, such
as protein A chromatography to obtain the IgG fraction. At an appropriate time after
immunization, e.g, when the anti-PD-L3 OR VISTA antibody titers are highest,
antibody-producing cells can be obtained from the subject and used to prepare
monoclonal antibodies by standard techniques, such as the hybridoma technique
originally described by Kohler and Milstein (1975) Nature 256:495-497 (see also Brown
et al. (1981) J. Immunol. 127:539-46; Brown et al. (1980) J. Biol. Chem. 255:4980-83;
Yeh et al. (1976) Proc NatI. Acad. Sci. USA 76:2927-31; and Yeh et al. (1982) Int. J.
Cancer 29:269-75), the more recent human B cell hybridoma technique (Kozbor et al.

                                            -83
(1983) Immunol. Today 4:72), the EBV-hybridoma technique (Cole et al. (1985)
Monoclonal Antibodies and Cancer Therapy, Alan R. Liss, Inc., pp. 77-96) or trioma
techniques. The technology for producing monoclonal antibody hybridomas is well
known (see generally Kenneth, R. H. in Monoclonal Antibodies: A New Dimension In
Biological Analyses, Plenum Publishing Corp., New York, N.Y. (1980); Lemer, E. A.
(1981) Yale J. Biol. Med. 54:387-402; Gefter, M. L. et al. (1977) Somatic Cell Genet.
3:231-36). Briefly, an immortal cell line (typically a myeloma) is fused to lymphocytes
(typically splenocytes) from a mammal immunized with a PD-L3 OR VISTA
immunogen as described above, and the culture supernatants of the resulting hybridoma
cells are screened to identify a hybridoma producing a monoclonal antibody that binds
PD-L3 OR VISTA. Any of the many well known protocols used for fusing lymphocytes
and immortalized cell lines can be applied for the purpose of generating an anti-PD-L3
OR VISTA monoclonal antibody (see, e.g., Galfre, G. et al. (1977) Nature 266:55052;
Gefter et al. (1977) supra; Lerner (1981) supra; and Kenneth (1980) supra). Moreover,
the ordinarily skilled worker will appreciate that there are many variations of such
methods which also would be useful. Typically, the immortal cell line (e.g., a myeloma
cell line) is derived from the same mammalian species as the lymphocytes. For example,
murine hybridomas can be made by fusing lymphocytes from a mouse immunized with
an immunogenic preparation of the present invention with an immortalized mouse cell
line. Preferred immortal cell lines are mouse myeloma cell lines that are sensitive to
culture medium containing hypoxanthine, aminopterin and thymidine ("HAT medium").
Any of a number of myeloma cell lines can be used as a fusion partner according to
standard techniques, e.g., the P3-NSI/l-Ag4-1, P3-x63-Ag8.653 or Sp2/0-Agl4
myeloma lines. These myeloma lines are available from ATCC Typically, HAT-sensitive
mouse myeloma cells are fused to mouse.splenocytes using polyethylene glycol ("PEG").
Hybridoma cells resulting from the fusion are then selected using HAT medium, which
kills unfused and unproductively fused myeloma cells (unfused splenocytes die after
several days because they are not transformed). Hybridoma cells producing a monoclonal
antibody of the invention are detected by screening the hybridoma culture supernatants
for antibodies that bind PD-L3 OR VISTA, e.g., using a standard ELISA assay.

                                            -84
 [00205] Specific methods for producing antibodies that bind PD-L3 OR VISTA can be
effected using methods known in the art and as described in the examples. Alternative to
preparing monoclonal antibody-secreting hybridomas, a monoclonal anti-PD-L3 antibody
can be identified and isolated by screening a recombinant combinatorial immunoglobulin
library (e.g., an antibody phage display library) with PD-L3 OR VISTA to thereby isolate
immunoglobulin library members that bind PD-L3 OR VISTA. Kits for generating and
screening phage display libraries are commercially available
 (00206] As noted these antibodies re screened to identify those that bind to specific
epitopes of PD-L3 OR VISTA, e.g. in the IgV domain or other specific domains and/or to
select antibodies possessing high affinity and avidity to PD-L3 OR VISTA protein. In
addition these antibodies are screened to identify those of which modulate specific
functions and effects of PD-L3 OR VISTA on immunity and immune cells in vitro and in
vivo . For example assays can be conducted to ascertain the modulatory effect, if any, of
a particular anti-PD-L3 OR VISTA antibody on immune functions negatively regulated
by PD-L3 OR VISTA including cytokine production by CD4+ or CD8+ T cells, CD28
costimulation, CD4+ T cell proliferation, and the proliferation of naive and memory
CD4+ T cells, et al. In a preferred embodiment assays are conducted to identify potential
therapeutic anti-PD-L3 OR VISTA antibodies which in vitro, when the presence of PD
L3 OR VISTA-Ig enhance the suppression by PD-L3 OR VISTA-Ig as these anti-PD-L3
OR VISTA antibodies behave oppositely in vivo, i.e., they are immunosuppressive. The
invention encompasses anti-VISTA antibodies and use thereof that specifically bind to
the 136 amino acid extracellular domain, e.g., to amino acids 1-50, 50-100, 100-136,
antibodies that specifically bind the IgV, antibodies that specifically bind the stalk region,
antibodies that specifically bind the transmembrane region and antibodies that
specifically bind the cytoplasmic region of VISTA. These specific regions are identified
in the application.
 [00207] Additionally, recombinant anti-PD-L3 OR VISTA antibodies, such as
chimeric and humanized monoclonal antibodies, comprising both human and non-human
portions, which can be made using standard recombinant DNA techniques, are within the
scope of the invention. Such chimeric and humanized monoclonal antibodies can be

                                              -85
produced by recombinant DNA techniques known in the art, for example using methods
described in Robinson et al., International Application No. PCT/US86/02269; Akira et
al., European Patent Application 184,187; Taniguchi, M., European Patent Application
171,496; Morrison et al., European Patent Application 173,494; Neuberger et al., PCT
International Publication No. WO 86/01533; Cabilly et al., U.S. Pat. No. 4,816,567;
Cabilly et al., European Patent Application 125,023; Better et al. (1988) Science
240:1041-1043; Liu et al. (1987) Proc Nail. Acad. Sci. USA 84:3439-3443; Liu et al.
(1987) 1. Immunol. 139:3521-3526; Sun et al. (1987) Proc Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 84:214
218; Nishimura et al. (1987) Cancer Res. 47:999-1005; Wood et al. (1985) Nature
314:446-449; Shaw et al. (1988) J. Natl. Cancer Inst. 80:1553-1559; Morrison, S. L.
(1985) Science 229:1202-1207; Oi et al. (1986) Biotechniques 4:214; Winter, U.S. Pat.
No. 5,225,539; Jones et al. (1986) Nature 321:552-525; Verhoeyen et al. (1988) Science
239:1534; and Beidler et al. (1988) J. Immunol. 141:4053-4060.
 (00208]      An anti-PD-L3 OR VISTA antibody (e.g., monoclonal antibody) can be used
to isolate PD-L3 OR VISTA by standard techniques, such as affinity chromatography or
immunoprecipitation. An anti-PD-L3 OR VISTA antibody can facilitate the purification
of natural PD-L3 OR VISTA from cells and of recombinantly produced PD-L3 OR
VISTA expressed in host cells. Moreover, an anti-PD-L3 OR VISTA antibody can be
used to detect PD-L3 OR VISTA polypeptide (e.g., in a cellular lysate or cell
supernatant) in order to evaluate the abundance and pattern of expression of the PD-L3
OR VISTA polypeptide. Anti-PD-L3 OR VISTA antibodies can be used diagnostically to
monitor polypeptide levels in tissue as part of a clinical testing procedure, e.g., to, for
example, determine the efficacy of a given treatment regimen. Detection can be
 facilitated by coupling (i.e., physically linking) the antibody to a detectable substance.
Examples of detectable substances include various enzymes, prosthetic groups,
 fluorescent materials, luminescent materials, bioluminescent materials, and radioactive
 materials. Examples of suitable enzymes include horseradish peroxidase, alkaline
phosphatase, .beta. -galactosidase, or acetylcholinesterase; examples of suitable
 prosthetic group complexes include streptavidin/biotin and avidin/biotin; examples of
suitable fluorescent materials include umbelliferone, fluorescein, fluorescein

                                              -86
isothiocyanate, rhodamine, dichlorotriazinylamine fluorescein, dansyl chloride or
phycoerythrin; an example of a luminescent material includes luminol; examples of
bioluminescent materials include luciferase, luciferin, and aequorin, and examples of
suitable radioactive material include 1251, 1311, 35S or 3H.
Ill. Recombinant Expression Vectors and Host Cells
 [00209] Another aspect of the invention pertains to vectors, preferably expression
vectors, containing a nucleic acid molecule encoding a PD-L3 OR VISTA polypeptide
(or a portion thereof). As used herein, the term "vector" refers to a nucleic acid molecule
capable of transporting another nucleic acid to which it has been linked. One type of
vector is a "plasmid", which refers to a circular double stranded DNA loop into which
additional DNA segments can be ligated. Another type of vector is a viral vector, wherein
additional DNA segments can be ligated into the viral genome. Certain vectors are
capable of autonomous replication in a host cell into which they are introduced (e.g.,
bacterial vectors having a bacterial origin of replication and episomal mammalian
vectors). Other vectors (e.g., non-episomal mammalian vectors) are integrated into the
genome of a host cell upon introduction into the host cell, and thereby are replicated
along with the host genome. Moreover, certain vectors are capable of directing the
expression of genes to which they are operatively linked. Such vectors are referred to
herein as "expression vectors". In general, expression vectors of utility in recombinant
DNA techniques are often in the form of plasmids. In the present specification, "plasmid"
and "vector" can be used interchangeably as the plasmid is the most commonly used form
of vector. However, the invention is intended to include such other forms of expression
vectors, such as viral vectors (e.g., replication defective retroviruses, adenoviruses and
adeno-associated viruses), which serve equivalent functions.
 [00210]     The recombinant expression vectors of the invention comprise a nucleic acid
of the invention in a form suitable for expression of the nucleic acid in a host cell, which
means that the recombinant expression vectors include one or more regulatory sequences,
selected on the basis of the host cells to be used for expression, which is operatively
linked to the nucleic acid sequence to be expressed. Within a recombinant expression

                                             -87
vector, "operably linked" is intended to mean that the nucleotide sequence of interest is
linked to the regulatory sequence(s) in a manner which allows for expression of the
nucleotide sequence (e.g., in an in vitro transcription/translation system or in a host cell
when the vector is introduced into the host cell). The term "regulatory sequence" is
intended to include promoters, enhancers and other expression control elements (e.g.,
polyadenylation signals). Such regulatory sequences are described, for example, in
Goeddel (1990) Methods Enzymol. 185:3-7. Regulatory sequences include those which
direct constitutive expression of a nucleotide sequence in many types of host cells and
those which direct expression of the nucleotide sequence only in certain host cells (e.g.,
tissue-specific regulatory sequences). It will be appreciated by those skilled in the art that
the design of the expression vector can depend on such factors as the choice of the host
cell to be transformed, the level of expression of protein desired, and the like. The
expression vectors of the invention can be introduced into host cells to thereby produce
proteins or peptides, including fusion proteins or peptides, encoded by nucleic acids as
described herein (e.g., PD-L3 OR VISTA polypeptides, mutant forms of PD-L3 OR
VISTA polypeptides, fusion proteins, and the like).
 [00211] The recombinant expression vectors of the invention can be designed for
expression of PD-L3 OR VISTA polypeptides in prokaryotic or eukaryotic cells. For
example, PD-L3 OR VISTA polypeptides can be expressed in bacterial cells such as E.
coli, insect cells (using baculovirus expression vectors), yeast cells, or mammalian cells.
Suitable host cells are discussed further in Goeddel (1990) supra. Alternatively, the
recombinant expression vector can be transcribed and translated in vitro, for example
using T7 promoter regulatory sequences and T7 polymerase. Purified fusion proteins can
be utilized in PD-L3 OR VISTA activity assays (e.g., direct assays or competitive assays
described in detail below), or to generate antibodies specific for PD-L3 OR VISTA
polypeptides, for example.     In another embodiment, the PD-L3 OR VISTA expression
vector is a yeast expression vector. Examples of vectors for expression in yeast S.
cerevisiae include pYepSecl (Baldari et al. (1987) EMBO J. 6:229-234), pMFa (Kurjan
and Herskowitz (1982) Cell 30:933-943), pJRY88 (Schultz et al. (1987) Gene 54:113
 123), pYES2 (Invitrogen Corporation, San Diego, Calif.), and picZ (Invitrogen Corp, San

                                             -88
Diego, Calif.). Alternatively, PD-L3 OR VISTA polypeptides can be expressed in insect
cells using baculovirus expression vectors. Baculovirus vectors available for expression
of polypeptides in cultured insect cells (e.g., Sf9 cells) include the pAc series (Smith et
al. (1983) Mol. Cell Biol. 3:2156-2165) and the pVL series (Lucklow and Summers
(1989) Virology 170:31-39). In yet another embodiment, a nucleic acid of the invention
is expressed in mammalian cells using a mammalian expression vector. Examples of
mammalian expression vectors include pCDM8 (Seed, B. (1987) Nature 329:840) and
pMT2PC (Kaufman et al. (1987) EMBO J. 6:187-195). When used in mammalian cells,
the expression vector's control functions are often provided by viral regulatory elements.
For example, commonly used promoters are derived from polyoma, Adenovirus 2,
cytomegalovirus and Simian Virus 40. For other suitable expression systems for both
prokaryotic and eukaryotic cells see chapters 16 and 17 of Sambrook, J. et al., Molecular
Cloning: A Laboratory Manual. 2nd ed., Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory, Cold Spring
Harbor Laboratory Press, Cold Spring Harbor, N.Y., 1989.
 [00212] In another embodiment, the recombinant mammalian expression vector is
capable of directing expression of the nucleic acid preferentially in a particular cell type
(e.g., tissue-specific regulatory elements are used to express the nucleic acid). Tissue
specific regulatory elements are known in the art. Non-limiting examples of suitable
tissue-specific promoters include the albumin promoter (liver-specific; Pinkert et al.
(1987) Genes Dev. 1:268-277), lymphoid-specific promoters (Calame and Eaton (1988)
Adv. Immunol. 43:235-275), particular promoters of T cell receptors (Winoto and
Baltimore (1989) EMBO J. 8:729-733) and immunoglobulins (Banerji et al. (1983) Cell
33:729-740; Queen and Baltimore (1983) Cell 33:741-748), neuron-specific promoters
(e.g., the neurofilament promoter; Byrne and Ruddle (1989) Proc Natl. Acad. Sci. USA
86:5473-5477), pancreas-specific promoters (Edlund et al. (1985) Science 230:912-916),
and mammary gland-specific promoters (e.g., milk whey promoter; U.S. Pat. No.
4,873,316 and European Application Publication No. 264,166). Developmentally
regulated promoters are also encompassed, for example by the murine hox promoters
(Kessel and Gruss (1990) Science 249:374-379) and the .alpha. -fetoprotein promoter
(Campes and Tilghman (1989) Genes Dev. 3:537-546).

                                             -89
 [00213]      The invention further provides a recombinant expression vector comprising a
DNA molecule of the invention cloned into the expression vector in an antisense
orientation. That is, the DNA molecule is operatively linked to a regulatory sequence in a
manner which allows for expression (by transcription of the DNA molecule) of an RNA
molecule which is antisense to PD-L3 OR VISTA mRNA. Regulatory sequences
operatively linked to a nucleic acid molecule cloned in the antisense orientation can be
chosen which direct the continuous expression of the antisense RNA molecule in a
variety of cell types, for instance viral promoters and/or enhancers, or regulatory
sequences can be chosen which direct constitutive, tissue specific, or cell type specific
expression of antisense RNA. The antisense expression vector can be in the form of a
recombinant plasmid, phagemid, or attenuated virus in which antisense nucleic acids are
produced under the control of a high efficiency regulatory region, the activity of which
can be determined by the cell type into which the vector is introduced. For a discussion
of the regulation of gene expression using antisense genes, see Weintraub, H. et al.,
Antisense RNA as a molecular tool for genetic analysis, Reviews--Trends in Genetics,
Vol. 1(1) 1986.
 [00214] Another aspect of the invention pertains to host cells into which a PD-L3 OR
VISTA nucleic acid molecule of the invention is introduced, e.g., a PD-L3 OR VISTA
nucleic acid molecule within a recombinant expression vector or a PD-L3 OR VISTA
nucleic acid molecule containing sequences which allow it to homologously recombine
into a specific site of the host cell's genome. The terms "host cell" and "recombinant host
cell" are used interchangeably herein. It is understood that such terms refer not only to
the particular subject cell but to the progeny or potential progeny of such a cell. Because
certain modifications may occur in succeeding generations due to either mutation or
environmental influences, such progeny may not, in fact, be identical to the parent cell,
but are still included within the scope of the term as used herein. A host cell can be any
prokaryotic or eukaryotic cell. Vector DNA can be introduced into prokaryotic or
eukaryotic cells via conventional transformation or transfection techniques. As used
herein, the terms "transformation" and "transfection" are intended to refer to a variety of
art-recognized techniques for introducing foreign nucleic acid (e.g., DNA) into a host

                                             -90
cell, including calcium phosphate or calcium chloride co-precipitation, DEAE-dextran
mediated transfection, lipofection, or electroporation. Suitable methods for transforming
or transfecting host cells can be found in Sambrook et al. (Molecular Cloning: A
Laboratory Manual. 2nd, ed., Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory, Cold Spring Harbor
Laboratory Press, Cold Spring Harbor, N.Y., 1989), and other laboratory manuals. In
order to identify and select these integrants, a gene that encodes a selectable marker (e.g.,
resistance to antibiotics) is generally introduced into the host cells along with the gene of
interest. Preferred selectable markers include those which confer resistance to drugs, such
as G418, hygromycin and methotrexate. A host cell of the invention, such as a
prokaryotic or eukaryotic host cell in culture, can be used to produce (i.e., express) a PD
L3 OR VISTA polypeptide. Accordingly, the invention further provides methods for
producing a PD-L3 OR VISTA polypeptide using the host cells of the invention. In one
embodiment, the method comprises culturing the host cell of the invention (into which a
recombinant expression vector encoding a PD-L3 OR VISTA polypeptide has been
introduced) in a suitable medium such that a PD-L3 OR VISTA polypeptide is produced.
In another embodiment, the method further comprises isolating a PD-L3 OR VISTA
polypeptide from the medium or the host cell.
 [00215] The host cells of the invention can also be used to produce non-human
transgenic animals. For example, in one embodiment, a host cell of the invention is a
fertilized oocyte or an embryonic stem cell into which PD-L3 OR VISTA-coding
sequences have been introduced. Such host cells can then be used to create non-human
transgenic animals in which exogenous PD-L3 OR VISTA sequences have been
introduced into their genome or homologous recombinant animals in which endogenous
PD-L3 OR VISTA sequences have been altered. Such animals are useful for studying the
function and/or activity of a PD-L3 OR VISTA and for identifying and/or evaluating
modulators of PD-L3 OR VISTA activity. As used herein, a "transgenic animal" is a non
human animal, preferably a mammal, more preferably a rodent such as a rat or mouse, in
which one or more of the cells of the animal includes a transgene. Other examples of
transgenic animals include non-human primates, sheep, dogs, cows, goats, chickens,
amphibians, and the like. A transgene is exogenous DNA which is integrated into the

                                             -91
genome of a cell from which a transgenic animal develops and which remains in the
genome of the mature animal, thereby directing the expression of an encoded gene
product in one or more cell types or tissues of the transgenic animal. As used herein, a
"homologous recombinant animal" is a non-human animal, preferably a mammal, more
preferably a mouse, in which an endogenous PD-L3 OR VISTA gene has been altered by
homologous recombination between the endogenous gene and an exogenous DNA
molecule introduced into a cell of the animal, e.g., an embryonic cell of the animal, prior
to development of the animal. A transgenic animal of the invention can be created by
introducing a PD-L3 OR VISTA-encoding nucleic acid into the male pronuclei of a
fertilized oocyte, e.g., by microinjection, retroviral infection, and allowing the oocyte to
develop in a pseudopregnant female foster animal. The PD-L3 OR VISTA cDNA
sequence of SEQ ID NO: I or 4 can be introduced as a transgene into the genome of a
non-human animal. Alternatively, a nonhuman homologue of a human PD-L3 OR
VISTA gene, such as a monkey or rat PD-L3 OR VISTA gene, can be used as a
transgene. Alternatively, a PD-L3 OR VISTA gene homologue, such as another PD-L3
OR VISTA family member, can be isolated based on hybridization to the PD-L3 OR
VISTA cDNA sequences of SEQ ID NO: 1, or 3 (described further in subsection I above)
and used as a transgene. Intronic sequences and polyadenylation signals can also be
included in the transgene to increase the efficiency of expression of the transgene. A
tissue-specific regulatory sequence(s) can be operably linked to a PD-L3 OR VISTA
transgene to direct expression of a PD-L3 OR VISTA polypeptide to particular cells.
Methods for generating transgenic animals via embryo manipulation and microinjection,
particularly animals such as mice, have become conventional in the art and are described,
for example, in U.S. Pat. Nos.4,736,866 and 4,870,009, both by Leder et al., U.S. Pat.
No. 4,873,191 by Wagner et al. and in Hogan, B., Manipulating the Mouse Embryo,
(Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory Press, Cold Spring Harbor, N.Y., 1986). Similar
methods are used for production of other transgenic animals. A transgenic founder
animal can be identified based upon the presence of a PD-L3 OR VISTA transgene in its
genome and/or expression of PD-L3 OR VISTA mRNA in tissues or cells of the animals.
A transgenic founder animal can then be used to breed additional animals carrying the
transgene. Moreover, transgenic animals carrying a transgene encoding a PD-L3 OR

                                             -92
VISTA polypeptide can further be bred to other transgenic animals carrying other
transgenes.
 [00216]       To create a homologous recombinant animal, a vector is prepared which
contains at least a portion of a PD-L3 OR VISTA gene into which a deletion, addition or
substitution has been introduced to thereby alter, e.g., functionally disrupt, the PD-L3 OR
VISTA gene. The PD-L3 OR VISTA gene can be a human or murine gene (e.g., the
cDNA of SEQ ID NO: I or 3)
 [00217]       In another embodiment, transgenic non-human animals can be produced
which contain selected systems which allow for regulated expression of the transgene.
One example of such a system is the cre/loxP recombinase system of bacteriophage Pl.
For a description of the cre/loxP recombinase system, see, e.g., Lakso et al. (1992) Proc
Natil. Acad. Sci. USA 89:6232-6236. Another example of a recombinase system is the
FLP recombinase system of S. cerevisiae (O'Gorman et al. (1991) Science 251:1351
 1355. If a cre/loxP recombinase system is used to regulate expression of the transgene,
animals containing transgenes encoding both the Cre recombinase and a selected
polypeptide are required. Such animals can be provided through the construction of
"double" transgenic animals, e.g., by mating two transgenic animals, one containing a
transgene encoding a selected polypeptide and the other containing a transgene encoding
a recombinase.
 [00218]       Clones of the non-human transgenic animals described herein can also be
produced according to the methods described in Wilmut, I. et al. (1997) Nature 385:810
813 and PCT International Publication Nos. WO 97/07668 and WO 97/07669. In brief, a
cell, e.g., a somatic cell, from the transgenic animal can be isolated and induced to exit
the growth cycle and enter GO phase. The quiescent cell can then be fused, e.g., through
the use of electrical pulses, to an enucleated oocyte from an animal of the same species
from which the quiescent cell is isolated. The reconstructed oocyte is then cultured such
that it develops to the morula or blastocyst stage and then transferred to pseudopregnant
female foster animal. The offspring borne of this female foster animal will be a clone of
the animal from which the cell, e.g., the somatic cell, is isolated.

                                            -93
IV. Pharmaceutical Compositions
 (00219]    The PD-L3 OR VISTA molecules, e.g, the PD-L3 OR VISTA nucleic acid
molecules, fragments of PD-L3 OR VISTA polypeptides, and anti-PD-L3 OR VISTA
antibodies (also referred to herein as "active compounds" or "modulating agents") of the
invention can be incorporated into pharmaceutical compositions suitable for
administration. Such compositions typically comprise the nucleic acid molecule,
polypeptide, or antibody and a carrier, e.g., a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier. As
used herein the language "pharmaceutically acceptable carrier" is intended to include any
and all solvents, dispersion media, coatings, antibacterial and antifungal agents, isotonic
and absorption delaying agents, and the like, compatible with pharmaceutical
administration. The use of such media and agents for pharmaceutically active substances
is well known in the art. Except insofar as any conventional media or agent is
incompatible with the active compound, use thereof in the compositions is contemplated.
Supplementary active compounds can also be incorporated into the compositions.
 (00220] As noted such compositions may additionally comprise a desired antigen, e.g.,
a tumor antigen or another immune modulatory compounds such as Toll like receptor
agonists, type 1 interferon such as alpha and beta interferons and CD40 agonists such as
agonistic CD40 antibodies and antibody fragments, preferably anti-human CD40
agonistic antibodies and antibody fragments or other immune enhancers or suppressors
 such as PD-LI, PD-L2, CTLA4 fusion proteins and antibodies specific thereto..
 [002211 In some preferred embodiments, the composition or PD-L3 OR VISTA based
 therapy may further include an antigen or other immune agonist. When present in the
composition or therapy, the antigen may be administered in an amount that, in
combination with the other components of the combination, is effective to generate an
 immune response against the antigen. For example, the antigen can be administered in an
 amount from about 100 .mu.g/kg to about 100 mg/kg. In some embodiments, the antigen
 may be administered in an amount from about 10 .mu.g/kg to about 10 mg/kg. In some
 embodiments, the antigen may be administered in an amount from about 1 mg/kg to
 about 5 mg/kg. The particular amount of antigen that constitutes an amount effective to

                                            -94
generate an immune response, however, depends to some extent upon certain factors such
as, for example, the particular antigen being administered; the particular agonist being
administered and the amount thereof; the particular agonist being administered and the
amount thereof; the state of the immune system; the method and order of administration
of the agonist and the antigen; the species to which the formulation is being administered;
and the desired therapeutic result. Accordingly, it is not practical to set forth generally the
amount that constitutes an effective amount of the antigen. Those of ordinary skill in the
art, however, can readily determine the appropriate amount with due consideration of
such factors.
[0176]The antigen can be any material capable of raising a ThI immune response, which
may include one or more of, for example, a CD8+ T cell response, an NK T cell
response, a .gamma./.delta. T cell response, or a ThI antibody response. Suitable antigens
include but are not limited to peptides; polypeptides; lipids; glycolipids; polysaccharides;
carbohydrates; polynucleotides; prions; live or inactivated bacteria, viruses or fungi; and
bacterial, viral, fungal, protozoal, tumor-derived, or organism-derived antigens, toxins or
toxoids.
[0177]Furthermore, certain currently experimental antigens, especially materials such as
recombinant proteins, glycoproteins, and peptides that do not raise a strong immune
response, can be used in connection with adjuvant combinations of the invention.
Exemplary experimental subunit antigens include those related to viral disease such as
adenovirus, AIDS, chicken pox, cytomegalovirus, dengue, feline leukemia, fowl plague,
hepatitis A, hepatitis B, HSV-1, HSV-2, hog cholera, influenza A, influenza B, Japanese
encephalitis, measles, parainfluenza, rabies, respiratory syncytial virus, rotavirus, wart,
and yellow fever.
[0178]In one embodiment, the antigen may be a cancer antigen or a tumor antigen. The
terms cancer antigen and tumor antigen are used interchangeably and refer to an antigen
that is differentially expressed by cancer cells. Therefore, cancer antigens can be
exploited to differentially target an immune response against cancer cells. Cancer

                                             -95
antigens may thus potentially stimulate tumor-specific immune responses. Certain cancer
antigens are encoded, though not necessarily expressed, by normal cells. Some of these
antigens may be characterized as normally silent (i.e., not expressed) in normal cells,
those that are expressed only at certain stages of differentiation, and those that are
temporally expressed (e.g., embryonic and fetal antigens). Other cancer antigens can be
encoded by mutant cellular genes such as, for example, oncogenes (e.g., activated ras
oncogene), suppressor genes (e.g., mutant p53), or fusion proteins resulting from internal
deletions or chromosomal translocations. Still other cancer antigens can be encoded by
viral genes such as those carried by RNA and DNA tumor viruses.
[01 79]Examples of tumor antigens include MAGE, MART-/I Melan-A, gp 100,
Dipeptidyl peptidase IV (DPPUV), adenosine deaminase-binding protein (ADAbp),
cyclophilin b, Colorectal associated antigen (CRC)-C017-1A/GA733, Carcinoembryonic
Antigen (CEA) and its antigenic epitopes CAP-I and CAP-2, etv6, aml1, Prostate
Specific Antigen (PSA) and its antigenic epitopes PSA-1, PSA-2, and PSA-3, prostate
specific membrane antigen (PSMA), T-cell receptor/CD3-.zeta. chain, MAGE-family of
tumor antigens (e.g., MAGE-Al, MAGE-A2, MAGE-A3, MAGE-A4, MAGE-A5,
MAGE-A6, MAGE-A7, MAGE-A8, MAGE-A9, MAGE-A10, MAGE-A 11, MAGE
A12, MAGE-Xp2 (MAGE-B2), MAGE-Xp3 (MAGE-B3), MAGE-Xp4 (MAGE-B4),
MAGE-CI, MAGE-C2, MAGE-C3, MAGE-C4, MAGE-C5), GAGE-family of tumor
antigens (e.g., GAGE-I, GAGE-2, GAGE-3, GAGE-4, GAGE-5, GAGE-6, GAGE-7,
GAGE-8, GAGE-9), BAGE, RAGE, LAGE-1, NAG, GnT-V, MUM-1, CDK4,
tyrosinase, p53, MUC family, HER2/neu, p2lras, RCAS1, .alpha.-fetoprotein, .epsilon.
cadherin, .alpha.-catenin, .beta.-catenin, .gamma.-catenin, p120ctn, gpO.sup.Pmell 17,
PRAME, NY-ESO-1, cdc27, adenomatous polyposis coli protein (APC), fodrin,
Connexin 37, Ig-idiotype, p15, gp75, GM2 and GD2 gangliosides, viral products such as
human papilloma virus proteins, Smad family of tumor antigens, Imp-1, PIA, EBV
encoded nuclear antigen (EBNA)-1, brain glycogen phosphorylase, SSX-1, SSX-2
(HOM-MEL-40), SSX-3, SSX-4, SSX-5, SCP-1 and CT-7, and c-erbB-2.
[01 80]Cancers or tumors and specific tumor antigens associated with such tumors (but

                                             -96
not exclusively), include acute lymphoblastic leukemia (etv6, aml I, cyclophilin b), B cell
lymphoma (Ig-idiotype), glioma (E-cadherin, .alpha.-catenin, .beta.-catenin, .gamma.
catenin, pl20ctn), bladder cancer (p2lras), biliary cancer (p2lras), breast cancer (MUC
family, HER2/neu, c-erbB-2), cervical carcinoma (p53, p2lras), colon carcinoma
(p21ras, HER2/neu, c-erbB-2, MUC family), colorectal cancer (Colorectal associated
antigen (CRC)-CO17-1A/GA733, APC), choriocarcinoma (CEA), epithelial cell cancer
(cyclophilin b), gastric cancer (HER2/neu, c-erbB-2, ga733 glycoprotein), hepatocellular
cancer (.alpha.-fetoprotein), Hodgkins lymphoma (Imp-1, EBNA-1), lung cancer (CEA,
MAGE-3, NY-ESO-1), lymphoid cell-derived leukemia (cyclophilin b), melanoma (p5
protein, gp75, oncofetal antigen, GM2 and GD2 gangliosides, Melan-A/MART-1, cdc27,
MAGE-3, p2lras, gplOO.sup.Pmell 17), myeloma (MUC family, p2lras), non-small cell
lung carcinoma (HER2/neu, c-erbB-2), nasopharyngeal cancer (Imp-1, EBNA- 1), ovarian
cancer (MUC family, HER2/neu, c-erbBr2), prostate cancer (Prostate Specific Antigen
(PSA) and its antigenic epitopes PSA-1, PSA-2, and PSA-3, PSMA, HER2/neu, c-erbB
2, ga733 glycoprotein), renal cancer (HER2/neu, c-erbB-2), squamous cell cancers of the
cervix and esophagus (viral products such as human papilloma virus proteins), testicular
cancer (NY-ESO- 1), and T cell leukemia (HTLV- 1 epitopes).
 [00222] A pharmaceutical composition of the invention is formulated to be
compatible with its intended route of administration. Examples of routes of
administration include parenteral, e.g., intravenous, intradermal, subcutaneous, oral (e.g.,
inhalation), transdermal (topical), transmucosal, and rectal administration. Solutions or
suspensions used for parenteral, intradermal, or subcutaneous application can include the
following components: a sterile diluent such as water for injection, saline solution, fixed
oils, polyethylene glycols, glycerine, propylene glycol or other synthetic solvents;
antibacterial agents such as benzyl alcohol or methyl parabens; antioxidants such as
ascorbic acid or sodium bisulfite; chelating agents such as ethylenediaminetetraacetic
acid; buffers such as acetates, citrates or phosphates and agents for the adjustment of
tonicity such as sodium chloride or dextrose. pH can be adjusted with acids or bases,
such as hydrochloric acid or sodium hydroxide. The parenteral preparation can be
enclosed in ampoules, disposable syringes or multiple dose vials made of glass or plastic

                                             -97
 (00223]     Pharmaceutical compositions suitable for injectable use include sterile
aqueous solutions (where water soluble) or dispersions and sterile powders for the
extemporaneous preparation of sterile injectable solutions or dispersion. For intravenous
administration, suitable carriers include physiological saline, bacteriostatic water,
Cremophor EL.TM. (BASF, Parsippany, N.J.) or phosphate buffered saline (PBS). In all
cases, the composition must be sterile and should be fluid to the extent that easy
syringeability exists. It must be stable under the conditions of manufacture and storage
and must be preserved against the contaminating action of microorganisms such as
bacteria and fungi. The carrier can be a solvent or dispersion medium containing, for
example, water, ethanol, polyol (for example, glycerol, propylene glycol, and liquid
polyetheylene glycol, and the like), and suitable mixtures thereof, The proper fluidity can
be maintained, for example, by the use of a coating such as lecithin, by the maintenance
of the required particle size in the case of dispersion and by the use of surfactants.
Prevention of the action of microorganisms can be achieved by various antibacterial and
antifungal agents, for example, parabens, chlorobutanol, phenol, ascorbic acid,
thimerosal, and the like. In many cases, it will be preferable to include isotonic agents,
for example, sugars, polyalcohols such as manitol, sorbitol, and sodium chloride in the
composition. Prolonged absorption of the injectable compositions can be brought about
by including in the composition an agent which delays absorption, for example,
aluminum monostearate and gelatin.
 (00224]     Sterile injectable solutions can be prepared by incorporating the active
compound (e.g., modulating agents such as a PD-L3 OR VISTA nucleic acid molecule, a
fragment of a PD-L3 OR VISTA polypeptide, an anti-PD-L3 OR VISTA antibody, or a
combination of an anti-PD-L3 OR VISTA antibody and an anti-PD-LI antibody) in the
required amount in an appropriate solvent with one or a combination of ingredients
enumerated above, as required, followed by filtered sterilization. Generally, dispersions
are prepared by incorporating the active compound into a sterile vehicle which contains a
basic dispersion medium and the required other ingredients from those enumerated
above. In the case of sterile powders for the preparation of sterile injectable solutions, the
preferred methods of preparation are vacuum drying and freeze-drying which yields a

                                            -98
powder of the active ingredient plus any additional desired ingredient from a previously
sterile-filtered solution thereof.
 [00225]       Oral compositions generally include an inert diluent or an edible carrier.
They can be enclosed in gelatin capsules or compressed into tablets. For the purpose of
oral therapeutic administration, the active compound can be incorporated with excipients
and used in the form of tablets, troches, or capsules. Oral compositions can also be
prepared using a fluid carrier for use as a mouthwash, wherein the compound in the fluid
carrier is applied orally and swished and expectorated or swallowed. Pharmaceutically
compatible binding agents, and/or adjuvant materials can be included as part of the
composition. The tablets, pills, capsules, troches and the like can contain any of the
following ingredients, or compounds of a similar nature: a binder such as
microcrystalline cellulose, gum tragacanth or gelatin; an excipient such as starch or
lactose, a disintegrating agent such as alginic acid, Primogel, or corn starch; a lubricant
such as magnesium stearate or Sterotes; a glidant such as colloidal silicon dioxide; a
 sweetening agent such as sucrose or saccharin; or a flavoring agent such as peppermint,
 methyl salicylate, or orange flavoring.
  [00226] For administration by inhalation, the compounds are delivered in the form of
 an aerosol spray from pressured container or dispenser which contains a suitable
 propellant, e.g., a gas such as carbon dioxide, or a nebulizer.
  (00227]      Systemic administration can also be by transmucosal or transdermal means.
 For transmucosal or transdermal administration, penetrants appropriate to the barrier to
 be permeated are used in the formulation. Such penetrants are generally known in the art,
 and include, for example, for transmucosal administration, detergents, bile salts, and
 fusidic acid derivatives. Transmucosal administration can be accomplished through the
 use of nasal sprays or suppositories. For transdermal administration, the active
 compounds are formulated into ointments, salves, gels, or creams as generally known in
 the art.
  [00228] The compounds can also be prepared in the form of suppositories (e.g., with
 conventional suppository bases such as cocoa butter and other glycerides) or retention

                                             -99
enemas for rectal delivery. In one embodiment, the active compounds are prepared with
carriers that will protect the compound against rapid elimination from the body, such as a
controlled release formulation, including implants and microencapsulated delivery
systems. Biodegradable, biocompatible polymers can be used, such as ethylene vinyl
acetate, polyanhydrides, polyglycolic acid, collagen, polyorthoesters, and polylactic acid.
Methods for preparation of such formulations will be apparent to those skilled in the art.
The materials can also be obtained commercially from Alza Corporation and Nova
Pharmaceuticals, InC Liposomal suspensions (including liposomes targeted to infected
cells with monoclonal antibodies to viral antigens) can also be used as pharmaceutically
acceptable carriers. These can be prepared according to methods known to those skilled
in the art, for example, as described in U.S. Pat. No. 4,522,811.
 [00229]      It is especially advantageous to formulate oral or parenteral compositions in
dosage unit form for ease of administration and uniformity of dosage. Dosage unit form
as used herein refers to physically discrete units suited as unitary dosages for the subject
to be treated; each unit containing a predetermined quantity of active compound
calculated to produce the desired therapeutic effect in association with the required
pharmaceutical carrier. The specification for the dosage unit forms of the invention are
dictated by and directly dependent on the unique characteristics of the active compound
and the particular therapeutic effect to be achieved, and the limitations inherent in the art
of compounding such an active compound for the treatment of individuals.
 [00230] Toxicity and therapeutic efficacy of such compounds can be determined by
standard pharmaceutical procedures in cell cultures or experimental animals. The data
obtained from the cell culture assays and animal studies can be used in formulating a
range of dosage for use in humans. The dosage of such compounds lies preferably within
a range of circulating concentrations that include the ED50 with little or no toxicity. The
dosage may vary within this range depending upon the dosage form employed and the
route of administration utilized. For any compound used in the method of the invention,
the therapeutically effective dose can be estimated initially from cell culture assays. A
dose may be formulated in animal models to achieve a circulating plasma concentration
range that includes the IC50 (i.e., the concentration of the test compound which achieves

                                            -100
a half-maximal inhibition of symptoms) as determined in cell culture. Such information
can be used to more accurately determine useful doses in humans. Levels in plasma may
be measured, for example, by high performance liquid chromatography.
 [00231] As defined herein, a therapeutically effective amount of protein or
polypeptide (i.e., an effective dosage) ranges from about 0.001 to 30 mg/kg body weight,
preferably about 0.01 to 25 mg/kg body weight, more preferably about 0.1 to 20 mg/kg
body weight, and even more preferably about I to 10 mg/kg, 2 to 9 mg/kg, 3 to 8 mg/kg,
4 to 7 mg/kg, or 5 to 6 mg/kg body weight. The skilled artisan will appreciate that certain
factors may influence the dosage required to effectively treat a subject, including but not
limited to the severity of the disease or disorder, previous treatments, the general health
and/or age of the subject, and other diseases present. Moreover, treatment of a subject
with a therapeutically effective amount of a protein, polypeptide, or antibody can include
a single treatment or, preferably, can include a series of treatments.
 [002321 In a preferred example, a subject is treated with antibody, protein, or
polypeptide in the range of between about 0.1 to 20 mg/kg body weight, one time per
week for between about I to 10 weeks, preferably between 2 to 8 weeks, more preferably
between about 3 to 7 weeks, and even more preferably for about 4, 5, or 6 weeks. It will
also be appreciated that the effective dosage of antibody, protein, or polypeptide used for
treatment may increase or decrease over the course of a particular treatment. Changes in
dosage may result and become apparent from the results of diagnostic assays as described
herein.
 [00233]     The present invention encompasses agents which modulate expression or
activity of PD-L3 OR VISTA. An agent may, for example, be a small molecule. For
example, such small molecules include, but are not limited to, peptides, peptidomimetics,
amino acids, amino acid analogs, polynucleotides, polynucleotide analogs, nucleotides,
nucleotide analogs, organic or inorganic compounds (i.e., including heteroorganic and
organometallic compounds) having a molecular weight less than about 10,000 grams per
mole, organic or inorganic compounds having a molecular weight less than about 5,000
grams per mole, organic or inorganic compounds having a molecular weight less than

                                            -101
about 1,000 grams per mole, organic or inorganic compounds having a molecular weight
less than about 500 grams per mole, and salts, esters, and other pharmaceutically
acceptable forms of such compounds. It is understood that appropriate doses of small
molecule agents depends upon a number of factors within the scope of knowledge of the
ordinarily skilled physician, veterinarian, or researcher. The dose(s) of the small
molecule will vary, for example, depending upon the identity, size, and condition of the
subject or sample being treated, further depending upon the route by which the
composition is to be administered, if applicable, and the effect which the practitioner
desires the small molecule to have upon the nucleic acid or polypeptide of the invention.
 (00234]     Exemplary doses include milligram or microgram amounts of the small
molecule per kilogram of subject or sample weight (e.g., about I microgram per kilogram
to about 500 milligrams per kilogram, about 100 micrograms per kilogram to about 5
milligrams per kilogram, or about I microgram per kilogram to about 50 micrograms per
kilogram). It is furthermore understood that appropriate doses of a small molecule
depend upon the potency of the small molecule with respect to the expression or activity
to be modulated. Such appropriate doses may be determined using the assays described
herein. When one or more of these small molecules is to be administered to an animal
(e.g., a human) in order to modulate expression or activity of a polypeptide or nucleic
acid of the invention, a physician, veterinarian, or researcher may, for example, prescribe
a relatively low dose at first, subsequently increasing the dose until an appropriate
response is obtained. In addition, it is understood that the specific dose level for any
particular animal subject will depend upon a variety of factors including the activity of
the specific compound employed, the age, body weight, general health, gender, and diet
of the subject, the time of administration, the route of administration, the rate of
excretion, any drug combination, and the degree of expression or activity to be
modulated.
 [00235] Further, an antibody (or fragment thereof) may be conjugated to a therapeutic
moiety such as a cytotoxin, a therapeutic agent or a radioactive metal ion. A cytotoxin or
cytotoxic agent includes any agent that is detrimental to cells. Examples include taxol,
cytochalasin B, gramicidin D, ethidium bromide, emetine, mitomycin, etoposide,

                                             -102
tenoposide, vincristine, vinblastine, colchicin, doxorubicin, daunorubicin, dihydroxy
anthracin dione, mitoxantrone, mithramycin, actinomycin D, I-dehydrotestosterone,
glucocorticoids, procaine, tetracaine, lidocaine, propranolol, and puromycin and analogs
or homologs thereof. Therapeutic agents include, but are not limited to, antimetabolites
(e.g., methotrexate, 6-mercaptopurine, 6-thioguanine, cytarabine, 5-fluorouracil
decarbazine), alkylating agents (e.g., mechlorethamine, thioepa chlorambucil, melphalan,
carmustine (BSNU) and lomustine (CCNU), cyclothosphamide, busulfan,
dibromomannitol, streptozotocin, mitomycin C, and cis-dichlorodiamine platinum (II)
(DDP) cisplatin), anthracyclines (e.g., daunorubicin (formerly daunomycin) and
doxorubicin), antibiotics (e.g., dactinomycin (formerly actinomycin), bleomycin,
mithramycin, and anthramycin (AMC)), and anti-mitotic agents (e.g., vincristine and
vinblastine).
 [00236] The conjugates of the invention can be used for modifying a given biological
response, the drug moiety is not to be construed as limited to classical chemical
therapeutic agents. For example, the drug moiety may be a protein or polypeptide
possessing a desired biological activity. Such polypeptides may include, for example, a
toxin such as abrin, ricin A, pseudomonas exotoxin, or diphtheria toxin; a protein such as
tumor necrosis factor, alpha-interferon, beta-interferon, nerve growth factor, platelet
derived growth factor, tissue plasminogen activator; or biological response modifiers
such as, for example, lymphokines, interleukin- I ("IL-"I ), interleukin-2 ("IL-2"),
interleukin-6 ("IL-6"), granulocyte macrophage colony stimulating factor ("GM-CSF"),
granulocyte colony stimulating factor ("G-CSF"), or other growth factors. Techniques
for conjugating such therapeutic moiety to antibodies are well known.
 [00237] The nucleic acid molecules of the invention can be inserted into vectors and
used as gene therapy vectors. Gene therapy vectors can be delivered to a subject by, for
example, intravenous injection, local administration (see U.S. Pat. No. 5,328,470) or by
stereotactic injection (see, e.g., Chen et al. (1994) Proc Nat]. Acad. Sci. USA 91:3054
3057). The pharmaceutical preparation of the gene therapy vector can include the gene
therapy vector in an acceptable diluent, or can comprise a slow release matrix in which
the gene delivery vehicle is imbedded. Alternatively, where the complete gene delivery

                                            -103
vector can be.produced intact from recombinant cells, e.g., retroviral vectors, the
pharmaceutical preparation can include one or more cells which produce the gene
delivery system. The pharmaceutical compositions can be included in a container, pack,
or dispenser together with instructions for administration.
V. Uses and Methods of the Invention
 [002381 The PD-L3 OR VISTA molecules, e.g., the PD-L3 OR VISTA nucleic acid
molecules, polypeptides, polypeptide homologues, and antibodies and antibody
fragments described herein can be used in one or more of the following methods: a)
screening assays; b) predictive medicine (e.g., diagnostic assays, prognostic assays, and
monitoring clinical trials); and c) methods of treatment (e.g., therapeutic and
prophylactic, e.g., by up- or down-modulating the immune response). As described
herein, a PD-L3 OR VISTA polypeptide of the invention has one or more of the
following activities: 1) binds to and/or modulates the activity of its natural binding
partner(s), 2) modulates intra- or intercellular signaling, 3) modulates activation of T
lymphocytes, 4) modulates the immune response of an organism, e.g., a mammalian
organism, such as a mouse or human. The isolated nucleic acid molecules of the
invention can be used, for example, to express PD-L3 OR VISTA polypeptide (e.g., via a
recombinant expression vector in a host cell in gene therapy applications), to detect PD
L3 OR VISTA mRNA (e.g., in a biological sample) or a genetic alteration in a PD-L3
OR VISTA gene, and to modulate PD-L3 OR VISTA activity, as described further
below. The PD-L3 OR VISTA polypeptides can be used to treat conditions or disorders
characterized by insufficient or excessive production of a PD-L3 OR VISTA polypeptide
or production of PD-L3 OR VISTA inhibitors. In addition, the PD-L3 OR VISTA
polypeptides can be used to screen for naturally occurring PD-L3 OR VISTA binding
partner(s), to screen for drugs or compounds which modulate PD-L3 OR VISTA activity,
as well as to treat conditions or disorders characterized by insufficient or excessive
production of PD-L3 OR VISTA polypeptide or production of PD-L3 OR VISTA
polypeptide forms which have decreased, aberrant or unwanted activity compared to PD
L3 OR VISTA wild-type polypeptide (e.g., immune system disorders such as severe
combined immunodeficiency, multiple sclerosis, systemic lupus erythematosus, type I

                                            -104
diabetes mellitus, lymphoproliferative syndrome, inflammatory bowel disease, allergies,
asthma, graft-versus-host disease, and transplant rejection; immune responses to
infectious pathogens such as bacteria and viruses; and immune system cancers such as
lymphomas and leukemias). Moreover, the anti-PD-L3 OR VISTA antibodies of the
invention can be used to detect and isolate PD-L3 OR VISTA polypeptides, regulate the
bioavailability of PD-L3 OR VISTA polypeptides, and modulate PD-L3 OR VISTA
activity, e.g., by modulating the interaction between PD-L3 OR VISTA and its natural
binding partner(s)
A. Screening Assays:
 [00239] The invention provides a method (also referred to herein as a "screening
assay") for identifying modulators, i.e., candidate or test compounds or agents (e.g.,
peptides, peptidomimetics, small molecules or other drugs) which bind to PD-L3 OR
VISTA polypeptides, have a stimulatory or inhibitory effect on, for example, PD-L3 OR
VISTA expression or PD-3 OR VISTA activity, or have a stimulatory or inhibitory
effect on the interaction between PD-L3 OR VISTA and its natural binding partner(s).
 [00240]      In one. embodiment, the invention provides assays for screening candidate or
test compounds which bind to the PD-L3 OR VISTA protein or polypeptide or
biologically active portion thereof, e.g., modulate the ability of the PD-3 OR VISTA
polypeptide to interact with its natural binding partner(s). In another embodiment, the
invention provides assays for screening candidate or test compounds which bind to or
modulate the activity of a PD-L3 OR VISTA protein or polypeptide or biologically active
portion thereof. In a preferred embodiment, the invention provides assays for screening
candidate or test compounds which have a stimulatory or inhibitory effect on immune
functions negatively regulated by PD-L3 OR VISTA such as are identified herein or
based on its effect on the interaction of between PD-3 OR VISTA and its natural
binding partner(s). These PD-L3 OR VISTA related functions include by way of
example inhibiting cytokine production (e.g., 11-2, gamma interferon by T cells,
suppressing moderate CD28 costimulation, inhibiting CD4+ and CD8+ T cell
proliferation, suppressing proliferation of nafve and memory CD4+ T cells, and

                                            -105
suppressing TCR activation without inducing apoptosis. The test compounds of the
present invention can be obtained using any of the numerous approaches in combinatorial
library methods known in the art, including: biological libraries; spatially addressable
parallel solid phase or solution phase libraries; synthetic library methods requiring
deconvolution; the 'one-bead one-compound' library method; and synthetic library
methods using affinity chromatography selection. The biological library approach is
limited to peptide libraries, while the other four approaches are applicable to peptide,
non-peptide oligomer or small molecule libraries of compounds (Lam, K. S. (1997)
Anticancer Drug Des. 12:145).
 [00241]     In one embodiment, an assay is a cell-based assay in which a cell which
expresses a PD-L3 OR VISTA polypeptide or biologically active portion thereof is
contacted with a test compound, and the ability of the test compound to modulate PD-L3
OR VISTA activity is determined. Determining the ability of the test compound to
modulate PD-L3 OR VISTA activity can be accomplished by monitoring, for example,
the ability of PD-L3 OR VISTA to bind to its natural binding partner(s), and modulate
immune cell activity. The immune cell can be, e.g., a T cell, a B cell, or a myeloid cell.
Determining the ability of the test compound to modulate PD-L3 OR VISTA binding to
its counter-receptor (to be determined) can be accomplished, for example, by coupling
PD-L3 OR VISTA with a radioisotope or enzymatic label to monitor the ability of a test
compound to modulate PD-L3 OR VISTA binding to T cells which express the PD-L3
OR VISTA counter-receptor. Determining the ability of the test compound to bind PD
L3 OR VISTA can be accomplished, for example, by coupling the compound with a
radioisotope or enzymatic label such that binding of the compound to PD-L3 OR VISTA
can be determined by detecting the labeled PD-L3 OR VISTA compound in a complex.
 [00242] It is also within the scope of this invention to determine the ability of a
compound to interact with PD-L3 OR VISTA without the labeling of any of the
interactants. For example, a microphysiometer can be used to detect the interaction of a
compound with PD-L3 OR VISTA without the labeling of either the compound or the
PD-L3 OR VISTA (McConnell, H. M. et al. (1992) Science 257:1906-1912). As used
herein, a "microphysiometer" (e.g., Cytosensor) is an analytical instrument that measures

                                             -106
the rate at which a cell acidifies its environment using a light-addressable potentiometric
sensor (LAPS). Changes in this acidification rate can be used as an indicator of the
interaction between a compound and PD-L3 OR VISTA.
 [00243] In another embodiment, an assay is a cell-based assay comprising contacting
a T cell expressing a PD-L3 OR VISTA binding partner with a test compound and
determining the ability of the test compound to modulate (e.g., stimulate or inhibit) the
activity of the PD-L3 OR VISTA binding partner. Determining the ability of the test
compound to modulate the activity of a PD-L3 OR VISTA binding partner can be
accomplished, for example, by determining the ability of the PD-L3 OR VISTA
polypeptide to bind to or interact with the PD-L3 OR VISTA binding partner.
 [00244] Determining the ability of the PD-L3 OR VISTA polypeptide, or a
biologically active fragment thereof, to bind to or interact with a PD-L3 OR VISTA
binding partner, can be accomplished by one of the methods described above for
determining direct binding. In a preferred embodiment, determining the ability of the PD
L3 OR VISTA polypeptide to bind to or interact with a PD-L3 OR VISTA binding
partner can be accomplished by determining the activity of the binding partner. For
example, the activity of the binding partner can be determined by detecting induction of a
cellular second messenger (e.g., tyrosine kinase or phosphatase activity), detecting
catalytic/enzymatic activity of an appropriate substrate, detecting the induction of a
reporter gene (comprising a target-responsive regulatory element operatively linked to a
nucleic acid encoding a detectable marker, e.g., luciferase), or detecting a target
regulated cellular response. For example, determining the ability of the PD-L3 OR
VISTA polypeptide to bind to or interact with a natural PD-L3 OR VISTA binding
partner, can be accomplished by measuring the ability of a compound to modulate
immune cell costimulation or inhibition in a proliferation assay, or by interfering with the
ability of a PD-L3 OR VISTA polypeptide to bind to antibodies that recognize a portion
of the PD-L3 OR VISTA polypeptide. In one embodiment, compounds that modulate T
cell activation can be identified by determining the ability of a compound to modulate T
cell proliferation or cytokine production. In a preferred embodiment, compounds that
modulate T cell activation can be identified by determining the ability of a compound to

                                            -107
modulate T cell proliferation or cytokine production at more than one antigen
concentration.
 [00245] In yet another embodiment, an assay of the present invention is a cell-free
assay in which a PD-L3 OR VISTA polypeptide or biologically active portion thereof is
contacted with a test compound and the ability of the test compound to bind to the PD-L3
OR VISTA polypeptide or biologically active portion thereof is determined. Preferred
biologically active portions of the PD-L3 OR VISTA polypeptides to be used in assays of
the present invention include fragments which participate in interactions with non-PD-L3
OR VISTA molecules, e.g., at least a portion of an extracellular domain which binds to a
PD-L3 OR VISTA binding partner. Binding of the test compound to the PD-L3 OR
VISTA polypeptide can be determined either directly or indirectly as described above.
 [00246] In another embodiment, the assay is a cell-free assay in which a PD-L3 OR
VISTA polypeptide or biologically active portion thereof is contacted with a test
compound and the ability of the test compound to modulate (e.g., stimulate or inhibit) the
activity of the PD-L3 OR VISTA polypeptide or biologically active portion thereof is
determined. Determining the ability of the test compound to modulate the activity of a
PD-L3 OR VISTA polypeptide can be accomplished, for example, by determining the
ability of the PD-L3 OR VISTA polypeptide to bind to a PD-L3 OR VISTA binding
partner by one of the methods described above for determining direct binding. The cell
free assays of the present invention are amenable to use of both soluble and/or
membrane-bound forms of polypeptides (e.g., PD-L3 OR VISTA polypeptides or
biologically active portions thereof, or binding partners to which PD-3 OR VISTA
binds). In the case of cell-free assays in which a membrane-bound form a polypeptide is
used (e.g., a cell-surface PD-L3 OR VISTA), it may be desirable to utilize a solubilizing
agent such that the membrane-bound form of the polypeptide is maintained in solution.
Examples of such solubilizing agents include non-ionic detergents such as n
octylglucoside, n-dodecylglucoside, n-dodecylmaltoside, octanoyl-N-methylglucamide,
decanoyl-N-methylglucamide, Triton.RTM. X-100, Triton.RTM. X- 114, Thesit,
Isotridecypoly(ethylene glycol ether)n, 3-[(3-cholamidopropyl)dimethylamminiol- I
propane sulfonate (CHAPS), 3-[(3-cholamidopropyl)dimethylamminio]-2-hydroxy- I-

                                           -108
propane sulfonate (CHAPSO), or N-dodecyl.dbd.N,N-dimethyl-3-ammonio- 1-propane
sulfonate.
[002471      In more than one embodiment of the above assay methods of the present
invention, it may be desirable to immobilize either PD-L3 OR VISTA or its binding
partner to facilitate separation of complexed from uncomplexed forms of one or both of
the polypeptides, as well as to accommodate automation of the assay. Binding of a test
compound to a PD-L3 OR VISTA polypeptide, or interaction of a PD-L3 OR VISTA
polypeptide with its binding partner in the presence and absence of a candidate
compound, can be accomplished in any vessel suitable for containing the reactants.
Examples of such vessels include microtitre plates, test tubes, and micro-centrifuge tubes.
In one embodiment, a fusion protein can be provided which adds a domain that allows
one or both of the polypeptides to be bound to a matrix. For example, glutathione-S
transferase/PD-L3 OR VISTA fusion proteins or glutathione-S-transferase/binding
partner fusion proteins can be adsorbed onto glutathione sepharose beads (Sigma
Chemical, St. Louis, Mo.) or glutathione derivatized microtitre plates, which are then
combined with the test compound or the test compound and either the non-adsorbed
binding partner polypeptide or PD-L3 OR VISTA polypeptide, and the mixture incubated
under conditions conducive to complex formation (e.g., at physiological conditions for
salt and pH). Following incubation, the beads or microtitre plate wells are washed to
remove any unbound components, the matrix is immobilized in the case of beads, and
complex formation is determined either directly or indirectly, for example, as described
above. Alternatively, the complexes can be dissociated from the matrix, and the level of
PD-L3 OR VISTA binding or activity determined using standard techniques. Other
techniques for immobilizing polypeptides on matrices can also be used in the screening
assays of the invention. In an alternative embodiment, determining the ability of the test
compound to modulate the activity of a PD-L3 OR VISTA polypeptide can be
accomplished by determining the ability of the test compound to modulate the activity of
a molecule that functions downstream of PD-L3 OR VISTA, e.g., by interacting with the
cytoplasmic domain of a PD-L3 OR VISTA binding partner. For example, levels of
second messengers, the activity of the interacting molecule on an appropriate target, or

                                            -109
the binding of the interactor to an appropriate target can be determined as previously
described.
 [00248] In another embodiment, modulators of PD-L3 OR VISTA expression are
identified in a method wherein a cell is contacted with a candidate compound and the
expression of PD-L3 OR VISTA mRNA or polypeptide in the cell is determined. The
level of expression of PD-L3 OR VISTA mRNA or polypeptide in the presence of the
candidate compound is compared to the level of expression of PD-L3 OR VISTA mRNA
or polypeptide in the absence of the candidate compound. The candidate compound can
then be identified as a modulator of PD-L3 OR VISTA expression based on this
comparison if the change is statistically significant.
 [00249] In yet another aspect of the invention, the PD-L3 OR VISTA polypeptides
can be used as "bait proteins" in a two-hybrid assay or three-hybrid assay (see, e.g., U.S.
Pat. No. 5,283,317; Zervos et al. (1993) Cell 72:223-232; Madura et al. (1993) J. Biol.
Chem. 268:12046-12054; Bartel et al. (1993) Biotechniques 14:920-924; Iwabuchi et al.
(1993) Oncogene 8:1693-1696; and Brent W094/10300), to identify other polypeptides
which bind to or interact with PD-L3 OR VISTA ("PD-L3 OR VISTA-binding proteins",
"PD-L3 OR VISTA binding partners", or "PD-L3 OR VISTA-bp") and are involved in
PD-L3 OR VISTA activity. Such PD-L3 OR VISTA-binding proteins are also likely to
be involved in the propagation of signals by the PD-L3 OR VISTA polypeptides or PD
L3 OR VISTA targets as, for example, downstream elements of a PD-L3 OR VISTA
mediated signaling pathway. Alternatively, such PD-L3 OR VISTA-binding polypeptides
may be PD-L3 OR VISTA inhibitors. The two-hybrid system is based on the modular
nature of most transcription factors, which consist of separable DNA-binding and
activation domains. Briefly, the assay utilizes two different DNA constructs. In one
construct, the gene that codes for a PD-L3 OR VISTA polypeptide is fused to a gene
encoding the DNA binding domain of a known transcription factor (e.g, GAL-4). In the
other construct, a DNA sequence, from a library of DNA sequences, that encodes an
unidentified polypeptide ("prey" or "sample") is fused to a gene that codes for the
activation domain of the known transcription factor. If the "bait" and the "prey"
polypeptides are able to interact, in vivo, forming a PD-L3 OR VISTA-dependent

                                             -110
complex, the DNA-binding and activation domains of the transcription factor are brought
into close proximity. This proximity allows transcription of a reporter gene (e.g, LacZ)
which is operably linked to a transcriptional regulatory site responsive to the transcription
factor. Expression of the reporter gene can be detected and cell colonies containing the
functional transcription factor can be isolated and used to obtain the cloned gene which
encodes the polypeptide which interacts with the PD-L3 OR VISTA polypeptide.
 [002501      In another aspect, the invention pertains to a combination of two or more of
the assays described herein. For example, a modulating agent can be identified using a
cell-based or a cell-free assay, and the ability of the agent to modulate the activity of a
PD-L3 OR VISTA polypeptide can be confirmed in vivo, e.g., in an animal such as an
animal model for cellular transformation and/or tumorigenesis.
 [00251] This invention further pertains to novel agents identified by the above
described screening assays. Accordingly, it is within the scope of this invention to further
use an agent identified as described herein in an appropriate animal model. For example,
an agent identified as described herein (e.g., a PD-L3 OR VISTA modulating agent, an
antisense PD-L3 OR VISTA nucleic acid molecule, a PD-L3 OR VISTA-specific
antibody, or a PD-L3 OR VISTA binding partner) can be used in an animal model to
determine the efficacy, toxicity, or side effects of treatment with such an agent.
Alternatively, an agent identified as described herein can be used in an animal model to
determine the mechanism of action of such an agent. Furthermore, this invention pertains
to uses of novel agents identified by the above-described screening assays for treatments
as described herein.
B. Detection Assays
 [00252] Portions or fragments of the cDNA sequences identified herein (and the
corresponding complete gene sequences) can be used in numerous ways as
polynucleotide reagents. For example, these sequences can be used to: (i) map their
respective genes on a chromosome; and, thus, locate gene regions associated with genetic
disease; (ii) identify an individual from a minute biological sample (tissue typing); and

                                              -111
(iii) aid in forensic identification of a biological sample. These applications are described
in the subsections below.
1. Chromosome Mapping
 [002531 Once the sequence (or a portion of the sequence) of a gene has been isolated,
this sequence can be used to map the location of the gene on a chromosome. This process
is called chromosome mapping. Accordingly, portions or fragments of the PD-L3 OR
VISTA nucleotide sequences, described herein, can be used to map the location of the
PD-L3 OR VISTA genes on a chromosome. The mapping of the PD-L3 OR VISTA
sequences to chromosomes is an important first step in correlating these sequences with
genes associated with disease. Briefly, PD-L3 OR VISTA genes can be mapped to
chromosomes by preparing PCR primers (preferably 15-25 bp in length) from the PD-L3
OR VISTA nucleotide sequences. Computer analysis of the PD-L3 OR VISTA sequences
can be used to predict primers that do not span more than one exon in the genomic DNA,
thus complicating the amplification process. These primers can then be used for PCR
screening of somatic cell hybrids containing individual human chromosomes. Only those
hybrids containing the human gene corresponding to the PD-L3 OR VISTA sequences
will yield an amplified fragment. Somatic cell hybrids are prepared by fusing somatic
cells from different mammals (e.g., human and mouse cells). As hybrids of human and
mouse cells grow and divide, they gradually lose human chromosomes in random order,
but retain the mouse chromosomes. By using media in which mouse cells cannot grow,
because they lack a particular enzyme, but human cells can, the one human chromosome
that contains the gene encoding the needed enzyme will be retained. By using various
media, panels of hybrid cell lines can be established. Each cell line in a panel contains
either a single human chromosome or a small number of human chromosomes, and a full
set of mouse chromosomes, allowing easy mapping of individual genes to specific human
chromosomes (D'Eustachio, P. et al. (1983) Science 220:919-924). Somatic cell hybrids
containing only fragments of human chromosomes can also be produced by using human
chromosomes with translocations and deletions.

                                           -112
 [00254] PCR mapping of somatic cell hybrids is a rapid procedure for assigning a
particular sequence to a particular chromosome. Three or more sequences can be
assigned per day using a single thermal cycler. Using the PD-L3 OR VISTA nucleotide
sequences to design oligonucleotide primers, sublocalization can be achieved with panels
of fragments from specific chromosomes. Other mapping strategies which can similarly
be used to map a PD-L3 OR VISTA sequence to its chromosome include in situ
hybridization (described in Fan, Y. et al. (1990) Proc Nati. Acad. Sci. USA 87:6223-27),
pre-screening with labeled flow-sorted chromosomes, and pre-selection by hybridization
to chromosome specific cDNA libraries.
 [00255]     Fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH) of a DNA sequence to a metaphase
chromosomal spread can further be used to provide a precise chromosomal location in
one step. Chromosome spreads can be made using cells whose division has been blocked
in metaphase by a chemical such as colcemid that disrupts the mitotic spindle. The
chromosomes can be treated briefly with trypsin, and then stained with Giemsa. A pattern
of light and dark bands develops on each chromosome, so that the chromosomes can be
identified individually. The FISH technique can be used with a DNA sequence as short as
500 or 600 bases. However, clones larger than 1,000 bases have a higher likelihood of
binding to a unique chromosomal location with sufficient signal intensity for simple
detection. Preferably 1,000 bases, and more preferably 2,000 bases will suffice to get
good results in a reasonable amount of time. For a review of this technique, see Verma et
al., Human Chromosomes: A Manual of basic Techniques (Pergamon Press, New York
1988). Reagents for chromosome mapping can be used individually to mark a single
chromosome or a single site on that chromosome, or panels of reagents can be used for
marking multiple sites and/or multiple chromosomes. Reagents corresponding to
noncoding regions of the genes actually are preferred for mapping purposes. Coding
sequences are more likely to be conserved within gene families, thus increasing the
chance of cross hybridization during chromosomal mapping.
 [00256] Once a sequence has been mapped to a precise chromosomal location, the
physical position of the sequence on the chromosome can be correlated with genetic map
data Ultimately, complete sequencing of genes from several individuals can be

                                           -113
performed to confirm the presence of a mutation and to distinguish mutations from
polymorphisms. 2.'Tissue Typing
 [00257] The PD-L3 OR VISTA sequences of the present invention can also be used to
identify individuals from minute biological samples. Furthermore, the sequences of the
present invention can be used to provide an alternative technique which determines the
actual base-by-base DNA sequence of selected portions of an individual's genome. Thus,
the PD-L3 OR VISTA nucleotide sequences described herein can be used to prepare two
PCR primers from the 5' and 3' ends of the sequences. These primers can then be used to
amplify an individual's DNA and subsequently sequence it.
 [00258] Panels of corresponding DNA sequences from individuals, prepared in this
manner, can provide unique individual identifications, as each individual will have a
unique set of such DNA sequences due to allelic differences. The sequences of the
present invention can be used to obtain such identification sequences from individuals
and from tissue. The PD-L3 OR VISTA nucleotide sequences of the invention uniquely
represent portions of the human genome. Allelic variation occurs to some degree in the
coding regions of these sequences, and to a greater degree in the noncoding regions. It is
estimated that allelic variation between individual humans occurs with a frequency of
about once per each 500 bases. Each of the sequences described herein can, to some
degree, be used as a standard against which DNA from an individual can be compared for
identification purposes. Because greater numbers of polymorphisms occur in the
noncoding regions, fewer sequences are necessary to differentiate individuals. The
noncoding sequences of SEQ ID NO: I or 4 can comfortably provide positive individual
identification with a panel of perhaps 10 to 1,000 primers which each yield a noncoding
amplified sequence of 100 bases. If predicted coding sequences, such as those in SEQ ID
NO: 3 or 6 are used, a more appropriate number of primers for positive individual
identification would be 500-2000.
 [00259]     If a panel of reagents from PD-L3 OR VISTA nucleotide sequences
described herein is used to generate a unique identification database for an individual,
those same reagents can later be used to identify tissue from that individual. Using the

                                             -114
unique identification database, positive identification of the individual, living or dead,
can be made from extremely small tissue samples.
 [00260]      3. Use of PD-L3 OR VISTA Sequences in Forensic Biology DNA-based
identification techniques can also be used in forensic biology. The sequences of the
present invention can be used to provide polynucleotide reagents, e.g., PCR primers,
targeted to specific loci in the human genome, which can enhance the reliability of DNA
based forensic identifications by, for example, providing another "identification marker"
(i. e., another DNA sequence that is unique to a particular individual). As mentioned
above, actual base sequence information can be used for identification as an accurate
alternative to patterns formed by restriction enzyme generated fragments. Sequences
targeted to noncoding regions of SEQ ID NO: 1 or 3 are particularly appropriate for this
use as greater numbers of polymorphisms occur in the noncoding regions, making it
easier to differentiate individuals using this technique. Examples of polynucleotide
reagents include the PD-L3 OR VISTA nucleotide sequences or portions thereof, e.g.,
fragments derived from the noncoding regions of SEQ ID NO: I or 3 having a length of
at least 20 bases, preferably at least 30 bases. The PD-L3 OR VISTA nucleotide
sequences described herein can further be used to provide polynucleotide reagents, e.g.,
labeled or labelable probes which can be used in, for example, an in situ hybridization
technique, to identify a specific tissue, e.g., lymphocytes. This can be very useful in cases
where a forensic pathologist is presented with a tissue of unknown origin. Panels of such
PD-L3 OR VISTA probes can be used to identify tissue by species and/or by organ type.
In a similar fashion, these reagents, e.g., PD-L3 OR VISTA primers or probes can be
used to screen tissue culture for contamination (i.e., screen for the presence of a mixture
of different types of cells in a culture).
C Predictive Medicine
 [00261] The present invention also pertains to the field of predictive medicine in
which diagnostic assays, prognostic assays, and monitoring clinical trials are used for
prognostic (predictive) purposes to thereby treat an individual prophylactically.
Accordingly, one aspect of the present invention relates to diagnostic assays for

                                            -115
determining PD-L3 OR VISTA polypeptide and/or nucleic acid expression as well as
PD-L3 OR VISTA activity, in the context of a biological sample (e.g., blood, serum,
cells, or tissue) to thereby determine whether an individual is afflicted with a disease or
disorder, or is at risk of developing a disorder, associated with aberrant or unwanted PD
L3 OR VISTA expression or activity. The invention also provides for prognostic (or
predictive) assays for determining whether an individual is at risk of developing a
disorder associated with PD-L3 OR VISTA polypeptide, nucleic acid expression or
activity. For example, mutations in a PD-L3 OR VISTA gene can be assayed in a
biological sample. Such assays can be used for prognostic or predictive purpose to
thereby prophylactically treat an individual prior to the onset of a disorder characterized
by or associated with PD-L3 OR VISTA polypeptide, nucleic acid expression or activity.
 [00262] Another aspect of the invention pertains to monitoring the influence of agents
(e.g., drugs, compounds) on the expression or activity of PD-L3 OR VISTA in clinical
trials. These and other agents are described in further detail in the following sections.
1. Diagnostic Assays
 [00263] An exemplary method for detecting the presence or absence of PD-L3 OR
VISTA polypeptide or nucleic acid in a biological sample involves obtaining a biological
sample from a test subject and contacting the biological sample with a compound or an
agent capable of detecting PD-L3 OR VISTA polypeptide or nucleic acid (e.g., mRNA or
genomic DNA) that encodes PD-L3 OR VISTA polypeptide such that the presence of
PD-L3 OR VISTA polypeptide or nucleic acid is detected in the biological sample. A
preferred agent for detecting PD-L3 OR VISTA mRNA or genomic DNA is a labeled
nucleic acid probe capable of hybridizing to PD-L3 OR VISTA mRNA or genomic
DNA. The nucleic acid probe can be, for example, the PD-L3 OR VISTA nucleic acid set
forth in SEQ ID NO: 1, or 3, or a portion thereof, such as an oligonucleotide of at least
15, 30, 50, 100, 250 or 500 nucleotides in length and sufficient to specifically hybridize
under stringent conditions to PD-L3 OR VISTA mRNA or genomic DNA. Other suitable
probes for use in the diagnostic assays of the invention are described herein. A preferred
agent for detecting PD-L3 OR VISTA polypeptide is an antibody capable of binding to

                                             -116
PD-L3 OR VISTA polypeptide, preferably an antibody with a detectable label.
Antibodies can be polyclonal, or more preferably, monoclonal. An intact antibody, or a
fragment thereof (e.g., Fab or F(ab')2) can be used. The term "labeled", with regard to the
probe or antibody, is intended to encompass direct labeling of the probe or antibody by
coupling (i. e., physically linking) a detectable substance to the probe or antibody, as well
as indirect labeling of the probe or antibody by reactivity with another reagent that is
directly labeled. Examples of indirect labeling include detection of a primary antibody
using a fluorescently labeled secondary antibody and end-labeling of a DNA probe with
biotin such that it can be detected with fluorescently labeled streptavidin. The term
"biological sample" is intended to include tissues, cells, and biological fluids isolated
from a subject, as well as tissues, cells, and fluids present within a subject. That is, the
detection method of the invention can be used to detect PD-L3 OR VISTA mRNA,
polypeptide, or genomic DNA in a biological sample in vitro as well as in vivo. For
example, in vitro techniques for detection of PD-L2 mRNA include Northern
hybridizations and in situ hybridizations. In vitro techniques for detection of PD-L3 OR
VISTA polypeptide include enzyme linked immunosorbent assays (ELISAs), Western
blots, immunoprecipitations and immunofluorescence. In vitro techniques for detection
of PD-L3 OR VISTA genomic DNA include Southern hybridizations. Furthermore, in
vivo techniques for detection of PD-L3 OR VISTA polypeptide include introducing into
a subject a labeled anti-PD-L3 OR VISTA antibody. For example, the antibody can be
labeled with a radioactive marker whose presence and location in a subject can be
detected by standard imaging techniques. In one embodiment, the biological sample
contains polypeptide molecules from the test subject. Alternatively, the biological sample
can contain mRNA molecules from the test subject or genomic DNA molecules from the
test subject. A preferred biological sample is a serum sample isolated by conventional
means from a subject. In another embodiment, the methods further involve obtaining a
control biological sample from a control subject, contacting the control sample with a
compound or agent capable of detecting PD-L3 OR VISTA polypeptide, mRNA, or
genomic DNA, such that the presence of PD-L3 OR VISTA polypeptide, mRNA or
genomic DNA is detected in the biological sample, and comparing the presence of PD-L3

                                            -117
OR VISTA polypeptide, mRNA or genomic DNA in the control sample with the
presence of PD-L3 OR VISTA polypeptide, mRNA or genomic DNA in the test sample.
 (00264] The invention also encompasses kits for detecting the presence of PD-L3 OR
VISTA in a biological sample. For example, the kit can comprise a labeled compound or
agent capable of detecting PD-L3 OR VISTA polypeptide or mRNA in a biological
sample; means for determining the amount of PD-L3 OR VISTA in the sample; and
means for comparing the amount of PD-L3 OR VISTA in the sample with a standard.
The compound or agent can be packaged in a suitable container. The kit can further
comprise instructions for using the kit to detect PD-L3 OR VISTA polypeptide or nucleic
acid.
2. Prognostic Assays
 [00265] The diagnostic methods described herein can furthermore be utilized to
identify subjects having or at risk of developing a disease or disorder associated with
aberrant or unwanted PD-L3 OR VISTA expression or activity. As used herein, the term
"aberrant" includes a PD-L3 OR VISTA expression or activity which deviates from the
wild type PD-L3 OR VISTA expression or activity. Aberrant expression or activity
includes increased or decreased expression or activity, as well as expression or activity
which does not follow the wild type developmental pattern of expression or the
subcellular pattern of expression. For example, aberrant PD-L3 OR VISTA expression or
activity is intended to include the cases in which a mutation in the PD-L3 OR VISTA
gene causes the PD-L3 OR VISTA gene to be under-expressed or over-expressed and
situations in which such mutations result in a non-functional PD-L3 OR VISTA
polypeptide or a polypeptide which does not function in a wild-type fashion, e.g., a
polypeptide which does not interact with a PD-L3 OR VISTA binding partner, or one
which interacts with a non-PD-L3 OR VISTA binding partner. As used herein, the term
"unwanted" includes an unwanted phenomenon involved in a biological response such as
immune cell activation. For example, the term unwanted includes a PD-L3 OR VISTA
expression or activity which is undesirable in a subject.

                                            -118
 [002661 The assays described herein, such as the preceding diagnostic assays or the
following assays, can be utilized to identify a subject having or at risk of developing a
disorder associated with a misregulation in PD-L3 OR VISTA polypeptide activity or
nucleic acid expression, such as an autoimmune disorder, an immunodeficiency disorder,
an immune system disorder such as autoimmunity, allergic or inflammatory disorder or
cancer. Thus, the present invention provides a method for identifying a disease or
disorder associated with aberrant or unwanted PD-L3 OR VISTA expression or activity
in which a test sample is obtained from a subject and PD-L3 OR VISTA polypeptide or
nucleic acid (e.g., mRNA or genomic DNA) is detected, wherein the presence of PD-L3
OR VISTA polypeptide or nucleic acid is diagnostic for a subject having or at risk of
developing a disease or disorder associated with aberrant or unwanted PD-L3 OR VISTA
expression or activity. As used herein, a "test sample" refers to a biological sample
obtained from a subject of interest. For example, a test sample can be a biological fluid
(e.g., cerebrospinal fluid or serum), cell sample, or tissue.
 [002671 Furthermore, the prognostic assays described herein can be used to determine
whether a subject can be administered an agent (e.g., an agonist, antagonist,
peptidomimetic, polypeptide, peptide, nucleic acid, small molecule, or other drug
candidate) to treat a disease or disorder associated with aberrant or unwanted PD-L3 OR
VISTA expression or activity. For example, such methods can be used to determine
whether a subject can be effectively treated with an agent for an autoimmune disorder,
immunodeficiency disorder, immune system cancer, or allergic or inflammatory disorder.
Thus, the present invention provides methods for determining whether a subject can be
effectively treated with an agent for a disorder associated with aberrant or unwanted PD
L3 OR VISTA expression or activity in which a test sample is obtained and PD-L3 OR
VISTA polypeptide or nucleic acid expression or activity is detected (e.g., wherein the
abundance of PD-L3 OR VISTA polypeptide or nucleic acid expression or activity is
diagnostic for a subject that can be administered the agent to treat a disorder associated
with aberrant or unwanted PD-L3 OR VISTA expression or activity). The methods of the
invention can also be used to detect genetic alterations in a PD-L3 OR VISTA gene,
thereby determining if a subject with the altered gene is at risk for a disorder

                                             -119
characterized by misregulation in PD-L3 OR VISTA polypeptide activity or nucleic acid
expression, such as an autoimmune disorder, an immunodeficiency disorder, an immune
system cancer, an allergic disorder, or an inflammatory disorder. The methods described
herein may be performed, for example, by utilizing pre-packaged diagnostic kits
comprising at least one probe nucleic acid or antibody reagent described herein, which
may be conveniently used, e.g., in clinical settings to diagnose patients exhibiting
symptoms or family history of a disease or illness involving a PD-L3 OR VISTA gene.
Furthermore, any cell type or tissue in which PD-L3 OR VISTA is expressed may be
utilized in the prognostic assays described herein.
 [00268] 3. Monitoring of Effects During Clinical Trials Monitoring the influence of
agents (e.g., drugs) on the expression or activity of a PD-L3 OR VISTA polypeptide
(e.g., the modulation of cell proliferation and/or migration) can be applied not only in
basic drug screening, but also in clinical trials. For example, the effectiveness of an agent
determined by a screening assay as described herein to increase PD-L3 OR VISTA gene
expression, polypeptide levels, or upregulate PD-L3 OR VISTA activity, can be .
monitored in clinical trials of subjects exhibiting decreased PD-L3 OR VISTA gene
expression, polypeptide levels, or downregulated PD-L3 OR VISTA activity.
Alternatively, the effectiveness of an agent determined by a screening assay to decrease
PD-L3 OR VISTA gene expression, polypeptide levels, or downregulate PD-L OR
VISTA activity, can be monitored in clinical trials of subjects exhibiting increased PD
L3 OR VISTA gene expression, polypeptide levels, or PD-L3 OR VISTA activity. As
noted PD-L3 OR VISTA is expressed on many hematopoietic cell types including APCs
(macrophages and myeloid dendritic cells), and CD4+ T cells, and more specifically is
expressed on CDI Ic* DCs, CD44 T cells (including both FoxpY effector T cells and
Foxp3' nTregs), CD8* T cells, and Grl* granulocytes, and expressed at low levels on B
cells and NK cells In such clinical trials, the expression or activity of a PD-L3 OR
VISTA gene, and preferably, other genes that have been implicated in, for example, a
PD-L3 OR VISTA-associated disorder can be used as a "read out" or marker of the
phenotype of a particular cell.

                                            -120
 [00269] For example, and not by way of limitation, genes, including PD-L3 OR
VISTA, that are modulated in cells by treatment with an agent (e.g., compound, drug or
small molecule) which modulates PD-L3 OR VISTA activity (e.g., identified in a
screening assay as described herein) can be identified. Thus, to study the effect of agents
on PD-L3 OR VISTA-associated disorders, for example, in a clinical trial, cells can be
isolated and RNA prepared and analyzed for the levels of expression of PD-L3 OR
VISTA and other genes implicated in the PD-L3 OR VISTA-associated disorder,
respectively. The levels of gene expression (e.g., a gene expression pattern) can be
quantified by Northern blot analysis or RT-PCR, as described herein, or alternatively by
measuring the amount of polypeptide produced, by one of the methods as described
herein, or by measuring the levels of activity of PD-L3 OR VISTA or other genes. In this
way, the gene expression pattern can serve as a marker, indicative of the physiological
response of the cells to the agent. Accordingly, this response state may be determined
before, and at various points during treatment of the individual with the agent. In a
preferred embodiment, the present invention provides a method for monitoring the
effectiveness of treatment of a subject with an agent (e.g., an agonist, antagonist,
peptidomimetic, polypeptide, peptide, nucleic acid, small molecule, or other drug
candidate identified by the screening assays described herein) including the steps of (i)
obtaining a pre-administration sample from a subject prior to administration of the agent;
(ii) detecting the level of expression of a PD-L3 OR VISTA polypeptide, mRNA, or
genomic DNA in the preadministration sample; (iii) obtaining one or more post
administration samples from the subject; (iv) detecting the level of expression or activity
of the PD-L3 OR VISTA polypeptide, mRNA, or genomic DNA in the post
administration samples; (v) comparing the level of expression or activity of the PD-L3
OR VISTA polypeptide, mRNA, or genomic DNA in the pre-administration sample with
the PD-L3 OR VISTA polypeptide, mRNA, or genomic DNA in the post administration
sample or samples; and (vi) altering the administration of the agent to the subject
accordingly. For example, increased administration of the agent may be desirable to
increase the expression or activity of PD-L3 OR VISTA to higher levels than detected,
i.e., to increase the effectiveness of the agent. Alternatively, decreased administration of
the agent may be desirable to decrease expression or activity of PD-L3 OR VISTA to

                                             -121
lower levels than detected, i.e., to decrease the effectiveness of the agent. According to
such an embodiment, PD-L3 OR VISTA expression or activity may be used as an
indicator of the effectiveness of an agent, even in the absence of an observable
phenotypic response.
D. Methods of Treatment
 [00270] The present invention provides for both prophylactic and therapeutic methods
of treating a subject at risk of (or susceptible to) a disorder characterized by insufficient
or excessive production of PD-L3 OR VISTA protein or production of PD-L3 OR
VISTA protein forms which have decreased or aberrant activity compared to PD-L3 OR
VISTA wild type protein. Moreover, the anti-PD-L3 OR VISTA antibodies of the
invention can be used to detect and isolate PD-L3 OR VISTA proteins, regulate the
bioavailability of PD-L3 OR VISTA proteins, and modulate PD-L3 OR VISTA activity
e.g., by modulating the interaction of PD-L3 OR VISTA with its counter receptor.
1. Prophylactic Methods
 [00271]     In one aspect, the invention provides a method for preventing in a subject, a
disease or condition associated with an aberrant or unwanted PD-L3 OR VISTA
expression or activity, by administering to the subject a PD-L3 OR VISTA polypeptide
or an agent which modulates PD-L3 OR VISTA expression or at least one PD-L3 OR
VISTA activity. Subjects at risk for a disease or disorder which is caused or contributed
to by aberrant or unwanted PD-L3 OR VISTA expression or activity can be identified by,
for example, any or a combination of diagnostic or prognostic assays as described herein.
Administration of a prophylactic agent can occur prior to the manifestation of symptoms
characteristic of the PD-L3 OR VISTA aberrancy, such that a disease or disorder is
prevented or, alternatively, delayed in its progression. Depending on the type of PD-L3
OR VISTA aberrancy, for example, a PD-L3 OR VISTA polypeptide, PD-L3 OR VISTA
agonist or PD-L3 OR VISTA antagonist (e.g., an anti-PD-L3 OR VISTA antibody) agent
can be used for treating the subject. The appropriate agent can be determined based on
screening assays described herein.

                                            -122
2. Therapeutic Methods
 [00272] An important aspect of the invention pertains to methods of modulating PD
L3 OR VISTA expression or activity or interaction with its natural binding partners,
Relevant to therapy PD-L3 OR VISTA has been demonstrated to inhibit CD28
costimulation, to inhibit TCR activation of immune cells, to inhibit proliferation of
activated immune cells (CD4+ and CD8+ T cells), to inhibit cytokine production by T
cells (IL-2, gamma interferon) and to transmit an inhibitory signal to immune cells.
Accordingly, the activity and/or expression of PD-L3 OR VISTA, as well as the
interaction between PD-L3 OR VISTA and its binding partner)s) on T cells can be
modulated in order to modulate the immune response. Because PD-L3 OR VISTA binds
to inhibitory receptors (on T cells), upregulation of PD-3 OR VISTA activity should
result in downregulation of immune responses, whereas downregulation of PD-L3 OR
VISTA activity should results in upregulation of immune responses. In a preferred
embodiment, PD-L3 OR VISTA binds to inhibitory receptors. As noted previously,
counterintuitively PD-L3 OR VISTA specific antibodies produced by Applicant which in
vitro (in the presence of PD-L3 OR VISTA-Ig) enhance the suppressive activities of PD
L3 OR VISTA-Ig fusion proteins (i.e., these antibodies enhance the suppression of PD
L3 OR VISTA related activities such as effects of PD-L3 OR VISTA on cytokine
production, T cell proliferation, differentiation or activation and other functions noted
previously), behave oppositely to what would be expected in vivo, i.e., these antibodies
have been found to be immunosuppressive in vivo.
 [00273] Modulatory methods of the invention involve contacting a cell with a PD-L3
OR VISTA polypeptide or agent that modulates one or more of the activities of PD-L3
OR VISTA polypeptide activity associated with the cell, e.g., an agent that modulates
expression or activity of PD-L3 OR VISTA and/or modulates the interaction of PD-L3
OR VISTA and its natural binding partner(s). An agent that modulates PD-L3 OR
VISTA polypeptide activity can be an agent as described herein, such as a nucleic acid or
a polypeptide, a naturally-occurring binding partner of a PD-L3 OR VISTA polypeptide
a PD-L3 OR VISTA antibody, a PD-L3 OR VISTA agonist or antagonist, a
peptidomimetic of a PD-L3 OR VISTA agonist or antagonist, a PD-L3 OR VISTA

                                             -123
 peptidomimetic, or other small molecule. Soluble forms of PD-L3 OR VISTA may also
 be used to interfere with the binding of PD-L3 OR VISTA to any of its natural binding
 partner(s) or ligands.
  [00274] An agent that modulates the expression of PD-L3 OR VISTA is, e.g., an
 antisense nucleic acid molecule, triplex oligonucleotide, ribozyme, or recombinant vector
 for expression of a PD-L3 OR VISTA polypeptide. For example, an oligonucleotide
 complementary to the area around a PD-L3 OR VISTA polypeptide translation initiation
 site can be synthesized. One or more antisense oligonucleotides can be added to cell
 media, typically at 200 mug/ml, or administered to a patient to prevent the synthesis of a
 PD-L3 OR VISTA polypeptide. The antisense oligonucleotide is taken up by cells and
hybridizes to a PD-L3 OR VISTA mRNA to prevent translation. Alternatively, an
oligonucleotide which binds double-stranded DNA to form a triplex construct to prevent
DNA unwinding and transcription can be used. As a result of either, synthesis of PD-L3
OR VISTA polypeptide is blocked. When PD-L3 OR VISTA expression is modulated,
preferably, such modulation occurs by a means other than by knocking out the PD-L3
OR VISTA gene.
 (00275] ] Agents which modulate expression, by virtue of the fact that they control the
amount of PD-L3 OR VISTA in a cell, also modulate the total amount of PD-L3 OR
VISTA activity in a cell. In one embodiment, the agent the modulates PD-L3 OR VISTA
stimulates one or more PD-L3 OR VISTA activities. Examples of such stimulatory
agents include active PD-L3 OR VISTA polypeptide and a nucleic acid molecule
encoding PD-L3 OR VISTA that has been introduced into the cell. In another
embodiment, the agent inhibits one or more PD-L3 OR VISTA activities.. Examples of
such inhibitory agents include antisense PD-L3 OR VISTA nucleic acid molecules, anti
PD-L3 OR VISTA antibodies, PD-L3 OR VISTA inhibitors, and compounds identified
in the subject screening assays. In a further preferred embodiment, an inhibitory agent is
a combination of an anti-PD-L3 OR VISTA antibody and an anti-PD-LI or anti-PD-L2
antibody. These modulatory methods can be performed in vitro (e.g., by contacting the
cell with the agent) or, alternatively, by contacting an agent with cells in vivo (e.g., by
administering the agent to a subject). As such, the present invention provides methods of

                                           -124
treating an individual afflicted with a condition or disorder that would benefit from up- or
down-modulation of a PD-L3 OR VISTA polypeptide, e.g., a disorder characterized by
unwanted, insufficient, or aberrant expression or activity of a PD-L3 OR VISTA
polypeptide or nucleic acid molecule. In one embodiment, the method involves
administering an agent (e.g., an agent identified by a screening assay described herein),
or combination of agents that modulates (e.g., upregulates or downregulates) PD-L3 OR
VISTA expression or activity. In another embodiment, the method involves
administering a PD-L3 OR VISTA polypeptide or nucleic acid molecule as therapy to
compensate for reduced, aberrant, or unwanted PD-L3 OR VISTA expression or activity.
 [00276] Diseases treatable with the subject PD-L3 OR VISTA binding agents are
identified previously and include various inflammatory, autoimmune, cancer, allergic and
infectious disorders. A particularly preferred indication is multiple sclerosis.
 [00277]      Stimulation of PD-L3 OR VISTA activity is desirable in situations in which
PD-L3 OR VISTA is abnormally downregulated and/or in which increased PD-L3 OR
VISTA activity is likely to have a beneficial effect. Likewise, inhibition of PD-L3 OR
VISTA activity is desirable in situations in which PD-L3 OR VISTA is abnormally
upregulated and/or in which decreased PD-L3 OR VISTA activity is likely to have a
beneficial effect. Exemplary agents for use in downmodulating PD-L3 OR VISTA (i.e.,
PD-L3 OR VISTA antagonists) include, e.g., antisense nucleic acid molecules, antibodies
that recognize and block PD-L3 OR VISTA, combinations of antibodies that recognize
and block PD-3 OR VISTA and antibodies that recognize and block PD-L3 OR VISTA
counter receptors, and compounds that block the interaction of PD-L3 OR VISTA with
its naturally occurring binding partner(s) on an immune cell (e.g., soluble, monovalent
PD-L3 OR VISTA molecules; soluble forms of PD-L3 OR VISTA molecules that do not
bind Fc receptors on antigen presenting cells; soluble forms of PD-L3 OR VISTA
binding partners; and compounds identified in the subject screening assays). Exemplary
agents for use in upmodulating PD-L3 OR VISTA (i.e., PD-L3 OR VISTA agonists)
include, e.g., nucleic acid molecules encoding PD-L3 OR VISTA polypeptides,
multivalent forms of PD-L3 OR VISTA, compounds that increase the expression of PD-

                                             -125
 L3 OR VISTA, compounds that enhance the interaction of PD-L3 OR VISTA with its
naturally occurring binding partners and cells that express PD-L3 OR VISTA.
  [00278] 3. Downregulation of Immune Responses
  [00279] There are numerous embodiments of the invention for upregulating the
 inhibitory function of a PD-L3 OR VISTA polypeptide to thereby downregulate immune
responses. Downregulation can be in the form of inhibiting or blocking an immune
response already in progress, or may involve preventing the induction of an immune
response. The functions of activated immune cells can be inhibited by downregulating
immune cell responses or by inducing specific anergy in immune cells, or both. For
example, in embodiments where PD-L3 OR VISTA binds to an inhibitory receptor,
forms of PD-L3 OR VISTA that bind to the inhibitory receptor, e.g., multivalent PD-L3
OR VISTA on a cell surface, can be used to downmodulate the immune response. In one
embodiment of the invention, an activating antibody used to stimulate PD-L3 OR VISTA
activity is a bispecific antibody. For example, such an antibody can comprise a PD-L3
OR VISTA binding site and another binding site which targets a cell surface receptor on
an immune cell, e.g., a T cell, a B cell, or a myeloid cell. In one embodiment, such an
antibody, in addition to comprising a PD-L3 OR VISTA binding site, can further
comprise a binding site which binds to a B cell antigen receptor, a T cell antigen receptor,
or an Fc receptor, in order to target the molecule to a specific cell population. Selection
of this second antigen for the bispecific antibody provides flexibility in selection of cell
population to be targeted for inhibition. Agents that promote a PD-L3 OR VISTA
activity or which enhance the interaction of PD-L3 OR VISTA with its natural binding
partners (e.g., PD-L3 OR VISTA activating antibodies or PD-L3 OR VISTA activating
small molecules) can be identified by their ability to inhibit immune cell proliferation
and/or effector function, or to induce anergy when added to an in vitro assay. For
example, cells can be cultured in the presence of an agent that stimulates signal
transduction via an activating receptor. A number of art-recognized readouts of cell
activation can be employed to measure, e.g., cell proliferation or effector function (e.g.,
antibody production, cytokine production, phagocytosis) in the presence of the activating
agent. The ability of a test agent to block this activation can be readily determined by

                                           -12 6
measuring the ability of the agent to effect a decrease in proliferation or effector function
being measured. In one embodiment, at low antigen concentrations, PD-L3 OR VISTA
immune cell interactions inhibit strong B7-CD28 signals. In another embodiment, at
high antigen concentrations, PD-L3 OR VISTA immune cell interactions may reduce
cytokine production but not inhibit T cell proliferation. Accordingly, the ability of a test
compound to block activation can be determined by measuring cytokine production
and/or proliferation at different concentrations of antigen.
 [00280]     In one embodiment of the invention, tolerance is induced against specific
antigens by co-administering an antigen with a PD-L3 OR VISTA agonist. For example,
tolerance can be induced to specific polypeptides. In one embodiment, immune responses
to allergens or foreign polypeptides to which an immune response is undesirable can be
inhibited. For example, patients that receive Factor VIII frequently generate antibodies
against this clotting factor. Co-administration of an agent that stimulates PD-L3 OR
VISTA activity or interaction with its natural binding partner, , with recombinant factor
VIII (or physically linking PD-L3 OR VISTA to Factor VIII, e.g., by cross-linking) can
result in immune response downmodulation.
 100281] In one embodiment, a PD-L3 OR VISTA agonist and another agent that can
block activity of costimulatory receptors on an immune cell can be used to
downmodulate immune responses. Exemplary molecules include: agonists forms of other
PD ligands, soluble forms of CTLA-4, anti-B7-1 antibodies, anti-B7-2 antibodies, or
combinations thereof. Alternatively, two separate peptides (for example, a PD-L3 OR
VISTA polypeptide with blocking forms of B7-2 and/or B7-1 polypeptides), or a
combination of antibodies (e.g., activating antibodies against a PD-L3 OR VISTA
polypeptide with blocking anti-B7-2 and/or anti-B7-1 monoclonal antibodies) can be
combined as a single composition or administered separately (simultaneously or
sequentially) to downregulate immune cell mediated immune responses in a subject.
Furthermore, a therapeutically active amount of one or more peptides having a PD-L3
OR VISTA polypeptide activity, along with one or more polypeptides having B7-1
and/or B7-1 activity, can be used in conjunction with other downmodulating reagents to
influence immune responses. Examples of other immunomodulating reagents include

                                            -127
 antibodies that block a costimulatory signal (e.g., against CD28 or ICOS), antibodies that
 activate an inhibitory signal via CTLA4, and/or antibodies against other immune cell
 markers (e.g., against CD40, CD40 ligand, or cytokines), fusion proteins (e.g., CTLA4
Fc or PD-I-Fe), and immunosuppressive drugs (e.g., rapamycin, cyclosporine A, or
FK506). The PD-L3 OR VISTA polypeptides may also be useful in the construction of
 therapeutic agents which block immune cell function by destruction of cells. For
example, portions of a PD-L3 OR VISTA polypeptide can be linked to a toxin to make a
cytotoxic agent capable of triggering the destruction of cells to which it binds.
 [00282] For making cytotoxic agents, polypeptides of the invention may be linked, or
operatively attached, to toxins using techniques that are known in the art. A wide variety
of toxins are known that may be conjugated to polypeptides or antibodies of the
 invention. Examples include: numerous useful plant-, fungus- or even bacteria-derived
toxins, which, by way of example, include: various A chain toxins, particularly ricin A
chain; ribosome inactivating proteins such as saporin or gelonin; alpha-sarcin;
aspergillin; restrictocin; and ribonucleases such as placental ribonuclease, angiogenic,
diphtheria toxin, or pseudomonas exotoxin. A preferred toxin moiety for use in
connection with the invention is toxin A chain which has been treated to modify or
remove carbohydrate residues, deglycosylated A chain. (U.S. Pat. No. 5,776,427).
 [00283] Infusion of one or a combination of such cytotoxic agents (e.g., PD-L3 OR
VISTA ricin (alone or in combination with PD-LI -ricin), into a patient may result in the
death of immune cells, particularly in light of the fact that activated immune cells that
express higher amounts of PD-L3 OR VISTA binding partners, . For example, because
PD-I is induced on the surface of activated lymphocytes, a PD-L3 OR VISTA
polypeptide can be used to target the depletion of these specific cells by Fc-R dependent
mechanisms or by ablation by conjugating a cytotoxic drug (e.g., ricin, saporin, or
calicheamicin) to the PD-L3 OR VISTA polypeptide. In one another embodiment, the
toxin can be conjugated to an anti-PD-L3 OR VISTA antibody in order to target for death
PD-L3 OR VISTA-expressing antigen-presenting cell. In a further embodiment, the PD
L3 OR VISTA-antibody-toxin can be a bispecific antibody. Such bispecific antibodies
are useful for targeting a specific cell population, e.g., using a marker found only on a

                                            -128
certain type of cell, e.g., B lymphocytes, monocytes, dendritic cells, or Langerhans cells.
Downregulating immune responses by activating PD-L3 OR VISTA activity or the PD
L3 OR VISTA- immune cell interaction (and thus stimulating the negative signaling
function of PD-L3 OR VISTA) is useful in downmodulating the immune response, e.g.,
in situations of tissue, skin and organ transplantation, in graft-versus-host disease
(GVHD), or allergies, or in autoimmune diseases such as systemic lupus erythematosus
and multiple sclerosis. For example, blockage of immune cell function results in reduced
tissue destruction in tissue transplantation. Typically, in tissue transplants, rejection of
the transplant is initiated through its recognition as foreign by immune cells, followed by
an immune reaction that destroys the transplant. The administration of a molecule which
promotes the activity of PD-L3 OR VISTA or the interaction of PD-L3 OR VISTA with
its natural binding partner(s), on immune cells (such as a soluble, multimeric form of a
PD-L3 OR VISTA polypeptide) alone or in conjunction with another downmodulatory
agent prior to or at the time of transplantation can inhibit the generation of a
costimulatory signal. Moreover, promotion of PD-L3 OR VISTA activity may also be
sufficient to anergize the immune cells, thereby inducing tolerance in a subject.
 [002841 To achieve sufficient immunosuppression or tolerance in a subject, it may also
be desirable to block the costimulatory function of other molecules. For example, it may
be desirable to block the function of B7-1 and B7-2 by administering a soluble form of a
combination of peptides having an activity of each of these antigens or blocking
antibodies against these antigens (separately or together in a single composition) prior to
or at the time of transplantation. Alternatively, it may be desirable to promote inhibitory
activity of PD-L3 OR VISTA and inhibit a costimulatory activity of B7-1 and/or B7-2.
Other downmodulatory agents that can be used in connection with the downmodulatory
methods of the invention include, for example, agents that transmit an inhibitory signal
via CTLA4, soluble forms of CTLA4, antibodies that activate an inhibitory signal via
CTLA4, blocking antibodies against other immune cell markers, or soluble forms of
other receptor ligand pairs (e.g., agents that disrupt the interaction between CD40 and
CD40 ligand (e.g., anti CD40 ligand antibodies)), antibodies against cytokines, or
immunosuppressive drugs. For example, activating PD-L3 OR VISTA activity or the

                                             -129
interaction of PD-L3 OR VISTA with its natural binding partner(s), is useful in treating
autoimmune disease. Many autoimmune disorders are the result .of inappropriate
activation of immune cells that are reactive against self tissue and which promote the
production of cytokines and autoantibodies involved in the pathology of the diseases.
Preventing the activation of autoreactive immune cells may reduce or eliminate disease
symptoms. Administration of agents that promote activity of PD-L3 OR VISTA or PD
L3 OR VISTA interaction with its natural binding partner(s), may induce antigen-specific
tolerance of autoreactive immune cells which could lead to long-term relief from the
disease. Additionally, co-administration of agents which block costimulation of inunune
cells by disrupting receptor-ligand interactions of B7 molecules with costimulatory
receptors may be useful in inhibiting immune cell activation to prevent production of
autoantibodies or cytokines which may be involved in the disease process. The efficacy
of reagents in preventing or alleviating autoimmune disorders can be determined using a
number of well-characterized animal models of human autoimmune diseases. Examples
include murine experimental autoimmune encephalitis, systemic lupus erythematosus in
MRIJlpr/lpr mice or NZB hybrid mice, murine autoimmune collagen arthritis, diabetes
mellitus in NOD mice and BB rats, and murine experimental myasthenia gravis (see Paul
ed., Fundamental Immunology, Raven Press, New York, 1989, pp. 840-856).
 [00285] Inhibition of immune cell activation is useful therapeutically in the treatment
of allergies and allergic reactions, e.g., by inhibiting IgE production. An agent that
promotes PD-L3 OR VISTA activity or PD-L3 OR VISTA interaction with its natural
binding partner(s) can be administered to an allergic subject to inhibit immune cell
mediated allergic responses in the subject. Stimulation PD-L3 OR VISTA activity or
interaction with its natural binding partner(s), , can be accompanied by exposure to
allergen in conjunction with appropriate MH-C molecules. Allergic reactions can be
systemic or local in nature, depending on the route of entry of the allergen and the pattern
of deposition of IgE on mast cells or basophils. Thus, immune cell-mediated allergic
responses can be inhibited locally or systemically by administration of an agent that
promotes PD-L3 OR VISTA activity or PD-L3 OR VISTA- immune cell interactions.

                                           -130
 [00286] Inhibition of immune cell activation through stimulation of PD-L3 OR
VISTA activity or PD-L3 OR VISTA interaction with its natural binding partner(s), may
also be important therapeutically in pathogenic infections of immune cells (e.g., by
viruses or bacteria). For example, in the acquired immune deficiency syndrome (AIDS),
viral replication is stimulated by immune cell activation. Stimulation of PD-L3 OR
VISTA activity may result in inhibition of viral replication and thereby ameliorate the
course of AIDS.
 [00287] Downregulation of an immune response via stimulation of PD-L3 OR VISTA
activity or PD-L3 OR VISTA interaction with its natural binding partner(s), may also be
useful in treating an autoimmune attack of autologous tissues. Thus, conditions that are
caused or exacerbated by autoimmune attack (e.g., heart disease, myocardial infarction or
atherosclerosis) may be ameliorated or improved by increasing PD-L3 OR VISTA
activity or PD-L3 OR VISTA biding to its natural binding partner. It is therefore within
the scope of the invention to modulate conditions exacerbated by autoimmune attack,
such as autoimmune disorders (as well as conditions such as heart disease, myocardial
infarction, and atherosclerosis) by stimulating PD-L3 OR VISTA activity or PD-L3 OR
VISTA interaction with its counter receptor.
4. Upregulation of Immune Responses
 [00288]     Inhibition of PD-L3 OR VISTA activity or PD-L3 OR VISTA interaction
with its natural binding partner(s), as a means of upregulating immune responses is also
useful in therapy. Upregulation of immune responses can be in the form of enhancing an
existing immune response or eliciting an initial immune response. For example,
enhancing an immune response through inhibition of PD-L3 OR VISTA activity is useful
in cases of infections with microbes, e.g., bacteria, viruses, or parasites, or in cases of
immunosuppression. For example, in one embodiment, an agent that inhibits PD-L3 OR
VISTA activity, e.g., a non-activating antibody (i.e., a blocking antibody) against PD-L3
OR VISTA, or a soluble form of PD-L3 OR VISTA, is therapeutically useful in
situations where upregulation of antibody and cell-mediated responses, resulting in more
rapid or thorough clearance of a virus, bacterium, or parasite, would be beneficial. These

                                            -131
conditions include viral skin diseases such as Herpes or shingles, in which case such an
agent can be delivered topically to the skin. In addition, systemic viral diseases such as
influenza, the common cold, and encephalitis might be alleviated by the administration of
such agents systemically. In certain instances, it may be desirable to further administer
other agents that upregulate immune responses, for example, forms of B7 family
members that transduce signals via costimulatory receptors, in order further augment the
immune response.
 [00289] Alternatively, immune responses can be enhanced in an infected patient by
removing immune cells from the patient, contacting immune cells in vitro with an agent
that inhibits the PD-L3 OR VISTA activity or PD-L3 OR VISTA interaction with its
natural binding partner(s), and reintroducing the in vitro-stimulated immune cells into the
patient. In another embodiment, a method of enhancing immune responses involves
isolating infected cells from a patient, e.g., virally infected cells, transfecting them with a
nucleic acid molecule encoding a form of PD-L3 OR VISTA that cannot bind its natural
binding partner(s), such that the cells express all or a portion of the PD-L3 OR VISTA
molecule on their surface, and reintroducing the transfected cells into the patient. The
transfected cells may be capable of preventing an inhibitory signal to, and thereby
activating, immune cells in vivo.
 [00290] A agent that inhibits PD-L3 OR VISTA activity or PD-L3 OR VISTA
interaction with its natural binding partner(s), can be used prophylactically in vaccines
against various polypeptides, e.g., polypeptides derived from pathogens. Immunity
against a pathogen, e.g., a virus, can be induced by vaccinating with a viral polypeptide
along with an agent that inhibits PD-L3 OR VISTA activity, in an appropriate adjuvant.
Alternately, a vector comprising genes which encode for both a pathogenic antigen and a
form of PD-L3 OR VISTA that blocks PD-L3 OR VISTA interaction with immune cells
can be used for vaccination. Nucleic acid vaccines can be administered by a variety of
means, for example, by injection (e.g., intramuscular, intradermal, or the biolistic
injection of DNA-coated gold particles into the epidermis with a gene gun that uses a
particle accelerator or a compressed gas to inject the particles into the skin (Haynes et al.
(1996) J. Biotechnol. 44:37)). Alternatively, nucleic acid vaccines can be administered by

                                            -132
non-invasive means. For example, pure or lipid-formulated DNA can be delivered to the
respiratory system or targeted elsewhere, e.g., Peyers patches by oral delivery of DNA
(Schubbert (1997) Proc Nati. Acad. Sci. USA 94:96 1). Attenuated microorganisms can
be used for delivery to mucosal surfaces (Sizemore et al. (1995) Science 270:29).
 [00291] In another embodiment, the antigen in the vaccine is a self-antigen. Such a
vaccine is useful in the modulation of tolerance in an organism. Immunization with a self
antigen and an agent that blocks PD-L3 OR VISTA activity or PD-L3 OR VISTA
interaction with its natural binding partner can break tolerance (i.e., interfere with
tolerance of a self antigen). Such a vaccine may also include adjuvants such as alum or
cytokines (e.g., GM-CSF, IL-12, B7-1, or B7-2). In one embodiment, an agent which
inhibits PD-L3 OR VISTA activity or PD-L3 OR VISTA interaction with its natural
binding partner(s), can be administered with class I MHC polypeptides by, for example, a
cell transfected to coexpress a PD-L3 OR VISTA polypeptide or blocking antibody and
MHC class I .alpha. chain polypeptide and beta2 microglobulin to result in activation of
T cells and provide immunity from infection. For example, viral pathogens for which
vaccines are useful include: hepatitis B, hepatitis C, Epstein-Barr virus, cytomegalovirus,
HIV- , HIV-2, tuberculosis, malaria and schistosomiasis.
 (00292] In another application, inhibition of PD-L3 OR VISTA activity or PD-L3 OR
VISTA interaction with its natural binding partner(s), , can be useful in the treatment of
tumor immunity. Tumor cells (e.g., sarcoma, melanoma, lymphoma, leukemia,
neuroblastoma, or carcinoma) can be transfected with a nucleic acid molecule that
inhibits PD-L3 OR VISTA activity. These molecules can be, e.g., nucleic acid molecules
which are antisense to PD-L3 OR VISTA, or can encode non-activating anti-PD-L3 OR
VISTA antibodies. These molecules can also be the variable region of an anti-PD-L3 OR
VISTA antibody. If desired, the tumor cells can also be transfected with other
polypeptides which activate costimulation (e.g., B7-1 or B7-2). The transfected tumor
cells are returned to the patient, which results in inhibition (e.g., local inhibition) of PD
L3 OR VISTA activity Alternatively, gene therapy techniques can be used to target a
tumor cell for transfection in vivo.

                                            -133
  [00293] Stimulation of an immune response to tumor cells can also be achieved by
 inhibiting PD-L3 OR VISTA activity or PD-L3 OR VISTA interaction with its natural
 binding partner(s), by treating a patient with an agent that inhibits PD-L3 OR VISTA
 activity or PD-L3 OR VISTA interaction with its natural binding partner(s). Preferred
examples of such agents include, e.g., antisense nucleic acid molecules, antibodies that
recognize and block PD-L3 OR VISTA, and compounds that block the interaction of PD
L3 OR VISTA with its naturally occurring binding partner(s) on an immune cell (e.g.,
 soluble, monovalent PD-L3 OR VISTA molecules; soluble forms of PD-L3 OR VISTA
molecules that do not bind to Fc receptors on antigen presenting cells; soluble forms of
PD-L3 OR VISTA binding partner(s); and compounds identified in the subject screening
assays). In addition, tumor cells which lack MHC class I or MHC class U molecules, or
 which fail to express sufficient amounts of MHC class I or MHC class 11 molecules, can .
be transfected with nucleic acid encoding all or a portion of (e.g., a cytoplasmic-domain
truncated portion) of an MHC class I .alpha. chain polypeptide and beta2 microglobulin
polypeptide or an MHC class II .alpha. chain polypeptide and an MHC class H .beta.
chain polypeptide to thereby express MHC class I or MHC class H polypeptides on the
cell surface. Expression of the appropriate class I or class II MHC in conjunction with an
PD-L3 OR VISTA inhibiting polypeptide or antisense nucleic acid induces a T cell
mediated immune response against the transfected tumor cell. Optionally, a gene
encoding an antisense construct which blocks expression of an MHC class H-associated
polypeptide, such as the invariant chain, can also be cotransfected with a DNA encoding
a PD-L3 OR VISTA inhibiting polypeptide or antisense nucleic acid to promote
presentation of tumor associated antigens and induce tumor specific immunity.
Expression of B7-1 by B7-negative murine tumor cells has been shown to induce T cell
mediated specific immunity accompanied by tumor rejection and prolonged protection to
tumor challenge in mice (Chen, L. et al. (1992) Cell 71:1093-1102; Townsend, S. E. and
Allison, J. P. (1993) Science 259:368-370; Baskar, S. et al. (1993) Proc Natl. Acad. Sci.
90:5687-5690). Thus, the induction of an immune cell-mediated immune response in a
human subject can be sufficient to overcome tumor-specific tolerance in the subject. In
another embodiment, the immune response can be stimulated by the inhibition of PD-L3
OR VISTA activity or PD-L3 OR VISTA interaction with its natural binding partner(s), ,

                                            -134
 such that preexisting tolerance is overcome. For example, immune responses against
 antigens to which a subject cannot mount a significant immune response, e.g., tumor
 specific antigens, can be induced by administering an agent that inhibits the activity of
 PD-L3 OR VISTA activity or the ability of PD-L3 OR VISTA to bind to its natural
 binding partner, can be used as adjuvants to boost responses to foreign antigens in the
process of active immunization.
  [00294] In one embodiment, immune cells are obtained from a subject and cultured ex
 vivo in the presence of an agent that that inhibits PD-L3 OR VISTA activity or PD-L3
OR VISTA interaction with its natural binding partner(s), , to expand the population of
 immune cells. In a further embodiment the immune cells are then administered to a
subject. Immune cells can be stimulated to proliferate in vitro by, for example, providing
the immune cells with a primary activation signal and a costimulatory signal, as is known
 in the art. Various forms of PD-L3 OR VISTA polypeptides or agents that inhibit PD-L3
OR VISTA activity can also be used to costimulate proliferation of immune cells. In one
embodiment, immune cells are cultured ex vivo according to the methods described in
PCT Application No. WO 94/29436. The costimulatory molecule can be soluble,
attached to a cell membrane or attached to a solid surface, such as a bead.
 [002951 In an additional embodiment, in performing any of the methods described
herein, it is within the scope of the invention to upregulate an immune response by
administering one or more additional agents. For example, the use of other agents known
to stimulate the immune response, such as cytokines, adjuvants, or stimulatory forms of
costimulatory molecules or their ligands can be used in conjunction with an agent that
inhibits PD-L3 OR VISTA activity or PD-L3 OR VISTA interaction with its natural
binding partner(s), .
E. Identification of Cytokines Modulated by Modulation of PD-L3 OR VISTA
Activity or PD-L3 OR VISTA-Interactions with its Counter Receptor on T cells
 [00296] The PD-L3 OR VISTA molecules described herein can be used to identify
cytokines which are produced by or whose production is enhanced or inhibited in
immune cells in response to modulation of PD-L3 OR VISTA activity or PD-L3 OR

                                           -135
VISTA interaction with its natural binding partner(s), . Immune cells can be suboptimally
stimulated in vitro with a primary activation signal, for example, T cells can be
stimulated with phorbol ester, anti-CD3 antibody or preferably, antigen, in association
with an MHC class II molecule, and given a costimulatory signal, e.g., by a stimulatory
form of B7 family antigen, for instance by a cell transfected with nucleic acid encoding a
B7 polypeptide and expressing the peptide on its surface, or by a soluble, stimulatory
form of the peptide. The cells can then be contacted with cells expressing PD-L3 OR
VISTA (e.g., antibodies against PD-L3 OR VISTA Known cytokines released into the
media can be identified by ELISA or by the ability of an antibody which blocks the
cytokine to inhibit immune cell proliferation or proliferation of other cell types that are
induced by the cytokine. For example, an IL-4 ELISA kit is available from Genzyme
(Cambridge, Mass.), as is an IL-7 blocking antibody. Blocking antibodies against IL-9
and IL- 12 are available from Genetics Institute (Cambridge, Mass.). The effect of
stimulating or blocking PD-L3 OR VISTA activity or the interaction of PD-L3 OR
VISTA and its binding partner(s)on the cytokine profile can then be determined. As
noted supra and shown in the examples PD-L3 OR VISTA apparently suppresses the
expression of 1L-2 and gamma interferon by immune cells.
 [00297] An in vitro immune cell costimulation assay as described above can also be
used in a method for identifying novel cytokines which can be modulated by modulation
of PD-L3 OR VISTA activity. For example, where stimulation of the CD28/CTLA4
pathway seems to enhance IL-2 secretion, stimulation of the ICOS pathway seems to
enhance IL-10 secretion (Hutloffet al. (1999) Nature 397:263). If a particular activity
induced upon costimulation, e.g., immune cell proliferation, cannot be inhibited by
addition of blocking antibodies to known cytokines, the activity may result from the
action of an unknown cytokine. Following costimulation, this cytokine can be purified
from the media by conventional methods and its activity measured by its ability to induce
immune cell proliferation.
 [00298]     To identify cytokines which may play a role the induction of tolerance, an in
vitro T cell costimulation assay as described above can be used. In this case, T cells
would be given the primary activation signal and contacted with a selected cytokine, but

                                             -13 6
would not be given the costimulatory signal. After washing and resting the immune cells,
the cells would be rechallenged with both a primary activation signal and a costimulatory
signal. If the immune cells do not respond (e.g., proliferate or produce cytokines) they
have become tolerized and the cytokine has not prevented the induction of tolerance.
However, if the immune cells respond, induction of tolerance has been prevented by the
cytokine. Those cytokines which are capable of preventing the induction of tolerance can
be targeted for blockage in vivo in conjunction with reagents which block B lymphocyte
antigens as a more efficient means to induce tolerance in transplant recipients or subjects
with autoimmune diseases. For example, one could administer a cytokine blocking
antibody to a subject along with an agent that promotes PD-L3 OR VISTA activity or
PD-L3 OR VISTA interaction with a binding partner.
 [00299] Thus, to summarize a novel member of the Programmed Death Ligand
(PDL) family has now been identified which is expressed by Treg cells. This novel
protein has been designated PD-L3 OR VISTA. The receptors of this PD-L family are
type I transmembrane proteins containing a single IgV domain, while the ligands are type
I transmembrane proteins expressing both an IgV and an IgC extracellular domains. Like
other members of the PDL family, PD-L3 OR VISTA co-stimulates aCD3 proliferation
of T cells in vitro. In addition, the expression of PD-L3 OR VISTA is increased in aCD3
activated Treg and reduced in the presence of aGITR.
 [00300] A second, TNF-like, protein has also been identified as being upregulated
upon aCD3/aGITR stimulation. This protein has been designated Treg-sTNF. These
proteins may be involved in contact-dependent and paracrine suppression of immunity
and therefore are useful for modulating (e.g., inhibiting or stimulating) an immune
response and in the treatment of diseases and conditions involving Treg signaling. For
example, the PD-L3 OR VISTA protein can be used as a co-stimulatory signal for
stimulating or enhancing immune cell activation. PD-L3 OR VISTA proteins and PD-L3
OR VISTA binding agents and PD-L3 OR VISTA agonists and antagonists are especially
useful in treating immune conditions wherein regulation of T cell immunity is desired,
e.g., modulation of T cell activation, differentiation and proliferation, and in particular

                                            -137
modulation of CD4+ and CD8+ T cell proliferation, cytokine production, and T cell
responses during cognate interactions between T cells and myeloid derived APCs.
 [00301] This invention is further illustrated by the following examples, which should
not be construed as limiting. The contents of all references, patents, and published patent
applications cited throughout this application, as well as the Figures and Sequence
Listing, are incorporated herein by reference.
Examples
 [00302] The following Materials and Methods were used in the examples which
follow:. Materials and Methods
Expression Profiling
 [00303] To facilitate comparisons with established expression profiles of Treg cells,
standard growth and activation conditions were employed (McHugh, et al. (2002) supra).
Briefly, fresh isolated Treg cells (-96% positive) were inoculated at 106/mL into
complete RPMI medium supplemented with 10% fetal bovine serum and 100 units IL-2
in a 24-well plate precoated with anti-CD3 with or without anti-GITR (DTA-1)(Shimizu,
et al. (2002) supra). The cells were cultured at 37*C for 0 and 12 hours, RNA was
purified and subsequently analyzed using an Affymetrix mouse genome A430
oligonucleotide array.
 [00304] By comparing the data from resting or activated CD4+CD25+ T cell groups,
gene expression patterns were found to be similar to those established in the art (Gavin,
et al. (2002) supra; McHugh, et al. (2002) supra). To identify genes regulated by GIRT
signaling, gene expression profiles were compared between the different cell populations
with or without anti-GITR treatment. A list of known as well as unknown genes were
compiled including the previously uncharacterized PD-L3 OR VISTA and Treg-sTNF.
Mice

                                          -138
 [00305] C57BLJ6 mice, and OTII CD4 transgenic mice were purchased from the
Jackson Laboratory. FoxP3-GFP reporter mice were as previously described Fontenot, J.
D., Rasmussen, J. P., Williams, L. M., Dooley, J. L., Farr, A. G., and Rudensky, A. Y.
(2005). Regulatory T cell lineage specification by the forkhead transcription factor foxp3.
Immunity 22, 329-341 and were generously provided by Alexander Rudensky,
University of Washington School of Medicine, Seattle, WA. PD-I KO mice were
generously provided by Dr. Tasuku Honjo ( Kyoto University, Japan) Nishimura, H.,
Nose, M., Hiai, H., Minato, N., and Honjo, T. (1999). Development of lupus-like
autoimmune diseases by disruption of the PD-I gene encoding an ITIM motif-carrying
immunoreceptor. Immunity 11, 141-151; Nishimura, H., Okazaki, T., Tanaka, Y.,
Nakatani, K., Hara, M., Matsumori, A., Sasayama, S., Mizoguchi, A., Hiai, H., Minato,
N., and Honjo, T. (200 1). Autoimmune dilated cardiomyopathy in PD-I receptor
deficient mice. Science 291, 319-322. All animals were maintained in a pathogen-free
facility at Dartmouth Medical School.
Abs, cell lines, and reagent:
 [00306] Antibodies aCD3 (2C11), xCD28 (PV-1), aCD4 (GKl.5), aCD8 (53-6.7),
aCDllb (M1/70), aF4/80 (BM8), aCDl Ic (N418), aNKl.1 (PK136), aGrl (RB6-8C5),
  xPD-Ll (MIN5), aPD-L2 (TY25), aB7-H3 (M3.2D7), aB7-H4 (188) were purchased
from Ebioscience. LPS (Sigma), recombinant murine IFN QPeprotech), human IL-2
(Peprotech), soluble PD-Li-Ig fusion protein (R&D systems) were used at indicated
concentrations.. Complete Freund's adjuvant (CFA) and chicken ovalbumin (OVA) were
purchased from Sigma. The CHO cell line expressing MHCII molecule I-Ad and
costimulatory molecule B7-2 was kindly provided by Dr. Arlene Sharpe (Harvard
Medical School).
Molecular cloning of PD-L3 OR VISTA, retrovirus production and retroviral
transduction of cells
 [00 3 07] Full length PD-L3 OR VISTA was cloned from purified murine CD4+ T
cells. Total RNA was isolated from CD4+ T cells using Qiagen RNAmini kit. cDNA was

                                         -139
generated using Bio-Rad iScriptTM cDNA synthesis kit. Full-length PD-L3 OR VISTA
was amplified and cloned into the ECorI - XhoI site of a retroviral vector pMSCV-IRES
GFP Zhang, X., and Ren, R. (1998). Bcr-Abl efficiently induces a myeloproliferative
disease and production of excess interleukin-3 and granulocyte-macrophage colony
stimulating factor in mice: a novel model for chronic myelogenous leukemia. Blood 92,
3829-3840, in which the IRES-GFP fragment was replaced by RFP, thus resulting in a
fusion protein of PD-L3 OR VISTA fused to the N-terminus of RFP. Helper free
retroviruses were generated in HEK293T cells by transient transfection of the PD-L3 OR
VISTA-RFP retroviral vector together with an ecotrophic packaging vector pCL-Eco
(IMGENEX corp.). Retroviral transduction of murine T cell line ELA cells, or bone
marrow derived DCs were carried out by spin infection at 2000rpm at RT for 45min in
the presence of 8 pg/ml polybrene (Sigma).
Production of PD-L3 OR VISTA-Ig fusion protein
 [00308] The extracellular domain of PD-L3 OR VISTA (amino acid 32-190) was
amplified and cloned into the Spel-BamHI sites of the parental vector CDM7B
Hollenbaugh, D., Douthwright, J., McDonald, V., and Aruffo, A. (1995). J Immunol
Methods 188, 1-7... This vector contains the mutant form of constant and hinge regions
of human IgG 1, which has much reduced binding to Fc receptors. The resulting vector
CDM7B-PD-L3 OR VISTA was co-transfected with a DHFR expression vector pSV
dhfr (McIvor, R. S., and Simonsen, C. C. (1990)). Nucleic Acids Res 18, 7025-7032 into
the CHO (dhfr-) cell line (ATCC #CRL-9096). Stable CHO cell clones that express PD
L3 OR VISTA-Ig were selected in medium MEM-alpha w/o nucleotides (Invitrogen).
Further amplification with 0.5-1 pM methotrexate (Sigma M9929) yielded clones
expressing high levels of soluble PD-L3 OR VISTA-Ig fusion protein. The fusion protein
was further purified from culture supernatant using standard protein-G column affinity
chromatography.
Generation of PD-L3 OR VISTA monoclonal antibodies

                                            -140
  [00309] Armenian hamsters were immunized 4x times with ELA cells over-expressing
 PD-L3 OR VISTA-RFP weekly, then boosted with PD-L3 OR VISTA-Ig fusion protein
emulsified in CFA. Four weeks after the boost, hamsters were boosted again with soluble
PD-L3 OR VISTA-Ig fusion protein. Four days after the last boost, hamster spleen cells
 were harvested and fused to the myeloma cell line SP2/O-Agl4 (ATCC #CRL-1581)
 using standard hybridoma fusion techniques Shulman, M., Wilde, C. D., and Kohler, G.
(1978). A better cell line for making hybridomas secreting specific antibodies. Nature
276, 269-270. Hybridoma clones that secret PD-L3 OR VISTA specific antibodies were
selected after limiting dilution and screened by both ELISA and flow cytometric
methods.
RNA and RT-PCR
 [003101 Total RNA from various mouse tissue samples or purified hematopoietic cell
types were collected by using TrizolTM (Invitrogen) method following company's
instructions. cDNAs were prepared by using the iScriptTM cDNA synthesis kit (Bio
Rad). Equal amount of tissue cDNAs (]Ong) were used for RT-PCR reactions to amplify
full-length PD-L3 OR VISTA. PCR products were viewed after running through a 1%
agarose gel.
Flow Cytometry
 (00311] Flow cytometry analysis was performed on FACSCAN using CellQuest
software (BD Bioscience). Data analysis was performed using FlowJo software
(Treestar).
Cell Preparation
 [003121 Total CD4+ T cells were isolated from naive mice using total CD4+ T cell
isolation kit (Miltenyi). When indicated, enriched CD4+ T cells were flow sorted into
naive (CD44low CD25- CD62Lhi) and memory (CD44hi CD25- CD62LIow)
populations. For in vitro proliferation assays, CD4+ T cells were labeled with 5 uM
CFSE (Molecular Probes) for 10 min at 37C, and washed twice before being stimulated.

                                            -141
In vitro plate-bound T cell activation assay
 [ 00313] Purified CD4+ T cells (100,000 cells per well) were cultured in 96x flat
bottom well plates, in the presence of anti-CD3 (clone 2C11) and either PD-L3 OR
VISTA-Ig or control-Ig at indicated concentration ratios. For example, for a full-range
titration, the 96- well plates were coated with 2.5  sg/ml  of cxCD3 mixed together with
 1.25 gg/ml (ratio 2:1), 2.5 gg/ml (ratio 1:1), 5 pg/ml (ratio 1:2), or 10 lg/ml (ratio 1:4)
PD-L3 OR VISTA-Ig or control-Ig protein in PBS at 4*C overnight. Wells were washed
3 times with PBS before adding CD4+ T cells. Replicate cultures were in complete RPMI
 1640 medium supplemented with 10% FBS, 10 mM HEPES, 50 PM @-ME,
Penicillin/Streptomycin/L-Glutamine. When indicated, either 100U/ml.human IL-2
(PeproTech) or titrated amount of EICD28 (clone PV-1, Bio X cell) were coated together
with t]CD3 to rescue the inhibitory effects of PD-L3 OR VISTA-Ig. Cultures were
analyzed on day 3 for CFSE profiles, or according to a time course as indicated.
Culture of bone marrow derived DCs, retroviral transduction, and stimulation of
transgenic CD4+ T cells
 [00314] Bone marrow derived DCs were generated as described Lutz, M. B.,
Kukutsch, N., Ogilvie, A. L., Rossner, S., Koch, F., Romani, N., and Schuler, G. (1999).
An advanced culture method for generating large quantities of highly pure dendritic cells
from mouse bone marrow. J Immunol Methods 223, 77-92; Son, Y. I., Egawa, S.,
Tatsumi, T., Redlinger, R. E., Jr., Kalinski, P., and Kanto, T. (2002). A novel bulk
culture method for generating mature dendritic cells from mouse bone marrow cells. J
Immunol Methods 262, 145-157 with some modifications. Briefly, on day 0, bone
marrow cells were isolated from tibia and femur by flushing with 27G needle. After red
blood cell lysis, 1-2 x 106 bone-marrow cells were resuspended in 1 ml complete RPMI
 1640 medium containing 20 ng/ml GM-CSF (Peprotech Inc), in 6x well cell culture
plates (Nunc, Inc.). 2 ml supernatant containing either RFP or PD-L3 OR VISTA-RFP
retrovirus was added to the bone marrow cells. Polybrene (Sigma) was also added at a
final concentration 8  sg/ml.  Infection was carried out by spinning the plate at 2000 rpm
for 45min at RT. Cells were then cultured for another 2 hours before fresh medium were

                                           -142
 added. Similar infection procedure was repeated on day+1, day+3, day+5, and dya+7.
Loosely adherent cells (90% are CD1 lc+) were collected on day+10 and CDI lc+ RFP+
double positive cells were sorted and used to stimulate transgenic OT-II CD4+ T cells.
For OT-II T cell proliferation assays, 100,000 CFSE-labeled OT-II CD4+ T cells were
cultured in 96 well round-bottom plates with 30,000 sorted RFP+ or PD-L3 OR VISTA
RFP+ BMDCs, in the presence of titrated amount of synthetic OVA323-339 peptide
(Anaspec). Proliferation of OT-II T cells were analyzed at 72hrs by examining CFSE
profiles.
Expression studies of PD-L3 OR VISTA in response to immunization
 [00315] To immunize transgenic mice DO] 1.10, 300 gg OVA (Sigma) were
emulsified in CFA (200 pl), and injected subcutaneously into the flanks of mice. The
draining and non-draining inguinal lymph nodes were harvested at indicated time points.
Single cell suspensions were prepared and analyzed for the expression of PD-L3 OR
VISTA and other surface markers by flow cytometry.
Inhibitory Activity of PD-L3 OR VISTA.
 [00 316] The inhibitory activity of PD-LI was revealed by using antigen presenting
cells over-expressing PD-LI in vitro with CD4+ and CD8+ T cell antigen receptor
transgenic T cells and antigen stimulation (Carter, et al. (2002) Eur. J. Immunol. 32:634
43). Similarly, the lentivector disclosed herein, which expresses the full-length PD-L3
OR VISTA, is transduced into cell lines expressing class II major histocompatibility
complex (MHC) and class I MHC. The response of TEa Tg or the 2C transgenic T cells
to antigen presented by empty vector-transduced or PD-L3 OR VISTA-transduced
antigen presenting cells is determined according to established methods.
 [00317] Protein Expression. Expression patterns in lymphoid, monocyte and dendritic
cell subsets, as well as non-hemoatopoietic tissues, is determined by RT-PCR and
western blot analysis using standard protocols in combination with the rabbit aPD-L3 OR
VISTA antibody disclosed herein.

                                            -143
 [00318] Monoclonal Antibody Production. PD-L3 OR VISTA was overexpressed in
the murine B cell line A20, and the recombinant cell line was used to immunize
Armenian hamsters. After 5x cell immunization, hamsters were boosted with purified
PD-L3 OR VISTA-Ig fusion protein emulsified in CFA. Four weeks later, a final boost
was provided with soluble PD-L3 OR VISTA-Ig. Subsequently, fusions of hamster
splenocytes with SP2/0 cells were performed on day 4. Sixteen different clones were
identified that recognized PD-L3 OR VISTA-Ig fusion protein by ELISA, as well as
stained PD-L3 OR VISTA but not PD-Li overexpressed on the murine T cell line EL4.
Eleven of the clones were successfully subcloned and prepared for evaluation of their
ability to stain endogenous PD-L3 OR VISTA on cells and tissues, and to block PD-L3
OR VISTA functions.
Proliferation Assays:
 [00319] In vitro CD4 T cell proliferation assays was designed to screen PD-L3 OR
VISTA mAb activity. In this assay, T cells were stimulated by immobilized anti-CD3 in
microplate wells, which crosslinks T cell receptors. Using a PD-L3 OR VISTA-ig fusion
protein, which is composed of the extracellullar domain of PD-L3 OR VISTA fused to
the Fc portion of human IgG, the activity of PD-L3 OR VISTA mAb was detected in two
different configurations. First, when mAb was co-immobilized with aCD3, it potently
inhibited T cell proliferation, only in the presence of added soluble PD-L3 OR VISTA-Ig
fusion protein. This activity was dependent upon the ability of PD-L3 OR VISTA-Ig to
bind to the immobilized mAb in the well. Using this form of the assay, clones were
identified that were of high, intermediate or low suppressive activity. Second, when mAb
was added as a soluble reagent to the assay, it exerted potent suppressive activity on T
cell proliferation, by synergizing with the immobilized PD-L3 OR VISTA-Ig fusion
protein. In this form of assay, clones were identified that were of various suppressive
activities.
EXAMPLE 1: Cloning and sequence analysis of PD-L3 OR VISTA.
 [00320] PD-L3 OR VISTA and Treg-sTNF were identified by global transcriptional
profiling of resting Treg, Treg activated with aCD3, and Treg activated with

                                          -144
aCD3/aGITR. aGITR was selected for this analysis as triggering of GITR on Treg has
been shown to extinguish their contact-dependent suppressive activity (Shimizu, et al.
(2002) supra). PD-L3 OR VISTA and Treg-sTNF were identified on AFFIMETRIX@
DNA arrays based on their unique expression patterns (Table 1). PD-L3 OR VISTA
exhibited an increase in expression in aCD3 activated Treg and reduced expression in the
presence of aGITR; and Treg-sTNF exhibited a aCD3/aGITR-dependent increase in
expression.
 [00 3211 Purified CD4+CD25+ T cells were stimulated in culture overnight with none,
aCD3, or aCD3/aGITR, and RNA isolated for real-time PCR analysis. Expression listed
is relative to actin.
                                        TABLE 1
                          Relative Expression
mRNA
                          None                aCD3                    aCD3/aGITR
PD-L3 OR VISTA            6                    10                     7
T'-sTNF                   0.2                 0.3                     1.5
 [00322] Affymetrix analysis of activated vs. resting CD25+ CD4+ nTregs revealed the
expression of a gene product (RIKEN cDNA 4632428N05, or 4632428NO5Rik) with
unknown function but with sequence homology to the Ig superfamily.
 [00323] More specifically, a 930 bp gene product was cloned from the CD4+ T cell
cDNA library, which matched the predicted size and sequence. Silico-sequence and
structural analysis predicts a transmembrane protein of 309 amino acids upon maturation,
with an extracellular domain of 159 amino acids, a transmembrane domain of 22 amino
acids and a cytoplasmic tail of 95 amino acids (Figure 1A). Amino acid sequence
alignment reveals an extracellular Immunoglobulin (Ig)-V like domain homologous to B7
family ligands such as PD-LI, PD-L2, B7-H3 and B7-H4, as well as to the B7 family

                                            -145
receptors (i.e. PD-1, CTLA-4, CD28, BTLA, ICOS) (Figure lB-C). Although the
sequence identity of the Ig-V domains between B7 family ligands and receptors in
general is not very high (<40%), the Ig-V domain of 4632428N05Rik bears the highest
homology with B7 family ligands PD-LI and PD-L2. Sequence alignment also reveals
several highly conserved cysteines (Figure IB) that are important for intra-chain disulfide
bond formation, which is characteristic of the B7 family ligands Sica et al., (2003).
Immunity 18, 849-861.
 [00324]     The extracellular domain of 4632428N05Rik contains only the Ig-V domain
but lacks the Ig-C domain (Figure IB-C). This unique feature is characteristic of the B7
family receptors, and distinguishes 4632428N05Rik from all other B7 family ligands,
which contain both Ig-V and Ig-C domains Freeman, G. J. (2008). Proc Nati Acad Sci U
S A 105, 10275-10276; Lazar-Molnar et al., (2008). Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A 105,
 10483-10488; Lin et al., (2008), Proc NatI Acad Sci U S A 105, 3011-3016; Schwartz et
al., (2001), Nature 410, 604-608.; Stamper et al., (2001), Nature 410, 608-61.
.Consistently, the phylogenic analysis using PhyML algorithm (Phylogenetic Maximum
Likelihood) placed 4632428N05Rik in a closer evolutionary distance with B7 family
receptors, in particular with PD- 1, than the B7 family ligands (Figure 2) Guindon, S., and
Gascuel, 0. (2003). A simple, fast, and accurate algorithm to estimate large phylogenies
by maximum likelihood. Syst Biol 52, 696-704 . However, the cytoplasmic tail of PD-L3
OR VISTA does not contain any signaling domains (e.g. ITIM, ITAM or ITSM), which
are the signature domains of B7 family receptors Sharpe, A. H., and Freeman, G. J.
(2002). The B7-CD28 superfamily. Nat Rev Immunol 2, 116-126 . It is therefore
hypothesized that despite its close evolutionary relationship with the inhibitory receptor
PD-1, 4632428N05Rik represents a novel member of the B7 ligand family. Based on
these structural and phylogenic characteristics, this molecule was named PD-I -eXpressed
as Ligand (PD-L3 OR VISTA). PD-L3 OR VISTA is also highly conserved between the
mouse and human orthologs, sharing 77% sequence identity (Figure ID).
[00325] The nucleic acid sequence encoding mouse PD-L3 OR VISTA is set forth
herein as SEQ ID NO: I and the mouse PD-L3 OR VISTA protein sequence is set forth as
SEQ ID NO:2.

                                           -146
 [00 326] The human homolog of PD-L3 OR VISTA is located on chromosome 10
(72.9 Mb) and composed of 6 exons thereby generating a transcript of 4689 bases in
length coding for a 311 residue protein. The human homolog mRNA coding sequence is
provided in GENBANK accession number NM_022153 and protein sequence give as
NP_071436. The nucleic acid sequence encoding human PD-L3 OR VISTA is set forth
herein as SEQ ID NO:3 and the human PD-L3 OR VISTA protein sequence is set forth
as SEQ ID NO:4. Mouse and human genes share 74% homology and are 68% identical at
the protein level. Homologs were also identified in Rattus norvegicus on chromosome 20
(27.7 Mb; GENBANK accession number BC098723), as well as Fugu rubripes and
Danio rerio. In particular embodiments, PD-L3 OR VISTA proteins of the present share
the common amino acid sequence set forth in SEQ ID NO:5.
EXAMPLE 2: Expression Studies of PD-L3 OR VISTA by RT-PCR Analysis and
Flow Cytometry
 [00327] As shown in the experiments in Figure 3, RT-PCR analysis was used to
determine the mRNA expression pattern of PD-L3 OR VISTA in mouse tissues (Figure
3A). PD-L3 OR VISTA is mostly expressed on hematopoietic tissues (spleen, thymus,
bone marrow), or tissues with ample infiltration of leukocytes (i.e. lung). Weak
expression was also detected in non-hematopoietic tissues (i.e. heart, kidney, brain, and
ovary). Analysis of several hematopoietic cell types reveals expression of PD-L3 OR
VISTA on peritoneal macrophages, splenic CDI 1b+ monocytes, CD1Ic+ DCs, CD4+ T
cells and CD8+ T cells, but lower expression level on B cells (Figure 3B). This
expression pattern is also largely consistent with the GNF (Genomics Institute of
Novartis Research Foundation) gene array database Su et al., (2002), Proc Natl Acad Sci
U S A 99, 4465-4470, as well as NCBI GEO (gene expression omnibus) database
(Figure 4A-D).
 [00328] In order to study the protein expression, PD-L3 OR VISTA specific hamster
8D8 and 6E7 monoclonal antibodies were produced. The specificity is demonstrated by
positive staining on PD-L3 OR VISTA-overexpressing murine EIA T cells, but negative
staining on PD-LI-overexpressing EA cells (Figure 5).

                                            -147
 [0 0 329] Both polyclonal and monoclonal antibodies were raised against PD-L3 OR
VISTA. Using a rabbit anti-PD-L3 OR VISTA antibody, PD-L3 OR VISTA protein was
localized to lymphoid organs and prominently found in brain tissue. Of the monoclonal
antibodies identified, the specificity of aPD-L3 OR VISTA clone 8D8 was further
evaluated. In this analysis, clone 8D8 was tested for binding against a panel of PD-L like
Ig fusion protein molecules including CTLA-4, PD-1, PD-L1, PD-L2, B7-l, B7-2, PD
L3 OR VISTA and hig. The results of this analysis indicated that 8D8 aPDL-3 was
highly specific for PD-L3 OR VISTA.
 [00330] Specifically, using the anti-PD-L3 OR VISTA mAb clone 8D8, PD-L3 OR
VISTA expression was analyzed on hematopoietic cells by flow cytometry. Foxp3GFP
knock-in reporter mice were used to distinguish CD4+ nTregs (34). In peripheral
lymphoid organs (spleen and lymph nodes), significant expression is seen on all CD4+ T
cell subsets (see total CD4+ T cells, or Foxp3- naive T cells and Foxp3+ nTreg cells, and
memory CD4+ T cells), whereas CD8+ T cells express markedly lower amount of
surface PD-L3 OR VISTA (Figure 3C). In thymus, PD-L3 OR VISTA expression is
negative on CD4+CD8+ double positive thymocytes, low on CD4 single positive cells,
and detectable on CD8 single positive cells. Next, a strong correlation of high PD-L3 OR
VISTA expression with CDI lb marker can be seen for both splenic and peritoneal cells,
including both F4/80 macrophages and myeloid CDI lc+ DCs (Figure 3D-E). On the
other hand, B cells and NK cells are mostly negative for PD-L3 OR VISTA expression.
A small percentage of Gr- I+ granulocytes also express PD-L3 OR VISTA (Figure 3F).
 (00331] A differential expression pattern is shown on the same lineage of cells from
different lymphoid organs (Figure 3G). For CD4+ T cells and CDI lb intermediate
monocytes, the expression level follows the pattern of mesenteric lymph node >
peripheral LN and spleen > peritoneal cavity and blood. This pattern is less pronounced
for CD1 bhi cells. This data suggests that PD-L3 OR VISTA expression on certain cell
types might be regulated by cell maturity and/or tissue microenvironment.
 (00332] In addition to freshly isolated cells, PD-L3 OR VISTA expression was
analyzed on splenic CD4+ T cells, CD IIbhi monocytes and CD IIc+ DCs upon in vitro

                                          -148
culture with and without activation (Figure 6). Spleen cells were either cultured with
medium, or with anti-CD3 (for activating T cells), or with IFNLI and LPS (for activating
monocytes and DCs) for 24hrs before being analyzed for the expression of PD-L3 OR
VISTA and other B7 family ligands (e.g. PD-LI, PD-L2, B7-H3 and B7-H4). This
comparison revealed distinctive expression patterns between these molecules. PD-L3 OR
VISTA expression is quickly lost on all cell types upon in vitro culture, regardless of the
activation status. In contrast, PD-LI expression is upregulated on CD4+ T cells upon
stimulation, or on CDI Ibhi monocytes and CDI lc+ DCs upon culture in medium alone,
and further enhanced in the face of stimulation. The expression of PD-L2, B7-H3 and
B7-H4 are not prominent under the culture conditions used. The loss of PD-L3 OR
VISTA expression in vitro is unique when compared to other B7 family ligands, but
might reflect non-optimal culture conditions that fail to mimic the tissue
microenvironment.
 [003331 To.address how PD-L3 OR VISTA expression might be regulated in vivo,
CD4 TCR transgenic mice DOl 1.10 were immunized with the cognate antigen chicken
ovalbumin (OVA) emulsified in complete Freund's adjuvant (CFA). At 24hrs after
immunization, cells from the draining lymph node were analyzed for PD-L3 OR VISTA
expression (Figure 7A). Immunization with antigen (CFA/OVA) but not the adjuvant
alone drastically increased the CDl Ib+ PD-L3 OR VISTA+ myeloid cell population,
which contained a mixed population of F4/80+ macrophages and CD 1 c+ DCs. Further
comparison with PD-L I and PD-L2 reveals that even though PD-Ll has the highest
constitutive expression level, PD-L3 OR VISTA is the most highly upregulated during
such an inflammatory immune response (Figure 7B). Collectively, these data strongly
suggest that the expression of PD-L3 OR VISTA on myeloid APCs is tightly regulated
by the immune system, which might contribute to its role in controlling immune
responses and regulating T cell immunity.
 [003341 In contrast to its increased expression on APCs, PD-L3 OR VISTA expression
is diminished on activated DOl 1.10 CD4+ T cells at a later time point upon
immunization (i.e. at 48hr but not at 24hr) (Figure 8). This result suggests that PD-L3 OR

                                           -149
VISTA expression on CD4 T cells in vivo may be regulated by its activation status and
cytokine microenvironment during an active immune response.
EXAMPLE 3: Functional Impact of PD-L3 OR VISTA Signaling on CD4+ and
CD8+ T Cell Responses
 [ 00335] A PD-L3 OR VISTA-Ig fusion proteins were was produced to examine the
regulatory roles of PD-L3 OR VISTA on CD4+ T cell responses. The PD-L3 OR
VISTA-Ig fusion protein contains the extracellular domain of PD-L3 OR VISTA fused to
the human IgGI Fc region. When immobilized on the microplate, PD-L3 OR VISTA-Ig
but not control Ig suppressed the proliferation of bulk purified CD4+ and CD8+ T cells in
response to plate-bound anti-CD3 stimulation, as determined by arrested cell division
(Figure 9A-B). The PD-L3 OR VISTA Ig fusion protein did not affect the absorption of
anti-CD3 antibody to the plastic wells, as determined by ELISA (data not shown), thus
excluding the possibility of non-specific inhibitory effects. PD-I KO CD4+ T cells were
also suppressed (Figure 9C), indicating that PD-1 is not the receptor for PD-L3 OR
VISTA. The inhibitory effect of PD-Ll-Ig and PD-L3 OR VISTA-Ig was also directly
compared (Figure 10). When titrated amounts of Ig fusion proteins were absorbed to the
microplates together with DICD3 to stimulate CD4+ T cells, PD-L3 OR VISTA-Ig
showed similar inhibitory efficacy as PD-Ll-Ig fusion protein.
 (00336] Since bulk purified CD4+ T cells contain various subsets, the impact of PD
L3 OR VISTA-Ig on sorted naive (CD25-CD44lowCD62Lhi) and memory (CD25
CD44hiCD62Llow) CD4+ T cell subsets was evaluated (Figure 11). It is shown that PD
L3 OR VISTA can suppress the proliferation of both subsets, albeit with much less
efficacy on the memory cells.
 [00337] To further understand the mechanism of PD-L3 OR VISTA-mediated
suppression, the expression of early TCR activation markers and apoptosis were
measured following T cell activation in the presence or absence of PD-L3 OR VISTA-Ig.
Consistent with the negative impact on cell proliferation, there is a global suppression on
the expression of the early activation markers CD69, CD44, and CD62L (supplemental
Figure 12A). On the other hand, the PD-L3 OR VISTA-Ig fusion protein did not induce

                                            -150
apoptosis. On the contrary, less apoptosis (as determined by the percentage of annexin
V+ 7AAD- cells) was seen in the presence of PD-L3 OR VISTA or VISTA-Ig than the
control-Ig, at both early (24hr) and later stage (48hr) of TCR activation (Figure 12B). For
example, at 24hr time point, on total "ungated' population, -27% cells were apoptotic in
the presence of PD-L3 OR VISTA or VISTA-Ig, but -39% control cells were apoptotiC
When examining the cells within the live cell RI gate, it is apparent that PD-L3 OR
VISTA or VISTA-Ig strongly inhibited activation-induced-cell-death (ACID), because
about 72.6% control cells became apoptotic whereas only 43.5% cells were apoptotic
when treated with PD-L3 OR VISTA or VISTA-Ig. Similar results were seen for the 48hr
time point. Therefore, it appears that PD-L3 OR VISTA or VISTA negatively regulates
CD4+ T cell responses by suppressing early TCR activation and arresting cell division,
but with minimum direct impact on apoptosis. This mechanism of suppression is similar
to that of B7-H4 Sica, G. L., Choi, I. H., Zhu, G., Tamada, K., Wang, S. D., Tamura, H.,
Chapoval, A. I., Flies, D. B., Bajorath, J., and Chen, L. (2003). B7-H4, a molecule of the
B7 family, negatively regulates T cell immunity. Immunity 18, 849-861.
 [0 0 338] A 2-step assay was developed to determine whether PD-L3 OR VISTA or
VISTA-Ig can suppress pre-activated CD4 T cells, and how persistent its suppressive
effect is. It is shown that the suppressive effect of PD-L3 OR VISTA or VISTA-Ig fusion
protein persists after its removal at 24hr post activation (Figure 9D). In addition, both
naive and pre-activated CD4+ T cells could be suppressed by PD-L3 OR VISTA or
VISTA-Ig (Figure 9Di, 9Diii and 9Div).
 [00339] Next, the impact of PD-L3 OR VISTA or VISTA-Ig on CD4+ T cell cytokine
production was analyzed. PD-L3 OR VISTA or VISTA-Ig suppressed the production of
Th I cytokines IL-2 and IFNalpha from bulk purified CD4+ T cell culture (Figure 13A
B). The impact of PD-L3 OR VISTA or VISTA was further tested on separate nafve
(CD25-CD44lowCD62Lhi) and memory (CD25-CD44hiCD62LIow) CD4+ T cell
populations. It is shown that memory CD4+ T cells are the major source for cytokine
production within the CD4+ T cell compartment, and PD-L3 OR VISTA or VISTA can
suppress this production (Figure 13C-D). Similar inhibitory effect of PD-L3 OR VISTA
or VISTA on IFNalpha production from CD8+ T cells was also shown (Figure 13E). This

                                             -151
inhibitory effect of PD-L3 OR VISTA or VISTA on cytokine production by CD4+ and
CD8+ T cells is consistent with the hypothesis that PD-L3 OR VISTA or VISTA is an
inhibitory ligand that down-regulates immune responses.
 [00340] Next, studies were designed to determine the factors that are able to overcome
the inhibitory effect of PD-L3 OR VISTA or VISTA. Given that PD-L3 OR VISTA or
VISTA suppressed IL-2 production, and IL-2 is critical for T cell survival and
proliferation, we hypothesize that IL-2 might circumvent the inhibitory activity of PD-L3
OR VISTA or VISTA. As shown in Figure 14A, exogenous IL-2, but not IL-15, IL-7, or
IL-23, partially reversed the suppressive effect of PD-L3 OR VISTA or VISTA-Ig on cell
proliferation. The incomplete rescue by high levels of IL-2 indicates that PD-L3 OR
VISTA or VISTA signaling targets broader T cell activation pathways than simply IL-2
production. On the other hand, potent co-stimulation signal provided by anti-CD28
agonistic antibody completely reversed PD-L3 OR VISTA or VISTA-Ig mediated
suppression (Figure 14B), whereas intermediate levels of costimulation is still suppressed
by PD-L3 OR VISTA or VISTA signaling (Figure 14C). This result suggests that PD-L3
OR VISTA or VISTA-mediated immune suppression would be more effective under less
inflammatory conditions, but will be inevitably overwhelmed by strong positive
costimulatory signals. In this regard, PD-L3 OR VISTA or VISTA shares this feature
with other suppressive B7 family ligands such as PD-LI and B7-H4 Sica et al., (2003),
Immunity 18, 849-861.; Carter et al., (2002), Eur J Immunol 32, 634-643.
 [003411 In addition to PD-L3 OR VISTA or VISTA-Ig fusion protein, it is necessary
to confirm that PD-L3 OR VISTA or VISTA expressed on APCs can suppress antigen
specific T cell activation during cognate interactions between APCs and T cells. For this
purpose, PD-L3 OR VISTA or VISTA-RFP or RFP control protein was over-expressed
via retroviral transduction in an artificial antigen presenting cell line (CHO-APC) that
stably expresses MHCII and B7-2 molecules Latchman et al., (2001), Nat Immunol 2,
261-268. One problem in expressing PD-L3 OR VISTA or VISTA in CHO is that the
majority of PD-L3 OR VISTA or VISTA failed to localize to the cell surface, perhaps
due to the alien environment that lacks support for PD-L3 OR VISTA or VISTA surface
localization (data not shown). Although there are no clear motifs present on the

                                            -152
cytoplasmic tail of PD-L3 OR VISTA or VISTA to suggest the mode of regulation, we
speculate that the tail might play a role for its intracellular localization. Consequently, a
tail-less PD-L3 OR VISTA or VISTA mutant was designed and was found to
successfully localize to CHO cell surface (data not shown).
 [00342] To stimulate T cell response, CHO-PD-L3 OR VISTA or VISTA or CHO
RFP cells were incubated together with DOI 1.10 CD4+ T cells in the presence of
antigenic OVA peptide. As shown in Figure 15 A-C, CHO-PD-L3 OR VISTA or VISTA
induced less proliferation of DOl 1.10 cells than CHO-RFP cells. This suppressive effect
is more pronounced at lower peptide concentrations, consistent with the notion that a
stronger stimulatory signal would overcome the suppressive impact of PD-L3 OR VISTA
or VISTA.
 [00343] In addition, the inhibitory effect of full-length PD-L3 OR VISTA or VISTA
on natural APCs was confirmed. In vitro cultured bone marrow derived dendritic cells
(BMDC) do not express high level of PD-L3 OR VISTA or VISTA (Figure 16). PD-L3
OR VISTA or VISTA-RFP or RFP was expressed in BMDCs by retroviral transduction
during the 10 day culture period. Transduced cells were sorted to homogeneity based on
RFP expression. The expression level of PD-L3 OR VISTA or VISTA on transduced
DCs was estimated by staining with anti-PD-L3 OR VISTA or VISTA mab, and found to
be similar to the level on freshly isolated peritoneal macrophages, thus within the
physiological expression range (Figure 16). Sorted BMDCs were then used to stimulate
OVA-specific transgenic CD4+ T cells (OTII) in the presence of OVA peptide (Figure
 15D). It is shown therein that the expression of PD-3 OR VISTA or VISTA on BMDCs
suppressed the cognate CD4+ T cell proliferative responses. This result is consistent with
previous data using PD-L3 OR VISTA or VISTA-Ig fusion protein and CHO-APC cells,
suggesting that PD-L3 OR VISTA or VISTA can suppress T cell-mediated immune
responses.
EXAMPLE 4: Evaluation of Anti-PD-L3 OR VISTA or VISTA Antibodies in
Multiple Sclerosis Animal Model (EAE)

                                            -153
 [00344] Because the LPD-L3 OR VISTA or VISTA mAbs in vivo appeared to
suppress T cell responses, OPD-L3 OR VISTA or VISTA was tested to evaluate if it can
inhibit a T cell-mediated autoimmune disease. Using the Experimental Allergic
Encephalomyelitis (EAE) model, the functional impact of 0PDL-L3 mAbs on
inflammatory diseases was determined. EAE is a widely used murine model of the
human autoimmune disease multiple sclerosis. EAE can be induced by either
immunization with myelin antigens in adjuvant or by adoptive transfer of myelin-specific
T cells, which results in inflammatory infiltrates of various effector T cells and B cells,
and macrophages, and demyelination of central nervous systems.
 [00345] aPDL-L3 mAb was tested in the passive EAE model to avoid induction of
anaphylaxis due to the injection of large amount of mAb as foreign antigen. In this
adoptive transfer EAE model, donor SJL mice were immunized with CFA and PLP
peptide. On day 10, total lymphocytes from draining LN were isolated, and cultured in
vitro with PLP peptide, IL-23 (20 ng/ml) and anti-IFNg (10 gg/ml) for 4 days. Expanded
CD4 T cells were then purified and adoptively transferred into naive recipient mice. This
analysis indicated that aPDL-L3 mAb delayed disease onset, as well as reduced disease
severity, thereby shifting the disease progression curve significantly (Figure 17). In
addition, it reduced severity in a large percentage of the mice and greatly increased
survival from around 22% to over 75%. This demonstrated activity of aPDL-L3 mAb in
EAE is consistent with the in vitro data, and demonstrates the use of this reagent as a
novel immunoregulatory reagent in various inflammatory diseases.
 [00346] EXAMPLE 5: EXPRESSION OF VISTA IN THE CNS
 [00347] The expresion of VISTA in the CNS was also effected. These asays revealed
that in mice with disease, VISTA expression is markedly reduced (from 76% 433%) on
the CDI l b+ cells (Fig 23), consistent with the hypothesis that the loss of VISTA may be
permissive for enhanced inflammation. This is interesting, and likely functionally
important when we contrast inflammatory myeloid cells herein, with the MDSC in
tumors that express extremely high levels of VISTA. It has been reported that EAE mice
have elevated numbers of myeloid derived suppressor cells (CDII b+Ly-6Chigh MDSC)

                                            -154
in the spleen which are potently suppressive for T cell activation and may temper
disease32. Our data strongly support the hypothesis that VISTA may play a role in
myeloid-mediated suppression in EAE.
 [0 0 348] EXAMPLE 6: The impact of VISTA on the fate and function of T cells in
EAE.
 [003491 We also conducted experiments assayng the effect of VISTA on the fate and
function of T cells in EAE. We wanted to assess if VISTA alters the development of
pathogenic, encephalitogenid T cells, clonal T cell expansion, T cell polarity, longevity,
and conversion of Teff -*Treg. We studied the impact of VISTA blockade on T cell fate
in EAE . Consistent with the higher disease score, analysis of CNS at the end of disease
course confirmed significantly more ILI7A-producing CD4+ T cell infiltration (from
0.66 411%) in 13F3 (Z VISTA) treated group (Fig. 24).
 [00 350] EXAMPLE 7: PD-L3 OR VISTA or VISTA Transgenic and Knock-Out
Mice
 [00351] Using Lentiviral infection of embryos, four transgenic mice ubiquitously
expressing PD-L3 OR VISTA or VISTA have been produced. These mice express full
length PD-L3 OR VISTA or VISTA under the control of the human elongation factor I
promoter. These mice were generated using lentiviral vector pWPT. Similar to other PD
LI family members (Appay, et al. (2002) J. Immunol. 168:5954-8), it is contemplated
that PD-L3 OR VISTA or VISTA will function as a negative regulator in vivo while
functioning to co-stimulate aCD3 T cell proliferation in vitro. In this respect, these mice
are expected to spontaneously develop autoimmunity and in vivo immune responses in
the PD-L3 OR VISTA or VISTA transgenic mice (i.e., humoral immune responses, T
cell priming, etc.) are evaluated to assess systemic autoimmune disease development.
 [00352] For knock-out mice, PD-L3 OR VISTA or VISTA is inactivated by
homologous recombination. A BAC clone containing full-length PD-L3 OR VISTA or
VISTA sequence was purchased from INVITROGENTM (Carlsbad, CA). A PD-L3 OR
VISTA or VISTA targeting vector was generated by inserting a 1.6 kb fragment located

                                            -155
at the 5' side of the second exon of PD-L3 OR VISTA or VISTA gene upstream the
neomycin gene and the 5 kb fragment located at the 3' side of the third exon of PD-L3
OR VISTA or VISTA gene downstream the neomycin gene. B6-derived embryonic stem
(ES) cells are electroporated with PD-L3 OR VISTA or VISTA targeting vector and
recombined clones are selected. Selected clones are then injected into C57BUJ6
blastocysts and the resulting chimeric male offspring are mated to FLP-deleter mice to
remove the neomycin cassette. Transmission of the targeted allele in the offspring is
determined by PCR from genomic DNA. The second and the third exon contain the PD
L3 OR VISTA or VISTA domain, therefore, the resulting mice have only the inactivated
form of the PD-L3 OR VISTA or VISTA molecule.
 [00353] The overall immune capacity of PD-L3 OR VISTA or VISTA deficient mice
is determined as with other PD-L-/- mice, including assessment of T cell responses to
antigen, humoral immune responses, overt autoimmunity (e.g., Systemic Lupus
Erythematosus, inflammatory bowel disease), and increased susceptibility to induced
autoimmune disease (experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis) (Chen (2004) supra).
 [00354] EXAMPLE 8: PD-L3 OR VISTA or VISTA Specific Antibodies Tested in
Collagen-Induced Arthritis Animal Model
 [0 0 355] As shown in the experiments in Figure 18, male DBA/IJ mice were
immunized at the base of their tail with 100 pi of emulsion containing 100 pg chick type
Il collagen (C-Il) in CFA (mycobacterium tuberculosis 3.5 mg/ml) and boosted IP with
 100 pg aqueous C-Il on day 21 post-immunization. Mice of each treatment group (n=6)
were either untreated (NT-black circles), injected with 300 pg hamster IgG (Ham Ig
black squares) or injected with 300 pg of monoclonal-antibody "7c9" (red triangle) or
"I 3F3" (green triangle), as indicated. Injections were given every 2 days. Arthritic
swelling was scored on a scale of 0-4 for each paw of each mouse on the days indicated.
 The arthritis score shown is the total score of all paws of mice in each treatment group
divided by the number of mice in the group.
 [00 356] EXAMPLE 9: VISTA blockade by a specific VISTA monoclonal
antibody enhances T cell responses in vitro.

                                           -156
 (00357] A VISTA-specific mab (13F3) was identified which neutralizes VISTA
mediated suppression (Fig. 19). CD11bhi myeloid APCs were purified from naive mice to
stimulate OT-II transgenic CD4* T cells in the presence or absence of 13F3. Consistent
with its neutralizing effect, 13F3 enhanced T cell proliferation stimulated by CDI lbM
myeloid cells, which were shown to express high levels of VISTA.
 (00358] EXAMPLE 10: Anti-VISTA enhances anti-tumor immunity.
 [00359]     Because of the capacity of anti-VISTA to enhance T cell activation, we
assessed whether anti-VISTA would enhance the protective immune response to an
immunogenic tumor. A model in which we have a great deal of experience is the bladder
carcinoma, MB49. MB49 expresses male antigen, and thus it is modestly immunogenic
in female mice, although, it will grow and kill female mice if there is no immune
intervention. To test the efficacy of DVISTA therapy, female mice were administered
MB49 tumor cells subcutaneously (sq) and treated with []VISTA. Days thereafter, the
size of the tumor was measured until the mice had to be euthanized. As can be readily
seen in Figure 20 anti-VISTA therapy greatly impairs tumor growth. We believe that this
is due to the ability of anti-VISTA to intensify cell-mediated immune (CMI) responses.
 [00360] EXAMPLE 11: Effect of 0VISTA on Tumor Regression in 4 Murine
Tumor Models.
 [00361] Experiments in the immunogenic bladder carcinoma tumor MB49 have
shown that neutralization of VISTA using mab 13F3 and protects host from tumor
growth. The data indicates that VISTA has a considerable negative immunoregulatory
role in the microenvironment of a tumor because of its extremely high expression of
MDSCs. Studies examining the effect of anti-mouse VISTA on the growth of
immunogenic (MB49) and highly non-immunogenic (B 16) tumor models will further
confirm the efficacy of aVISTA therapy, shed light on the mechanism of action, and
provide the basis for selecting the optimal dose and timing. The rationale for each tumor
model is detailed below.

                                          -157
                                   Tumor       Tumor       Host     Groups         ASSAYS
                                   Name         Type
 [00362] MB49in female            MB49      Bladder       B6
mice: We have already                        Carcinoma    Female                Tumor growth
                                  MB49      Bladder       B6
shown efficacy in this                      Carcinoma     Male      0VISTA         Survival
murine model. MDSCs in                                    B6
                                  B16.F10   Melanoma      Male     Control Ig      Immune/
this model also express                                   or                    Autoimmmune
elevated levels of VISTA                                  female                     Assays
                                            Ovarian       B6
(not shown). In this model,       ID8       Cancer        Female
due to the presence of H-Y antigen, the MB49 tumor is modestly immunogenic. Since we
know anti-VISTA therapy is effective, we will use this model as a "positive" control to
determine dosing (1-100 ug/mouse; and timing (day of tumor inoculation, or 4, 7, 10
days after tumor; therapeutic intervention) of anti-VISTA therapy.
 [003633 MB49 in male mice: Using doses and timing effective in female mice, the
efficacy of anti-VISTA therapy in male mice (in which the tumor is less immunogenic) is
determined.
 [00364] B16 melanoma: Anti-CTLA-4 mab was shown highly effective in this model,
and represents a non-immunogenic tumor where the mouse model has been valuable for
predicting success in humans. Dosing regimes and timing will be similar to those shown
to be effective in the MB49 model.
 (00365] ID8 Ovarian carcinoma: It is in this model, that VISTA expression has been
shown to be extremely high on MDSCs. Mice bearing ID8 tumor are treated with
aVISTA at the time of tumor inoculum or at day 5, 15, 25 post inoculation.
 [003663 Methods. B6 WT mice are used to determine the optimal dose and timing of
anti-VISTA treatment for the remission of all murine tumor models noted. The models
to be used are listed in the above table.

                                             -158
 [00367] The readout for this dose and timing assay are tumor growth kinetics. For
MB49 and B 16 studies, all tumor studies are done via intradermal (i.d.) inoculation and
therefore tumor size can be readily measured. Tumor measurements is collected every 2
3 days using a caliper. In each of these models, the impact of anti-VISTA or control
antibody will be tested for its ability to slow tumor growth or facilitate tumor regression.
Growth of ID8 will be followed using a luciferase transduced ID8 and whole body
imaging using an IVIS Workstation. In addition, host survival will also be determined.
 [00368]     Data on tumor growth is expressed as mean tumor volume  SEM and
differences between groups will be analyzed by two-tailed ANOVA. Probability (p)
values less than 0.05 is considered statistically significant. Survival data is analyzed
using the Kaplan-Meier method with the Wilcoxon rank test and the log-rank test used to
verify the significance of the difference in survival between groups. In the B 16 models,
frequencies of mice that develop vitiligo is determined.
 (00369]         Using these methods slowed tumor growth and/or tumor regression in
mice treated with anti-VISTA mAb is obtained as compared with mice treated with
control ab in several of the non-immunogenic tumor models. It has already been shown
that anti-VISTA treatment delays tumor growth in an immunogenic tumor model. As
each of these tumor models have their own specific growth kinetics and, anticipated
dependency on VISTA to confer tumor growth and suppress immunity, mice will be
administered mab either at the time of tumor inoculum or at times thereafter.
Additionally, at least 3 different concentrations of um VISTA mab is tested to determine
the optimal dose for therapeutic benefit.
 [00370] As shown in Figure 21A-E, VISTA mab treatment reduced tumor growth in
all 4 of these tumor models wherein mice were inoculated either sq with A. MB49 , B.
MCA 105, or C. EG7 tumor cells, or D. ip with ID8-luciferase tumor cells, and treated
with VISTA mab 13F3 every other day (300pg) beginning on day +1. Subcutaneous
tumor growth was monitored. For ID8-luciferase tumor, mice were imaged on day 30
using Xenogen IVIS. E. VISTA expression on myeloid leukocytes in tumor-bearing
mice was also determined. Draining LN and tumor tissues (ascites) were analyzed for

                                            -159
 VISTA expression. These findings show that VISTA expressed on MDSC is a major
suppressive molecule that interferes with the development of protective anti-tumor
immunity, and OVISTA relieves this suppressive activity allowing immune intervention
and slowing growth of tumor. These findings also support the conclusion that VISTA on
myeloid cells in autoimmune disease plays a pivotal function in regulating the extent of
inflammation.
 [0 0 371] EXAMPLE 12: Synthesis of Oligomeric VISTA and VISTA fusion
proteins useful for the treatment of autoimmunity.
 (00372] Soluble VISTA-Ig in vitro is not suppressive nor can its binding to cells be
readily detected. By contrast, this molecule bound to plastic is profoundly suppressive.
In addition, studies using VISTA-Ig in vivo did not show overt activity (data not shown).
With respect to these studies the VISTA-Ig that was created has mutations in the CH2
CH3 domain precluding FcR binding, and therefore is not cytophilic in vivo. Recent
studies have shown that tetrameric PD-L1 bound 1OX higher (Kd 6x10-8 M) than
monomeric PD-LI 26 to PD-1, and that binding to cells was readily detectable.
Tetrameric PD-Ll was not tested in vivo, but in vitro it was shown to block the
functional suppression by native PD-Ll. Using similar methods oligomers are made that
will target the VISTA pathway and elicit potent immunosuppressive activity in vitro ad
in vivo.
 [00373] Such oligomers are constructed using the monomeric extracellular domain of
VISTA or a fragment thereof, e.g., at least 50, 75, 100, 125, 150, 175 or 200 amino acids
long which extracellular domain or a portion thereof is used as the building blocks for
oligomer. In these methods the inventors take advantage of the well-established MHC
tetramer technologies. In these methods the VISTA ectodomain construct or a fragment
islinked to the N-terminus of a variety of oligomerization domains(identified supra) in
prder to generate a series of VISTA complexes with valencies that span from divalent to
heptavalent.
 [00374] Thereby, a series of non-covalent oligomers is created based on high affinity
coiled-coil domains that direct the stable formation of dimeric, trimeric, tetrameric,

                                            -160
pentameric and heptameric assemblie. These oligomeric constructs are expressed in a
host cell, e.g., E. coli. When expression is effected in E coli the expressed oligomers are
then refolded and purified from inclusion bodies using standard laboratory protocols.
This approach has routinely produced high quality material for biological and structural
analysis, including MHC-peptide complexes and trimeric GITRL66. The isolated
oligomeric proteins are then assessed by SDS-PAGE, analytical gel filtration, analytical
ultracentrifugation and mass spectrometry. These quality control measures ensure the
availability of homogeneous, well-characterized materials for in vitro and in vivo studies.
The parallel organization of these constructs results in molecules in which the valency is
equal to the oligomeric state since each individual VISTA complex is positioned to
productively interact with cell surface bound VISTA receptor. The above constructs
possess extreme stability and homogeneitiy of oligomeric state. (Non-covalent coiled
coil oligomerization domains typically exhibit melting temperatures that exceed 1000 C,
except for the heptamer sequence which exhibits a melting temperature of 95* C.
 [00375] In addition dimeric VISTA-Ig is tetramerized that is either cytophilic or not
cytophilic. The Fc fusion constructs of VISTA in frame with the IgG1 Fc (both wild
type IgGI and the existing non-FcR-binding IgGl) are modified with an N-terminal BirA
site for enzymatic biotinylation and cloned into the pIRES2-EGFP vector. Enzymatic
biotinylation will allow specific, single residue modification and orientation upon avidin
multimerization. This approach has been used for the generation of numerous Ig-fusion
proteins, including B7-1, PD-Ll, PD-L2 and TIM-3. The expressed proteins are then
enzymatically biotinylated in vitro, purified by size exclusion HPLC, and tetramerized
using PE-Avidin. The resulting tetramers which are cytophilic or not, are assessed in
vivo.
 [00376] These engineered multimeric VISTA proteins are useful in treating
autoimmunity and other conditions wherein intervention in the VISTA pathway and
immunosuppression is therapeutically warranted.
  0 0377] EXAMPLE 13: VISTA adenoviral vectors for inducing immune
suppression.

                                           -161
 [00378] Gene transfer using recombinant adeno-associated virus (AAV) has seen great
technological development in gene therapy Specifically, AAV-mediated gene delivery of
PD-LI gene, or CTLA4-Ig and CD40-Ig has achieved therapeutic efficacy in
autoimmune disease models of lupus and cardiac transplantation. These metods will be
used to deliver either full length VISTA, or oligomeric VISTA ectodomains, and their
therapeutic effects are assessed in the EAE model. Recombinant adenovirus vector
expressing either full-length murine VISTA, or oligomeric VISTA ectodomain, is created
using the Adeno-XTM Expression System (Clontech) according to the manufacturer's
instructions. Briefly, VISTA is cloned into an El and E3-deleted, pAdDEST-based
expression vector, under the control of the human cytomegalovirus (CMV) promoter.
VISTA and control lacZ expressing adenovirus are then purified from cell lysates. For
systemic overexpression of VISTA, adenovirusis administered to mice by intravenous
tail vein injection (I x 109 plaque-forming units [Pfu]) either prior to or shortly after
disease induction via immunization, or after disease onset. The control mice will receive
 100 p1 PBS. Disease development and alterations are monitored in both SJL mice and
C57BU6 mice, which exhibit different disease progression pattern, and which represent
two distinct forms of clinical manifestation of human MS patients.
 [00379] EXAMPLE 14: Functional studies with engineered proteins and
adenoviral vectors
 [00380] Mice are also administered (5-100 ug of protein/mouse x 3 weekly) with
engineered VISTA and/or adenoviral vectors. Following administration, T cell
expansion, differentiation, as well as EAE development is determined.
 [00381] EXAMPLE 15: Structural Studies on VISTA and Determining Molecular
Determinants of VISTA Function
 [00382] Affinity, specificity, oligomeric state, and the formation and localization of
organized signaling complexes are critical contributors to immune function. All of these
features impact signaling and immune regulation, as the organization of the receptor
ligand ectodomains directly controls the recruitment, organization and function of non
covalently associated cytoplasmic signaling and scaffolding molecules. The high

                                          -162
resolution crystal structure of VISTA is determined using techniques including bacterial,
insect and mammalian expression systems, as well as high-throughput crystallization and
structure determination approaches. To validate the crystallographically-observed
disulfide bonding pattern, we will exploit high resolution mass spectrometry using
approaches that successfully supported our published studies of TIM-3 and human
DcR359. Based on these structural results, a series of mutants with altered oligomeric
properties is designed, as well as mutants in the vicinity of any perturbed regions of the
VISTA IgV domain. These mutant proteins will provide additional direct mechanistic
insight into VISTA function and should be useful in therapeutics wherein
immunosuppression is desired such as the autoimmune, allergic and inflammatory
diseases identified herein. These mutants, especially oligomers are tested in in vitro
systems and are assessed in animal autoimmune and inflammatory disease models in
order to assess the immunosuppressive effect on disease progression, disease remission
or in protecting the animal from developing the autoimmune or inflammatory condition.
 [00383]     These oligomeric VISTA proteins will activate the VISTA pathway and
function as a target of immune intervention in autoimmunity. This intervention will
suppress immunity and exert a therapeutic benefit on autoimmune disease and other
conditions wherein autoimmune suppression is desired. This is accomplished by
administering the oligomerized VISTA proteins in different autoimmune and
inflammatory models such as the EAE and collagen-induced arthritis animal models. In
addition, as discussed above, adenoviral vectors that over-express full-length VISTA or
VISTA oligomers are constructed and tested in vivo. These studies will confirm the
immunosuppressive effects of VISTA oligomers.
 [00384] Example 16: Experiments Using Conditional Over-expressing VISTA
Transgenic Mouse Strain (VISTA transgenic mouse strain: R26StopFLVISTA
(VISTA).
 [00385] A targeting construct containing the full-length cDNA of VISTA preceded by
a loxP-flanked STOP cassette, has been targeted into the ubiquitously-expressed
ROSA26 locus. Multiple correctly targeted R26StopFUJ-VISTA pups were born, and

                                           -163
bred onto the CMV-Cre deleter strain6O. Preliminary data in the VISTA x CMV-cre
confirm GFP and heightened VISTA expression. Studies on the immune status of these
mice (T cell responses to antigen, antibody titers, etc) will confirm a suppressed
phenotype. The VISTA strain will be interbred with CD4-cre, CDI Ic-cre, and Lys-Cre to
determine if the lineage location of VISTA expression influences suppression. The
phenotype and function of the T cells is also determinedand it is determined if over
expression of VISTA results in the generation of aTreg. In these studies Tregs from
OVA-immune cre x VISTA strain are adoptively transferred into WT hosts, to see if
antigen immunization in the presence of over-expressed VISTA induces antigen-specific
Tregs. This should verify that VISTA impacts Treg differentiation.
 [00386] In addition, studies are effected in the EAE model whereby the impact of
VISTA proteinson different lineages (by interbreeding with CD4-, CD1 Ic-, Lys-cre) with
respect to disease development is assessed. Assuming that disease can be suppressed by
lineage restricted overexpression of VISTA mutants or in the CMV x VISTA mutant the
temporal control of disease development is also using Cre-ERT2x VISTA [. Through the
administration of tamoxifen we can induce overexpression of VISTA prior to, or at
disease initiation or at peak disease to determine if VISTA can impact on the induction
and/or effector phases of immunity. Using BM chimeric mice, temporally-restricted
overexpression of VISTA can be restricted to the hematopoietic compartment. For an
appreciation of controlling the window of time VISTA is overexpressed, VISTA is
genetically turned on, then serologically turned off with the administration of anti-VISTA
mab. These studies will determine where and when VISTA has to act to control the
development and progression of autoimmune disease.
 [00387] Example 17:Effect of anti-VISTA antibodies CD40/TLR Agonist Vaccine
 [00388] As shown in Figure 22, experiments were conducted that assayed the effect of
anti-VISTA antibodies on vaccine efficacy.           These results show that anti-VISTA
enhances the therapeutic efficacy of a CD40/TLR vaccine. C57BLJ6 mice were
challenged with 1X105 metastatic B16.F10 melanoma cells s.q. Four days later, mice
were vaccinated with 100ptg of the tumor associated antigen AV, 100pg aCD40 FGK45

                                            -164
(CD40 agonistic antibody) and 100pg S-27609(TLR7 agonist) with or without anti
VISTA (200 ug x 3/week). Growth of tumor was monitored by caliper measurements.
 [00389] Having described the invention the following claims are provided. These
claims are intended to cover all generic and specific features described herein, and all
statements of the scope which, as a matter of language, might be said to fall there
between.
100390] Comprises/comprising and grammatical variations thereof when used in
this specification are to be taken to specify the presence of stated features, integers,
steps or components or groups thereof, but do not preclude the presence or addition
of one or more other features, integers, steps, components or groups thereof.

                                                    165
THE CLAIMS DEFINING THE INVENTION ARE AS FOLLOWS:
1.       A method of selecting for an anti-VISTA antibody or antibody fragment having potential use
as a therapeutic or immune modulatory agent for treating indications wherein comprising:
         (i)     immunizing immune cells or a host with a VISTA protein or immunogenic fragment
or conjugate containing;
         (ii)    selecting lymphoid cells which express antibodies that specifically bind to VISTA;
         (iii)   selecting therefrom anti- VISTA antibodies or antibody fragments from those obtained
in (ii) having potential use as a therapeutic or immune modulatory agents based on their ability to
enhance one or more of the following activities of VISTA:
                 (a)      suppression of T cell activation or differentiation;
                 (b)      suppression of CD4' or CD8' T cell proliferation, or
                 (c)      suppression of cytokine production by T cells.
2.       The method of claim 1, wherein the VISTA polypeptide is human.
3.       The method of claim 1, wherein the VISTA polypeptide is rodent.
4.       An anti-VISTA antibody or fragment produced according to claims 1, 2 or 3 or a humanized,
chimeric or single chain variant thereof.
5.       A pharmaceutical composition comprising a pharmaceutically effective amount of an anti
VISTA antibody or fragment which enhances at least one effect of VISTA on immunity.
6.       The pharmaceutical composition of claim 5 wherein said antibody or antibody fragment is
human, humanized or chimeric.
7.       A method of treating an inflammatory, autoimmune               or allergic disorder comprising
administering an effective amount of an anti-VISTA antibody or antibody fragment which enhances
one or more of the effects of VISTA on immunity.

                                                      166
8.         The method of claim 7, wherein said anti-VISTA antibody or antibody fragment enhances one
or more of the following effects of VISTA on immunity:
                  (a)      suppression of T cell activation or differentiation;
                  (b)      suppression of CD4' or CD8' T cell proliferation, or
                  (c)      suppression of cytokine production by T cells.
9.         The method of claim 7 or 8, wherein the disorder treated is selected from type 1 diabetes,
multiple sclerosis, rheumatoid arthritis, psoriatic arthritis, systemic lupus erythematosus, rheumatic
diseases, allergic disorders, asthma, allergic rhinitis, skin disorders, Crohn's disease, ulcerative colitis,
transplant rejection, poststreptococcal     and autiommune        renal failure, septic shock, systemic
inflammatory     response syndrome      (SIRS),    adult respiratory distress syndrome        (ARDS) and
envenomation; autoinflammatory diseases, osteoarthritis, crystal arthritis, capsulitis, arthropathies,
tendonitis, ligamentitis and traumatic joint injury.
10         The method of claims 7 or 8, wherein the disorder treated is multiple sclerosis or rheumatoid
arthritis.
11.        A method of treating or preventing inflammation in a subject in need thereof comprising
administering an anti-VISTA antibody or antibody fragment which anti-VISTA antibody or antibody
fragment enhances at least one effect of VISTA on immunity.
12.        The method of claim 11, wherein the subject has rheumatoid arthritis.
13.        The method of claim 7 or 8, wherein the allergic, inflammatory or autoimmune disorder is
selected from psoriasis, dermatitis, atopic dermatitis; systemic scleroderma, sclerosis; Crohn's disease,
ulcerative colitis; respiratory distress syndrome, adult respiratory distress syndrome; ARDS);
dermatitis;    meningitis;   encephalitis;   uveitis;    colitis; glomerulonephritis;    eczema,     asthma,
atherosclerosis; leukocyte adhesion deficiency; rheumatoid arthritis; systemic lupus erythematosus
(SLE); diabetes mellitus (e.g. Type I diabetes mellitus or insulin dependent diabetes melitis); multiple
sclerosis; Reynaud's syndrome;        autoimmune thyroiditis; allergic encephalomyelitis;          Sj6gren's
syndrome; juvenile onset diabetes; tuberculosis, sarcoidosis, polymyositis, granulomatosis and
vasculitis; pernicious anemia (Addison's disease); central nervous system (CNS) inflammatory disorder,
multiple organ injury syndrome; hemolytic anemia, cryoglobinemia or E66mbs positive anemia;
myasthenia gravis; antigen-antibody complex mediated diseases; anti-glomerular basement membrane

                                                      167
disease; anti-phosphohpid syndrome; allergic neuritis; Graves' disease; Lambert-Eaton myasthenic
syndrome; pemphigoid bullous; pemphigus; autoimmune polyendocrinopathies; Reiter's disease; stiff
man syndrome; Behget disease; giant cell arteritis; immune complex nephritis; IgA nephropathy; IgM
polyneuropathies; immune thrombocytopenic purpura (ITP) and autoimmune thrombocytopenia.
14.       The method of claim 7, 8 or 11, wherein the disease treated is selected from arthritis, rheumatoid
arthritis, acute arthritis, chronic rheumatoid arthritis, gouty arthritis, acute gouty arthritis, chronic
inflammatory arthritis, degenerative arthritis, infectious arthritis, Lyme arthritis, proliferative arthritis,
psoriatic arthritis, vertebral arthritis, and juvenile-onset rheumatoid arthritis, osteoarthritis, arthritis
chronica progredient, arthritis deformans, polyarthritis chronica primaria, reactive arthritis, and
ankylosing spondylitis), inflammatory hyperproliferative skin diseases, psoriasis such as plaque
psoriasis, guttate psoriasis, pustular psoriasis, and psoriasis of the nails, dermatitis including contact
dermatitis, chronic contact dermatitis, allergic dermatitis, allergic contact dermatitis, dermatitis
herpetiformis, and, atopic dermatitis, x-linked hyper IgM syndrome, urticaria such as chronic allergic
urticaria     and    chronic    idiopathic    urticaria,   including    chronic     autoimmune      urticaria,
polymyositis/dermatomyositis, juvenile dermatomyositis, toxic epidermal necrolysis, scleroderma,
systemic scleroderma, sclerosis, systemic sclerosis, multiple sclerosis (MS), spino-optical MS, primary
progressive MS        (PPMS),    relapsing remitting MS       (RRMS),     progressive systemic      sclerosis,
atherosclerosis, arteriosclerosis, sclerosis disseminata, and ataxic sclerosis, inflammatory bowel disease
(IBD) , Crohn's disease, colitis, ulcerative colitis, colitis ulcerosa, microscopic colitis, collagenous
colitis, colitis polyposa, necrotizing enterocolitis, transmural colitis, autoimmune inflammatory bowel
disease, pyoderma gangrenosum, erythema nodosum, primary sclerosing cholangitis, episcleritis,
respiratory distress syndrome, adult or acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS), meningitis,
inflammation of all or part of the uvea, iritis, choroiditis, an autoimmune hematological, disorder,
rheumatoid spondylitis, sudden hearing loss, IgE-mediated diseases such anaphylaxis and allergic and
atopic rhinitis, encephalitis, Rasmussen's encephalitis, limbic and or brainstem encephalitis, uveitis,
anterior    uveitis,   acute  anterior   uveitis,   granulomatous    uveitis,   nongranulomatous      uveitis,
phacoantigenic uveitis, posterior uveitis, autoimmune uveitis, glomerulonephritis (GN), idiopathic
membranous GN or idiopathic -membranous nephropathy, membrano- or membranous proliferative
GN (MPGN), rapidly progressive GN, allergic conditions, autoimmune myocarditis, leukocyte
adhesion deficiency, systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) or systemic lupus erythematodes such as
cutaneous SLE, subacute cutaneous lupus erythematosus, neonatal lupus syndrome (NLE), lupus
erythematosus disseminatus, lupus (including nephritis, cerebritis, pediatric, non-renal, extra-renal,

                                                   168
discoid, alopecia), juvenile onset (Type I) diabetes mellitus, including pediatric insulin-dependent
diabetes mellitus (IDDM), adult onset diabetes mellitus (Type II diabetes), autoimmune diabetes,
idiopathic diabetes insipidus, immune responses associated with acute and delayed hypersensitivity
mediated by cytokines and T-lymphocytes, tuberculosis, sarcoidosis, granulomatosis including
lymphomatoid granulomatosis, Wegener's granulomatosis, agranulocytosis, vasculitides, including
vasculitis (including large vessel vasculitis (including polymyalgia rheumatica and giant cell
(Takayasu's) arteritis), medium vessel vasculitis (including Kawasaki's disease and polyarteritis
nodosa), microscopic polyarteritis, CNS vasculitis, necrotizing, cutaneous, or hypersensitivity
vasculitis, systemic necrotizing vasculitis, and ANCA-associated vasculitis, such as Churg-Strauss
vasculitis or syndrome (CSS)), temporal arteritis, aplastic anemia, autoimmune aplastic anemia,
Coombs positive anemia, Diamond Blackfan anemia, hemolytic anemia or immune hemolytic anemia
including autoimmune hemolytic anemia (AIHA), pernicious anemia (anemia perniciosa), Addison's
disease, pure red cell anemia or aplasia (PRCA), Factor VIII deficiency, autoimmune neutropenia,
pancytopenia, leukopenia, diseases involving leukocyte diapedesis, CNS inflammatory disorders,
multiple organ injury syndrome such as those secondary to septicemia, trauma or hemorrhage, antigen
antibody complex-mediated diseases, anti-glomerular basement membrane disease, anti-phospholipid
antibody    syndrome, allergic    neuritis, Bechet's    or Behget's disease,      Castleman's  syndrome,
Goodpasture's syndrome, Reynaud's syndrome, Sj6gren's syndrome, Stevens- Johnson syndrome,
pemphigoid such as pemphigoid bullous and skin pemphigoid pemphigus (including pemphigus
vulgaris,   pemphigus     foliaceus,  pemphigus     mucus-membrane       pemphigoid,     and   pemphigus
erythematosus), autoimmune polyendocrinopathies, Reiter's disease or syndrome, immune complex
nephritis, antibody-mediated nephritis, neuromyelitis optica, polyneuropathies, chronic neuropathy
such as IgM polyneuropathies         or IgM-mediated neuropathy, thrombocytopenia , thrombotic
thrombocytopenic purpura (TTP), idiopathic thrombocytopenic purpura (ITP), autoimmune orchitis and
oophoritis, primary hypothyroidism, hypoparathyroidism, autoimmune thyroiditis,               Hashimoto's
disease, chronic thyroiditis (Hashimoto's thyroiditis); subacute thyroiditis, autoimmune thyroid disease,
idiopathic   hypothyroidism,     Grave's  disease, polyglandular     syndromes     such  as autoimmune
polyglandular syndromes (or polyglandular endocrinopathy syndromes), paraneoplastic syndromes,
including neurologic paraneoplastic syndromes such as Lambert-Eaton myasthenic syndrome or Eaton
Lambert syndrome, stiff-man or stiff-person syndrome, encephalomyelitis, allergic encephalomyelitis,
experimental allergic encephalomyelitis (EAE), myasthenia gravis, thymoma-associated myasthenia
gravis, cerebellar degeneration, neuromyotonia, opsoclonus or opsoclonus myoclonus syndrome
(OMS), and sensory neuropathy, multifocal motor neuropathy, Sheehan's syndrome, autoimmune

                                                      169
hepatitis, chronic hepatitis, lupoid hepatitis, giant cell hepatitis, chronic active hepatitis or autoimmune
chronic active hepatitis, lymphoid interstitial pneumonitis, bronchiolitis obliterans (non-transplant) vs
NSIP, Guillain-Barre syndrome, Berger*s disease (IgA nephropathy), idiopathic IgA nephropathy,
linear IgA dermatosis, primary biliary cirrhosis, pneumonocirrhosis, autoimmune enteropathy
syndrome, Celiac disease, Coeliac disease, celiac sprue (gluten enteropathy), refractory sprue,
idiopathic sprue, cryoglobulinemia, amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS; Lou Gehrig's disease),
coronary artery disease, autoimmune ear disease such as autoimmune inner ear disease (AGED),
autoimmune hearing loss, opsoclonus myoclonus syndrome (OMS), polychondritis such as refractory
or relapsed polychondritis, pulmonary alveolar proteinosis, amyloidosis, scleritis, non-cancerous
lymphocytosis, primary lymphocytosis, which includes monoclonal B cell lymphocytosis (e.g., benign
monoclonal gammopathy and monoclonal gammopathy of undetermined significance, MGUS),
peripheral neuropathy; paraneoplastic syndrome, channelopathies such as epilepsy, migraine,
arrhythmia muscular disorders, deafness, blindness, periodic paralysis, and channelopathies' of the
CNS, autism, inflammatory myopathy, focal segmental glomerulosclerosis (FSGS),                       endocrine
ophthalmopathy, uveoretinitis, chorioretinitis, autoimmune hepatological disorder, fibromyalgia,
multiple endocrine failure, Schmidt's syndrome, adrenalitis, gastric atrophy, presenile dementia,
demyelinating diseases such as autoimmune demyelinating diseases, diabetic nephropathy, Dressler
syndrome, alopecia greata, CREST syndrome (calcinosis, Raynaud's phenomenon, esophageal
dysmotility, sclerodactyl), and telangiectasia), male and female autoimmune infertility, mixed
connective tissue disease, Chagas disease, rheumatic fever, recurrent abortion, farmer's lung, erythema
multiforme,     post-cardiotomy     syndrome,     Cushing's    syndrome,      bird-fancier's   lung,   allergic
granulomatous angiitis, benign lymphocytic angiitis; Alport's syndrome, alveolitis such as allergic
alveolitis and fibrosing alveolitis, interstitial lung disease, transfusion reaction, leprosy, malaria,
leishmaniasis, kypanosomiasis, schistosomiasis, ascariasis, aspergillosis, Sampler's syndrome, Caplan's
syndrome, dengue, endocarditis, endomyocardial fibrosis, diffuse interstitial pulmonary fibrosis,
interstitial lung fibrosis, idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis, cystic fibrosis, endophthalmitis, erythema
elevatum et diutinum, erythroblastosis fetalis, eosinophilic faciitis, Shulman's syndrome, Felt/s
syndrome, filariasis, cyclitis such as chronic cyclitis, heterochrony cyclitis, iridocyclitis, or Fuch's
cyclitis, Henoch-Sch6nlein purpura, human immunodeficiency virus (HTV) infection, echovirus
infection, cardiomyopathy, Alzheimer's disease, parvovirus infection, rubella virus infection, post
vaccination syndromes, congenital rubella infection, Epstein-Barr virus infection, mumps, Evan's
syndrome,      autoimmune      gonadal   failure,    Sydenham's       chorea,   poststreptococcal    nephritis,
thromboangiitis ubiterans, thyrotoxicosis, tabes dorsalis, chorioiditis, giant cell polymyalgia, endocrine

                                                    170
ophthalmopathy,      chronic   hypersensitivity  pneumonitis,    keratoconjunctivitis    sicca,  epidemic
keratoconjunctivitis, idiopathic nephritic syndrome, minimal change nephropathy, benign familial and
ischemia-reperfusion injury, retinal autoimmunity, joint inflammation, bronchitis, chronic obstructive
airway disease, silicosis, aphthae, aphthous stomatitis, arteriosclerotic disorders, aspermiogenesis,
autoimmune hemolysis, Boeck's disease, cryoglobulinemia, Dupuytren's contracture, enophthalmia
phacoanaphylactica, enteritis allergica, erythema nodosum leprosum, idiopathic facial paralysis,
chronic fatigue syndrome, febris rheumatica, Hamman-Rich's disease, sensoneural hearing loss,
hemoglobinuria paroxysmatica, hypogonadism; ileitis regionalis, leucopenia, mononucleosis infectiosa,
traverse myelitis, primary idiopathic myxedema, nephrosis,            ophthalmia symphatica,       orchitis
granulomatosa, pancreatitis, polyradiculitis acuta, pyoderma gangrenosum, Quervain's thyroiditis,
acquired splenic atrophy, infertility due to antispermatozoan antibodies, non-malignant thymoma,
vitiligo, SCID and Epstein-Barr virus-associated diseases, acquired immune deficiency syndrome
(AIDS), parasitic diseases such as Leishmania, toxic-shock syndrome, food poisoning, conditions
involving infiltration of T cells, leukocyte-adhesion deficiency, immune responses associated with
acute and delayed hypersensitivity mediated by cytokines and T-lymphocytes, diseases involving
leukocyte diapedesis, multiple organ injury syndrome, antigen-antibody complex-mediated diseases,
antiglomerular basement membrane disease, allergic neuritis, autoimmune polyendocrinopathies,
oophoritis, primary myxedema, autoimmune atrophic gastritis, sympathetic ophthalmia, rheumatic
diseases, mixed connective tissue disease, nephrotic syndrome, insulitis, polyendocrine failure,
peripheral   neuropathy,    autoimmune     polyglandular   syndrome    type I,   adult-onset    idiopathic
hypoparathyroidism (AOIH), alopecia totalis, dilated cardiomyopathy, epidermolysis bullosa acquisita
(EBA), hemochromatosis, myocarditis nephrotic syndrome, primary sclerosing cholangitis, purulent or
nonpurulent sinusitis, acute or chronic sinusitis, ethmoid, frontal, maxillary, or sphenoid sinusitis, an
eosinophil-related disorder such as eosinophilia, pulmonary infiltration eosinophilia, eosinophilia
myalgia syndrome, Lo filer's syndrome, chronic eosinophilic pneumonia, tropical pulmonary
eosinophilia, bronchopneumonia aspergillosis, aspergilloma, or granulomas containing eosinophils,
anaphylaxis,   seronegative    spondyloarthritides,   polyendocrine   autoimmune      disease,  sclerosing
cholangitis, sclera, episclera, chronic mucocutaneous candidiasis, Bruton's syndrome, transient
hypogammaglobulinemia of infancy, Wiskott-Aldrich syndrome, ataxia telangiectasia, autoimmune
disorders associated with collagen disease, rheumatism, neurological disease, ischemic re-perfusion
disorder, reduction in blood pressure response, vascular dysfunction, angiectasis, tissue injury,
cardiovascular ischemia, hyperalgesia, cerebral ischemia, and disease accompanying vascularization,
allergic hypersensitivity disorders, glomerulonephritides, reperfusion injury, reperfusion injury of

                                                    171
myocardial or other tissues, dermatoses with acute inflammatory components, acute purulent meningitis
or other central nervous system inflammatory disorders, ocular and orbital inflammatory disorders;
granulocyte transfusion-associated syndromes, cytokine-induced toxicity, acute serious inflammation,
chronic intractable inflammation, pyelitis, pneumonocirrhosis, diabetic retinopathy, diabetic large
artery disorder, endarterial hyperplasia, peptic ulcer, valvulitis, and endometriosis.
15.      A method of treating a cell mediated autoimmune disease comprising administering an effective
amount of an anti-VISTA antibody or antibody fragment which anti-VISTA antibody or antibody
fragment enhances at least one effect of VISTA on immunity.
16.      The method of claim 15, wherein the cell mediated autoimmune disease is selected from
multiple sclerosis, EAE, diabetes type I, oophoritis, and thyroiditis.
                           TRUSTEES OF DARTMOUTH COLLEGE
WATERMARK INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY PTY LTD
P36618AU02

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                       1

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                       2

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                       3

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                       4

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                       5

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                       6

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                       7

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                       8

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                       9

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                       10

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                       11

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                       12

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                       13

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                       14

