ABSTRACT
        A nuclear magnetic flow meter (1) for measuring the flow rate of a multiphase
medium (4) which is flowing through a measuring tube (3) is described, with a nuclear
magnetic measurement device (2), the nuclear magnetic measurement device (2) being
located around the measuring tube (3).
        In accordance with the invention an improved accuracy of the measurement of the
flow rate for the gaseous phase is achieved in that in addition to the nuclear magnetic
measurement device (2) there is a further measurement device which implements another
measurement principle, in the described exemplary embodiment a differential pressure flow
rate measurement device (5). In the described exemplary embodiment the differential pressure
flow rate measurement device (5) is made for measuring the differential pressure of the
medium (4) in the measuring tube (3), and there are at least one pressure gauge (8a, 8b) each
on two measurement sites (6a, 6b) which are different in the longitudinal direction (7) of the
measuring tube (3).

                1/2
                                     1
       3
                                           7
            L.
                    2
3 5   6a 8a               5    6b       8b
                Fig. 1
   9a                                   9b 7
                                           3
              5     6a 8a   6b    8b   5
                Fig. 2

                                                 1
NUCLEAR MAGNETIC FLOW METER AND METHOD FOR OPERATION OF
NUCLEAR MAGNETIC FLOW METERS
FIELD OF THE INVENTION
[0001]          The invention relates to a nuclear magnetic flow meter for measuring the flow
rate of a multiphase medium which is flowing through a measuring tube, with a nuclear
magnetic measurement device, the nuclear magnetic measurement device being located
around the measuring tube. Moreover, the invention also relates to a method for operation of
nuclear magnetic flow meters.
BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
[0002]          The atomic nuclei of the elements which have a nuclear spin also have a
magnetic moment which is caused by the nuclear spin. The nuclear spin can be construed as
an angular momentum described by a vector, and accordingly the magnetic moment can also
be described by a vector which is aligned parallel to the vector of the angular momentum. The
vector of the magnetic moment of an atomic nucleus in the presence of a macroscopic
magnetic field is aligned parallel to the vector of the macroscopic magnetic field at the
location of the atomic nucleus. Here the vector of the magnetic moment of the atomic nucleus
precesses around the vector of the macroscopic magnetic field at the location of the atomic
nucleus. The frequency of the precession is called the Larmor frequency (OL and is
proportional to the amount of the magnetic field strength B. The Larmor frequency is
computed according to the relationship OL = y B. Here, y is the gyromagnetic ratio which is
maximum for hydrogen nuclei.
[0003]          Measurement methods which influence the precession of atomic nuclei of a
medium in the presence of a macroscopic magnetic field by excitation by means of a
controlled magnetic field and which evaluate the action of the influence are called nuclear
magnetic resonance measurement methods. Usually, the electrical signals which have been
induced in a sensor coil by the precessing atomic nuclei after excitations are used as the
output variable for the evaluation. The prerequisite for the measurement of a multiphase

                                                  2
medium is that the individual phases of the medium can be excited to distinguishable nuclear
magnetic resonances. The magnitude of the electrical signals which have been induced in the
sensor coil by the precessing atomic nuclei of a phase of the medium is dependent on the
number of precessing atomic nuclei per volumetric element in this phase, accordingly
therefore dependent on the density of the phase, but also dependent on the duration of
influence of the precessing atomic nuclei in the influencing controlled magnetic field.
Consequently, the magnitude of the electrical signals for the liquid phases of the medium is
larger than for the gaseous phases. It follows from this that, in nuclear magnetic flow meters,
the measurement accuracy for the measurement of the liquid phase of the medium can be
relatively accurate, while the smaller magnitude of the electrical signals for the gaseous
phases adversely affects the measurement accuracy of the nuclear magnetic flow meters for
the measurement of the gaseous phase, especially when the gaseous phase has a relatively low
density and/or when the gaseous phase is flowing with a relatively high velocity through the
measuring tube.
[0004]            One example of measurement devices which use nuclear magnetic resonance
is the initially addressed nuclear magnetic flow meters whose nuclear magnetic measurement
devices can measure the flow rate, that is, the flow velocity of the individual phases of the
medium and the relative proportions of the individual phases in the multiphase medium.
Nuclear magnetic flow meters can be used, for example, for measuring the flow rate of a
multiphase medium which has been conveyed from oil sources. This medium consists
essentially of the liquid phases crude oil and salt water and the gaseous phase natural gas, all
phases containing the hydrogen nuclei which are necessary for nuclear magnetic resonances
and being excitable to different nuclear magnetic resonances.
[0005]            In the measurement of the medium which has been conveyed from oil sources,
it is also possible to work with test separators. The conveyed medium is introduced into test
separators over a time interval and the test separators separate the individual phases of the
medium from one another and determine the proportions of the individual phases in the
medium. However, test separators, in contrast to nuclear magnetic flow meters, are not able to
reliably separate proportions of crude oil smaller than 5%. Since the proportion of crude oil of
all sources continuously decreases and the proportion of crude oil of a host of sources is
already less than 5%, at present it is not possible to economically exploit these sources using

                                                 3
test separators. In order to furthermore also be able to exploit sources with a very small
proportion of crude oil, correspondingly accurate flow meters for the medium, crude oil,
which consists of several phases are necessary. In particular, nuclear magnetic flow meters are
possible for this purpose.
SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
[0006]           A primary object of this invention is, therefore, to devise a nuclear magnetic
flow meter with improved accuracy of the measurement of the flow rate for the gaseous phase
and to devise methods for the operation of nuclear magnetic flow meters.
[0007]           The nuclear magnetic flow meter in accordance with the invention in which
the aforementioned object is achieved is, first of all, characterized essentially in that, in
addition, there is another measurement device which implements another measurement
principle.
[0008]           Different measurement principles for measuring the flow rate have different
advantages and disadvantages. In a combination of two measurement devices which
implement different measurement principles, the disadvantages of one measurement principle
can be compensated by the advantages of the other measurement principle, at least in part.
[0009]           There are measuring devices which work according to various measurement
principles and with which the medium flowing altogether through a measuring tube can be
measured relatively accurately. This applies, even if partially with limitations, to differential
pressure flow rate measurement devices, to ultrasonic flow rate measurement devices, to a
Coriolis flow rate measurement devices, and under certain circumstances also to magnetic
inductive flow rate measurement devices. Consequently, in the nuclear magnetic flow meter
in accordance with the invention, the nuclear magnetic measuring device can be combined
especially with a differential pressure flow rate measurement device, an ultrasonic flow rate
measurement device, a Coriolis flow rate measurement device, and optionally, also with a
magnetic-inductive flow rate measurement device.
[0010]           At this point, with a nuclear magnetic flow meter in accordance with the
invention, as compared to a nuclear magnetic flow meter which has only one nuclear

                                                 4
magnetic measuring device, how can the measurement accuracy of the flow rate measurement
for the gaseous phase be improved?
[0011]          The nuclear magnetic flow meter in accordance with the invention comprises a
nuclear magnetic measuring device and a additional measuring device which implements a
measurement principle other than the nuclear magnetic measurement principle. If the
additional measuring device is one with which the multiphase medium flowing altogether
through the measuring tube can be measured relatively accurately, with the nuclear magnetic
flow meter in accordance with the invention, first of all, two relatively accurate measured
values are obtained, specifically with the additionally provided measuring device, a relatively
accurate measured value for the multiphase medium flowing altogether through the measuring
tube, and with the nuclear magnetic measuring device, a relatively accurately measured value
for the liquid phase or the liquid phases of the multiphase medium flowing through the
measuring tube. At this point, if the measured value which has been obtained with the nuclear
magnetic measuring device for the liquid phase or the liquid phases of the medium flowing
through the measuring tube is subtracted from the measured value which has been obtained
with the additional measuring device for the medium flowing altogether through the
measuring tube, a measured value for the gaseous phase of the multiphase medium flowing
through the measuring tube is obtained with relative accuracy.
[0012]          What was described above is an approach which ignores the fact that, for
example, with a differential pressure flow rate measuring device which has a Venturi tube, the
gaseous phase of a multiphase medium flowing through a measuring tube can be determined.
In any case, the proportion of the liquid phase or the liquid phases must be considered, and the
density of the multiphase medium flowing altogether through the measuring tube must also
be considered. If a measured value has been determined with a differential pressure flow rate
measuring device which has a Venturi tube, therefore the gaseous phase can then be estimated
with a certain accuracy.
[0013]          Therefore, under certain circumstances, different parameters must be
considered, such as, for example, the density of the multiphase medium, for what was
described above, therefore obtaining a relatively accurate first measured value for the
multiphase medium flowing altogether through the measuring tube, obtaining a relatively

                                                  5
accurate second measured value for the liquid phase or the liquid phases of the multiphase
medium flowing through the measuring tube, and subtracting the second measured value from
the first measured value.
[0014]          Preferably, in the nuclear magnetic flow meter in accordance with the
invention, the additional measuring device is a differential pressure flow rate measuring
device which is made to measure the differential pressure of the medium in the measuring
tube and which has at least one pressure gauge at each of at least two different measurement
sites which are spaced from each other in the longitudinal direction of the measuring tube.
The measurement sites, each of which has at least one pressure gauge, are provided at the
sites of the measuring tube on which the pressure of the flowing medium in the measuring
tube differs from one another due to the cross-sectional shape.
[0015]          In particular, there are various possibilities of configuration and development
for the above described nuclear magnetic flow meter in accordance with the invention in
which therefore the additional measuring device is made as a differential pressure flow rate
measuring device.
[0016]          A first preferred embodiment of a nuclear magnetic flow meter in accordance
with the invention with a differential pressure flow rate measuring device as an additional
measuring device is wherein the measuring tube is formed of a first measuring tube
component and a second measuring tube component and that the nuclear magnetic measuring
device is located around the first measuring tube component and the additional measuring
device is implemented in conjunction with the second measuring tube component.
[0017]          Especially in the embodiment of a nuclear magnetic flow meter in accordance
with the invention which was described last, but not only in it, the measuring tube in the
longitudinal direction of the measuring tube has at least a first segment, a second segment
which follows the first segment and a third segment which follows the second segment, the
cross-sectional area in the first segment and in the third segment being constant and the
cross-sectional area in the second segment having a characteristic form which differs from the
cross-sectional areas in the first segment and in the third segment. This embodiment of a
nuclear magnetic flow meter in which the measuring tube in the longitudinal direction of the

                                                 6
measuring tube has at least a first segment, a second segment which follows the first segment
and a third segment which follows the second segment, is especially feasible if the measuring
tube is formed of a first measuring tube component and a second measuring tube component
and there are segments of the measuring tube in the second measuring tube component.
Preferably, the cross-sectional areas in the second segment are smaller than the cross-sectional
areas in the first segment and in the third segments.
[0018]           What was stated above with reference to the cross-sectional areas in the
second segment can be implemented in different ways. In particular, the measuring tube in the
second segment, when the measuring tube consists of a first measuring tube component and a
second measuring tube component, can have an insert which can be attached in the second
segment, preferably therefore in the second measuring tube component. This insert can have a
conical cross-sectional shape preferably in the longitudinal direction of the measuring tube. It
is also easily possible here to implement a diaphragm, a nozzle or a Venturi nozzle in the
region of the second segment. The first segment, the second segment and the third segment
can, together, form a Venturi tube. If the measuring tube is formed of a first measuring tube
component and second measuring tube component, and the first segment, the second segment
and the third segment of the measuring tube are provided in the second measuring tube
component, then the second measuring tube component is made altogether as a Venturi tube.
[0019]           An embodiment of a nuclear magnetic flow meter in accordance with the
invention quite different from that described above is possible, specifically one in which the
cross-sectional area in the second segment of the measuring tube is greater than the cross
section areas in the first segment of the measuring tube and in the third segment of the
measuring tube.
[0020]           It has already been explained above, how with a nuclear magnetic flow meter
in accordance with the invention compared to a nuclear magnetic flow meter which has only a
nuclear magnetic measuring device, the measurement accuracy of the flow rate measurement
for the gaseous phase can be improved, specifically by obtaining a relatively accurate first
measured value for the multiphase medium flowing altogether through the measuring tube,
obtaining a relatively accurate second measured value for the liquid phase or the liquid phases
of the multiphase medium flowing through the measuring tube and subtracting the second

                                                 7
measured value from the first measured value. This is a "black-white approach" which leaves
ignored the fact that obtaining a relatively accurate first measured value for the multiphase
medium which is flowing altogether through the measuring tube when a differential pressure
flow rate measuring device is used as the additional measuring device, is dependent on the
density of the medium flowing through the measuring tube and that the density, in turn, is
dependent on the composition of the multiphase medium flowing through the measuring tube,
specifically on the proportions of the liquid phase or the liquid phases and the gaseous phase.
How this dependency of the density of the multiphase medium flowing through the measuring
tube can be considered is explained below.
[0021]          So far, the nuclear magnetic flow meter in accordance with the invention and
preferred embodiments of the nuclear magnetic flow meter in accordance with the invention
have been described in which a differential pressure flow rate measuring device is
implemented as an additional measuring device. However, the invention is not limited to what
follows from the statements made above.
[0022]          The teaching of the invention also includes a nuclear magnetic flow meter in
which the other measuring device is an ultrasonic flow rate measuring device. This nuclear
magnetic flow meter in accordance with the invention can then be used especially well when
the multiphase medium flowing through the measuring tube, and thus, also its gaseous phase
are flowing with a relatively high velocity through the measuring tube, especially also when
the multiphase medium which is flowing through the measuring tube is a "wet gas" in which
the liquid phase is so to speak in droplet form in the gaseous phase, or when the inside of the
measuring tube is wetted by the liquid phase or the liquid phases.
[0023]          In particular, there are now various possibilities for configuring and
developing the nuclear magnetic flow meter and method for operating nuclear magnetic flow
meters in accordance with the invention. In this respect reference is made to the description of
preferred exemplary embodiments in conjunction with the accompanying drawings.

                                                8
BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
[0024]          Figure 1 schematically shows a first exemplary embodiment of the nuclear
magnetic flow meter in accordance with the invention with a one-piece measuring tube,
[0025]          Figure 2 schematically shows a second exemplary embodiment of the nuclear
magnetic flow meter in accordance with the invention with a measuring tube which is formed
of first and second measuring tube components,
[0026]          Figure 3 shows an exemplary embodiment in which an insert is used to reduce
the cross-sectional area of a portion of the measuring tube, and
[0027]          Figures 4a-4c show exemplary embodiments in which, respectively, a
diaphragm, a nozzle and a Venturi is provided to reduce the cross-sectional area of a portion
of the measuring tube.
DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION
[0028]          Figure 1 schematically shows a first exemplary embodiment and Figure 2
shows a second exemplary embodiment of the nuclear magnetic flow meter 1 in accordance
with the invention. Each of the nuclear magnetic flow meters 1 comprises a nuclear magnetic
measurement device 2 for measuring the flow rate of a multiphase medium 4 which is flowing
through a measuring tube 3. The nuclear magnetic measurement device 2 is located around
the measuring tube 3. In addition, there is an additional measurement device which works
according to a measurement principle other than the nuclear magnetic measurement principle.
In both exemplary embodiments, the other measurement device is a differential pressure flow
rate measurement device 5. Here, the differential pressure flow rate measurement device 5 has
a pressure gauge 8a, 8b at each of two longitudinal sites 6a, 6b which are spaced from each
other in the longitudinal direction 7 of the measuring tube 3.
[0029]          Both in the first exemplary embodiment and also in the second exemplary
embodiment of the nuclear magnetic flow meter 1 in accordance with the invention, the
pressure of the medium 4 in the measuring tube 3 is measured through openings in the wall of
the measuring tube 3. Here, there is one or more pressure gauges 8a, 8b at each of the two

                                                9
measurement sites 6a, 6b. The resulting redundancy increases the accuracy of the pressure
measurements. Commercial pressure sensors are used as pressure sensors in the pressure
gauges 8a, 8b.
[0030]           The measuring tube 3 in the first exemplary embodiment of the nuclear
magnetic flow meter 1 in accordance with the invention, see Figure 1, has a constant inner
cross-sectional area shape in the longitudinal direction 7 of the measuring tube 3. Due to the
friction between the medium 4 and the measuring tube 3 which is caused by the flow of the
medium 4, the pressure of the medium 4 in the measuring tube 3 drops in the flow direction of
the medium 4 in the longitudinal direction 7 of the measuring tube. Accordingly, the pressure
gauges 8a, 8b measure pressures of different magnitude; the pressure at the measurement site
6a is higher than the pressure at the measurement site 6b.
[0031]           The measuring tube 3 in the second exemplary embodiment of the nuclear
magnetic flow meter in accordance with the invention, see Figure 2, is formed of a first
measuring tube component 9a and of a second measuring tube component 9b. The nuclear
magnetic measurement device 2 is located around the first measuring tube component 9a. The
further measurement device, in the exemplary embodiment therefore the differential pressure
flow rate measurement device 5, is implemented in conjunction with the second measuring
tube component 9b. The first measuring tube component 9a is therefore part of the partially
magnetic measurement device 2, while the second measuring tube component 9b is part of the
differential pressure flow rate measurement device 5. The nuclear magnetic measurement
device 2 with the first measuring tube component 9a and the differential pressure flow rate
measurement device 5 with the second measuring tube component 9b form the, so to speak,
modular nuclear magnetic flow meter 1 in accordance with the invention.
[0032]           As Figure 2 shows, in the second exemplary embodiment, the second
measuring tube component 9b of the measuring tube 3 has a first segment 10a, a second
segment 10b which follows the first segment 10a and a third segment 10c which follows the
second segment 10b. The cross-sectional areas in the first segment 10a and in the third
segment 1Oc are constant, while the cross-sectional area in the second segment 1Ob has a
shape which differs from the cross-sectional areas in the first segment 10a and in the third
segment 10c. Specifically, the cross-sectional areas in the second segment 10b are smaller

                                                10
than the cross-sectional areas in the first segment 1Oa and in the third segment 1Oc.
Specifically the segments 1Oa, 1Ob, and 1Oc of the second measuring tube component 9b form
a Venturi tube. By making the second measuring tube component 9b as a Venturi tube, the
pressure difference between the pressure gauges 8a, 8b is greater than the pressure difference
between the pressure gauges 8a, 8b in the first exemplary embodiment. This higher pressure
difference can lead to improved measurement accuracy.
[0033]           In the exemplary embodiment shown in Figure 2, the first measuring tube
component 9a of the measuring tube 3 is located in the longitudinal direction 7 of the
measuring tube 3, therefore in the flow direction of the medium 4, upstream of the second
measuring tube component 9b. However, it is also possible to provide the first measuring tube
component 9a downstream of the second measuring tube component 9b. Depending on the
arrangement of the first measuring tube component 9a with reference to the second measuring
tube component 9b, the first measuring tube component 9a can constitute either the inlet
region of the nuclear magnetic flow meter 1 in accordance with the invention or its outlet
region.
[0034]           The nuclear magnetic measurement device 2 and the first measuring tube
component 9a, together, form the initially described nuclear magnetic flow meter. The second
measuring tube component 9b and the differential pressure flow rate measurement device 5
expand the nuclear magnetic measurement device modularly into the nuclear magnetic flow
meter 1 in accordance with the invention.
[0035]           The inner cross-sectional area shape of the second measuring tube component
9b of the measuring tube 3 is divided along the longitudinal axis 7 into three segments,
specifically into a first segment 10a, a second segment 1Ob which follows the first segment
10a in the flow direction of the medium 4, and a further third segment 1Oc which follows the
second segment 10b in the flow direction. The cross-sectional areas along the longitudinal
axis 7, both in the first segment 10a and also in the third segment 1Oc, are constant while the
cross-sectional area shape along the longitudinal axis 7 in the second segment 10b has a cross
sectional area which differs from the cross-sectional areas in the first segment 1Oa and in the
second segment 10b. Quite specifically, the cross-sectional area shape of the segments 10a,
1Ob and 1Oc, together, forms a Venturi tube. There are longitudinal sites 6a, 6b on which the

                                                 11
two pressure gauges 8a, 8b are located at sites along the longitudinal axis 7 at which the
pressures of the flowing medium 4 in the measuring tube component 9b differ from one
another based on the cross-sectional shape; the pressure of the medium 4 which has been
measured by the pressure gauge 8a is higher than the pressure which has been measured by
the pressure gauge 8b.
[0036]          By making the second measuring tube component 9b as a Venturi tube, the
pressure difference between the pressure gauges 8a, 8b is greater than the pressure difference
between the pressure gauges 8a, 8b in the first exemplary embodiment. A higher flow
resistance of the medium 4 in the measuring tube 3 also goes along with the higher pressure
difference. A higher pressure difference results in better measurement precision.
[0037]          Viewed in the flow direction of the medium 4, the first measuring tube
component 9a is located upstream of the second measuring tube component 9b. But it is also
possible to arrange the first measuring tube component 9a downstream of the second
measuring tube component 9b. For precision pressure measurement, both an inlet region
upstream and also an outlet region downstream of the second measuring tube component 9b
are necessary. Depending on the arrangement of the first measuring tube component 9a with
reference to the second measuring tube component 9b, the first measuring tube component 9a
can constitute either the inlet region or the outlet region.
[0038]          The nuclear magnetic flow meter 1 in accordance with the invention can be
operated as follows for measuring the flow rate of a multiphase medium 4 flowing through a
measuring tube 3:
[0039]          A measured value for the multiphase medium 4 flowing altogether through the
measuring tube 3 is determined with the further measurement device provided in the nuclear
magnetic flow meter 1 in accordance with the invention, in the illustrated and described
exemplary embodiment, therefore, the differential pressure flow rate measurement device 5.
[0040]          With the nuclear magnetic measurement device 2, a measured value for the
liquid phase or the liquid phases of the medium 4 flowing through the measuring tube 3 is
determined,

                                                  12
[0041]           To determine the measured value for the gaseous phase of the medium 4
flowing through the measuring tube 3, the measured value for the liquid phase or the liquid
phases of the multiphase medium 4 flowing through the measuring tube 3 which was obtained
with the nuclear magnetic measurement device 2 is subtracted from the measured value
obtained with the additional measuring device, in the exemplary embodiment therefore the
differential pressure flow rate measurement device 5, for the multiphase medium 4 flowing
altogether through the measuring tube 3.
[0042]           Preferably, in the above described method, the determination of the measured
value for the multiphase medium 4 flowing altogether through the measuring tube 3 is
repeated, preferably repeated several times, and an average value is formed from the
measured values which have been obtained in doing so and the measured value for the liquid
phase or the liquid phases of the multiphase medium flowing through the measuring tube 3 is
subtracted from the measured value formed to determine the measured value for the gaseous
phase of the multiphase medium 4 flowing through the measuring tube 3.
[0043]           It has already been stated above that the above addressed method for operating
a nuclear magnetic flow meter 1 is based on a "black-white approach" which leaves ignored
the fact that obtaining a relatively accurate first measured value for the multiphase medium as
a whole which is flowing through the measuring tube 3, in any case, when a differential
pressure flow rate measuring device 5 is being used as the additional measuring device, is
dependent on the density of the medium 4 flowing through the measuring tube 3 and that the
density of the medium 4 flowing through the measuring tube 3, in turn, is dependent on the
composition of the multiphase medium 4 flowing through the measuring tube 3, specifically
on the proportions of the liquid phase or of the liquid phases and the gaseous phase in the
multiphase medium 4 flowing through the measuring tube 3. Taking this into account, a
method for operating a nuclear magnetic flow meter 1 for measuring the flow rate of a
multiphase medium 4 which is flowing through a measuring tube 3 is recommended, the
nuclear magnetic flow meter 1 having a nuclear magnetic measurement device 2 and an
additional measurement device which implements another measurement principle, preferably
a differential pressure flow rate measurement device 5, is wherein, with the additional
measurement device, a measured value is determined repeatedly, specifically successively for
the multiphase medium 4 as a whole flowing through the measuring tube 3, and that, for the

                                                 13
(n + 1)* determination, the measured value which has been obtained in the nh determination
is taken into account. In doing so, therefore, in the (n+1) determination of the measured value
for the multiphase medium 4 flowing through the measuring tube 3, the measured value
obtained in the nth determination is taken into account, therefore the dependency of the density
of the multiphase medium 4 flowing through the measuring tube 3 on the composition of the
multiphase medium 4 flowing through the measuring tube 3 is taken into account.
[0044]          What was explained above, therefore the repeated determination of the
multiphase medium flowing through the measuring tube 3 is preferably carried out using the
additional measurement device until the difference between the measured value which was
obtained in the (n + 1)th determination and the measured value which was obtained in the nth
determination is smaller than a given difference which is regarded as allowable, for example,
a difference of 3% or less, under certain circumstances even of 1%.
[0045]          In the above described repeated determination of the multiphase medium 4
flowing altogether through the measuring tube 3 using the further measurement device, in the
second determination, in the third determination, up to the (n + 1) determination an
algorithm or algorithms are used which determine the density of the multiphase medium 4
flowing through the measuring tube 3 based on the composition of the multiphase medium 4
flowing altogether through the measuring tube 3, therefore on the proportion of the liquid
phase or the liquid phases on the one hand and of the gaseous phase on the other.
[0046]          What was stated above with reference to the cross-sectional areas in the
second segment 9b can be implemented in different ways. In particular, the measuring tube, in
the second segment 9b, when the measuring tube is formed of a first measuring tube
component 9a and a second measuring tube component 9b, can have an insert which can be
attached in the second segment, preferably therefore in the second measuring tube component.
This insert can have a conical cross-sectional shape as shown in Fig. 3, preferably in the
longitudinal direction of the measuring tube. It is also easily possible here to implement a
diaphragm as shown in Fig. 4a, a nozzle as shown in Fig. 4b or a Venturi nozzle as shown in
Fig. 4c in the region of the second segment.

                                                14
[0047]          Throughout this specification and the claims which follow, unless the
context requires otherwise, the word "comprise", and variations such as "comprises" and
"comprising", will be understood to imply the inclusion of a stated integer or step or group
of integers or steps but not the exclusion of any other integer or step or group of integers or
steps.
[0048]          The reference to any prior art in this specification is not and should not be
taken as an acknowledgement or any form of suggestion that the prior art forms part of the
common general knowledge in Australia.
[0049]            This application is a divisional application from Australian Application
2013254946. The full disclosure of AU2013254946 is incorporated herein by reference.

                                                15
CLAIMS
1.        A nuclear magnetic flow meter for measuring the flow rate of a multiphase medium
comprising:
          a measuring tube through which a multiphase medium is able to flow,
          a nuclear magnetic measurement device for measuring the flow rate of the
multiphase medium surrounding the measuring tube, and
          an additional measurement device for measuring the flow rate of the multiphase
medium which operates on a measurement principle other than that of the nuclear magnetic
measurement device,
          wherein the additional measurement device is a differential pressure flow rate
measurement device, wherein the differential pressure flow rate measurement device is
adapted for measuring a pressure differential of the medium in the measuring tube, and where
the differential pressure flow rate measurement device comprises at least one pressure gauge
at each of at least two measurement sites which are spaced from each other in a longitudinal
direction of the measuring tube.
2.        The nuclear magnetic flow meter in accordance with claim 1, wherein the
measurement sites are provided at locations at which the pressure of the flowing medium in
the measuring tube differs from one another due to differences in the cross-sectional shape of
the measuring tube.
3.        The nuclear magnetic flow meter in accordance with claim 1, wherein the measuring
tube is formed of a first measuring tube component and a second measuring tube component
and wherein the nuclear magnetic measurement device is located around the first measuring
tube component and the additional measurement device is implemented in conjunction with
the second measuring tube component.
4.        The nuclear magnetic flow meter in accordance with claim 1, wherein the measuring
tube has at least one first segment, a second segment which follows the first segment and a
third segment which follows the second segment in the longitudinal direction of the
measuring tube, and wherein the first and third segments have a constant cross-sectional area

                                                 16
and wherein the second segment has a cross-sectional area which differs from the cross
sectional areas of the first and third segments.
5.        The nuclear magnetic flow meter in accordance with claim 3, wherein the measuring
tube has at least one first segment, a second segment which follows the first segment and a
third segment which follows the second segment in the longitudinal direction of the
measuring tube, and wherein the first and third segments have a constant cross-sectional area
and wherein the second segment has a cross-sectional area which differs from the cross
sectional areas of the first and third segments, and wherein the segments of the measuring
tube are formed in the second measuring tube component.
6.        The nuclear magnetic flow meter in accordance with claim 5, wherein the
cross-sectional area of the second segment is smaller than the cross-sectional area of the first
and third segments.
7.        The nuclear magnetic flow meter in accordance with claim 4, wherein the
cross-sectional area of the second segment is smaller than the cross-sectional area of the first
and third segments.
8.        The nuclear magnetic flow meter in accordance with claim 6, wherein the
cross-sectional area of the second segment has been made smaller by an insert which is
fastened in the second segment of the measuring tube.
9.        The nuclear magnetic flow meter in accordance with claim 8, wherein the insert has
a conical cross-sectional shape in the longitudinal direction of the measuring tube.
10.       The nuclear magnetic flow meter in accordance with claim 6, wherein one of a
diaphragm, a nozzle and a Venturi is provided in the region of the second segment.
11.       The nuclear magnetic flow meter in accordance with claim 6, wherein the segments
together form a Venturi tube.

                                              17
12.       A method for operating a nuclear magnetic flow meter for measuring flow rate of a
multiphase medium, having a gaseous phase and at least one liquid phase, which flows
through a measuring tube, the nuclear magnetic flow meter having a nuclear magnetic
measurement device for measuring the flow rate of the multiphase medium and an additional
measurement device for measuring the flow rate of the multiphase medium which operates on
a measurement principle other than nuclear magnetic measurement, comprising the steps of:
          determining a measured value for the multiphase medium flowing altogether through
the measuring tube with the additional measurement device,
          determining a measured value for the at least one liquid phase of the multiphase
medium flowing through the measuring tube with the nuclear magnetic measurement device,
and
          determining a measured value for the gaseous phase of the multiphase medium
flowing through the measuring tube using the measured value obtained by the nuclear
magnetic measurement device for the at least one liquid phase of the multiphase medium
flowing through the measuring tube being subtracted from the measured value obtained with
the additional measurement device for the multiphase medium flowing altogether through the
measuring tube,
          wherein the determination of the measured value for the multiphase medium flowing
through the measuring tube is repeated, and an average value formed from the measured
values obtained thereby and wherein the measured value for the at least one liquid phase of
the multiphase medium flowing through the measuring tube is subtracted from the average
value to determine the measured value for the gaseous phase of the multiphase medium
flowing through the measuring tube.
13.       The method in accordance with claim 12, wherein the measured value for the
multiphase medium flowing altogether through the measuring tube is determined repeatedly
with the additional measurement device, and for the (n + 1)* determination, the measured
value which has been obtained in the n t determination is taken into account.
14.       The method in accordance with claim 13, wherein the repeated determination of the
multiphase medium flowing through the measuring tube is carried out using the additional
measurement device until the difference between the measured value obtained in the (n + 1)*

                                            18
determination and the measured value obtained in the na determination is smaller than a
predetermined allowable difference.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
