                                    ABSTRACT
       A Radar Parking Detection System, comprising:
       a radar detection and transmission system including a hardened radar
device placed in the vicinity of a parking space to be monitored by using
measurements of time delays observed in radio waves reflected from objects in
the proximity of the transmitted waves;
       the radar detection system including a hardened electronic sensor using
the reflected radio waves to determine the presence or absence of a vehicle in
the parking space at close range;
       a radio transmitter using multiple data transmission to limit the amount of
lost data and to communicate changes in status of the parking space and the
radar detection; and
       wherein the radio transmitter also transmits the operability of the radar
detection and transmission system.

                                             1
                         RADAR VEHICLE DETECTION SYSTEM
                           BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
 5 Field of the Invention
   The Radar Parking Detection System of the present invention employs a specific
   form of radar technology to Remote Asset Management (RAM) parking systems
   such as that disclosed in U.S. Patent Serial No. 11/802244, filed 21 May 2007.
10 Related Art
           U.S. provisional patent application Serial No. 61/202201, filed 5 February
   2009, which relates to multiple task specific processors such as an Application
   Processor, a Meter Controller and a Radio Processor, all controlled via shared
   SPI bus and using rechargeable batteries and solar power sources for controlling
15 and monitoring a vehicle parking meter system.
           The invention entitled: Parking System Employing RAM Techniques, U.S.
   Serial No. 11/802244, filed 21 May 2007, which relates to the management of
   vehicle parking systems and, in particular, to such systems using remote
   management techniques for enhancing management efficiency and to provide
20 solutions to the parking system that could not otherwise be managed by: (1)
   sensing, collecting, recording and displaying data regarding all aspects of the
   environment pertaining to the parking system; (2) analyzing the data collected to
   create actionable outputs responsive to the needs of the public and the
   management of the parking system; (3) communicating with the various parking
25 system components; and (4) receiving feedback to perform requested operations
   for the parking system.
           While inductance loop vehicle detection remains the most reliable form of
   vehicle detection for monitoring the stationary vehicles in a parking space,
   installation of inductance loops may be impractical in certain situations. The use
30 of other sensors has often been impractical by interference for movement and
   events outside of the intended monitored space of the parking space being
   monitored.

                                             2
           It would therefore be desirable to provide a system which overcomes or
   ameliorates at least one of the above mentioned problems.
          Any discussion of documents, devices, acts or knowledge in this
   specification is included to explain the context of the invention. It should not be
 5 taken as an admission that any of the material formed part of the prior art base or
   the common general knowledge in the relevant art on or before the priority date of
   the claims herein.
          Comprises/comprising and grammatical variations thereof when used in
   this specification are to be taken to specify the presence of stated features,
10 integers, steps or components or groups thereof, but do not preclude the
   presence or addition of one or more other features, integers, steps, components
   or groups thereof.
                                SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
15         In accordance with the present invention, there is provided a Radar
   Parking Detection System, comprising:
          a radar detection and transmission system including a hardened radar
   device placed in the vicinity of a parking space to be monitored by using
   measurements of time delays observed in radio waves reflected from objects in
20 the proximity of the transmitted waves;
          the radar detection system including a hardened electronic sensor using
   the reflected radio waves to determine the presence or absence of a vehicle in
   the parking space at close range;
          a radio transmitter using multiple data transmission to limit the amount of
25 lost data and to communicate changes in status of the parking space and the
   radar detection; and
          wherein the radio transmitter also transmits the operability of the radar
   detection and transmission system.
          Preferred features of the apparatus may be as described in claims 2 to 4 of
30 the appended claims, such claims being incorporated into this disclosure by cross
   reference.

                                              3
          There is also described herein a radar parking detection system, including:
          a radar detection and transmission system including a hardened radar
   device placed in the vicinity of a parking space to be monitored by using
   measurements of time delays observed in radio waves reflected from objects in
 5 the proximity of the transmitted waves;
          the radar detection system including a hardened electronic sensor using
   the reflected radio waves to determine the presence or absence of a vehicle in
   the parking space at close range;
          a radio transmitter using multiple data transmission to limit the amount of
10 lost data and to communicate changes in status of the parking space and the
   radar detection and transmission system in which the multiple transmissions use
   random pause lengths between each transmission attempt; and
          the radio transmitter also transmits the operability of said detection and
   transmission system.
15        The radar detection and transmission system is preferably packaged in a
   low-profile shell made of glass-filled nylon or some other similar substance and
   may be mounted to the surface of the parking space using a high-tensile strength
   adhesive and mounting screws to ensure the integrity of the low-profile shell.
          The radar parking detection system may further include an antenna,
20 mechanical subsystem, wherein the sensing subsystem, transmitting system,
   power subsystem, the antenna and mechanical sub-system are enclosed in the
   low-profile shell.
          The radar detection and transmission system may be placed in at least one
   of the roadbed of the parking space, the bordering curb or parking bumper in the
25 front and to the side of the parking space.
          The radar parking detection system of the present invention's preferred
   embodiment is that of a hardened electronics device placed in the roadbed of the
   space to be monitored. The electronics contain a sensor using Ultra Wide - Band
   frequencies to determine the presence or absence of a vehicle in the space.
30 Other radar technologies can also be used for the determination of presence or
   absence of a vehicle. The electronics also contain a radio transmitter to
   communicate changes in status of either the space or the monitoring sensor's
   operability to a radio collector such as one described in the RAM Patent.

                                               4
                             BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWING
           Figure 1 illustrates a conceptual form of the invention; and
           Figure 2 is a block diagram representation of the invention.
 5
                                     DETAILED DESCRIPTION
   1.      Use of Radar technologies in a RAM Parking System
           The use of induction loops for vehicle detection - while accurate, reliable
   and able to detect non-moving vehicles for extended periods of time - can be
10 expensive or impractical to install. Other methods of detection are easily
   disrupted by disruption of line - of - sight blockages, nearby magnetic field
   changes or an inability to track changes in the sensing environment.
           Radar systems employ electrical circuits that are able to detect the
   presence or absence of objects by using measurements of time delays observed
15 in the reflection of radio waves as they are reflected from objects in the proximity
   of the transmission of said waves. Radar devices can be placed either in the
   roadbed of the parking space or otherwise the bordering curb or parking bumper
   in the front of, or to the side of the parking space. This placement avoids issues
   with detection being disrupted by malicious or inadvertent interference by objects
20 passing between the detection unit and the space being monitored.
   2.      Use of Ultra Wide Band Radar technologies in a RAM Parking System
           Many radar technologies are not able to detect objects in close proximity
   while maintaining efficient power consumption levels needed for practical
   application in parking systems.
25         UWB radar systems employ electrical circuits that are able to detect the
   presence or absence of objects at close range with a highly efficient power
   consumption rate. This attribute allows them to effectively be used instead of
   induction loop technologies with a negligible reduction in accuracy and reliability.
   3.      Use of a Multiple Attempt -         No Acknowledgement Communications
30 scheme
           Radio transmissions require a relatively larger amount of power simply to
   energize the transmitting antenna and circuitry. This consumption is furthered

                                              5
   when receiving transmissions to establish an acknowledgement sequence to the
   upstream radio device. Without some sort of acknowledgement and re-try logic,
   individual messages are likely to be lost in transmission causing incomplete data
   and inaccurate information to be processed by the RAM system's centralized
 5 Command and Control Interface. Much of the data loss is also attributed to many
   devices attempting to communicate at the same time.
           The UWB Parking Detection System uses multiple transmissions to guard
   against lost data. By transmitting the data many times by default, the amount of
   lost data is minimized. To protect against two devices attempting to communicate
10 at the exact same time each time a transmission is attempted, the system uses
   random pause lengths between each transmission attempt. This allows the two
   devices competing to transmit their message to the collector, to interfere with
   each other only once. The next time each device attempts to send the message,
   the random pause length will cause one device to wait longer than the other
15 before making its second attempt.
   4.      Use of a Hardened Housing encasement made of Glass-filled Nylon or
   other similar material
           Devices deployed for the purpose of parking space monitoring are often
   subject to harsh use. The placement of UWB devices in the roadbed of the space
20 only amplifies the hostile environment in which the electronics must operate.
           In particular, the devices are subject to vehicles driving over them and
   angry parking patrons subjecting them to vandalism attempts.
           The UWB system is packaged in a low-profile shell made of glass-filled
   nylon or some other similar substance. This substance is highly durable and cost
25 effective to produce. The shell is mounted to the surface of the space using high
   tensile strength adhesives and mounting screws to ensure it is very difficult to
   damage. For installations in curbs or parking bumpers, the same materials can be
   used to form a casing which can be installed into portions cut out from the curb or
   bumper using similar adhesives.
30
   System Overview
           Figure 1 conceptually illustrates batteries 1 arranged around the outside of
   an electronics package 3 and wherein a sensing subsystem, transmitting

                                          6
   subsystem, power subsystem and mechanical subsystem are mounted. An
   antenna 4 is mounted to an electronics board for transmission of data and a
   protective housing 5 encloses the components as described above.
          Figure 2 shows the essential components of the Radar Detection System
 5 of the present invention, wherein the UWB Radar-Based Sensing Subsystem, as
   described above, and the Transmitting Subsystem are energized by the Power
   Subsystem.
10

                                           7
CLAIMS:
1.     A Radar Parking Detection System, comprising:
       a radar detection and transmission system including a hardened radar
device placed in the vicinity of a parking space to be monitored by using
measurements of time delays observed in radio waves reflected from objects in
the proximity of the transmitted waves;
       the radar detection system including a hardened electronic sensor using
the reflected radio waves to determine the presence or absence of a vehicle in
the parking space at close range;
       a radio transmitter using multiple data transmission to limit the amount of
lost data and to communicate changes in status of the parking space and the
radar detection; and
       wherein the radio transmitter also transmits the operability of the radar
detection and transmission system.
2.     A Radar Parking Detection System as claimed in claim 1, wherein the
radar detection and transmission system is packaged in a low-profile shell made
of glassfilled nylon or some other similar substance and mounted to the surface of
the parking space using a high-tensile strength adhesive and mounting screws to
ensure the integrity of the low-profile shell.
3.     A Radar Parking Detection System as claimed in claim 2, further
comprising an antenna, mechanical subsystem and power subsystem and
wherein the sensing subsystem, transmitting system, power subsystem, the
antenna and mechanical sub-system are enclosed in the low-profile shell.
4.     A Radar Parking Detection System as claimed in claim 1, wherein the
radar detection and transmission system is placed in at least one of the roadbed
of the parking space, the bordering curb or parking bumper in the front and to the
side of the parking space.
5.     A Radar Parking Detection System, comprising a Ultra Wide Band (UWB)
detection and transmission system including a hardened radar device placed in
the vicinity of a parking space to be monitored by using measurements of time

                                           8
delays observed in the reflection of radio waves reflected from objects in the
proximity of the transmitted waves and including a hardened electronic sensor
using (UWB) frequencies to determine the presence or absence of a vehicle in
the parking space at close range; and
        a radio transmitter using multiple data transmission to limit the amount of
lost data and to communicate changes in status of the parking space.
6.      A radar Parking Detection System as in claim 5, wherein said radio
transmitter also transmits the operability of said detection and transmission
system.
7.      A Radar Parking Detection System as in claim 5, wherein the UWB
detection and transmission system is packaged in a low-profile shell made of
glass-filled nylon or some other similar substance and mounted to the surface of
the parking space using a high-tensile strength adhesive and mounting screws to
ensure the integrity of the low-profile shell.
8.      A Radar Parking Detection System as in claim 5, wherein the UWB
detection and transmission system in which the multiple transmissions use
random pause lengths between each transmission attempt.
9.      A Radar Parking Detection System as in claim 5, wherein said detection
and transmission system is placed in at least one of the roadbed of the parking
space, the bordering curb or parking bumper in the front and to the side of the
parking space.
10.     A Radar Parking Detection System as in claim 6, further comprising an
antenna, mechanical subsystem and power subsystem and wherein the sensing
subsystem, transmitting system, power subsystem, the antenna and mechanical
subsystem are enclosed in said low-profile shell.
                                INNOVAPARK, LLC
WATERMARK INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY PTY LTD
P33562AU02

This    <removed-apn> 0<removed-date>
       2010212250

