                                      ABSTRACT
       Contact lenses incorporate high plus or ADD power profiles that at least one of
slow, retard or preventing myopia progression and minimize halo effect. The lens
includes a center zone with an ADD power for myopia progression treatment and at
least one myopia vision correction power in a peripheral region surrounding the center
zone.

     9/15
    FIG. 9
        900
       904
            908
902

        HIGH PLUS CENTER TREATMENT ZONE LENS DESIGN AND METHOD FOR
                  PREVENTING AND/OR SLOWING MYOPIA PROGRESSION
    CROSS REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATION
 5
           This patent application is a continuation-in-part of U.S. Patent Application Serial
    No. 14,464,182, filed August 20, 2014.
    BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
 0
    Field of the Invention
           The present invention relates to ophthalmic lenses, and more particularly, to
    contact lenses designed to slow, retard, or prevent myopia progression in the wearer.
 5  The ophthalmic lenses of the present invention comprise a high plus or high ADD
    treatment zone, thereby preventing and/or slowing myopia progression.
    Discussion of the Related Art
 .0        Common conditions which lead to reduced visual acuity are myopia and
    hyperopia, for which corrective lenses in the form of spectacles, or rigid or soft contact
    lenses, are prescribed. The conditions are generally described as the imbalance
    between the length of the eye and the focus of the optical elements of the eye. Myopic
    eyes focus in front of the retinal plane and hyperopic eyes focus behind the retinal
25  plane. Myopia typically develops because the axial length of the eye grows to be longer
    than the focal length of the optical components of the eye, that is, the eye grows too
    long. Hyperopia typically develops because the axial length of the eye is too short
    compared with the focal length of the optical components of the eye, that is, the eye
    does not grow enough.
30
                                                  1

            Myopia has a high prevalence rate in many regions of the world. Of greatest
    concern with this condition is its possible progression to high myopia, for example
    greater than five (5) or six (6) diopters, which dramatically affects one's ability to
    function without optical aids. High myopia is also associated with an increased risk of
 5  retinal disease, cataracts, and glaucoma.
            Corrective lenses are used to alter the gross focus of the eye to render a clearer
    image at the retinal plane, by shifting the focus from in front of the plane to correct
    myopia, or from behind the plane to correct hyperopia, respectively. However, the
 o  corrective approach to the conditions does not address the cause of the condition, but is
    merely prosthetic or symptomatic.
            Most eyes do not have simple myopia or hyperopia, but have myopic
    astigmatism or hyperopic astigmatism. Astigmatic errors of focus cause the image of a
 5  point source of light to form as two mutually perpendicular lines at different focal
    distances. In the foregoing discussion, the terms myopia and hyperopia are used to
    include simple myopia or myopic astigmatism and hyperopia and hyperopic astigmatism
    respectively.
 .0         Emmetropia describes the state of clear vision where an object at infinity is in
    relatively sharp focus with the crystalline lens relaxed. In normal or emmetropic adult
    eyes, light from both distant and close objects and passing though the central or
    paraxial region of the aperture or pupil is focused by the crystalline lens inside the eye
    close to the retinal plane where the inverted image is sensed. It is observed, however,
25  that most normal eyes exhibit positive longitudinal spherical aberration, generally in the
    region of about +0.50 Diopters (D) for a 5.0 mm aperture, meaning that rays passing
    through the aperture or pupil at its periphery are focused +0.50 D in front of the retinal
    plane when the eye is focused to infinity. As used herein the measure D is the dioptric
    power, defined as the reciprocal of the focal distance of a lens or optical system, in
30  meters.
                                                   2

            The spherical aberration of the normal eye is not constant. For example,
    accommodation (the change in optical power of the eye derived primarily though
    change to the internal crystalline lens) causes the spherical aberration to change from
    positive to negative.
 5
            As noted, myopia typically occurs due to excessive axial growth or elongation of
    the eye. It is now generally accepted, primarily from animal research, that axial eye
    growth can be influenced by the quality and focus of the retinal image. Experiments
    performed on a range of different animal species, utilizing a number of different
 o  experimental paradigms, have illustrated that altering retinal image quality can lead to
    consistent and predictable changes in eye growth.
            Furthermore, defocusing the retinal image in both chick and primate animal
    models, through positive lenses (myopic defocus) or negative lenses (hyperopic
 5  defocus), is known to lead to predictable (in terms of both direction and magnitude)
    changes in eye growth, consistent with the eyes growing to compensate for the imposed
    defocus. The changes in eye length associated with optical blur have been shown to be
    modulated by changes in both scleral growth and choroidal thickness. Blur with positive
    lenses, which leads to myopic blur and decreases scleral growth rate, results in
 .0 hyperopic refractive errors. Blur with negative lenses, which leads to hyperopic blur and
    increases scleral growth rate, results in myopic refractive errors. These eye growth
    changes in response to retinal image defocus have been demonstrated to be largely
    mediated through local retinal mechanisms, as eye length changes still occur when the
    optic nerve is damaged, and imposing defocus on local retinal regions has been shown
25  to result in altered eye growth localized to that specific retinal region.
            In humans there is both indirect and direct evidence that supports the notion that
    retinal image quality can influence eye growth. A variety of different ocular conditions,
    all of which lead to a disruption in form vision, such as ptosis, congenital cataract,
30  corneal opacity, vitreous hemorrhage and other ocular diseases, have been found to be
    associated with abnormal eye growth in young humans, which suggests that relatively
                                                   3

    large alterations in retinal image quality do influence eye growth in human subjects.
    The influence of more subtle retinal image changes on eye growth in humans has also
    been hypothesized based on optical errors in the human focusing system during near
    work that may provide a stimulus for eye growth and myopia development in humans.
 5
            One of the risk factors for myopia development is near work. Due to
    accommodative lag or negative spherical aberration associated with accommodation
    during such near work, the eye may experience hyperopic blur, which in turn stimulates
    myopia progression as discussed above. Moreover, the accommodation system is an
 o  active adaptive optical system; it constantly reacts to near-objects, as well as optical
    designs. No matter what optical designs one puts on the eye, when the eye
    accommodates to near-objects, continuous hyperopic defocus will be present and make
    the eye myopic. Therefore, one way to design optics to slow the rate of myopia
    progression is to utilize a high plus signal to the retina through use of high ADD or plus
 5  powers.
            U.S. Patent No. 6,045,578 discloses that the addition of positive spherical
    aberration on the contact lens will reduce or control the progression of myopia. The
    method includes changing the spherical aberration of an ocular system by a direction
 .0 and degree related to alter the growth in eye length, in other words emmetropization
    may be regulated by spherical aberration. In this process, the cornea of a myopic eye is
    fitted with a lens having increasing dioptric power away from the lens center. Paraxial
    light rays entering the central portion of the lens are focused on the retina of the eye,
    producing a clear image of an object. Marginal light rays entering the peripheral portion
25  of the cornea are focused in a plane between the cornea and the retina, and produce
    positive spherical aberration of the image on the latter. This positive spherical
    aberration produces a physiological effect on the eye which tends to inhibit growth of
    the eye, thus mitigating the tendency for the myopic eye to grow longer.
30          Although the level of positive spherical aberration and/or plus power required to
    achieve an optimum slowdown in the myopia progression rate is unclear, researchers in
                                                   4

    the field have attempted to use multi-zone devices with regions of positive power of
    about +1.50 to a maximum of +3.00D ADD in an attempt to slow the progression of
    myopia. It is important to note that a positive power of up to 4.00 diopters has also
    been attempted.      The approach resulted in treatment results of less than about 50
 5  percent. Treatment efficacy is defined as the relative change of axial length and/or
    spherical equivalent refraction from baseline for a test group compared to the change of
    axial length and/or spherical equivalent refraction of a control group over a year or a
    predetermined time period. There remains a need for a myopia control treatment with
    efficacy greater than 50 percent and closer to 100 percent. Intuitively adding treatment
 o  zones of high plus power would provide greater treatment as the ocular growth
    response in animals was proportional to the power of the optical stimulus as reported by
    Wildsoet & Wallman, Vision Research 1995.
             However, conventional wisdom in the field of bifocal or multifocal ophthalmic
 5  lenses assumes lenses with high plus or high ADD power may have deleterious effects
    on vision and contrast sensitivity as reported by Ardaya et al, Optometry 2004. Further,
    Smith et al (US7025460) teaches against going to powers outside the range normally
    found in bifocal or multifocal lenses for presbyopia. They state "It is important to note
    that, while the appropriate type of refractive defocus can drive eye growth (or non
 .0 growth) leading to myopia (or its regression) in the phenomenon of lens compensation,
    when the amount of refractive defocus is great, there may be such a large degradation
    in image quality due to the severe defocus that the optical state may change into the
    phenomenon of form deprivation and may induce myopia in that way." Further, they
    teach "that the maximum amount of relative curvature of field before substantial vision
25  degradation occurs, which leads to form deprivation myopia, to be around the spherical
    equivalent of +3.50D to +4.OOD, which represents the upper limit for negative curvature
    of field for effective treatment of myopia." This belief has discouraged researchers from
    pursuing high plus treatment zones for myopia control.
30            To the contrary, applicant's research shows that using a design with a central
    distance zone and a high plus or high ADD treatment zone having a plus power greater
                                                   5

    than about 3.OOD reduces visual acuity loss relative to low conventional plus type
    designs with no significant additional impact on contrast sensitivity. This is also
    supported in recent work by De Gracia et el, OVS 2013, although they only investigated
    up to 4.OOD of ADD power and did not relate the work to a potential benefit in myopia
 5  progression control. This breakthrough enables ophthalmic designs to achieve a
    meaningful greater than 50 percent slowdown in myopia progression without further
    negatively impacting visual acuity.
            Further, significantly higher plus power relative to the distance power is not
 o  expected to lead to reduced accommodation as may occur with a lower ADD power
    design where a subject might rely to some extent on the ADD power for clear vision
    during near work activities, as has been observed during the course of our research.
    This reduced accommodation may lead to hyperopic defocus of rays passing through
    the distance portion of the device. In the current invention, the subject must
 5  accommodate over the distance portion of the lens for near vision correction as objects
    imaged through the treatment zones of high plus powers are sufficiently out of focus
    that they cannot be cleared with the accommodation-convergence system.
           Another researcher& in the field, R. Griffin W02012/173891, claims to relieve
 .0 accommodative lag and accommodative stresses that lead to myopia progression
    through the creation of an artificial pinhole that results in increased depth of focus and
    depth of field. In their intellectual property, "the eye's accommodation is more relaxed"
    in contrast to the present invention.
25         With reference now to FIG. 1, the graph illustrates a device with a design that
    incorporates a distance zone to correct for distance vision and a peripheral zone of
    variable plus power. Visual acuity was measured using a four forced choice method
    with progressively smaller Snellen optotypes. Increasing peripheral plus power to about
    +2.OOD to +3.OOD causes an increasing loss of high contrast visual acuity, as typical of
30  multifocal type designs for presbyopes. As the peripheral power continues to increase;
    however, the relative effect on visual acuity surprisingly improves and plateaus, so that
                                                    6

    by above about +4.OOD to +5.OOD peripheral plus, the visual acuity loss becomes
    relatively constant. This is of significance for the design of myopia control lenses, since
    higher plus power is found (with animal models) to have a greater impact on eye
    growth, as reported in Wildsoet & Wallman, Vision Research 1995.
 5
            However, further optimization of plus power designs is required to optimize
    image quality. With reference now to FIG. 2, power profiles are illustrated having
    +5.OOD or +10.OOD power beyond a 2.25 mm radial location from a center of a lens.
    Rays passing through these high plus or high ADD power regions form sharp foci in
 o  front of the retina. However, due to continued propagation to the retina, these rays form
    a ring-like defocus blur on the retina.
            As shown in the point spread function (PSF) cross section of FIG. 3, rays coming
    from the +5.OOD and +10.OOD regions form separate spikes on the retina. Thus, if one
 5  looks at a point light source through one of these +5.OOD or +10.OOD high plus lenses,
    his/her retina would receive a peak signal surrounded by a ring-like halo. Usually, this
    is not a problem when one reads letters or resolves fine details of objects because the
    halo is so dim that the human doesn't perceive it. Nevertheless, this is a problem if a
    person looks at a black/white edge, a white/black edge, a light/dark edge, a dark/light
 .0 edge and/or any high contrast edge, as energy from the white/black/light background
    can leak into the black/white/dark due to the presence of the spike in PSF.
            With reference now to FIG. 4, the image cross section for the +5.00D and
    +10.00D power profiles of FIG. 2 at an entrance pupil size of 6.0 mm are shown by
25  convolving the PSF with a black/white edge in object space. A lens having 0.OOD power
    forms a sharp edge between the black and white (at 0.0 mm location) and thus does not
    have a halo-like structure. On the other hand, the lenses with +5.00D and +10.00D
    regions do not have a sharp edge between black and white, thereby resulting in images
    in which the black background is not completely black, and the white background is not
30  completely white at the 'edge' in the image.
                                                   7

           Accordingly, the presence of halo is an inherent property of high plus or high
   ADD lens designs. The present invention is directed to lenses having high plus power
   treatment zones that are suitable for the use in treating, controlling, or reducing the
   progression of myopia while also minimizing a halo effect.
 5
   SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
           The lens design of the present invention overcomes the limitations of the prior art
   by providing lenses that ensure distance vision correction and have high plus power
 o treatment zones that treat, control, or reduce the progression of myopia while also
   minimizing a halo effect.
           In accordance with one aspect, the present invention is directed to an ophthalmic
   lens for at least one of slowing, retarding or preventing myopia progression and for
   minimizing a halo effect. The ophthalmic lens comprises an optic zone, the optic zone
   including a center zone configured as a myopia progression treatment zone, the center
   zone comprising an ADD power of between +0.5 diopters and +20.0 diopters relative to
   the negative power required to correct myopia, and at least one peripheral zone
   surrounding the center zone, the at least one peripheral zone comprising a myopia
   vision correction region with a negative power for myopic vision correction; and an outer
   zone surrounding the optic zone.
           The ophthalmic lens comprises a center zone with high plus power as a myopic
   progression treatment zone. High plus power has the same meaning as high ADD
15 power and does not necessarily result in a high positive power in the treatment zone as
   is the case, say, of vision correction of high hyperopia. Rather it refers to a difference in
   power between the treatment zone and the myopic vision correction zone that is higher
   than traditionally used for the reading addition powers classically used in bifocal,
   multifocal or progressive addition lenses for presbyopia. More specifically, the contact
20 lens comprises an optic zone and an outer zone. The optic zone comprises a center
   zone and a first peripheral zone. In other embodiments, a different number of zones
                                                  8

    may be present as is explained in detail subsequently. In this exemplary embodiment,
    the center zone has a diameter that ranges from 0.50 mm to 4.00 mm with a power
    ranging from +5 diopters to +15 diopters. In other embodiments, the power can be
    lower, for example, +2.5 diopters and higher, for example +20 diopters. Also in this
 5  exemplary embodiment, the first peripheral zone has a negative power for myopic vision
    correction. In other words, the power to correct the individual's refractive error, myopia,
    resides in the first peripheral zone rather than in the center of the lens. The contact lens
    may include one or more additional plus powered concentric treatment zones outside of
    the first peripheral zone. For example, low plus center zone and higher plus peripheral
 o  zones or high plus center zone with lower plus peripheral zones. More specifically, the
    first peripheral zone which has the power to correct the refractive error is surrounded
    with plus power treatment zones. It is important to note that each of the treatment
    zones may have the same plus power or different plus powers. The diameter of the first
    peripheral zone and the one or more additional plus powered concentric treatment
 5  zones is selected to provide a balance between adequate vision and myopia control
    treatment. It will be readily apparent to those skilled in the art that the peripheral zone
    diameters will be chosen depending on the diameter of the central zone to achieve a
    balance between obtaining adequate myopia control and vision. For example, in a
    preferred embodiment, the diameter of the central zone is 1.0 mm, the outer diameter of
 .0 the first peripheral zone is 2.6 mm, and the outer diameter of the second peripheral
    zone is 3.6 mm. In that example, there may be additional peripheral zones within the
    optic zone past 3.6 mm.
            The high plus contact lens design of the present invention provides a simple,
25  cost-effective and efficacious means and method for preventing and/or slowing myopia
    progression which is increasing throughout the world.
                                                   9

    BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
    The foregoing and other features and advantages of the invention will be apparent from
    the following, more particular description of preferred embodiments of the invention, as
 5  illustrated in the accompanying drawings.
             FIG. 1 illustrates a graph showing changes in visual acuity as plus power is
    added in a peripheral zone.
 0           FIG. 2 illustrates power profiles of two lenses, one having a +5.00D treatment
    zone and the other having a +10.OD treatment zone.
             FIG. 3 illustrates a cross section of the point spread function for the power
    profiles of FIG. 2 at an entrance pupil size of 6.0 mm.
 5
             FIG. 4 illustrates an image cross section of the power profiles of FIG. 2.
             FIG. 5a illustrates a point spread function for five power profiles.
 .0          FIG. 5b illustrates the image cross section of the power profiles of FIG. 5a.
             FIGS. 6a-c illustrates power profiles of three lenses according to the present
    invention.
25           FIGS. 7a-c illustrates the image cross section of the power profiles of FIGS. 6a-c,
    respectively.
             FIGS. 8a-c illustrates power profiles of three additional lenses according to the
    present invention.
30
                                                    10

            FIG. 9 is a diagrammatic representation of an exemplary contact lens in
    accordance with the present invention.
            FIG. 10 is a diagrammatic representation of a first alternative exemplary contact
 5  lens in accordance with the present invention.
            FIG. 11 is a diagrammatic representation of a second alternative exemplary
    contact lens in accordance with the present invention.
 0          FIG.1 2 is a graphical representation of the loss in visual acuity versus central
    zone size (i.e. diameter) over four ADD powers for a 5.5 mm pupil size in accordance
    with the present invention.
            FIG. 13 is a graphical representation of the loss in visual acuity versus central
 5  zone diameter in a lens with a center plus design having a +10 diopter power for both a
    5.5 mm pupil and a 3.5 mm pupil in accordance with the present invention.
            FIG. 14 is a graphical representation of the size of halo in degrees versus central
    zone diameter in a lens with a center plus design having a +10 diopter power for both a
 .0 5.5 mm pupil and a 3.5 mm pupil in accordance with the present invention.
            FIG. 15 is a graphical representation of the halo brightness versus central zone
    diameter in a lens with a center plus design having a +10 diopter power for both a 5.5
    mm pupil and a 3.5 mm pupil in accordance with the present invention.
25
            FIGS. 16A - 16D illustrate various exemplary power profiles in accordance with
    the present invention.
                                                  11

    DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION
            In accordance with the present invention, an ophthalmic lens has at least one
    high plus or high ADD treatment zone surrounding a center zone for treating,
 5  preventing, or slowing myopia progression while also minimizing any halo effect at a
    black/white edge. In accordance with alternate exemplary embodiments, ophthalmic
    lenses are described with center plus designs and are described with respect to Figure
    10 and beyond.
 o          With reference now to FIG. 5a (inset graph), five power profiles are illustrated: 1)
    a power profile having a +5.OOD treatment zone; 2) a power profile having a +10.OOD
    treatment zone; 3) two zig-zag or sawtooth power profiles with periodic power
    modulation between about +5.OOD and about +12D; and 4) a power profile having a
    gradual power increase from +5.OOD to +12.OOD.
 5
            In the PSF cross section of FIG. 5a (main graph), the two ring spikes of the
    +5.OOD and +10.OOD ADD power profiles have a much higher intensity than the other
    three power profiles, because the latter three designs have continuous power
    modulation. On the other hand, the latter three designs carry wider ring spikes. The
 .0 convolution between the spikes with wider width and lower intensity yields a smooth
    transition of halo intensity between black and white edges, as shown in FIG. 5b (inset
    graph), as compared to the sharp edges for the +5.OOD and +10.OOD power profiles, as
    shown in the main graph of FIG. 5b. As a result of the smooth transition, human vision
    finds any halo effect for the latter three power profiles less bothersome than the halo
25  effect resulting from the abrupt intensity profiles.
            With reference now to FIGS. 6a-6c, the power profiles of three lens designs
    according to the present invention are illustrated. For each design, the power profile
    comprises a center zone, which may have a negative focal power to correct existing a
30  myopic distance vision condition (i.e., paraxial power). The diameter of the center zone
    may be about 3 mm to about 7 mm, for example 4.3 mm. Each lens design also
                                                  12

    comprises at least one treatment zone that surrounds the center zone. The at least one
    treatment zone carries a large amount of high ADD or high plus power relative to the
    power in the center zone.
 5          As illustrated in FIGS. 6a-b, the power profiles rise gradually and continuously
    from a margin of the center zone (point A) to a point within the at least one treatment
    zone (point B). In specific embodiments, the location of point B is between 3.0 mm and
    4.5 mm from a center of the lens. The at least one treatment zone may remain constant
    from point B to a margin of an optic zone (point C, for example at 4.5 mm). As
 o  illustrated in FIG. 6c, the power profile may zig-zag or oscillate as the power rises from
    point A to point B and/or point C and does not need to be monotonic. In specific
    embodiments, the at least one treatment zone may have a dioptric power ranging from
    about +1D to about +15D.
 5          According to the present invention, a gradual and/or periodic change of plus
    power in the at least one treatment zone mitigates the halo effect because such
    variations smoothen the intensity profile at sharp black and white edges. The halo
    intensity profiles of the three lens designs of FIGS. 6a-c are shown in FIGS. 7a-c,
    respectively. All three designs have a smooth halo intensity profile at the black/white
 .0 edge.
            While lenses of the present invention are designed so that the halo becomes less
    bothersome to the human eye, it may be difficult to reduce the halo effect when the lens
    becomes decentered on the eye. When a lens decenters, the ring-like structure in PSF
25  becomes asymmetric, and energy will shift from one side of PSF to another side. As a
    result, one side of ring-like structure in PSF will have a much higher intensity, and the
    halo intensity will increase. The halo will become obvious regardless to the halo
    intensity profile. Hence, the utilized lens geometrical design should preferably result in
    good lens centration on the eye to further minimize potential for the visual artifacts.
30
                                                  13

             With reference now to FIGS. 8a-c, the power profiles for three additional lens
    designs according to the present invention are illustrated. These three lens designs
    have 1) at least one enhanced treatment zone in which power is added within the center
    zone, and 2) at least one treatment zone. The at least one enhanced treatment zone
 5  may vary in diameter from about 0.5 mm to about 1.0 mm. The power magnitude of the
    at least one enhanced treatment zone may range from about +1D (FIG. 8a) to about
    +10D (FIGS. 8b-c). The at least one treatment zone have a gradual and/or period
    change in plus or ADD power as discussed above or may have a stepped increase in
    plus or ADD power. The power magnitude of the at least one treatment zone may
 o  range from about +5D to about +15D (FIGS. 8b-c).
             Referring now to FIG. 9, there is illustrated a schematic diagrammatic view of a
    contact lens 900 in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention. The
    contact lens 900 comprises an optic zone 902 and an outer zone 904. The optic zone
 5  902 comprises a first, center zone 906 and at least one peripheral zone 908. In specific
    embodiments, the diameter of the optic zone 902 may be selected to be 8.0 mm, the
    diameter of the substantially circular first zone 906 may be selected to be 4.0 mm, and
    the boundary diameters of an annular outer peripheral zone 908 may be 5 mm and 6.5
    mm as measured from the geometric center of the lens 900. It is important to note that
 .0 FIG. 9 only illustrates an exemplary embodiment of the present invention. For example,
    in this exemplary embodiment, the outer boundary of the at least one peripheral zone
    908 does not necessarily coincide with the outer margin of the optic zone 902, whereas
    in other exemplary embodiments, they may coincide. The outer zone 904 surrounds the
    optic zone 902 and provides standard contact lens features, including lens positioning
25  and centration. In accordance with one exemplary embodiment, the outer zone 904
    may include one or more stabilization mechanisms to reduce lens rotation when on eye.
             It is important to note that the various zones in FIG. 9 are illustrated as concentric
    circles, the zones may comprise any suitable round or non-round shapes such as an
30  elliptical shape.
                                                    14

            It is important to note that as the entrance pupil size of the eye varies among
    subpopulations, in certain exemplary embodiments, the lens design may be customized
    to achieve both good foveal vision correction and myopic treatment efficacy based on
    the patient's average pupil size. Moreover, as pupil size correlates with refraction and
 5  age for pediatric patients, in certain exemplary embodiments, the lens may be further
    optimized towards subgroups of the pediatric subpopulation with specific age and/or
    refraction based upon their pupil sizes. Essentially, the power profiles may be adjusted
    or tailored to pupil size to achieve an optimal balance between foveal vision correction
    and minimization of halo effect resulting from a high plus or high ADD treatment zone.
 0
            Currently available contact lenses remain a cost effective means for vision
    correction. The thin plastic lenses fit over the cornea of the eye to correct vision
    defects, including myopia or nearsightedness, hyperopia or farsightedness,
    astigmatism, i.e. asphericity in the cornea, and presbyopia, i.e., the loss of the ability of
 5  the crystalline lens to accommodate. Contact lenses are available in a variety of forms
    and are made of a variety of materials to provide different functionality.
            Daily wear soft contact lenses are typically made from soft polymer materials
    combined with water for oxygen permeability. Daily wear soft contact lenses may be
 .0 daily disposable or extended wear disposable. Daily disposable contact lenses are
    usually worn for a single day and then thrown away, while extended wear or frequent
    replacement disposable contact lenses are usually worn for a period of up to thirty days.
    Colored soft contact lenses use different materials to provide different functionality. For
    example, a visibility tint contact lens uses a light tint to aid the wearer in locating a
25  dropped contact lens, enhancement tint contact lenses have a translucent tint that is
    meant to enhance one's natural eye color, the color tint contact lens comprises a
    darker, opaque tint meant to change one's eye color, and the light filtering tint contact
    lens functions to enhance certain colors while muting others. Rigid gas permeable hard
    contact lenses are made from siloxane-containing polymers but are more rigid than soft
30  contact lenses and thus hold their shape and are more durable. Bifocal contact lenses
    are designed specifically for patients with presbyopia and are available in both soft and
                                                   15

    rigid varieties. Toric contact lenses are designed specifically for patients with
    astigmatism and are also available in both soft and rigid varieties. Combination lenses
    combining different aspects of the above are also available, for example, hybrid contact
    lenses.
 5
            It is important to note that the lens designs of the present invention may be
    incorporated into any number of different contact lenses formed from any number of
    materials. Specifically, the lens design of the present invention may be utilized in any of
    the contact lenses described herein, including, daily wear soft contact lenses, rigid gas
 o  permeable contact lenses, bifocal contact lenses, toric contact lenses and hybrid
    contact lenses. In addition, although the invention is described with respect to contact
    lenses, it is important to note that the concept of the present invention may be utilized in
    spectacle lenses, intraocular lenses, corneal inlays and onlays.
 5          In accordance with another exemplary embodiment, an ophthalmic lens
    comprises a center zone with high plus power as a myopic progression treatment zone.
    Once again, high plus power has the same meaning as high ADD power and does not
    necessarily result in a high positive power in the treatment zone as is the case, say, of
    vision correction of high hyperopia. Rather it refers to a difference in power between
 .0 the treatment zone and the myopic vision correction zone that is higher than traditionally
    used for the reading addition powers classically used in bifocal, multifocal or
    progressive addition lenses for presbyopia. Referring to FIG. 10, there is illustrated a
    diagrammatic representation of a contact lens 1000 in accordance with this exemplary
    embodiment. The contact lens 1000 comprises an optic zone 1002 and an outer zone
25  1004. The optic zone 1002 comprises a center zone 1006 and a first peripheral zone
    1008. In this exemplary embodiment, the center zone 1006 has a diameter that ranges
    from 0.50 mm to 4.0 mm with a power ranging from +5 diopters to +15 diopters. In
    other embodiments, the power can be lower, for example, +2.5 diopters and higher, for
    example +20 diopters. Also in this exemplary embodiment, the first peripheral zone
30  1008 has a negative power for myopic vision correction. In other words, the power to
    correct the individual's refractive error, myopia, resides in the first peripheral zone 1008
                                                   16

    rather than in the center of the lens. The contact lens 1000 may include an additional
    plus powered concentric treatment zones 1010 outside of the first peripheral zone 1008.
    More specifically, the first peripheral zone 1008 which has the power to correct the
    refractive error is surrounded with plus power treatment zones. It is important to note
 5  that each of the treatment zones may have the same plus power or different plus
    powers. The diameter of the first peripheral zone 1008 and the one or more additional
    plus powered concentric treatment zones 1010 is selected to provide a balance
    between adequate vision and myopia control treatment. Additional exemplary zone
    diameters are illustrated in FIG. 10. It will be readily apparent to those skilled in the art
 o  that the peripheral zone diameters will be chosen depending on the diameter of the
    central zone to achieve a balance between obtaining adequate myopia control and
    satisfactory vision. For example, in a preferred embodiment, the diameter of the central
    zone is 1.0 mm, the outer diameter of the first peripheral zone is 4.2 mm, and the outer
    diameter of the second peripheral zone is 8.5 mm.
 5
            Referring to FIG. 11, there is illustrated a diagrammatic representation of a
    contact lens 1100 in accordance with another exemplary embodiment. The contact lens
    1100 comprises an optic zone 1102 and an outer zone 1104. The optic zone 1102
    comprises a center zone 1106 and a first peripheral zone 1108. In this exemplary
 .0 embodiment, the center zone 1106 has a diameter that ranges from 0.50 mm to 4.0 mm
    with a power ranging from +5 diopters to +15 diopters. In other embodiments, the
    power may be lower, for example, +2.5 diopters and higher, for example, +20 diopters.
    Also in this exemplary embodiment, the first peripheral zone 1108 has a negative power
    for myopic vision correction. In other words, the power to correct the individual's
25  refractive error, myopia, resides in the first peripheral zone 1108 rather than in the
    center of the lens. The contact lens 1100 may include one or more additional plus
    powered concentric treatment zones 1110 outside of the first peripheral zone 1108.
    More specifically, the first peripheral zone 1108 which has the power to correct the
    refractive error is surrounded with plus power treatment zones. It is important to note
30  that each of the treatment zones may have the same plus power or different plus
    powers. Contact lens 1100 may include an additional negative power for myopic vision
                                                    17

    correction zone 1112. The diameter of the first peripheral zone 1108, the one or more
    additional plus powered concentric treatment zones 1110, and the additional negative
    power zone 1112 are selected to provide a balance between adequate vision and
    myopia control treatment. For this exemplary embodiment, refer to FIG. 11 for the
 5  range of diameters for the zones.
            Various embodiments may include a center myopia progression treatment zone
    in combination with peripheral zones that may be utilized for refractive error correction
    and additional myopia progression treatment zones all within the peripheral region.
 o  Various combinations may be utilized outside of the center zone. Multiple concentric
    zones for myopic vision correction and treatment with different ADD powers may be
    added in the peripheral region of the optic zone with the zones so arranged to achieve a
    balance between myopic control treatment efficacy and adequate vision.
 5          The myopia control efficacy of a multi-zone soft contact lens is believed to be
    related to several factors, including the power of the treatment zone, the size of the
    treatment zone relative to the entrance pupil, and the proximity of the treatment zone to
    the geometric center of the contact lens. The challenge of any myopia control treatment
    is to deliver a high myopia control effect while maintaining acceptable vision. The
 .0 design of this exemplary embodiment maximizes the power of the treatment zone and
    the proximity of the treatment zone to the center of the lens while minimizing the size of
    the treatment zone relative to the entrance pupil to provide for acceptable vision. In
    other words, the contact lens of the present invention comprises a small diameter
    treatment zone of high plus power in the center of the lens. A number of experiments
25  demonstrate the ability to have acceptable vision with these designs and are presented
    below.
            Referring now to FIG. 12, there is illustrated a graphical representation of the
    loss in visual acuity, VA, in logMAR versus central zone size over four ADD powers for
30  a 5.5 mm pupil size. This VA data was generated by introducing the optical designs to
    the eye. As may be seen from FIG. 12, minimizing the size of the treatment zone
                                                   18

    relative to the entrance pupil yields better results relative to the loss of VA. In addition,
    the data suggest that once a power of + 5 diopters or greater is utilized, the rays
    passing through the treatment zones are sufficiently spread upon reaching the retina
    that loss in visual acuity is minimized.
 5
             FIG. 13 is a graphical representation of the loss in visual acuity versus central
    zone diameter in a lens with a center plus design having a +10 diopter power for both a
    5.5 mm pupil and a 3.5 mm pupil. As illustrated, for a 5.5 mm diameter pupil, VA
    decreases as the size of the central plus zone increases. For a 5.5 mm diameter pupil,
 o  VA is lowered by 0.03 +/- 0.01, 0.05 +/- 0.04 and 0.06 +/- 0.05 logMAR for 1.0, 1.5 and
    2.0 mm near zone diameters respectively. For a 3.5 mm diameter pupil, the VA is
    further decreased to 0.07 +/- 0.03, 0.08 +/- 0.04 and 0.14 +/- 0.01 logMAR compared to
    the baseline.
 5           FIG. 14 is a graphical representation of the size of halo in degrees versus central
    diameter for both a 5.5 mm diameter pupil and a 3.5 mm diameter pupil. The halo data
    of a center plus design having a +10 diopter power was generated by introducing the
    optical designs to the eye and using purpose built methodologies to measure halo size
    and brightness. As illustrated, halo was not visible for center plus conditions for a 1.0
 .0 mm diameter central plus zone. For a 5.5 mm diameter pupil, the halo was detectable
    for both 1.5 and 2.0 mm diameter central zones, with halo sizes of 0.40 +/- 0.24 degrees
    and 0.73 +/- 0.22 degrees respectively. For a 3.5 mm diameter pupil, the halo was only
    detectable with a 2.0 mm central zone diameter with a halo size of 0.28 +/-0.05
    degrees. FIG. 15 is a graphical representation of the brightness of halo versus central
25  zone diameter for both a 5.5 mm diameter pupil and a 3.5 mm diameter pupil. As
    illustrated, halo is not visible for center plus designs with a 1.00 mm diameter central
    plus zone. Halo is not detectable for a 1.5 mm center plus design for a 3.5 mm pupil
    diameter. For a 5.5 mm diameter pupil, the halo was detectable for 1.5 and 2.0 mm
    diameter central zones with brightness of 13.5 +/- 2.8 and 16.5 +/- 6.4 gray level
30  respectively. For a 3.5 mm diameter pupil, the halo was only detectable with a 2.0 mm
    diameter central zone with a brightness of 15.5 +/- 2.8 gray level.
                                                    19

            Similar VA and halo experiments may be utilized to allow for the designs of this
    exemplary embodiment to be optimized for the power, size, and location of the
    treatment zone(s) to provide acceptable vision.
 5          It is important to note that various power profiles may be utilized in the center and
    one or more peripheral zones or regions of the optic zone. For example, in FIG. 16A, a
    center zone has a negative power for myopic vision correction, a first peripheral region
    has a high ADD, and a second peripheral zone has a negative power for myopic vision
    correction equal to the center zone. In FIG. 16B, the center zone has a high ADD, a
 o  first peripheral zone has a negative power for myopic vision correction, a second
    peripheral zone has a high ADD equal to the center zone and a third peripheral zone
    has a negative power for myopic vision correction equal to the first peripheral zone. In
    FIG. 16C, the center zone has a low Add, a first peripheral zone has a negative power
    for myopic vision correction, a second peripheral zone has a high ADD which is higher
 5  than the ADD in the center zone and a third peripheral zone has a negative power for
    myopic vision correction equal to the first peripheral zone. In FIG 16D, a center zone
    has a high ADD, a first peripheral zone has a negative power for myopic vision
    correction, a second peripheral zone has a low ADD and a third peripheral zone has a
    negative power for myopic vision correction equal to the first peripheral zone. The
 .0 important thing to understand is that any number of suitable variations may be utilized in
    accordance with the present invention, including low ADDs may be zero. In FIG 16A
    through 16D, the y-axis power is relative to the negative power for myopic vision
    correction as is the case for FIG 2, 6A, 6B, 6C, 8A, 8B, and 8C.
25          Although shown and described is what is believed to be the most practical and
    preferred embodiments, it is apparent that departures from specific designs and
    methods described and shown will suggest themselves to those skilled in the art and
    may be used without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention. The present
    invention is not restricted to the particular constructions described and illustrated, but
30  should be constructed to cohere with all modifications that may fall within the scope of
    the appended claims.
                                                   20

         In this specification, the terms "comprise", "comprises", "comprising" or similar
  terms are intended to mean a non-exclusive inclusion, such that a system, method or
  apparatus that comprises a list of elements does not include those elements solely, but
  may well include other elements not listed.
5        The reference to any prior art in this specification is not, and should not be taken
  as, an acknowledgement or any form of suggestion that the prior art forms part of the
  common general knowledge in Australia.
                                               21

        WHAT IS CLAIMED IS:
        1.     An ophthalmic lens for at least one of slowing, retarding or preventing
myopia progression and minimizing halo effect, the ophthalmic lens comprising:
        an optic zone, the optic zone including a center zone configured as a myopia
progression treatment zone, the center zone comprising an ADD power of between +0.5
diopters and +20.0 diopters relative to the negative power required to correct myopia,
and at least one peripheral zone surrounding the center zone, the at least one
peripheral zone comprising a myopia vision correction region with a negative power for
myopic vision correction; and
        an outer zone surrounding the optic zone.
        2.     The ophthalmic lens according to Claim 1, wherein the optic zone
comprises one or more additional plus powered concentric myopia progression
treatment zones outside of the at least one peripheral zone, the one or more additional
plus powered concentric myopia progression treatment zones having an ADD power of
between +0.5 diopters and +20.0 diopters.
        3.     The ophthalmic lens according to Claim 1, wherein the optic zone
comprises one or more additional myopic vision correction zones with a negative power
for vision correction.
        4.     The ophthalmic lens according to Claim 1, wherein the ophthalmic lens
comprises a contact lens.
        5.     The ophthalmic lens according to Claim 1, wherein the ophthalmic lens
comprises a spectacle lens.
        6.     The ophthalmic lens according to Claim 1, wherein the ophthalmic lens
comprises an intraocular lens, a corneal inlay, or a corneal onlay.
                                             22

         7.    The ophthalmic according to Claim 1, further comprising one or more
stabilization mechanisms in the outer zone.
                                           23

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
