  HIGHLY VERSATILE COFFEE MACHINE
                                   ABSTRACT
         A highly versatile coffee machine, characterized in that it comprises at
  least one socket which is adapted to connect a similar coffee machine and/or
5 an accessory device, the similar coffee machine and/or the accessory device
  being powered directly from the coffee machine through the at least one
  socket.
  (Fig. 1)

1/12
        ca
     ,,
           CM0

                                             1
   HIGHLY VERSATILE COFFEE MACHINE
           The present invention relates to a highly versatile coffee machine.
   More specifically, the invention relates to a coffee machine with a simplified
   electric power supply.
 5         As is known, automatic coffee machines each have a dedicated power
   supply. If more than one coffee machines are placed mutually adjacent, such
   as for example can happen in bars, offices and the like, each machine needs
   to be powered by its own power cable. Furthermore, accessories such as
   milk frothers, coffee grinders or for example water heaters, which can be
10 used together with the aforementioned coffee machines, must also be
   powered independently.
           This entails the drawback of having a multiplicity of power cables
   which all have to be connected to an electrical socket, with considerable
   untidiness resulting from the presence of multiple power cables.
15         Furthermore, the use of accessories in addition to the coffee machines
   also entails the need to have the accessories arranged on the work surface,
   powered independently, and in any case not closely connected to the above
   mentioned coffee machines.
           The aim of the present invention is to provide a coffee machine that is
20 highly versatile with regard to the mains electricity supply and the
   possibility of pairing external accessories.
           Within this aim, an object of the present invention is to provide a
   coffee machine that makes it possible to be paired with similar coffee
   machines, with reduction of the number of necessary power cables.
25         Another object of the present invention is to provide a coffee machine
   that is highly reliable, easily and practically implemented and low cost.
           This aim and these and other objects which will become better
   apparent hereinafter are achieved by a highly versatile coffee machine,
   characterized in that it comprises at least one socket which is adapted to
30 connect a similar coffee machine and/or an accessory device, said similar

                                          2
   coffee machine and/or said accessory device being powered directly from
   said coffee machine through said at least one socket.
          Further characteristics and advantages of the invention will become
   better apparent from the description of preferred, but not exclusive,
 5 embodiments of the coffee machine according to the present invention,
   which are illustrated by way of non-limiting example in the accompanying
   drawings, wherein:
          Figure 1 is an exploded perspective view of the connection between
   two coffee machines according to the invention;
10        Figure 2 is a perspective view of the two coffee machines according
   to the invention, connected to each other;
          Figure 3 is a perspective view of the coffee machines in Figures 1 and
   2 paired with a milk frother device;
          Figure 4 is an exploded perspective view of the embodiment shown in
15 Figure 3;
          Figure 5 is an exploded perspective view, from the rear, of the
   embodiment shown in Figures 3 and 4;
          Figure 6 is a perspective view of a coffee machine according to the
   invention paired with a milk frother device;
20        Figures 7 and 8 show two different embodiments of electric bases for
   powering a milk frother device;
          Figure 9 is a perspective view of a milk frother device paired with a
   coffee machine according to the invention, in conformance with what is
   shown in Figure 7;
25        Figure 10 is a perspective view of a milk frother device paired with a
   coffee machine according to the invention, with an electric base as shown in
   Figure 8;
          Figure 11 shows a further embodiment of a coffee machine according
   to the invention;
30        Figure 12 is a perspective view of an electric base for coupling two

                                          3
   coffee machines according to the invention, according to the embodiment
   shown in Figure 11;
          Figure 13 is a perspective view of the embodiment shown in Figure
    11 being paired with a milk frother device.
 5        With reference to the figures, wherein identical reference numerals
   designate identical or corresponding elements, the coffee machine according
   to the invention, generally designated by the reference numeral 1, is
   provided with at least one connector 2 which is adapted to enable the direct
   powering of an accessory device such as a coffee grinder, a water heater, a
10 milk frother or the like, or alternatively to enable pairing with a similar
   coffee machine, from which the second machine will draw power.
          In substance, the coffee machine 1 is adapted to power an accessory
   device through the machine itself, by connecting therefore a base 3 that
   makes it possible to couple an accessory device directly to the socket 2 of
15 the machine 1, by way of a connector 11.
          In order to connect two machines 1 to each other, thus powering the
   second one through the first, a connector element 4 is provided which has a
   first plug 5 which is adapted to draw power from the first of the two
   machines 1, being coupled at the bottom of the machine proper, and which
20 likewise has a second plug 6 which is adapted to be inserted into the socket
   2 arranged on the side of the machine.
          In substance, the machine 1 is provided with at least one socket which
   is adapted to allow the pairing either of a similar coffee machine or of an
   external accessory device.
25        In the first embodiment, the first coffee machine, as illustrated in
   Figures 1, 2 and 3, is a coffee machine provided with a socket arranged on a
   side wall thereof and with a socket arranged at its bottom, while in a second
   embodiment, illustrated in Figures 4 and 5, the coffee machine is provided
   with two sockets, which are arranged at its mutually opposite side walls.
30        In this manner, the coffee machine 1 can be paired with a similar

                                           4
   coffee machine 1, whereby the second coffee machine draws power from the
   first and furthermore the first coffee machine can be coupled to an external
   device, which also draws power from the first coffee machine.
          Figures 7 and 8 show two possible embodiments of bases for coupling
 5 accessory devices, such as milk frothers, water heaters and the like, to the
   coffee machine according to the invention. Figures 11, 12 and 13 show an
   additional embodiment of the coffee machine according to the invention,
   wherein the coupling between two machines occurs by way of a base 13 on
   which the connector element 14, substantially similar to the connector
10 element 4 of the previous embodiments, is accommodated.
          The connector element 14 is provided with a first plug 15, similar to
   the plug 5 of the previous embodiments, and with a second plug 16 which is
   also similar to the first plug 6 of the previous embodiments. The plugs 15
   and 16 enable the coupling of two coffee machines, which for convenience
15 are always designated by the reference numeral 1, with the first machine, for
   example the machine on the right in Figures 11 and 13, being powered by
   the mains electricity supply and in turn powering the machine on the left in
   the aforementioned figures.
          An external accessory device, such as for example a milk frother 17,
20 is connected to a side socket 2 of the first machine 1.
          In the embodiment shown in Figures 11-13, instead of having a
   separate water reservoir for each one of the two machines 1, there is a single
   water reservoir 20, which is shared by both of the machines 1.
          In substance, the coffee machine according to the invention, provided
25 with at least one socket for the connection of an external accessory device
   and/or of another, similar coffee machine, makes it possible to power either
   another coffee machine and/or an accessory device through the power cable
   of the machine proper.
          Therefore, a second coffee machine that can be paired with the first
30 and/or an external accessory do not require their own power cable, since

                                         5
   they can draw power from the first coffee machine.
         In practice it has been found that the coffee machine according to the
   present invention fully achieves the set aim and objects, in that it makes it
   possible, using the power supply that it receives from the mains, to power
 5 another coffee machine and/or an external accessory device, which draw
   power from the machine proper.
         The coffee machine, thus conceived, is susceptible of numerous
   modifications and variations, all of which are within the scope of the
   appended claims.
10       Moreover, all the details may be substituted by other, technically
   equivalent elements.
         In practice, the materials used, as well as the contingent shapes and
   dimensions, may be any according to the requirements and to the state of the
   art.

                                            6
                                        CLAIMS
           1. A highly versatile coffee machine, characterized in that it comprises
   at least one socket which is adapted to connect a similar coffee machine
   and/or an accessory device, said similar coffee machine and/or said
 5 accessory device being powered directly from said coffee machine through
   said at least one socket.
          2. The coffee machine according to claim 1, characterized in that said
   at least one socket is arranged at the side wall of said coffee machine.
          3. The coffee machine according to claim 1 or 2, characterized in that
10 it comprises a pair of sockets, of which one is arranged at the side wall of
   said coffee machine and another is arranged at the bottom of said coffee
   machine.
          4. The coffee machine according to one or more of the preceding
   claims, characterized in that it comprises a connecting element provided
15 with a first plug and with a second plug, the first plug being adapted to be
   connected to said first coffee machine in order to draw power from said
   coffee machine and transfer it, through said second plug, to a similar coffee
   machine.
          5. The coffee machine according to one or more of the preceding
20 claims, characterized in that said accessory device comprises a milk frother,
   a coffee grinder, a water heater or the like.
          6. The coffee machine according to one or more of the preceding
   claims, characterized in that said connecting element is arranged on a base
   which is adapted to allow the coupling of similar coffee machines.
25        7. The coffee machine according to claim 6, characterized in that said
   two mutually coupled similar coffee machines have a single, shared water
   reservoir.
           8. The coffee machine according to one or more of the preceding
   claims, characterized in that said connecting element renders said two
30 similar coffee machines integral with each other.

                                         7
         9. A set of two coffee machines according to one or more of the
  preceding claims, characterized in that a first one of said two coffee
  machines is powered by the mains electricity supply and a second one of
  said coffee machines draws power directly from said first coffee machine.
5        10. The set according to claim 9, characterized in that it comprises an
  accessory device that is adapted to be powered directly by one of said two
  coffee                                                               machines.

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           1/12

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           2/12

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           3/12

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           4/12

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           5/12

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           6/12

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           7/12

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           8/12

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           9/12

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           10/12

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           11/12

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           12/12

